03 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Police use barbed wire, spikes, trenches to cut off protest sites||Delhi has been turned into a fortress as the police continued to block access to border protest sites on Tuesday with concrete barricades, barbed wire, spikes and trenches across approach roads, and undertook massive deployment of security personnel. Journalists and other visitors were denied entry to the Singhu border site, and Internet connections remain suspended. “The government has turned these protest sites into open air prisons. They are treating farmers like foreign invaders. Even the British did not do that,” said P. Krishnaprasad, a leader of the All India Kisan Sabha. On February 6, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) will organise a nationwide, three-hour highway blockade to protest against the police actions, he said.  The Supreme Court-appointed committee is set to hold its third meeting on Wednesday, but is yet to meet any of the protesting unions as the situation is “very hot”, according to one of the members of the committee. Farm unions have condemned the police repression and arrests. The SKM has set up a legal desk to aid the 115 protesters who have been arrested and are now in jail, as well as the 29 protesting farmers who are still missing after Republic Day. At a late-night press conference, the SKM team alleged that those in jail faced torture and had not been sent for medical examination. The lawyers would file habeas corpus petitions for production of the missing persons with the aid of the Delhi government’s Home Ministry, said Rajinder Deep Singh Wala of the Kirti Kisan Union. He added that all those arrested, whether or not they stuck to the planned route for the tractor parade would receive support. Apart from this, more than 160 people have died since the agitation began over two months ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-use-barbed-wire-spikes-trenches-to-cut-off-protest-sites/article33735568.ece
03 February 2021||New Delhi,||Amazon wins relief as HC stays Future-Reliance deal||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday provided interim relief to e-commerce major Amazon by directing Future Retail Limited (FRL) to maintain status quo with regard to transfer of its retail assets to Reliance Retail. Justice J.R. Midha also said he was of the prima facie view that an order of the emergency arbitrator (EA) at the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) restraining FRL from taking any steps to transfer its retail assets was enforceable in India. “This court is of the prima facie view that the emergency arbitrator has rightly proceeded against respondent number 2 (FRL). The order dated October 25 is enforceable under Section 17(2) under the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, the same manner as an order of this court,” Justice Midha said in an interim order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/amazon-wins-relief-as-hc-stays-future-reliance-deal/article33735561.ece
03 February 2021||Kolkata,||Centre has done nothing for tea gardens , says Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday said the Centre has done nothing for the tea garden workers in north Bengal and played no role in reopening the closed ones. Her remarks came a day after Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman made an allocation of Rs. 1,000 crore for the welfare of women and children in tea gardens of poll-bound West Bengal and Assam. “We have increased the wages from Rs. 67 to Rs. 202. They had promised to reopen all the seven closed gardens before the Lok Sabha elections, but not a single one has resumed operations. There are so many [BJP] MPs who have won from north Bengal but tell me what they have done for this region,” Ms. Banerjee said addressing a gathering in Falakata in Alipurduar district. The BJP had won all the Lok Sabha seats in the region in 2019. The Chief Minister, who is on a tour of north Bengal, said her government would protect farmers and the Scheduled Tribes. “We will not do anything that is anti-farmer or anti-people.” She also participated in a mass marriage ceremony. TMC raising regionalism Meanwhile, at a rally organised by the Bharatiya Janata Party in South 24 Parganas, a former TMC leader who joined the BJP last week, accused Ms. Banerjee and her party of creating Bengali-non-Bengali divide. The TMC during its campaign is heavily relying on the word ‘bahirgata [outsiders]”. “The regionalism that the TMC is spreading is more dangerous than communalism,” Rajib Banerjee said. He said lakhs of people from the State are working outside and asked if such passions are aroused “will they not affect them”. Mr. Banerjee, who was the Forest Minister, said instead of taking credit for being number one in providing 100 days work, the government has to think why people don’t have jobs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-has-done-nothing-for-tea-gardens-says-mamata/article33735756.ece
03 February 2021||Pune,||Fadnavis demands stern action against AMU student leader||Former chief minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis has, in a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, sought stern action against Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) student leader Sharjeel Usmani for his “offensive” and “defamatory” statements at the second edition of Elgaar Parishad in Pune last week. “It is strange that a young man comes to the State, sneers at Hindutva and leaves without any action against him. It is not only a source of great concern to the whole State but a major embarrassment to all of us. I hope that as soon as the Chief Minister receives this letter, the State government will file a case and take legal action against him for such utterances,” Mr. Fadnavis told reporters on Tuesday. The BJP leader objected to Mr. Usmani’s alleged remarks on the “rot in Hindu society”. Stating that such “insulting” utterances were unacceptable to the people of Maharashtra and the entire Hindu community, Mr. Fadnavis, who was Chief Minister at the time of the first Elgaar Parishad and the subsequent Bhima-Koregaon riots, has demanded that the administration take strict and immediate action against Mr. Usmani. On Monday, advocate Pradeep Gawade, State unit secretary of the BJP’s youth wing - the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) had filed a complaint at Pune’s Swargate police station. Following this, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said the government would examine the speeches made at the event and take action, if anything objectionable was indeed found in them. Organised by retired Bombay High Court judge B.G. Kolse-Patil, the second edition of the Elgaar Parishad was held on January 30 at the Ganesh Kala Krida Mandir in Pune. Among those who attended were noted writer-activist Arundhati Roy and former IAS officer Kannan Gopinathan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fadnavis-demands-stern-action-against-amu-student-leader/article33736183.ece
03 February 2021||KALABURAGI,||ACB raids PWD official||Sleuths of Anti Corruption Bureau raided the residence of Channabasappa Awati, Junior Engineer, Public Works Department, posted in the Magadi Sub-Division in Kalaburagi on Tuesday and unearthed assets disproportionate to his known sources of income. The ACB raided an apartment at Gokul Bazaar apartment and a residential apartment on Udnoor Road owned by him. The officials also found 23 acres of land at Mugdampur village in Chincholi taluk and three acres of land at Basavakalyan taluk of Bidar district. Documents related to his partnership in Khushi Developers apartment at Karuneshwar Nagar in the city were found during the raids. Meanwhile, the ACB sleuths also conducted raids at the residence of Srinivas Ballari, former Director of Vijayanagara Institute of Medical Sciences, on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/acb-raids-pwd-official/article33735695.ece
03 February 2021||MANGALURU,||ACB searches houses of city corporation official||Teams of sleuths from the Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) from Mangaluru, Udupi and Chikkamagaluru searched houses that have a connection with Joint Director (Town Planning) of Mangaluru City Corporation, Jayaraj K.V., on Tuesday to assess whether Mr. Jayaraj has amassed wealth disproportionate to his known sources of income. The teams searched the flat of Mr. Jayaraj at an apartment in Bejai Kapikad in the city. In addition, the houses of Mr. Jayaraj’s brother in Alape in the city and of Mr. Jayaraj’s wife in Mahe (Puducherry), which is about 200 km from Mangaluru, were also searched. Sources in the ACB said that the teams found till evening records related to two houses and three sites related to Mr. Jayaraj. The sleuths found Rs. 1 crore in his bank accounts and recovered Rs. 7.5 lakh in cash from Mr. Jayaraj’s house. The sleuths also found 75 grams of gold ornaments and 250 grams of silver articles during the search. Detailed proceedings will be carried out to establish whether the assets in the possession of Mr. Jayaraj were disproportionate to his known sources of income, a senior ACB official said. The teams that carried out simultaneous searches were headed by Superintendent of Police Bopaiah C.N. and comprised Deputy Superintendent of Police Prakash and Inspectors Shamsunder, Gururaj, Satish, Chandrakala and Manjunath.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/acb-searches-houses-of-city-corporation-official/article33736171.ece
03 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Metro train transports live heart for transplant||For the first time in Telangana, Metro Rail was used to transport an organ from one hospital to another for transplantation. Hyderabad Metro Rail created a special green corridor between Nagole and Jubilee Hills to facilitate non-stop transport of a heart from Kamineni Hospital, L.B. Nagar, to save a patient admitted at Apollo Hospital, Jubilee Hills, on Tuesday. Usually, roadways is used to transport organs intra-city. Though traffic on road could be cleared to establish a green channel for transporting organs, surgeons felt the heart, in this case, could be transported faster through Metro Rail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/metro-train-transports-live-heart-for-transplant/article33736099.ece
03 February 2021||Bengaluru,||ATM attack accused gets 10 years imprisonment||Over seven years after the brutal attack on bank employee Jyothi Uday inside an ATM kiosk on the busy N.R. Square here on November 19, 2013, the City Civil and Sessions Court, on Tuesday, sentenced the accused, Madhukar Reddy, to 10 years imprisonment. The court convicted Reddy for robbery, causing grievous hurt and for destroying evidence. The court also slapped a fine of Rs. 10,000 on him and directed the District Legal Services Authority to compensate the victim suitably. Reddy’s counsel pleaded before the court to give minimum punishment as his mother is bedridden and has no caretaker, but the court, considering the brutality of the attack and the criminal background of the accused, awarded maximum punishment.  Reddy’s counsel pleaded before the court to give minimum punishment as his mother is bedridden and has no caretaker, but the court, considering the brutality of the attack and the criminal background of the accused, awarded maximum punishment. Reddy, soon after attacking Jyothi Uday, snatched her purse containing a small amount of cash, debit card and ID card. The victim pleaded to be let go, but the accused attacked her with a machete multiple times and escaped, leaving her bleeding profusely. The entire incident was captured on the CCTV camera and the footage sent shock waves across the city and beyond, creating a fear psychosis among people visiting ATMs. The city police formed as many as 15 teams to track down the accused, and after three years of search, filed a ‘B’ report. The then city Police Commissioner also cracked the whip on banks for not having security measures at ATMs and even ordered the jurisdictional police to shut kiosks down until security measures are in place. Reddy, who was on the run, was arrested by the Madanapalli police in 2017 after a policeman, while on patrolling duty, identified him while he was moving suspiciously. Reacting to the punishment, Ms. Uday said that she respects the court verdict, but hopes that such incidents should not be repeated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/atm-attack-accused-gets-10-years-imprisonment/article33735713.ece
03 February 2021||CHENNAI,||TIIC to get fresh capital of Rs. 1,000 cr. over 3 years||The State government will infuse an additional capital of Rs. 1,000 crore into the Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation (TIIC) over three years to help it function as an effective term-lending institution and expand lending to MSME units that have no access to institutional credit, Governor Banwarilal Purohit said in the Assembly on Monday. His announcement was in line with the recommendations of an expert committee, led by former RBI Governor C. Rangarajan, which was constituted to suggest ways to help important sectors of the economy overcome the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and promote further growth. During his customary address to the House, Mr. Purohit said a new MSME policy had been finalised during consultations with stakeholders, and it would be released by the Chief Minister shortly. “The registration fee was reduced to 0.1% from 1% for agreements for micro and small enterprises. To further ease access to formal credit, the government will amend the Registration Act, 1908, to permit online registration of agreements relating to the memorandum of deposit of title deeds for term loans and working capital loans and do away with the need for the physical presence of borrowers and lenders for the execution of such deeds,” he added. BharatNet would be rolled out in a third of revenue villages by March 31, he said. Referring to the destruction caused by cyclones Nivar and Burevi last year, the Governor pointed to the two memoranda presented to the Centre, seeking aid of Rs. 3,750 crore and Rs. 1,514 crore, respectively. “We urge the Government of India to release funds at the earliest,” he said. The Governor also reiterated Tamil Nadu’s stand on its water disputes with Karnataka and Kerala over Mekedatu and Mullaperiyar dams. Referring to the killing of four Tamil Nadu fishermen in the Palk Strait, he said, “This government strongly condemns the incident, in which four fishermen of Tamil Nadu lost their lives when a Sri Lankan naval vessel deliberately collided with their fishing vessel while the fishermen were engaged peacefully in fishing in their traditional waters.” As for the National Education Policy, Mr. Purohit maintained that the government was fully committed to the continuance of the two-language policy, and “there shall be no dilution of it”. The State Minorities Commission would be expanded through legislation to provide representation to linguistic minorities, he said. The Governor also reiterated the State’s request to the Centre to accord formal approval for their equity participation, on a 50:50 cost-sharing model, for Phase II of the Chennai Metro Rail project. “Passenger services of the Phase I extension of the Chennai Metro Rail project from Washermenpet to Wimco Nagar will be inaugurated by the Prime Minister later this month,” he said. Before winding up his speech, the Governor placed on record his heartfelt gratitude to the frontline staff and officials of all government departments and local bodies for having worked tirelessly during the COVID-19 pandemic, and to members of the Assembly and all citizens who contributed to the response against it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tiic-to-get-fresh-capital-of-rs-1000-cr-over-3-years/article33735610.ece
03 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Intermediate exams from May 5||In view of the COVID-19 pandemic that has disrupted the academic year, the State Board of Intermediate Education (BIE) has postponed the Intermediate final exams by two months, to May. A statement released by the Board Secretary V. Ramakrishna said the exams would start on May 5 and end on May 23. First year students will write their exams from May 5 to 22 while their seniors (final year students) will appear for their exams from May 6 to 23. The theory exams will be preceded by the exam in Ethics and Human Values, scheduled for March 24, Environment Education on March 27 and Practical examinations from March 31 to April 24. The above dates are applicable to Intermediate vocational course examination also but a separate time table will be issued for it. Considering the disrupted academic year, the BIE has also given some relaxation to students interested in improving their academic performance. As the supplementary exams were not conducted in 2020 due to COVID-19, all the first year passed candidates, both in March and supplementary, can improve their performance in IPE March 2021 examinations. The BIE has given similar provision to second year students also. Classes have officially started for first year students since this January.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/intermediate-exams-from-may-5/article33735566.ece
03 February 2021||New Delhi,||Uproar in Parliament over three farm laws||Both Houses of Parliament witnessed multiple disruptions on Tuesday amid vociferous protests by the Opposition parties over the three farm laws, even as Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu said the Bills had gone through “threadbare” discussion in the House. Leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury demanded an immediate discussion on the laws and the farmers’ agitation. “So far, 170 farmers have died during the agitation. It seems we have returned to the British Raj, going by the harassment that they are facing,” Mr. Chowdhury said shortly before the Lok Sabha was adjourned for the second time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/uproar-in-parliament-over-three-farm-laws/article33735569.ece
03 February 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi court grants bail to freelance scribe||A Delhi court on Tuesday granted bail to freelance journalist Mandeep Punia who was arrested from the Singhu border protest site for allegedly “obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-court-grants-bail-to-freelance-scribe/article33735855.ece
03 February 2021||Ghaziabad,||Farmers’ stir to continue till Oct.-Nov. if needed: Tikait||The farmers’ protest at the Ghazipur border will continue “till October or November”, announced Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait amid multiple layers of metallic and concrete barricades enmeshed with barbed wires put up by the police here on Tuesday. Repealing the three controversial farm laws, Mr. Tikait said as he got emotional once again while choosing to eat alone below a barricade with a poster stating that Section 144 of the Cr.PC was in force, was the sole solution to the gridlock between the agitating farmers and the BJP government at the Centre. “This protest will continue till October-November, we have categorically told this to the government. We have enough supplies to last us till then. Jab tak kanoon wapas nahin, tab tak kisan wapas nahin (No farmers will return home till the laws aren’t taken back),” Mr. Tikait announced from the stage a few minutes later. “Through these barricades, all these steel wires, the supply of foodgrains may stop, but not this protest. What happened at the Red Fort on Republic Day was done to defame a particular community, to give this movement a bad name,” he said. Several groups of farmers aboard tractors made their way to the Ghazipur border from Singhu and Tikri borders, hailing Mr. Tikait as “their leader”. The BKU leader, however, said the protest belonged to, and was led by, “all the farmers of the country”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmers-stir-to-continue-till-oct-nov-if-needed-tikait/article33735854.ece
03 February 2021||AHMEDABAD,||No BJP ticket for those over 60 in Gujarat civic polls||The BJP in Gujarat has introduced a slew of tough criteria for selection of candidates in the local civil and panchayat elections to be held this month. Under the new norms announced by the State party chief C.R. Paatil, a municipal councillor or panchayat member who has completed three consecutive terms will not be repeated, and members of a leader’s family and those over 60 years will not get a party ticket. The announcement comes as the State parliamentary board begins the selection process for elections in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Jamnagar and Bhavnagar municipal corporations. The party has been governing the Ahmedabad municipal corporation since 2005 and the other five bodies since 1995. “We have introduced the new criteria to give more opportunity to the youth,” Mr Paatil told mediapersons in Gandhinagar on Tuesday. The local body elections are scheduled to be held in two phases on February 21 and 28. Elections in six municipal corporations will be held on February 21 and in the municipalities, district panchayats and taluka panchayats on February 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-bjp-ticket-for-those-over-60-in-gujarat-civic-polls/article33736184.ece
03 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Cinemas to have 50% occupancy||While the Union Home Ministry has allowed cinemas to operate in full capacity, the Karnataka government has granted permission to them to operate with 50% capacity of seating till February 28. A circular issued by Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar also said marriages, birthday celebrations, death ceremonies, and such other events can have a maximum limit of 500 persons, up from 200. The guidelines specify 3.25 sq.m per person for open and closed areas. On cinemas, the circular said that the decision had been taken after reviewing the current scenario of COVID-19 and also considering the possible second wave of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/50-occupancy-in-cinemas/article33735694.ece
03 February 2021||Naypyitaw,||Suu Kyi’s party demands her release||The party of Myanmar’s detained leader Aung San Suu Kyi called on Tuesday for her immediate release and for the junta to recognise her victory in the November elections, a day after a military coup sparked global outrage. Armed troops patrolled the capital of Naypyidaw, where Ms. Suu Kyi and other National League for Democracy (NLD) party leaders were detained in pre-dawn raids on Monday just ahead of the scheduled resumption of Parliament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/suu-kyis-party-demands-her-release/article33735562.ece
03 February 2021||Patna,||RLSP chief likely to join Nitish Cabinet||Amid speculation that the Rashtriya Lok Samata Party, led by Upendra Kushwaha, will merge with the JD(U), party sources on Tuesday termed them as “wrong and baseless”. A series of meetings between Mr. Kushwaha and Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar in recent times, triggered rumours that the former is likely to be inducted into the State cabinet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rlsp-chief-likely-to-join-nitish-cabinet/article33735758.ece
03 February 2021||GUWAHATI,||Fate of 7 MLAs to be decided on Feb. 8||The Kohima Bench of the Gauhati High Court will on February 8 hear a plea to restrain seven MLAs of the Opposition Naga People’s Front (NPF) in Nagaland from attending the Assembly session from February 12. The NPF had in 2019 suspended the MLAs for pledging support to the National Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP), which heads Nagaland’s coalition government. The Opposition party had filed an interlocutory application seeking the court’s interference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fate-of-7-mlas-to-be-decided-on-feb-8/article33735759.ece
03 February 2021||HUBBALLI,||Vinay Kulkarni is Accused No 1 in Goudar murder||Filing a supplementary charge-sheet on Tuesday in connection with the murder of zilla panchayat member Yogeeshgouda Goudar, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has named Congress leader and former Minister Vinay Kulkarni as Accused No 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vinay-kulkarni-is-accused-no-1-in-goudar-murder/article33735696.ece
03 February 2021||LUCKNOW,||U.P. govt. drops action against Sitapur farmers||The Uttar Pradesh govern-ment said it has dropped proceedings against 162 farmers from Sitapur who were issued notices of personal bonds and sureties up to Rs. 10 lakh each to prevent them from allegedly partici-pating in the farm protests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/up-govt-drops-action-against-sitapur-farmers/article33735858.ece
03 February 2021||Bengaluru,||It’s showtime: Focus on Indian defence||Bengaluru’s sky will once again witness breathtaking manoeuvres as flying birds are back to perform their magic at the 13th edition of Aero India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/its-showtime-focus-on-indian-defence/article33736004.ece
03 February 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi COVID-19 deaths hit 10-month low||The Capital reported 114 fresh COVID-19 cases and two deaths on Tuesday. This is the lowest number of daily deaths in around 10 months. The death toll stood at 10,858, while the cumulative COVID-19 case count rose to 6,35,331, said authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-covid-19-deaths-hit-10-month-low/article33736086.ece
03 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Social media issues our concern, Centre tells SC||Concerns about information technology and law relating to social media intermediaries fall within the domain of the Central government. The Delhi Assembly, or for that matter any State Assembly, has no jurisdiction over such issues, the Centre told the Supreme Court on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/social-media-issues-our-concern-centre-tells-sc/article33735857.ece
03 February 2021||Mumbai,||On first day, over 30 lakh used local train services||Over 30 lakh commuters travelled in the suburban local trains in Mumbai on Monday, the first day after they were reopened to the general public. According to Western Railway officials, 12,44,658 passengers used the local trains while on the Central Railway, over 19 lakh commuters travelled in the trains. The Maharashtra government allowed the train services from February 1 for all passengers in select hours. A railway official said all measures had been taken to avoid crowding at stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/on-first-day-over-30-lakh-used-local-train-services/article33736185.ece
03 February 2021||Mysuru,||MUDA to prepare feasibility report on PRR||Given the cost escalation and uncertainty over funding, the Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) has decided to prepare a feasibility report on the Peripheral Ring Road (PRR) mooted for the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/muda-to-prepare-feasibility-report-on-prr/article33735819.ece
03 February 2021||THANJAVUR,||Thyagaraja Aradhana held at Tiruvaiyaru||Scores of musicians and instrumentalists rendered ‘pancharatna kritis’ in unison at the samadhi of Sri Thyagaraja on the banks of the Cauvery at Tiruvaiyaru on Tuesday, marking the high point of the 174th aradhana of the saint-composer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/thyagaraja-aradhana-held-at-tiruvaiyaru/article33735607.ece
03 February 2021||CHENNAI,||T.N. records 510 new cases, four deaths||Tamil Nadu reported 510 new cases of COVID-19 and four deaths on Tuesday. The fresh cases took the State’s overall tally to 8,39,352, while the toll stood at 12,367. No new case was recorded in Perambalur, while 23 districts had fewer than 10 cases each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-records-510-new-cases-four-deaths/article33735608.ece
03 February 2021||CHENNAI,||Private health facilities allowed to give jabs||Private health facilities that have more than 150 healthcare workers registered on the Co-WIN portal are being authorised to start COVID-19 vaccination. As many as 195 private facilities across the State have more than 150 registered healthcare workers on the portal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/private-health-facilities-allowed-to-give-jabs/article33735609.ece
03 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Robust stance led to stability at border: Rajnath||India’s robust stance, immediate and calibrated response and its soldiers’ unrelenting spirit on the border led to the stabilisation of the situation, and showed the resolve to defend its sovereignty and integrity, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Tuesday as the stand-off with China along the disputed boundary in eastern Ladakh continues. “The Indian Ocean Region [IOR] Defence Ministers’ conclave would reinforce the relevance of the region and its continued importance for stakeholders from the perspective of trade, security and freedom or navigation,” Mr. Singh said at the curtain-raiser for Aero India, which begins on Wednesday. Sanjay Jaju, Joint Secretary, Defence Production, Defence Ministry, said for the IOR Defence Ministers’ conclave, 27 of the 28 countries have agreed to send their delegations. Of them, 19 would be present at the show while the rest would join virtually. The Iranian Defence Minister would also be present at the conclave, Mr. Jaju said in response to a question. Earlier in the day, Mr. Singh inaugurated a second assembly line for the Tejas Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) at Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL), which would increase the production rate from eight aircraft a year to 16. The deal for 83 LCA for the Indian Air Force (IAF) to cost around Rs. 47,000 crore is set to be signed at Aero India on Wednesday. 83 LCA jets Last month, the Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) approved the manufacture of 83 LCA jets. This includes 73 LCA Tejas Mk-1A fighter aircraft and 10 LCA Tejas Mk-1 trainer aircraft at a cost ofRs. 45,696 crore, along with design and development of infrastructure sanctions worth Rs. 1,202 crore. HAL Chairman and Managing Director (CMD) R. Madhavan said deliveries would begin 36 months from the signing of the contract and delivery of all 83 jets would be completed in six months from then. Mr. Madhavan said the CCS’s approval for 15 Light Combat Helicopters (LCH) was also expected very soon, and the Request For Proposal (RFP) for HTT-40 trainer aircraft was being vetted and could be issued during Aero India. COVID-19 restrictions Due to COVID-19 restrictions, this edition of Aero India has been restricted to business days only. On the third day of the show, there is a Bandhan Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signing ceremony, during which over 200 MoUs and agreements are expected to be signed. In line with the effort to push defence exports, there is major focus at Aero India to showcase indigenous defence platforms. In line with that, the Indian Pavilion is set to showcase a range of indigenous helicopters manufactured by HAL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/robust-stance-led-to-stability-at-border-rajnath/article33735495.ece
03 February 2021||New Delhi,||39 cases against farmers: govt.||The Centre informed the Lok Sabha on Tuesday that 39 cases were registered against farmers protesting against the three agriculture laws, at Delhi’s borders between September and December of 2020. The Lok Sabha was also informed that one suicide has been reported by the Delhi Police during the protest at the Delhi border. However, according to the data collected by Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farm unions, nearly 10 people have taken their own lives at the three borders: Tikri, Ghazipur and Singhu. Some of the deceased have also left notes stating the reason for their deaths to be the “black laws”. In a written reply, Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy said that the farmers were tear-gassed and lathi-charged as “large convoys of protesting farmers in tractor trolleys tried to furiously force their way and go past police barricades to enter Delhi to mark their protest against the recently enacted farm laws”. “They aggressively resorted to rioting, damage to Government property and used criminal force to deter public servants from the discharge of their duty, thereby inflicting injuries to the on-duty police personnel. Moreover, social distancing was not followed by the farmers/protesters and they gathered in large numbers without face masks amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The farmers’ actions left the Delhi Police with no option but to use tear gas, water cannons and mild force to control the crowd,” the Minister said. The statement pertains to the events of January 26 when farmers’ groups were allowed to take out processions on the outskirts of Delhi. Some groups deviated from the sanctioned route and stormed the Red Fort.  People with suicidal thoughts may call Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, on phone number 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/39-cases-against-farmers-govt/article33735523.ece
03 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||U.K. variant mutation causes concern||The U.K. has reported a key mutation in the coronavirus variant called B.1.1.7, or the ‘U.K. variant, that studies say makes it more infectious, better equipped to thwart immune systems and slightly reduce the potency of vaccines. The mutation, called E484K, has been reported previously in South Africa in a coronavirus lineage called B.1.135. Public Health England, a government body, said in an analysis made public on Tuesday that in an analysis of 2,14,159 cases, 11 had shown the new mutation. This mutation has, however, not shown to be linked to increased severity of disease. India last month banned flights from the UK. but has partially recommenced operations. So far, there have been 138 confirmed cases of Indians, with recent travel history to the U.K., with the B.1.1.7 variant. There have been neither confirmed reports of B.1.135 — also called the South African variant — in India, nor the mutation E484K. Vaccine companies Pfizer and Moderna had undertaken laboratory tests to see if their vaccines are effective against the new mutated strains. Both claimed that their vaccines were effective against the U.K. strain. Moderna said it had also tested its vaccine against the South African variant and while effective, it showed a slightly diminished response compared to that against the U.K. variant. Novavax, another vaccine candidate in the U.S., reported that its vaccine had only 60% efficacy in its South Africa trial compared to 89% in the U.K. On Tuesday, Minister of State for Health Ashwini Choubey said in a written statement in the Rajya Sabha that there was “no data generated” on Covaxin and Covishield regarding their effectiveness on the “new European” coronavirus strain. “However, in [the] case of M/s Bharat Biotech International Limited, during consultation, the Subject Expert Committee [SEC] noted that the Inactivated Whole Virion Corona Virus Vaccine has potential to target mutated corona virus strains,” he stated. Bharat Biotech results Last week, Bharat Biotech reported results of a lab test that showed its vaccine appeared to be working against the U.K. strain. No tests were done to check its potency against the South Africa variant. Since December, India has been scanning genomes of coronavirus isolated from people with international travel history and announced plans to do so in 5% of the population of those positive but there is no information public on whether these variants have been found in the larger community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uk-variant-mutation-causes-concern/article33735538.ece
03 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC upholds bail for man booked under UAPA||The Supreme Court has upheld the bail granted by the Kerala High Court to a man booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in connection with a brutal attack on a college professor who included, in his Malayalam exam paper, a question considered objectionable by certain sections of a particular faith. The assailants, allegedly members of the Popular Front of India (PFI), ambushed Professor T.J. Joseph, restrained him and chopped his right palm off in 2010. Confirming the High Court’s decision to grant bail, the Supreme Court said the accused, K.A. Najeeb, had languished in jail as an undertrial for more than five years. The prosecution, through the National Investigation Agency (NIA), has 276 more witnesses to examine. Delayed trial A three-judge Bench led by Justice N.V. Ramana, in a judgment pronounced on February 1, observed that “no one can justify gross delay in disposal of cases” which compel undertrials to remain incarcerated. Booking a person with stringent charges should be matched by speedy justice. Delay in trial and compelling a person to languish in jail during a prolonged trial violates the right to life and dignity under Article 21, the judgment said. Justice Surya Kant, who authored the judgment, agreed with the High Court’s emphasis that trial under the National Investigation Agency Act, 2008 should be expeditious. Long witnesses list The High Court had held that “the undertrial could not be kept in custody for too long when the trial was not likely to commence in the near future”. It would cause serious prejudice and suffering to him. “Not only has the respondent been in jail for more than five years, but there are 276 witnesses left to be examined. Charges have been framed only on November 27, 2020. Still further, two opportunities were given to the NIA, who has shown no inclination to screen its endless list of witnesses,” the Supreme Court reasoned. The court also found that 13 other co-accused, who were convicted, were sentenced to not more than eight years’ rigorous imprisonment. “It can therefore be legitimately expected that if found guilty, the respondent [Najeeb] too would receive a sentence within the same ballpark. Given that two-thirds of such incarceration is complete, it appears that the respondent has already paid heavily for his acts of fleeing from justice,” Justice Kant noted. Najeeb had absconded after the incident and was arrested only in 2015. His trial was separated from that of his co-accused. The apex court, however, directed that the bail would be cancelled if Najeeb violated any of his bail conditions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-upholds-bail-for-man-booked-under-uapa/article33735510.ece
03 February 2021||CHENNAI,||Sputnik V vaccine shows 91.6% efficacy||An interim analysis of a Phase-3 trial of Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine against COVID-19 shows the vaccine is safe and has 91.6% efficacy. The 91.6% efficacy was seen 21 days after the first dose. Although the study was not designed to assess the efficacy of a single dose regimen, the researchers observed a possible partial protective effect of a single dose. The results were published in The Lancet . Storage at 2-8°C, a favourable temperature profile for global distribution, has been approved by Russia’s Health Ministry. The Phase-3 trial between September 7 and November 24, 2020 in about 20,000 participants carried out in Moscow at 25 sites found the vaccine was safe. The time-point for the interim analysis was when 78 COVID-19 cases were reported in participants after receiving the second dose. Out of about 20,000 participants, about 15,000 received the vaccine while over 4,900 got the placebo. The primary outcome was the proportion of participants with COVID-19 from day 21 after receiving the first dose. On day 21 after the first dose, 16 participants in the vaccine arm and 62 in the placebo group were confirmed to have COVID-19. This translates into 91.6% vaccine efficacy. Serious adverse events were seen in both arms, 45 in the vaccine arm and 23 in the placebo group, but “none were considered associated with vaccination. Four deaths were also reported during the study – three in the vaccine arm and one in the placebo group – but “none of the deaths were considered related to the vaccine”, the paper reports. The protection was seen in all age groups, including those older than 60 years. A different approach The Sputnik V vaccine uses an approach slightly different from the one used by Oxford-AstraZeneca. While AstraZeneca uses the same adenovirus vector to ferry the genetic material into cells, the Sputnik V vaccine uses two different adenovirus vectors – adenovirus 26 (Ad26) for the first dose and adenovirus 5 (Ad5) for the second dose – to carry the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein. Using two varying serotypes of adenovirus,is intended to overcome any pre-existing adenovirus immunity in the population.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sputnik-v-vaccine-shows-916-efficacy/article33735544.ece
03 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBSE exam schedule includes double shifts||The Central Board of Secondary Education Class 12 examinations will include double shifts for the first time. The examination schedule, which includes 111 subjects, will be completed in 39 days, which is a shorter duration compared with the 45 days in the 2020 schedule. The afternoon shift will be held on four days, with papers in subjects that are not offered in schools abroad being conducted, a CBSE statement said. First exam on May 4 Class 12 students will begin with the English paper on May 4 and finish on June 11. A slew of elective subjects ranging from agriculture to beauty and wellness have been scheduled for the last day. The Class 10 schedule begins with several regional language examinations on May 4, and ends on June 7 with the computer applications paper. In total, the Class 10 schedule includes 75 subjects. The examinations are being held later than usual this year, to account for the fact that schools have not been able to physically open to students for most of the academic year due to the COVID-19 lockdown. It is only in the last two months that some students in Classes 10 and 12 are returning to the physical classroom, after months of study at home with limited support via television and online resources. Several concessions have been made to account for the impact of the pandemic this year. The CBSE syllabus has been slashed by 30%, and question papers are being so designed that they will allow for internal choice in a third of the questions. Additional flexibility has been allowed for the conduct of practical examinations, which can be held by individual schools between March 1 and the date of the theory examination in the same subject. Following protocol In order to ensure that COVID-19 safety protocols can be followed strictly, the schedule will ensure safe limits in the total number of students at any given examination centre on any given day, the CBSE said. The afternoon shifts will use fewer examination centres, as they are mostly meant for minor electives. Staff will not be put on duty for both the morning and afternoon shifts, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbse-exam-schedule-includes-double-shifts/article33735532.ece
03 February 2021||COLOMBO,||ECT fiasco: Indian envoy meets Gotabaya, Mahinda||In a flurry of meetings a day after Sri Lanka backed out of an agreement with India and Japan to develop the East Container Terminal (ECT) at the Colombo Port, Indian High Commissioner Gopal Baglay met President Gotabaya Rajapaksa, Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa and Foreign Minister Dinesh Gunawardena on Tuesday, official sources told The Hindu . The thrust of the Indian envoy’s message to the Sri Lankan leadership, sources said, was that Colombo must adhere to its commitments in the tripartite agreement of May 2019, to jointly develop the strategic terminal with the Sri Lanka Ports Authority (SLPA) holding a 51% stake and India and Japan holding 49% together. The Adani Group from India, along with Japanese companies, was to invest in the project expected to cost up to $700 million, as per official estimates. Mixed signals The Indian side, it is learnt, conveyed that the signals emanating from Sri Lanka should boost the confidence of potential investors. President Gotabaya Rajapaksa has pledged to draw foreign direct investments to the country, rather than take loans. The three high-level meetings follow the Sri Lankan government’s cabinet decision, in the wake of raging protests by port workers’ unions opposed to foreign investment in the facility, that the operation of the ECT would be “100%” with the SLPA, while the West Container Terminal would be offered to India instead, on a 35-year arrangement for development. This is the second instance of Sri Lanka reversing an agreement on a large infrastructure project involving Japan, after the government scrapped the $1.5 billion, Japan-funded Light Rail Transit system last year. The development has sparked alarm in India and Japan, according to diplomatic sources, who said Sri Lanka had neither conveyed its decision, nor offered the alternative proposal to either of the partners. Asked how Sri Lanka would mobilise funds to develop the SLPA, especially after the economic impact of the pandemic, Udaya Gammanpila, a Cabinet spokesman, on Tuesday said, “SLPA is going to use its own funds, as well as borrow money from local commercial banks.” On whether Sri Lanka had discussed the option of developing the West Container Terminal with India, he said, “This is a sensitive diplomatic issue. Sri Lanka is always keen to maintain cordial diplomatic ties with India. Sri Lanka has commenced discussions with the Government of India, but I don’t think this is the stage to disclose those details.” While the ECT, which is in its first stage and awaits upgrade, has a 450-metre-long quay wall and water depth of 18 metres, equipping it to accommodate large vessels, the West Container Terminal (WCT) exists merely as a proposal, with no infrastructure yet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ect-fiasco-indian-envoy-meets-gotabaya-mahinda/article33735541.ece
03 February 2021||New Delhi,||Awareness campaign planned to dispel ‘rumours’ on NPR, Census||The Union Home Ministry has informed a parliamentary panel that “right kind of messaging will be done to tackle the miscommunication and rumours around NPR and Census”. The first phase of house listing and housing census and the National Population Register (NPR) was to be rolled out in some States on April 1 last year but was postponed indefinitely due to COVID-19. “A 360- degree approach for communicating the right and clear message on the NPR has been planned to be followed. All kinds of media, i.e. social media, AV [audio visual], digital, outdoor, print and word of mouth publicity tools are part of the planned media strategy. Right kind of messaging will be done to tackle the miscommunication and rumours around NPR and Census 2021,” the Ministry was quoted in the 226th action taken report by government on the recommendations/observations contained in the 224th on demands for grants (2020-21). The report was presented to Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu in December 2020 and a copy was laid on the table of the House on Tuesday. Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai, in a written reply in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday, said that “the demographic and other particulars of each family and individual were to be updated/collected during the exercise of update of NPR” and “no document is to be collected during this exercise”. He said, “The government was in discussions with the States having concerns in regard to the preparation of the NPR. Due to the outbreak of COVID-19, the first phase of Census, update of the NPR and other related field activities have been postponed”. ‘Fear among people’ The parliamentary committee, headed by the Congress’s Anand Sharma, while discussing the demands for grants report on February 18, 2020 observed that there was a lot of dissatisfaction and fear among people regarding the coming NPR and Census. To this, the Ministry responded in one of the subsequent meetings, “As per the provisions contained in Section 15 of the Census Act, 1948, all individual level information collected in Census are confidential. In Census, only aggregated data are released at various administrative levels. Questionnaires for Census along with that of NPR have been tested at Pre-test conducted successfully across the country. It has been clarified at various levels in Government time and again that till now no decision has been taken to create National Register of Indian citizen.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/awareness-drive-to-dispel-rumours-on-npr-census/article33735525.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Protest against work inside Turahalli forest||Early on Tuesday morning, local communities living around the Turahalli Mini Reserve Forest were shocked to see earthmovers inside the forest. Some of them rushed to the spot to enquire only to be told that ‘work on clearing and levelling the land’ was being taken up based on directions from the Forest Department. Vidya Ishwar, a member of Cleanup Turahalli, said the contractor executing the work claimed to be only clearing weeds for construction of a compound wall. “We immediately contacted the jurisdictional police, who came to the spot. The police officials contacted the forest officials, who claimed that work was for the upcoming tree park,” she said. The State government recently announced, under Bengaluru Mission 2022, plans to establish two mega tree parks in the suburbs, each measuring over 400 acres, apart from popularising existing mini forests – Turahalli, J.P. Nagar, Kadugodi, Mathikere – among citizens. Gautham Kamat from Change Makers of Kanakapura Road, who is part of Cleanup Turahalli, stressed on the need to leave the 600-odd acre Turahalli forest, one of the last few remaining green swathes in the city, and home to over 120 species of birds, untouched. “Around two years ago, the government declared that the existing tree park on 45 acres near the forest would be developed to keep people away from the main forest and protect the sensitive biodiversity. However, now there seems to be plans afoot to allow people unhindered into the forest,” he said. Mr. Kamat said the communities were mobilising public support against the tree park. “We will meet senior forest officials later this week. If no details are forthcoming, we will makes plans to express our oppositionWe are also exploring legal options,” he added. Several attempts to reach forest officials went in vain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/local-communities-up-in-arms-over-work-inside-turahalli-forest/article33736012.ece
03 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Use gene editing, nanotechnology in farming: expert||Kerala should take advantage of new tools such as gene editing and nanotechnology-based solutions in its efforts to bridge the yield and position agriculture as a driving force for the State’s progress, speakers at the Kerala Looks Ahead conclave organised by the State Planning Board said on Tuesday. Genome-edited crops can aid Kerala’s efforts to increase crop yield in addition to reducing dependence on chemical fertilizers and pesticides and cutting down on post-harvest losses, Kathleen L. Hefferon, professor of microbiology at Cornell University, U.S., suggested. Prof. Hefferon was speaking at the session on ‘Role of New Technologies in Bridging Yield Gaps’ with special reference to the Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats (CRISPR) technology. Gene editing involves the controlled ‘tweaking’ of genes present in an organism. CRISPR is one of the tools used in gene editing. Genomic editing is more accurate, faster, and less expensive compared to genetic modification. Prof. Hefferon underscored the need for new breeding technologies if global crop production is to double by 2050 to meet the rising food demand. Yield increases Yield increases of 2.4% per year are required to meet the demand without putting more land under cultivation. The annual production of cereals would need to go up by 50% to about three billion tonnes to provide for the 2050 population demand. CRISPR-Cas9 technology was set to revolutionise medicine — in treatment of diseases such as sickle cell anaemia, for instance — and agriculture. Genome-edited crops had the potential to lower chemical fertilizer and pesticide use, reduce post-harvest losses while at the same time producing climate-resilient, nutrient-dense, and higher-yield crops, she said. Value addition Underlining the need for sustainable agriculture, Trilochan Mohapatra, Director General, Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), said the need of the hour was to enhance productivity and reduce production costs and wastage. Kerala should leverage its strengths in plant genetic resources and policy support for developing agronomically superior germplasm lines. Kerala had tremendous potential for value addition of agricultural produce such as coconut oil, Dr. Mohapatra said. K.S. Subramaniam, director of research, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU), who spoke on nanotechnology in agriculture, said TNAU was prepared to assist Kerala in developing nanotechnology solutions for the farm sector. Nano-diagnostics was a key priority area in ensuring food and nutritional security. He also threw light on TNAU’s work on nano-agri inputs, including fertilizers and pesticides and fruit preservation. “Nanotechnology is an emerging field that Indian agriculture, especially Kerala, has to take into consideration,” he said. Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar, who addressed the session, said Kerala’s cooperative sector had tremendous opportunities in value-addition in agriculture. In fact, the State lacked adequate value-addition enterprises, which had been the main hindrance to agricultural development. Kerala needed qualified entrepreneurs and high-end technology for boosting value addition. Driving force The important goal was to make agriculture the driving force for the transformation of the State from a consumer State to a productive one.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/use-gene-editing-nanotechnology-in-farming-expert/article33735784.ece
03 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Metro transports live heart for transplant||For the first time in Telangana, Metro Rail was used to transport an organ from one hospital to another for transplantation. Hyderabad Metro Rail created a special green corridor between Nagole and Jubilee Hills to facilitate non-stop transport of a heart from Kamineni Hospital, L.B. Nagar, to save a patient admitted at Apollo Hospital, Jubilee Hills, on Tuesday. Surgeons’ request Usually, roadways is used to transport organs intra-city. Though traffic on road could be cleared to establish a green channel for transporting organs, surgeons felt the heart, in this case, could be transported faster through Metro Rail. A special train was arranged at Nagole, which picked up the heart at around 3.30-4 p.m., pacing through the entire stretch of 21 km and crossing 16 stations between Nagole and Jubilee Hills. It took less than 30 minutes for the train to reach Jubilee Hills, rushing with an average speed of 40 km/hr. All stations were kept on guard and informed though a PA system regarding the movement of this special train. An ambulance was kept ready at Jubilee Hills to rush the heart to the hospital. “This is the first time that a dedicated special train was run to transport a heart to save a life,” said HMR managing director N.V.S. Reddy. A team of medical experts exclusively travelled in the special train with the heart. The heart was harvested from a 45-year-old male farmer from Aregudem, Mothkur, Nalgonda. He suffered from brain stem death due to acute hemorhagic bleeding and was declared brain-dead at Kamineni Hospitls, L.B. Nagar. His heart was harvested at the private hospital and was transplanted on a patient at Apollo Hospitals, Jubilee Hills. The recipient is a 44-year-old male cardiac patient suffering from dilated cardiomyopathy. He came to Apollo Hospitals in a critical condition about a month and half ago. He had severe heart failure, going into kidney failure, and had low blood pressure. The patient was kept alive with continuous infusion of medicine while searching for a cadaver heart which was found on Tuesday. “We are always at the service of people and this was a God-send opportunity for us to mobilise our resources towards saving a precious life. I thank Kamineni and Apollo Hospitals for reaching out to us with this benevolent request. We took all safety measures in place to seamlessly facilitate transportation of the heart in a quest to save a life,” said L&T Metro Rail Hyderabad MD and CEO K.V.B. Reddy, in a press release. A.G.K. Gokhale, senior consultant, Cardiothoracic, Transplant and Minimal Access surgeon at Apollo Hospitals, and his team were performing the heart transplantation on the patient till late evening on Tuesday. Usually, transplantation takes around six to eight hours.  This is the first time that a dedicated special train was run to transport a heart to save a life. N.V.S. Reddy, Managing director, Hyderabad Metro Rail||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/metro-transports-live-heart-for-transplant/article33735497.ece
03 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Cong. resurrects Sabarimala issue ahead of Assembly poll||The State secretariat of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] met here on Tuesday even as the Congress sought to politically resurrect the Sabarimala issue to put the ruling coalition on the defence. In Kannur, Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala dared the government to file a fresh affidavit seeking to reinstate the custom of allowing only women below the age of 10 and above the age of 50 to worship at the Ayyappa temple. The Congress had viewed the move on the part of the CPI(M) to question the Indian Union Muslim League’s (IUML) secular credentials as a tactical gambit to attract Hindu and Christian votes, especially in central and south Kerala. Mr. Chennithala sought to counter the line by summoning up the Sabarimala question and trying to portray the CPI(M) as patently anti-Muslim. Electricity Minister M.M. Mani said the Congress’s claim that it would “stand with devotees” was a bluff. The Supreme Court was considering the issue. No entity was competent to formulate a policy now. He appeared to reflect the party’s thinking. IUML flayed Mr. Mani said neither the IUML nor the Congress could assume the mantle of protector of Muslims. The Congress had opposed the decision of the E.M.S. Namboodiripad government to create Malappuram district. Communists had thrown a fence of defence around Muslims during the Thalassery and Maradu communal riots . Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president K. Surendran questioned the Congress claim of championing Ayyappa devotees’ cause. “The BJP bore the brunt. Nearly 50,000 party workers are fighting police cases. The Congress sat on the fence watching,” he said. The CPI(M) secretariat met amidst speculation about candidate selection. There was no clear indication that the CPI(M) had weighed the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-resurrects-sabarimala-issue-ahead-of-assembly-polls/article33735505.ece
03 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Social media issues our concern: Centre||Concerns about information technology and law relating to social media intermediaries fall within the domain of Parliament and the Central government. The Delhi Assembly, or for that matter, any State Assembly, has no jurisdiction over such issues, the Centre told the Supreme Court on Tuesday. The Centre, through Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, was making its submissions in a plea filed by senior Facebook official Ajit Mohan, who has questioned the role and jurisdiction of the Delhi Legislative Assembly’s Peace and Harmony Committee to compel him to testify before it in connection with the Delhi riots or face breach of privilege action. Appearing before a Bench led by Justice S.K. Kaul, Mr. Mehta said the States should not interfere with issues that do not come within their domain under the garb of cooperative federalism. “Cooperative federalism was used in a different context. It does not empower States to go into areas which are in Union List,” he submitted. Justice Kaul, however, said the issue in the case was whether Facebook could be compelled to join an inquiry. Right to silence Mr. Mohan has argued before the Supreme Court that he was well within his rights to remain silent and not be compelled by the Peace and Harmony Committee to be part of a “politically polarised debate” on the riots. Senior advocate Harish Salve, for Mr. Mohan, had submitted that his client cannot be compelled to appear before the committee even if he is exempted from taking oath. He had also flagged his concerns about the mandate of the committee, which include recommending action against persons against whom incriminating evidence for incitement of violence was prima facie found. He had also argued that the Information Technology Act already dealt with hate content on Internet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/social-media-issues-our-concern-centre/article33735516.ece
03 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Jal Jeevan Mission to help revive urban waterbodies||The urban water supply mission announced in the Budget on Monday will include rejuvenation of waterbodies and 20% of supply from reused water, the Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry said on Tuesday. In a statement, the Ministry said there was an estimated gap of 2.68 crore urban household tap connections that the Jal Jeevan Mission (Urban) (JJMU) would seek to bridge in all 4,378 statutory towns. The Mission would also aim to bridge the gap of 2.64 crore sewer connections in the 500 cities under the existing Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT). The mission would include rejuvenation of water bodies to boost the sustainable freshwater supply and creation of green spaces. “JJM(U) will promote circular economy of water through development of city water balance plan for each city focusing on recycle/reuse of treated sewage, rejuvenation of water bodies and water conservation,” it said. The Ministry said 20% of the water demand would be met with reused water. The total expenditure on the mission would be Rs. 2.87 lakh crore over five years. The Ministry said the MetroNeo and MetroLite technologies, which are cheaper than conventional Metros, mentioned in the Budget were already being considered. “Some of the Tier-2 cities like Gorakhpur, Allahabad, Jammu, Srinagar, Rajkot, Baroda, Dehradun, Coimbatore, Bhiwadi-Daruhera etc. are making proposals under MetroLite/MetroNeo and Nashik has already sent a proposal for MetroNeo, which is under consideration,” the statement said. Apart from the Budget announcements, the Ministry said there had been an increase in the funds to urban local bodies as per the 15th Finance Commission’s report. There had been a 78% increase, from Rs. 87,143 crore in the 14th Finance Commission period to Rs. 1,55,628 crore in the 15th Finance Commission’s period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jal-jeevan-mission-to-help-revive-urban-waterbodies/article33735528.ece
03 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Marriage age: SC to study plea to transfer HC cases to itself||The Supreme Court on Tuesday decided to examine a plea to transfer to itself cases pending in the Delhi and Rajasthan High Courts to declare a “uniform minimum age” for marriage. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde issued notice to the government on the plea by advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay, who argued that it was filed to “secure gender justice, gender equality, and dignity of women”. Various laws state that the minimum age to get married should be 18 for women and 21 for men. “Petitioner is compelled to approach this court as more PILs may be filed seeking ‘Uniform Minimum Age of Marriage for Men and Women’. Therefore, to avoid multiplicity of the litigations, the Court may be pleased to transfer these PILs and decide them collectively,” said the plea. It sought a direction to the Union government to remove the anomalies in the minimum age of marriage and make it ‘gender-neutral, religion-neutral and uniform for all citizens’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/marriage-age-sc-to-study-plea-to-transfer-hc-cases-to-itself/article33735539.ece
03 February 2021||New Delhi,||More women have antibodies in Delhi||More women were found to have developed antibodies against COVID-19 compared with men in the fifth and the largest serological survey done by the Delhi government, said Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Tuesday. Many experts and the Minister said the city is getting closer to attaining herd immunity, but people should still take vaccines as it will provide a better immune response against the virus, and also continue to take all precautions. About 56.13% of over 28,000 people, whose blood samples were collected, have developed antibodies against COVID-19, the results show. This means that 56.13% of the people surveyed had caught the infection at some point and have recovered from it, Mr. Jain said. When a larger part of the population develops antibodies and becomes immune to the virus, the chain of transmission is broken which reduces the spread of the disease which is called herd immunity. So, a higher value of sero prevalence is favourable. New strains “About 60-70% seroprevalence is needed to attain herd immunity. But new strains can create a problem. So, 56% seroprevalence is a good sign, but we cannot say that Delhi has attained herd immunity,” said Dr. Arun Gupta, president of the Delhi Medical Council. But another expert said there is uncertainty on the percentage of the population who should have antibodies to attain herd immunity. “Earlier we thought that 60-70% seroprevalence was needed to attain it. In the Manaus province in Brazil, there is a seroprevalence of 76%, as per a study. But the pandemic is still raging there, and cases and deaths are high,” said K. Srinath Reddy, epidemiologist and president of the Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI), Delhi. “So, considering the Brazil example, we actually don’t know what is the sero prevalence needed to attain herd immunity for this virus. There is a fair amount of uncertainty. We need to maintain our vigilance and not relax,” he said. The State Health Minister also urged people to continue taking precautions and wear masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/more-women-have-antibodies-in-delhi/article33735543.ece
03 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||CBI finds no foul play in Balabhaskar’s death||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has found no foul play in the death of violinist Balabhaskar. He had died in a car accident here on September 2018. In a charge sheet filed in the CBI special court here, the agency has sought to put to rest the countless conspiracy theories that had sprang up in the wake of the popular musician’s tragic and untimely death. The CBI found that rash and negligent driving by the chauffeur, Arjun Narayan, had caused the accident. The driver possibly nodded off, causing the car to veer to the extreme of the carriageway near Pallippuram. The vehicle, which was accelerating well above the legal speed limit, rammed a tree abutting the road. Long night drive The crash occurred at the fag end of what was a long night drive from Thrissur. Balabhaskar’s two-year-old daughter, Tejaswini Bala, died on the spot. The musician died days later at the hospital. Balabhaskar’s wife Lakshmi and car driver, Arjun, had sustained severe injuries in the incident and were hospitalised for long. The CBI also found the driver had attempted to shift the blame for the accident by wrongly stating that Balabhaskar was at the wheel at the collision time. The CBI found that television actor Soby George Kalabhavan had “infused” the accident with conspiracy theories. His averments had misled the police and caused deep scepticism among the public about Balabhaskar’s death. The CBI has booked him under sections 182 and 193 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for giving false information to a public servant, adducing fake evidence and fabricating proof. The CBI said the actor had attempted to link Balabhaskar’s death to various high-profile gold smuggling cases that had caught the public’s imagination. It did not help investigators that the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) had separately booked two of the musician’s aides, both part of Balabhaskar’s entourage, on gold smuggling charges. Balabhaskar’s parents had sought a CBI inquiry to investigate whether Arjun had any link with gold smuggling. They told the CBI that they suspected some persons had orchestrated the car accident for financial gain. The CBI found no evidence to substantiate their suspicions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-finds-no-foul-play-in-balabhaskars-death/article33735507.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Uproar in Parliament over three farm laws||“It seems we have returned to the British Raj, going by the harassment that they are facing,” Mr. Chowdhury said shortly before the Lok Sabha was adjourned for the second time. Members of the Congress, Trinamool, Akali Dal, Shiv Sena, DMK and the Samajwadi Party trooped into the well of the House and raised slogans. While Speaker Om Birla asked the Opposition members to raise the issue during the Motion of Thanks to the President’s Address, Agriculture Minister Narendra Tomar said the government was ready to discuss the issue in Parliament as well as outside. “Today, there were lots of questions related to farmers’ welfare during the Question Hour. If we had discussed them, we would have finished half the discussion. Members didn’t pay attention and precious time of the House is being lost,” Mr. Tomar said. After two adjournments in the Lok Sabha, BJP MP from West Bengal Locket Chatterjee started the discussion on the Motion of Thanks debate before it was eventually adjourned for the day. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi’s appeal not to disturb the proceedings didn’t have any effect on the MPs who continued to raise slogans. In the morning, the Rajya Sabha witnessed four adjournments after the Opposition members stormed into the well of the House protesting against Mr. Naidu’s decision to disallow the multiple adjournment motions moved by the Congress, DMK, RJD, Trinamool and the CPI(M), demanding discussion on the farm laws. “I want to set the record straight. People say there was no discussion on farm laws. They were discussed... I have already repeated that there was a threadbare discussion on farm laws in the House. A wrong impression is being created that there was no discussion,” Mr. Naidu said. The issues can be raised during the debate on Motion of Thanks for which, he said, 10 hours had been allotted. To the Opposition’s allegation that Deputy Chairman Harivansh, who was in chair at the time, did not allow voting despite demands from many members, Mr. Naidu said, “People may have their own arguments.” “But as far as discussion is concerned, every party completed its part and made its suggestions. It is on record. If anybody wants, I can again ask the record to be placed forward,” he said. The Opposition members staged a walkout protesting against Mr. Naidu’s decision. They soon returned and stormed into the well demanding repeal of the laws. CPI(M) MP Elamaram Kareem urged the government to restore the electricity and water supply for the agitating farmers. The House was adjourned at 10.30 a.m. after it had functioned for 43 minutes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uproar-in-parliament-over-three-farm-laws/article33735508.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Police use barbed wire, spikes to cut off sites||He added that all those arrested, whether or not they stuck to the planned route for the tractor parade would receive support. Apart from this, more than 160 people have died since the agitation began over two months ago. In a written response to a question raised by 28 Members of Parliament in the Lok Sabha, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the Centre does not propose to give any compensation to the families of farmers who have died during the ongoing agitation against the three farm laws. In response to another question on whether the government has any plan to repeal the laws, Mr. Tomar only said, “The recent farmers Reform Laws implementation has been stayed, at present by Hon’ble Supreme Court.” With tensions running high, Pramod Kumar Joshi, a member of the SC-appointed committee told The Hindu that his panel was yet to approach any of the protesting unions. “They have already said they will not participate in our proceedings. We will definitely write letters to them, and will also call them and convince them to talk to us as we are not the government,” said Dr. Joshi. “But we thought let things settle down, only then we will approach them. Right now, the situation is very hot, so we thought let us avoid that at this stage. Later on, we will do it,” he added, when asked about the impact of the barricades, arrests and high tensions on their consultations. The panel plans to hold three more meetings with other farmers groups this week. The Ghazipur protest site on the border with Uttar Pradesh has been boxed in by multi-layer barricading. In the midst of the metal and concrete barricades, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait said farmers had dug in with the determination to stay until next October or November if need be, and have supplies being sent from their villages to support them until the Centre withdraws the three contentious agriculture reform laws. On the Haryana border at Singhu as well, farmers said they have set up supply lines with ten villages and are preparing for the long haul. The new police restrictions have also forced farmers to scramble to set up new facilities for sanitation.  (With inputs from Jatin Anand and Shinjini Ghosh)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-use-barbed-wire-spikes-to-cut-off-sites/article33735511.ece
03 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||BJP appoints teams for poll-bound States||BJP president J.P. Nadda on Tuesday appointed election in-charges for the poll-going States of Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Assam. For Kerala, he appointed Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi along with Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister Ashwath Narayan. For Assam, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Minister of State for PMO Jitendra Singh, for Tamil Nadu Minister of State for Home G. Kishen Reddy and General V.K. Singh, and for Puducherry, Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs Arjun Ram Meghwal and Rajya Sabha MP Rajeev Chandrashekhar have been appointed. These appointments have been made over and above the State in-charges appointed and their assignment would be strictly restricted to poll issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-appoints-teams-for-poll-bound-states/article33735517.ece
03 February 2021||New Delhi,||MHA gets further extension till April 9 to frame CAA rules||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) informed the Lok Sabha on Tuesday that a parliamentary committee on subordinate legislation had granted it extension till April 9 to frame the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), 2019 rules. Without the rules being notified, the Act remains ineffective. The BJP promoted CAA as one of its major poll promises in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The Assembly elections in West Bengal and Assam are due in a couple of months. Home Minister Amit Shah had said that CAA rules would be framed after the COVID-19 vaccination drive ends. In a written reply, Minister of State for Home Affairs Nityanand Rai said, “the Citizenship [Amendment] Act, 2019 [CAA] has been notified on 12.12.2019 and has come into force w.e.f. 10.01.2020. The Rules under The Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019 (CAA) are under preparation. The Committees on Subordinate Legislation, Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha have granted extension of time upto 09.04.2021 and 09.07.2021 respectively to frame these rules under the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019 (CAA).” Delay in notification  The Hindu reported on July 20, 2020 that the MHA was yet to inform Parliament regarding the delay in framing rules, to be done if the rules are not framed within six months of the legislation being passed by Parliament. Following the report, the MHA sent a letter to the parliamentary committee on subordinate legislation seeking three-months extension that expired in November. The MHA then sought further extension.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mha-gets-further-extension-till-april-9-to-frame-caa-rules/article33735521.ece
03 February 2021||New Delhi,||Priyanka, Rahul target govt. over police action||Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra took to Twitter on Tuesday to target the Union government over the Delhi Police’s arrangements to stop protesting farmers from entering the city. “Prime Minister sir, you are at war with our own farmers?” said Ms. Vadra. The party general secretary posted a video of the massive deployment of police and paramilitary forces at Delhi borders. Mr. Gandhi also shared photographs of barricades put up by the police. Four photos showed concertina and barbed wires, freshly laid concrete with spikes to puncture tyres and tiers of concrete and mobile iron barriers. “GOI [Governmemt of India], Build bridges, not walls!” tweeted the former party president . Following the violence during the tractor rally on January 26, when groups of farmers barged into the Red Fort, the Delhi Police have not only stepped up security but also put up several barriers at all entry points of the national capital. On Monday, commuters entering the city from nearby regions such as Noida faced heavy traffic, as movement of vehicles had considerably slowed down because of additional police barricades.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/priyanka-rahul-target-govt-over-police-action/article33735526.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Amazon wins relief as HC stays deal||“This court is satisfied that immediate orders are necessary to protect the rights of the petitioner (Amazon) till the pronouncement of the reserved order. The respondents are directed to maintain status quo ... till the pronouncement of the reserved order,” he added. The court, which was hearing Amazon’s plea seeking enforcement of the arbitrator’s order, also directed Future Coupons Pvt. Ltd. (FCPL), FRL and others to submit within 10 days an affidavit detailing the actions taken by them after October 25, 2020, and the present status of all those actions. Amazon, which has 49% stake in FCPL, contends that it had invested Rs. 1,43l crore on the clear understanding that FRL would be the sole vehicle for its retail business and that the retail assets would not be alienated without Amazon’s consent and never to a Restricted Person, including the Mukesh Dhirubhai Ambani (MDA) Group. Amazon stated that FRL had taken various steps to transfer the retail assets to the restricted person in violation of the arbitrator’s order and were continuing with it. FCPL, which has 9.82% stake in FRL, had objected to the enforcement of the arbitrator’s award on various grounds including that the emergency arbitrator was neither an arbitrator nor an arbitral tribunal. It had also argued that the EA order was not an order under Section 17( 1) of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act and hence not enforceable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amazon-wins-relief-as-hc-stays-deal/article33735492.ece
03 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Supplementary charges filed against ex-Minister||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a supplementary chargesheet against Karnataka ex-Minister Vinay Kulkarni and two others in connection with the murder of Yogesh Gowda, then zilla panchayat member, in June 2016 in Dharwad. Among those arraigned are Chandrashekhar Indi and Shivananand Birdar. The former MLA from Dharwad and the two others are in judicial custody. The CBI had earlier chargesheeted eight persons — Santosh Savadatti, Dinesh. M, Sunil K.S., Harshith, Aswath S., Nazeer Ahamad, Shanawaz and Nutan K.S. It has seized three country-made pistols. The CBI said its investigation revealed that the former Minister had personal enmity and political rivalry with the victim, who had declined the request to step back from contesting the zilla parishad (ZP) polls in 2016. “Investigations revealed that the ex-Minister allegedly conspired with his close associates and in pursuance thereof, one of his associates agreed to execute the murder,” it said. According to the CBI, as part of the planning, the accused entered into a land deal and later projected a purported land dispute as the motive behind the murder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/supplementary-charges-filed-against-ex-minister/article33736000.ece
03 February 2021||Bengaluru,||HC notice on plea challenging handing over of Mangaluru airport to Adani Group||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday ordered issue of notice to the Ministry of Civil Aviation on a PIL petition questioning the process of handing over of Mangaluru International Airport to Adani Enterprises Ltd. for operations, management and development. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum passed the order on the petition filed by Airport Authority Employees’ Union, Mangaluru International Airport. The petitioner has sought a declaration from the HC that the entire bidding process pursuant to the Cabinet decision of November 8, 2018, and the action of calling for Request for Proposal (RFP) to enter into a concession agreement as illegal. The petitioner has also sought a direction from the court to quash the July 3, 2019, decision of the MCA approving the bid of the Adani Enterprises Ltd. and the concession agreement entered into with Adani Group on February 14, 2020. The petitioner has contended that accepting the bid of Adani Group was illegal and beyond the scope of the Airport Authority Act, 1994. After the Cabinet node, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) prepared and submitted to the Public-Private Partnership Appraisal Committee (PPPAC) on December 7, 2018, without conducting proper feasibility study and without considering the legality of such a proposal, the petitioner has alleged. “The PPPAC in turn gave in-principle approval simultaneously on December 11, 2018, by evaluating the bulk documents within four days of time, which included one Saturday and Sunday... Prima facie there was no proper examination of the proposal. After obtaining the approval, the AAI within no time finalised and uploaded the RFP and the draft concession agreement on December 14, 2018,” the petitioner contended. Pointing out that the entity quoting the highest ‘per passenger fee’ for domestic passengers will emerge as the highest bidder, the petitioner has contended that this term is contrary to international standards and the normal bidding process as there was no base price fixed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-notice-on-plea-challenging-handing-over-of-mangaluru-airport-to-adani-group/article33736007.ece
03 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||340 deaths due to manual scavenging||The Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry on Tuesday told the Lok Sabha, in response to a question about manual scavengers, that 340 people had died while cleaning sewers and septic tanks in the past five years. Uttar Pradesh with 52 deaths, Tamil Nadu (43) and Delhi (36) topped the list. Maharashtra recorded 34 deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/340-deaths-due-to-manual-scavenging/article33735515.ece
03 February 2021||Srinagar,||Court quashes detention of Jamaat chief||The J&K High Court on Monday quashed the detention of Dr. Abdul Hameed Fayaz, chief of the banned Jamaat-e-Islami (JeI), saying, “the detaining authority had failed to apply its mind while passing the detention order”. Immediately after the JeI was banned by the Centre in February 2019, Mr. Fayaz was arrested in a crackdown on the organisations and its cadre. Two FIRs were later filed against him, one charging him under the Public Safety Act (PSA). “Interestingly, neither in the dossier supplied by the Senior Superintendent of Police nor in the grounds of detention there is any whisper as to whether the appellant (Mr. Fayaz) was ever arrested in the FIR/FIRs. There is no awareness shown by the detaining authority with regard to the status of such FIRs,” the Bench observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/court-quashes-detention-of-jamaat-chief/article33735518.ece
03 February 2021||New Delhi,||‘No Central law against conversion’||The Centre informed the Lok Sabha on Tuesday that it had no intention to propose a Central anti-conversion law to curb interfaith marriages. Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy was asked if the government was of the view that interfaith marriages were happening due to forceful conversions. “Public Order and Police are State subjects. Hence prevention, detection, registration, investigation and prosecution of offences related to religious conversions are primarily the concerns of the State Governments/Union Territory Administrations,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-central-law-against-conversion/article33735520.ece
03 February 2021||GUWAHATI,||Fate of 7 MLAs to be decided on February 8||The Kohima bench of the Gauhati High Court will on February 8 hear a plea to restrain seven MLAs of the Opposition Naga People’s Front (NPF) in Nagaland from attending the Assembly session from February 12. The NPF had in 2019 suspended the MLAs for pledging support to the National Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP), which heads Nagaland’s coalition government. The Opposition party had filed an interlocutory application seeking the court’s interference in restraining the seven from attending the House session. Speaker’s judgement Nagaland Speaker Sharingain Longkumer in July 2020 dismissed a disqualification petition filed against the seven by the NPF, prompting it to challenge the Speaker’s judgement in court. The Speaker said there were no sufficient grounds to presume that the said MLAs had voluntarily given up the membership of their original party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fate-of-7-mlas-to-be-decided-on-february-8/article33735530.ece
03 February 2021||Patna,||RLSP denies plan to merge with JD(U)||Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) sources on Tuesday denied report that the party, led by Upendra Kushwaha, will merge with the Janata Dal(U). A series of meetings between Mr. Kushwaha and Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar triggered rumours that the former is likely to be inducted into the State Cabinet. An expansion of the Cabinet is expected “any day this week”. “The news reports about the merger of RLSP are wrong and baseless. The party will continue with its struggle in view of expectations and aspirations of people of Bihar and the country along with RLSP friends,” the party’s official Twitter handle said on February 1. Sources close to the RLSP chief also denied the reports. The buzz over Cabinet expansion has been gaining ground.  Names of MLAs who recently joined the JD(U) like Jama Khan who had won on a BSP ticket from Kaimur, are doing the rounds as possible entrants into the Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rlsp-chief-likely-to-join-nitish-cabinet/article33735536.ece
03 February 2021||New Delhi,||NIA to probe blast near Israel Embassy||The Ministry of Home Affairs has ordered the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to probe the January 29 explosion near the Israel Embassy in Delhi. An IED was set off at a pavement near the embassy, damaging a few cars. The Special Cell of the Delhi Police was investigating the case. A handwritten note found near the explosion site, addressed to Ambassador Ron Malka, said it was just a trailer to avenge the killing of Iranian military commander Qasim Soleimani and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-to-probe-blast-near-israel-embassy/article33736001.ece
03 February 2021||Bengaluru,||ACB raids seven officials across the State||Officials of the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) on Tuesday conducted raids on 36 places belonging to seven officials working in various government departments across the State. They recovered movable and immovable properties worth several crores disproportionate to their known source of income. Joint Registrar  A team of officials raided the house of Panduranga Garag, Joint Registrar of Co-Operative Societies situated in Vijayanagar, and recovered property details of two houses and a flat, a tractor, three cars 1.6 kg of gold valuables, and Rs. 4.4 lakh in cash, among others. Other accused The other officials raided and the valuables recovered were as follows: Jayaraj K.V., Joint Director, Town Planning, Mangaluru City Corporation, from whom two houses, three sites, Rs. 11 lakh in cash, Rs. 10 lakh worth of insurance bonds, and Rs. 77 lakh deposit details in various banks was recovered; Devaraj Kamlesh Shiggavi, Executive Engineer, Minor Irrigation Department, Dharwad, who was found to have among other things two houses, two sites, two cars, 26 acres of agricultural land Rs. 59.8 lakh cash; S.S. Vijay Kumar, District Health O fficer, Kolar, who was booked for possessing three houses, three flats, three sites, and one private hospital; Srinivas, Assistant Conservator of Forest, Dharwad, who had two houses, one farm house, two sites, two cars, one tractor and Rs. 63 lakh worth of household articles; Channabasappa, junior engineer, PWD, Magadi, Ramanagaram, who had eight flats, and one supermarket, among others; and Srinivas, former director, VIMS, and Head of Department of Pharmacology, Koppal, who had one house, four sites, two cars, 800 g of gold valuables, 9.3 kg of silver articles, among others. The accused have been booked and investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/acb-raids-seven-officials-across-the-state/article33735499.ece
03 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Quarry blast: HC seeks State’s response on inquiry||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday directedthe State government to make its stand clear on the nature of inquiry to be conducted into the incident of blast at a stone quarrying site at Hunasodu villege near Shivamogga city on January 21. Also, the court asked the government to inform the precautions that would be taken to prevent such incidents and the actions initiated against the persons responsible for the blast that occurred due to explosives laden in a truck parked inside a quarrying site. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum issued the directions while hearing a PIL petition filed by K.B. Vijayakumar, a city-based advocate. The petitioner has sought a probe by the CBI under the court’s monitoring.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/quarry-blast-hc-seeks-states-response-on-inquiry/article33735501.ece
03 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Two lives lost due to failure to implement law prohibiting manual scavenging: HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday observed that two labourers had lost their lives in Kalaburagi on January 28 owing to the failure of the State government’s official machinery to implement the law prohibiting manual scavenging. The court directed the government to submit the particulars of the First Information Report registered in connection the deaths of two labourers, who were engaged to clean a manhole by a private firm, appointed by the Karnataka Urban Water Supply and Drainage Board, for maintaining underground pipes. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum passed the order while hearing the two separate PIL petitions filed the All India Council for Trade Unions and the High Court Legal Services Committee complaining about non-implementation of the provisions of the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act, 2013. “The petitioners are right in their contention that it is only due to failure to implement the provisions of the Act that two persons, forced to do manual scavenging, lost their lives in Kalaburagi,” the Bench observed after the incident was brought to the notice of the court. The HC, on December 9, 2020, had held that ‘there was hardly any implementation’ of the law while issuing a series of directions for implementing the Act while deciding to monitor the process of implementation of the Act. When the petitions came up for hearing on Tuesday, the Bench expressed its displeasure over non compliance of several directions issued in December last year while cautioning the government that it may have to initiate action under the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-lives-lost-due-to-failure-to-implement-law-prohibiting-manual-scavenging-hc/article33735502.ece
03 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Nadda arriving for two-day visit, to discuss poll tactics||BJP national president J. P. Nadda will arrive in the State for a two-day visit on Wednesday. Party State functionaries will brief him on the trends and political shifts that the party could engineer to its advantage in the Assembly elections. Mr. Nadda will hold a closed-door meeting with the party’s local body representatives and attend a public meeting in Thrissur on Thursday, The BJP feels it is on a firm footing. The party had fared well in varying degrees in the local body polls.  The BJP feels it can play a pivotal role in the high-stakes triangular contest. By an optimistic estimate, the party aspired to win 30 seats and tip the electoral balance in more.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nadda-arriving-for-two-day-visit-to-discuss-poll-tactics/article33735721.ece
03 February 2021||New Delhi,||“Attacks on journalists cast a shadow on state of freedom of expression”||The Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative (CHRI) on Tuesday called for the withdrawal of sedition cases filed against journalists. “This casts a long shadow over the state of freedom of expression in the country, which has for decades been a thriving bastion of journalism,” a statement released by CHRI said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/attacks-on-journalists-cast-a-shadow-on-state-of-freedom-of-expression/article33735512.ece
03 February 2021||Chandigarh,||Punjab all-party meeting demands immediate withdrawal of farm laws||The all-party meeting convened by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday on the farmers’ agitation urged the Centre to immediately withdraw the three farm laws. It was decided that an all-party delegation would raise the issue with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The meeting was boycotted by BJP but attended by Congress, AAP, SAD, Lok Insaaf Party, SAD Democratic Party, BSP, CPI and CPI(M). AAP, however, walked out at the fag end over their demand for sending out the Punjab police to Delhi borders for providing security to farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-all-party-meeting-demands-immediate-withdrawal-of-farm-laws/article33735514.ece
03 February 2021||New Delhi,||Freelance journalist arrested at Singhu border gets bail||A Delhi court on Tuesday granted bail to freelance journalist Mandeep Punia, who was arrested on January 31 by the Delhi Police at the Singhu border. Mr. Punia was detained for allegedly “obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions”. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Satvir Singh Lamba, while granting bail to Mr. Punia, asked him to join the investigation as and when required.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/freelance-journalist-arrested-at-singhu-border-gets-bail/article33735519.ece
03 February 2021||New Delhi,||Red Fort closed due to bird flu: ASI||Red Fort would remain closed to the public until further orders after dead crows at the site were found to have bird flu,an Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) order said on Monday. The historical site was closed from January 19 to 21 after a sample taken from dead crows was found positive for avian influenza. It remained closed till January 26 after that due to Republic Day celebrations, as is the norm every year. The ASI order on Monday said the decision was taken on the basis of communication from the Central Delhi district magistrate in order to “control the spread of avian influenza in the Red Fort area, which is declared as an infected zone”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/red-fort-closed-due-to-bird-flu-asi/article33735529.ece
03 February 2021||New Delhi,||CPI raps Kanhaiya over ruckus at party office||A censure motion was passed against former JNU Students’ Union president Kanhaiya Kumar by the Communist Party of India (CPI) for unruly behaviour at the party’s Patna office last December. The censure came during the CPI’s three-day National Council meeting in Hyderabad which concluded on January 31. Sources said Mr. Kumar was censured for an incident at the party’s Patna office on December 1, when his supporters reportedly roughed up the office secretary Indu Bhushan after confusion over the schedule of the Begusarai district council meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cpi-raps-kanhaiya-over-ruckus-at-party-office/article33735535.ece
03 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro Rail’s maximum fare may be cut to Rs. 50||In an effort to draw more commuters, Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. may reduce its maximum fare to Rs. 50, sources said. “While the minimum fare is likely to be Rs. 10, the maximum will be reduced to Rs. 50. This will be done by providing discounts for a certain period of time. We are hoping this will make a significant impact on the ridership and pull more commuters to travel in Metro trains,” a source said. At present, commuters pay a minimum of Rs. 10 and a maximum of Rs. 60. This could go up to Rs. 70 when the phase I extension project is opened as the distance would increase. At present, CMRL offers a 50% discount on public holidays and Sunday. This apart, more recently, it had been giving a 20% discount for QR code tickets. “We have been mulling several measures to see how to get [more] commuters to use the system. But unless the fares come down and last mile connectivity like share autos or cabs are restored, ridership won’t increase significantly,” an official said. In January 2019, close to 1.2 lakh passengers, including thousands of office-goers, IT employees and government staff, travelled by Metro daily. But the number plummeted drastically during the COVID-19 pandemic and now, about 50,000 passengers travel daily. Between September last year when the services restarted after the lockdown and January this year, 44.96 lakh people travelled by the Metro. CMRL has to cut fares at the earliest to attract more people to this system, commuters said. Swetha, a commuter, said: “While I regularly wanted to travel by Metro since it is fast and clean, I am not able to because it is too expensive to take on a daily basis. If they want everyone to travel regularly, then they have to reduce the fares.”  Unless the fares come down and last mile connectivity like share autos or cabs is restored, ridership won't increase significantly CMRL official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metro-rails-maximum-fare-may-be-cut-to-rs-50/article33736036.ece
03 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||City to get fourth integrated bus terminus soon||The industrial belt of the Chennai-Bengaluru Highway beyond Poonamallee is set to become busier in the coming years once the Thirumazhisai bus terminus is thrown open to the public. The Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) is planning to build the integrated mofussil bus terminus at Kuthambakkam village, near Thirumazhisai. Spread over 25 acres of land on an outlay of Rs. 314 crore, the terminus will achieve the twin objectives of easing traffic congestion in Koyambedu and provide the much-needed public transport facility to nearly 40,000 people working in the industrial complexes, including SIPCOT. Land ready D. Karthikeyan, Member-Secretary, CMDA, said the construction of the bus terminus would take off in the coming months as the designated land, which had been used as a temporary vegetable market until recently, was now available. He said, “The integrated bus terminus, built on the lines of the one at Kilambakkam, will be completed within 18 months.” With an area of 1 lakh sq m, the bus terminal would have two cellar floors for parking facility, ground floor for shops and booking offices, a mezzanine floor and a first floor. It would also have a sewage treatment plant, an effluent treatment plant, a RO plant, rooms for the crew, toilets, shopping area and dormitory. N. Srinivasa Rao, Superintending Engineer, CMDA, said that with a capacity to accommodate 225 buses, including those of private operators, State Transport Corporation and Metropolitan Transport Corporation, the terminus would provide a seamless travel experience for commuters. More than 15% (4 acres) of the 25 acre site would be allotted for greenery and 10% (2.5 acres) for car parking. A separate water tank, a vehicle washing area, a workshop, an electricity substation and a petrol pump were planned on the premises, Mr. Rao said. R. Elango, social activist and former president of the Kuthambakkam village panchayat, said that being part of the satellite township comprising Kuthambakkam, Thirumazhisai, Chembarambakkam and nearby villages, the facility would boost commercial activities in the township and improve public transport. ‘Small bus needed’ S. Thyagarajan, who runs a factory in the SIPCOT complex at Irungattukottai, said the Transport Department should think beyond Thirumazhisai while planning public transport for the people working in several factories at Irungattukottai, Thirumudivakkam and Sriperumbudur. He said that as the Chennai-Bengaluru Highway was set to become an industrial corridor, the Department should operate at least link buses or small bus services to the terminus. CMDA officials said with the Dr. MGR bus terminus in Koyambedu in operation and the Madhavaram bus terminus having been completed, city residents would have transport hubs in the south and west sections once the Kilambakkam and Kuthambakkam bus termini were completed. These two facilities would considerably ease the pressure on the Koyambedu bus terminus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-to-get-fourth-integrated-bus-terminus-soon/article33736048.ece
03 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Governor’s plea to Oppn. goes in vain, DMK stages walkout||Governor Banwarilal Purohit’s repeated appeals to the Opposition parties to take part in debates in the Assembly went in vain on Tuesday. Leader of the Opposition M.K. Stalin tried to speak — but was disallowed from doing so — when Mr. Purohit was about to start his speech after ‘Tamil Thai Vaazhthu’ was recited. The members of all Opposition parties stood behind him. DMK members objected to Mr. Purohit’s reference to the Union Budget proposal to allocate over Rs. 1 lakh crore for infrastructure development in Tamil Nadu. The Governor sought to know whether there was anything incorrect in the information, and requested Mr. Stalin to take part in a debate because this would be the last session of the 15th Assembly. “This is the last session of this term. Respect it... take full advantage of it. You should prove it in the debate. Nobody stopped you. I know all of you senior leaders are some of the best orators. Why don’t you use your skills? It is my humble request. Please cooperate,” he said. As the Opposition members insisted that Mr. Stalin be allowed to speak, the Governor said: “Why are you getting angry? Don’t get angry with us. There is one suggestion. If you want to register the protest, you can go out for five minutes and come back.” But they walked out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/governors-plea-to-oppn-goes-in-vain-dmk-stages-walkout/article33735638.ece
03 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. to make much of more allocations for rural schemes||Tamil Nadu hopes to make much of the enhanced allocation of funds in the Union Budget under a couple of schemes in the agriculture and rural development sectors. In her budget speech, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced an increase in the allocation to the Rural Infrastructure Development Fund (RIDF) from Rs. 30,000 crore to Rs. 40,000 crore, besides doubling the corpus of the Micro Irrigation Fund (MIF) to Rs. 10,000 crore. During the pre-budget consultations in mid-January, Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, who holds the Finance portfolio, had called for an increase in the allocation for several schemes, including the RIDF. According to the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development’s State Focus Paper 2021-22 for Tamil Nadu, village panchayat and panchayat union roads to a length of about 7,985 km and 317 bridges had been taken up in the last 9 years for construction at a cost of Rs. 2,251.32 crore under this scheme. The State was sanctioned Rs. 2,400 crore during 2020-21, said NABARD Chief General Manager S. Selvaraj. As for the MIF aimed at helping the States mobilise the resources for expanding micro irrigation, Tamil Nadu was given about Rs. 1,358 crore during 2019-20, said the NABARD document, adding that an area of about 4.76 lakh hectares was expected to benefit. During 2020-21, the State availed itself of around Rs. 950 crore. “It may draw Rs. 200 crore more by March-end,” Mr. Selvaraj said. Welcoming the Centre’s move to bring Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees (APMCs) within the ambit of the Agriculture Infrastructure Fund (AIF), a senior policy-maker said this would cover the APMCs in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-to-make-much-of-more-allocations-for-farming-rural-development-schemes/article33735672.ece
03 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Birdwatchers scan sanctuaries for avian life||At the end of the Pongal bird count in and around the city, birders found avian life not just in sanctuaries, but also around smaller waterbodies and in backyards. The Pongal bird count has been taking place in the State since 2015, and is based on the model of the Christmas bird count held in Western countries. It is conducted mainly to encourage people to go around waterbodies near their residences, said P. Jeganathan of the Tamil Birders’ Network. He is also the co-ordinator of the Pongal Bird Count. People can upload their lists on e-bird. It is a citizen science activity that takes place for four days. Over the years, the statistics have given an idea of the population and habitats of birds, he said. Every year, the responses have been tremendous, and this year, many people did the activity from their homes, he added. During the count, Nature Trust volunteers spotted the Bar-headed Goose and the Eurasian Oystercatcher, both rare, in the Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu sides of the Pulicat, respectively. Bar-tailed Godwits and Great Knots were also seen. In Pallikaranai, 182 species of birds were recorded, despite constraints, and the bird count is estimated at over 40,000. Gadwall, which was first noticed in south India in 2018, has been regularly visiting Pallikaranai for four years, said K.V.R.K. Thirunaranan, founder, Nature Trust. Another feature the birders have noticed is of Melmaruvathur becoming a successful habitat, with pelicans nesting in large numbers. The delay in the Vedanthangal bird sanctuary realising enough water has forced pelicans to change their habitat to Melmaruvathur, they said. Vedanthangal has 26 species, but the number of birds is less when compared to five years ago. “About 60,000 birds used to visit but the numbers have dwindled to under 20,000 now,” said a regular birder. Revival of habitat Karikili, a very old sanctuary and a paradise for wild ducks, which has also gradually faded from the conservation map, is slowly regaining its habitat. This year, about 1,500 Northern pintails visited the sanctuary. Another birding hotspot in the Tiruporur forest range is the Kelambakkam-Kovalam creek that has Eeurosian curlews, Whimbrels and Ruddy Turnstone as visitors. Greater Flamingos, pelicans and Painted Storks can also be seen here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/birdwatchers-scan-sanctuaries-for-avian-life/article33736055.ece
03 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation to spruce up Anai Eri||The Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) will resume desilting work at Anai Eri in Pallikaranai. “Already about half the lake has been desilted and deepened. The remaining work, too, would be taken up soon. We will construct a 2,500-m-long footpath around the lake with handrails, plant 500 saplings, construct three bird islands and have a play area for children,” said an official of the GCC. The total estimate for the project is Rs. 9.37 crore. The lake, spread over 51 acres, overflowed during the recent monsoon and caused floods in the nearby localities. Residents, who welcomed the initiative, wanted the civic body to ensure construction of several stormwater drains to carry excess water from the lake to different points, including the Narayanapuram lake and the Pallikaranai marsh. N. Sridhar, a resident, said letting out the excess water at one point would not be enough. “The lake has been cleaned, which is a great thing. But the lake took too much water and the excess drained into residential areas. What the Corporation needs to do is construct a drain with a good carrying capacity. It cannot be a small one. The Corporation should consult other departments and do this,” he said. A civic official said they were aware of the issue. “We are now checking the ownership of lands surrounding the lake. We will take steps to prevent flooding of these localities during the next monsoon,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-to-spruce-up-anai-eri/article33736028.ece
03 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CMRL moves High Court against tribunal’s award of Rs. 39.97 crore||Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL) has approached the Madras High Court against an award passed by a tribunal last year directing it to pay Rs. 39.97 crore to Consolidated Constructions Consortium Ltd. whose contract for the construction of the St. Thomas Mount elevated station and the associated viaducts was terminated in 2014. Justice M. Sundar ordered notice to the consortium after Advocate-General Vijay Narayan, representing CMRL, claimed the award passed by the tribunal, comprising three technical members, was per se illegal and unintelligible because adequate reasons had not been assigned for passing such an award by a 2-1 majority. The A-G told the court that CMRL was a special purpose vehicle (SPV) floated for establishing metro rail in Chennai. The Centre as well as the State government had equal stakes in the SPV. On February 17, 2011, it awarded the contract to the consortium for an estimate of Rs. 78.61 crore. Financial stress As per the terms of the contract, the work should have been started on February 21, 2011, and completed by September 6, 2013. However, the consortium was able to complete only 40% of the work, despite being granted two extensions. The reason for the delay was a deep financial stress faced by the consortium, which owed about Rs. 900 crore to several banks. “They [the consortium] realised that they were in a hopeless situation and therefore issued a notice of termination on January 2, 2014, and we terminated the contract on January 11, 2014. Thereafter, they raised an arbitration claim amount of Rs. 91.17 crore, and what was awarded was Rs. 39.97 crore,” the A-G said and urged the court to stay the operation of the award. Advocate S.S. Rajesh blamed CMRL for the financial stress and said multiple arbitral proceedings were pending between it and the consortium. He said he would demonstrate, on the next date of hearing, how CMRL was liable to compensate the losses suffered by the consortium.  They issued a notice of termination on January 2, 2014 and we terminated the contract on January 11, 2014 Vijay Narayan Advocate-General||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cmrl-moves-high-court-against-tribunals-award-of-rs-3997-crore/article33736031.ece
03 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||More funds for intelligent transport systems in city||Civic agencies are set to get additional funds to strengthen the operation and maintenance of the Chennai Metropolitan Area Intelligent Transport Systems. Tendering will start once the civic agencies get Rs. 240 crore in additional funding after getting the concurrence of the State government and the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), which is funding the project. The funding, in addition to the Rs. 660 crore, is expected to be crucial in monitoring, upgrading and maintaining applications and infrastructure to offer efficient services to residents. State officials will have a series of meetings with line agencies this week to finalise the key aspects of the funding requirements for operation and maintenance. The tendering of various sub-projects will start after the revised administrative sanction is obtained from the State government. In the first phase, the project will cover 168 junctions in the core city, with loan assistance from JICA. The project is meant to construct an efficient traffic system to meet the increasing traffic demands in the Chennai Metropolitan Area that covers the Greater Chennai Corporation and other local bodies in the suburbs. The major components are the Chennai Traffic Information System, the Traffic Management System and the City Bus System. After the collaborative funding of Rs. 660 crore by JICA and the State government was decided, companies from Japan and Canada were selected for consultancy services for Intelligent Transportation Systems. The study pointed to the need for a Traffic Information and Management System for the Chennai Traffic Police. The adaptive traffic signal control system will be developed at 165 junctions. The Chennai Corporation will carry out junction improvements at these locations. A system for vehicle incident detection will cover 58 locations. A variable message sign system will be implemented at 17 locations. A red light violation detection system will be installed at 50 junctions. A speed-limit violation system will be developed at 10 locations. Automatic traffic counters and classifiers will be commissioned at 115 locations. The city bus system for the Metropolitan Transport Corporation will include facilities for tracking buses, depot management and passenger information. The system will be developed in 18 months. It will be able to assess the real time traffic conditions, counting the number of vehicles and classifying them, leading to a reduction in the number of accidents and improved pedestrian safety.  In the first phase, the project will cover 168 junctions in the core city, with a loan assistance from JICA||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-funds-for-intelligent-transport-systems-in-city/article33736042.ece
03 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||510 new COVID-19 cases, four deaths in T.N.||Tamil Nadu reported 510 new cases of COVID-19 and four deaths on Tuesday. The fresh cases took the State’s tally to 8,39,352, while the toll stood at 12,367. There was no new case in Perambalur, while 23 districts had fewer than 10 cases each. There were 142 cases in Chennai, 54 in Coimbatore, 33 in Tiruvallur, 27 each in Chengalpattu and Erode and 24 in Tiruppur. Chennai’s tally stood at 2,31,563, while Coimbatore accounted for a total of 54,500 cases and Chengalpattu 51,607. As many as 521 persons were discharged following treatment. A total of 8,22,468 persons have been discharged in the State so far. Chennai, Kanniyakumari, Sivaganga and Tenkasi reported one death each. All four deceased had co-morbidities. They included an 87-year-old man from Sivaganga who had diabetes and was admitted to the Government Corona Hospital, Chennai, on January 31. He died on the same day due to severe COVID-19 pneumonia, acute respiratory distress syndrome, sepsis and acute kidney injury. The State accounts for a total of 4,517 active cases. As many as 51,644 samples were tested in 24 hours, taking the total figure to 1,61,23,270. Lab removed A private laboratory — Huma Specialists Hospital and Research Centre, Nandanam, Chennai — was temporarily removed from the Indian Council of Medical Research’s list of approved laboratories for COVID-19 RT-PCR testing, according to the bulletin issued by the Health Department. One more returnee from the United Kingdom tested positive for COVID-19. As many as 8,058 healthcare providers/workers were vaccinated on Tuesday, taking the total figure to 1,20,467. Covishield was administered to 7,951 persons, while Covaxin was administered to 107 persons on the 17th day of the vaccination drive in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/510-new-covid-19-cases-four-deaths-in-tn/article33735635.ece
03 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK will boycott entire Assembly session: Stalin||Accusing Governor Banwarilal Purohit of helping Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and his Cabinet colleagues in corrupt activities, Leader of the Opposition and DMK president M.K. Stalin on Tuesday announced that his party would boycott the current Assembly session. “We submitted a memorandum containing corruption charges against the Chief Minister and Ministers to the Governor with adequate evidence. But he has not taken any action. He has also not made any decision on the release of the seven life convicts in former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi’s assassination case, in spite of a resolution having been passed by the Cabinet. So, we have decided to boycott the session,” he told reporters after leading a walkout by DMK legislators. Taking exception to the Governor’s observation that the Union Budget would pave the way for the development of Tamil Nadu, he said the Budget was a “lollipop” and only protected the interests of corporates. Mr. Stalin said his party boycotted the Assembly session since it wouldn’t have been given an opportunity to speak about the corrupt policies of the government. When asked whether the DMK would also boycott the Budget session, he said a decision on this would be taken “depending on the situation”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-will-boycott-entire-assembly-session-stalin/article33735636.ece
03 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Central teams to visit T.N. to assess crop damage||Two inter-ministerial Central teams, tasked with assessing the crop damage incurred across Tamil Nadu due to the unusually heavy rain in January, are set to arrive in Madurai and Tiruchi on Thursday. The first team, led by Joint Secretary-level officer Ashutosh Agnihotri, would land in Madurai and visit affected areas in Virudhunagar, Thoothukudi, Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga districts on February 4 and 5. Manoharan, Director of the Directorate of Oilseed Development in the Union Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare in Hyderabad, and Mahesh Kumar, Deputy Director in the Department of Expenditure in the Union Ministry of Finance, are the other members. Another team, led by Fisheries Development Commissioner Paul Pandian, would arrive in Tiruchi and visit Pudukkottai, Thanjavur, Nagapattinam, Mayiladuthurai and Cuddalore districts, also on February 4 and 5. Shubham Garg, Assistant Director in the Central Electricity Authority of the Union Ministry of Power, and Rananjay Singh, regional officer in the Union Ministry of Road Transport & Highways, are also part of the panel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-teams-to-visit-tn-to-assess-crop-damage/article33735646.ece
03 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pvt. health facilities allowed to give jabs||Private health facilities with more than 150 healthcare workers registered on the Co-WIN portal are being authorised to start COVID-19 vaccination. As many as 195 private facilities across the State, including 34 in Chennai, have over 150 registered healthcare workers on the portal. All Deputy Directors of Health Services were permitted to authorise private hospitals that had more than 150 health workers registered on Co-WIN under the name of the institution to get vaccination, a circular from Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine T.S. Selvavinayagam said. “The process of permitting the private hospitals is on. In the government sector, around 2.3 lakh healthcare workers were registered,” an official said. As per the beneficiary list, Apollo Hospitals, Greames Road, had 10,658 registered beneficiaries on Co-WIN as of January 29. It was followed by Christian Medical College, Vellore (7,957 beneficiaries), Sri Ramachandra Medical Centre, Chennai (4,173), PSG Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, Coimbatore (3,748), Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre, Madurai (3,664), and Saveetha Medical College, Kancheepuram (3,279). The Directorate of Public Health had sent a communication to the Union government to increase the vaccine session sites to one per block in rural areas and one per zone in urban areas and 50 major private hospitals because geographical distribution and population density made it difficult to vaccinate all healthcare workers at the allotted 160 session sites. The Deputy Directors of Health Services were instructed to obtain the requests for establishing the session sites/additional session sites for vaccination from the respective private hospitals and give permission. They should inspect the site for availability of cold chain equipment and provide approval to the private health institution to start the session. If cold chain equipment was not available, the required number of doses coould be supplied from the nearby rural/urban primary health centres (cold chain points). The Deputy Directors should decide on the number of session sites to be used for vaccination on the institution premises (up to two sites can be permitted), identify vaccinators for each site and team members (four vaccination officers). The list of vaccinators, along with their mobile phone numbers, should be shared with the district team for session allocation and scheduling so that the approved beneficiaries could be informed of the place and time of vaccination through SMS. They can issue 80% of the required doses to the private hospitals in phase-I for the first dose vaccination. On completion of the 80% doses, the balance for the first dose should be supplied, based on Co-WIN updates, the Directorate said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pvt-health-facilities-allowed-to-give-jabs/article33735632.ece
03 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. given Rs. 773.24 crore under COVID-19 emergency package||Tamil Nadu has been provided Rs. 773.24 crore in financial support under the India COVID-19 Emergency Response and Health Systems Preparedness Package, according to information provided in the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday. Under the package, Rs. 6,309.9 crore had been released to the States and the Union Territories, through the National Health Mission as on January 15. Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare Ashwini Kumar Choubey said this in a written reply to questions about the COVID-19 assistance that was provided to the States. In all, 18.66 lakh N-95 masks and 5.39 lakh PPE kits had been procured centrally and distributed in Tamil Nadu. Besides, 3,625 oxygen cylinders had been distributed in the State as on January 24. According to the information provided by Mr. Choubey, Tamil Nadu was given 1,52,700 Truenat COVID cartridges and 14,000 Xpert COVID cartridges as on January 24. According to the details received from the ICMR distribution team, about 6.4 lakh COVID-19 diagnostic kits had been supplied to Tamil Nadu as on January 24. A total of 18 diagnostic machines had been supplied to the State. According to Mr. Choubey, 1,450 ventilators had been distributed to Tamil Nadu and 1,447 of them had been installed. To another question, he said the vaccination drive was aimed at covering 5,32,605 healthcare workers in Tamil Nadu, and all the States and the Union Territories had been given the vaccines.  Tamil Nadu was given 1,52,700 Truenat COVID cartridges and 14,000 Xpert COVID cartridges as on January 24||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-given-rs-77324-crore-under-covid-19-emergency-package/article33735644.ece
03 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Care Earth develops illustrated manual for children on wetland ecology||In a bid to teach the complex concepts of wetland ecology to children in an absorbing manner, Care Earth Trust, a city-based biodiversity research organisation, has developed an illustrated learning module along with SwedBio, a programme of the Stockholm Resilience Centre.  Home of the Blue Lily , a manual on wetland ecology, which was launched online on Tuesday, is aimed at drawing children’s attention to ecosystems native to their region. The organisation plans to print the manual and distribute them in government schools and among educators. With colourful illustrations of flora and fauna and crisp texts, the manual introduces children to the concepts of biodiversity, biogeographic zones and wetland ecology of south India with case studies from Chennai. Seetha Gopalakrishnan, senior project associate, Care Earth Trust, said it would be an interactive module and observation guide for children. It explained concepts such as ecosystem services, wetland dynamics, climate change and biodiversity. “Children can explore nature and different types of habitats with the help of the manual that has case studies of flora and fauna found in the Puduthangal lake near Tambaram and butterflies of the Pallikaranai marshland. We have worked out activities like hidden images for children to check during outdoor visits and workshops,” she said. The organisation had chosen the Puduthangal lake, which was restored by it a year ago, for its accessibility during workshops. Workshops planned However, such open observation workshops would be organised during a later phase along with Beyondbuilt Trust, owing to the pandemic. The manual has chapters on culture, folklore, traditions and heritage related to the wetlands. “The idea is to have children appreciate wetland ecology, nurture a relationship and conserve them. They would get to learn about nature-based solutions for issues plaguing waterbodies. For instance, a plant-based wastewater treatment can be one of the in situ solutions as elaborated in the manual,” she said. The organisation can be reached ateducation@ careearth.infor queries on the manual.  The idea is to have children appreciate wetland ecology, nurture a relationship and conserve them  Seetha Gopalakrishnan  Senior project associate, Care Earth Trust||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/care-earth-develops-illustrated-manual-on-wetlands-for-children/article33736044.ece
03 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC asks Anna varsity why it discontinued two M. Tech courses||The Madras High Court on Tuesday granted a day’s time to Anna University to explain the rationale behind its decision to not offer M.Tech (Biotechnology) and M.Tech (Computational Biology) courses during the academic year 2020-21 just because there was a dispute between the Centre and the State government in following the reservation policy. Justice B. Pugalenthi said he was prima facie satisfied that the centrally sponsored courses, being offered for long, could not stopped abruptly much to the disadvantage of students aspiring to join them. Nevertheless, before passing interim orders on the issue, he decided to give an opportunity to the university to explain the reasons behind its decision. The observations were made during the hearing of a writ petition filed by 23-year-old R. Chitra of Chennai. Her counsel A. Saravanan brought it to the notice of the court that the petitioner had passed B. Tech (Biotechnology) course with 93.9% marks in 2020. She also appeared for the Graduate Aptitude Test in Biotechnology (GAT-B) and scored 182.5 out of 240 marks. She was ranked 55 in the unreserved category and was confident of joining either of the two centrally sponsored postgraduate courses offered by Anna University. However, on January 29, the university suddenly announced that it would not be offering the two courses this year because of a dispute between the State and the Centre over the quantum of reservation. UGC guidelines The State government wanted its 69% reservation policy to be followed while admitting students to the course, but the Union Ministry of Science and Technology was adamant on continuing with 49.5% reservation, the lawyer said and said how admission to 45 seats, in both courses put together, could not be filled up because of a dispute between the two governments. When the judge wondered whether the court could direct a university to conduct courses which it was not inclined to offer, Mr. Saravanan claimed that the University Grants Commission guidelines make it clear that universities established by the State governments were bound to follow the reservation policy of the State in which they were established and not that of the Centre. “The Centre pays a stipend of around Rs. 12,000 to the 45 students admitted in both the courses. That would not give it a right to demand that its reservation policy should be followed in admissions when the entire infrastructure required for conducting the courses in the university had been created by the State government,” he argued and pressed for interim orders. After hearing him at length, the judge directed Anna University counsel Vijayakumar to get instructions by Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-asks-anna-varsity-why-it-discontinued-2-m-tech-courses/article33736060.ece
03 February 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||HC orders inquiry into allegations of misappropriation of CSI funds||The Madras High Court on Monday directed the Registrar of Companies to conduct a fresh inquiry into allegations of misappropriation, mismanagement and misfeasance in the Church of South India (CSI) Trust Association, which owns properties worth several lakh crores of rupees across the southern parts of the country. Justice R. Mahadevan directed the Registrar to conduct the inquiry strictly in accordance with law by giving an opportunity of hearing to CSITA between February 17 and 22. Within two weeks thereafter, a detailed report should be filed with the Union Ministry of Corporate Affairs for deciding the further course of action. 10-year delay Since the inquiry against CSITA had not proceeded swiftly since 2011, the judge directed the Centre to take a call on the issue within three weeks after receiving the Registrar’s report. Making it clear that any further delay would be viewed seriously, the judge ordered departmental action against those responsible for the delay in the last 10 years. Recalling the history of the case, the judge said CSI was a religious organisation inaugurated on September 26, 1947, pursuant to an agreement reached between Protestant churches of different traditions such as Anglican, Methodist, Presbyterian and Congregational. There were 24 dioceses under the CSI, the largest congregation of Protestant churches in Asia. CSITA was a registered company under the Companies Act and it held the properties of CSI as a trustee. However, there were serious allegations such as unwarranted use of rent-free bungalows, luxury cars and free world tours by Bishops attached to some of the diocese by utilising money meant for charity. Many criminal cases had also been filed. On the basis of a report filed by the Registrar of Companies in January 2016, the Centre ordered a probe by the Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO), in June 2016. In November 2017, the High Court in Hyderabad set aside the order and remitted the matter to the Centre for fresh consideration. Subsequently, the Centre took a similar decision in May 2018. Natural justice Hence, CSITA and its office-bearers approached the Madras High Court in 2019, challenging the Registrar’s December 2017 report, based on which the Centre took the May 2018 decision. Agreeing that principles of natural justice had not been followed scrupulously, the judge ordered that the Registrar’s report must be treated as a show cause notice. After directing the petitioners to participate in the inquiry, he ordered that a time-bound decision must be taken in the matter after following provisions of the law in letter and spirit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-orders-inquiry-into-allegations-of-misappropriation-of-csi-funds/article33735671.ece
03 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PIL seeks special cells in every district to prevent honour killings||A public interest litigation petition has been filed in the Madras High Court seeking a direction to the Home Secretary and the Director General of Police (DGP) to constitute special cells in every district to prevent honour killings and protect couples in inter-faith or inter-caste marriages. The case has been listed for admission before the first Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy on Wednesday. The petitioner, Vidya Reddy, managing trustee of Tulir Charitable Trust, sought for a direction to implement in letter and spirit the orders passed by Justice V. Ramasubramanian, now a Supreme Court judge, during his stint as a judge of the Madras High Court on April 13, 2016. Had the orders been implemented effectively, the State would have become free of honour killings, she said. Referring to a June 2020 news report regarding suspected honour killing of a 20-year-old woman from Pudukottai district, the petitioner said the girl had died under mysterious circumstances after the police intercepted her at Kulithalai checkpost, when she was eloping with a youngster to Coimbatore, and forced her to go with her parents. The police reportedly told the newspaper that they had only two options — either to lodge the woman in a government home or to send her with her parents — the petitioner pointed out. She wondered why should there be moral policing when the woman had attained majority and was free to decide the person with whom she wanted to live. Further, stating that the woman was found dead in her parental home under mysterious circumstances, the litigant said her body had been cremated hurriedly without informing the police. Though the family claimed it to be suicide, the circumstances created a strong suspicion of honour killing and foul play. Taking serious note of such incidents in the State, Justice Ramasubramanian had ordered constitution of district-level special cells, comprising the Superintendent of Police, the District Social Welfare Officer and the District Adi Dravidar Welfare Officer, to receive complaints of harassment, the litigant said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pil-seeks-special-cells-in-every-district-to-prevent-honour-killings/article33736061.ece
03 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kanchi math devotees donate for Ram temple||Devotees of the Kanchi Kamakoti Peetam donated Rs. 6 crore for the construction of the Ram temple at Ayodhya, Uttar Pradesh. Governor Banwarilal Purohit participated in a function at Kancheepuram to hand over the cheque to the members of the Shri Ram Janmbhoomi Teerth Kshetra. Mr. Purohit, thanking the devotees for contributing to the construction of the temple, recalled the efforts of Jayendra Saraswathi, the 69th Sankaracharya of the peetam. Sankara Vijayendra Saraswathi, Sankaracharya of the Kanchi Kamakoti Peetam; Vishwaprasanna Thirtha of Pejawar Math, Udupi; and Govind Dev Giriji Maharaj of Maharshi Vedavyas Pratishtan, Pune, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kanchi-math-devotees-donate-for-ram-temple/article33736051.ece
03 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Couple get 10 years RI for peddling drugs||A special court set up for cases under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act has convicted and sentenced a couple to 10-year rigorous imprisonment for smuggling and selling ganja at Thoraipakkam. A special police team was checking vehicles at Choolaimanagar on September 21, 2019, when it intercepted a two-wheeler. The accused, P. Chidambaram, and his wife Jothi alias Nagajothi, 25, who were riding the two-wheeler, were arrested as they were found to be carrying 23 kg of ganja. At the conclusion of the trial, the special court on Monday sentenced the couple to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment and levied Rs. 1 lakh fine on them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/couple-get-10-years-ri-for-peddling-drugs/article33736052.ece
03 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IIT-M’s ‘Saarang’ to be held as online event||‘Saarang’, the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras’s annual cultural festival, will be an online event this year. ‘Vintage Vogue’ is the theme of the festival that is slated to be held from February 4 to 7. Nilesh J. Vasa, Dean (Students), said, “It is quite exciting and challenging to arrange it online with the same spirit which we used to have in the past.” Arshinder Kaur, faculty adviser (Cultural), said the event would reach a wider audience, including the alumni. Katari Harshal Amith Vishwanath, cultural affairs secretary (Arts), said that this year the students worked hard to provide a “wonderful and memorable experience to all our participants and audience”. The Saarang team has undertaken a social responsibility campaign named ‘Mann’ to create awareness of mental health and de-stigmatise it. The Spotlight lectures include the cast of Indian television series Scam 1992 , besides grandmaster Viswanathan Anand, film director Gautham Menon, writer Ramachandra Guha and Bharatnatyam dancer Leela Samson. On February 5, the best of electronic dance music will have 22 Bullets in the lead. The Yellow Diary , a contemporary Indian ensemble, will be held on February 6. The next evening, Bollywood singer Jonita Gandhi will lead the performance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iit-ms-saarang-to-be-held-as-online-event/article33736053.ece
03 February 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Session till February 5||The first sitting of the last session of the current Assembly, which started on Tuesday, would conclude on February 5. On February 3, the Assembly would pass resolutions condoling the death of former Agriculture Minister R. Doraikkannu, playback singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam and oncologist V. Shanta. A motion of thanks to the Governor for his address to the Assembly would be moved on February 4. On the last day, the Chief Minister would reply to the debate, and other business, if any, would be taken up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/session-till-february-5/article33735629.ece
03 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Privatise retail liquor sales: Kamal||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Tuesday said the State government should not be involved in selling alcohol through Tasmac outlets, and called for privatisation of retail liquor sale in Tamil Nadu. In a statement, he criticised the government for opening liquor shops and selling liquor to miĺlions of youngsters, making them alcoholics. “An SI named Balu was killed by an alcoholic. In another incident, an alcoholic's wife died by suicide because of the torture inflicted by her husband,” he said. Mr. Kamal Haasan said that State government's job was not to sell liquor to its citizens. “The sale of liquor should be handed over to private players and the sales should be monitored and controlled,” he said. Rehabilitation centres should be set up to wean addicts away from alcohol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/privatise-retail-liquor-sale-kamal-haasan/article33735618.ece
03 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hold referendum in Sri Lanka under UN supervision: Vaiko||MDMK general secretary Vaiko has called upon members of the United Nations Human Rights Council and other UN agencies to accept the Eelam Tamils’ right to self-determination and organise a referendum in Sri Lanka under UN supervision. He has written to President of the European Parliament David-Maria Sassoli, U.S. President Joe Biden, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and other world leaders ahead of the UNHRC meeting. He requested the UNHRC members to recognise the genocide resolution passed by Sri Lanka’s Northern Provincial Council on February 10, 2015, and order appropriate measures at the International Criminal Court. The Rajya Sabha member said India should work with the UNHRC members to have a new resolution to appoint a special rapporteur to monitor and investigate the ongoing violations of the human rights of the Tamils. Mr. Vaiko said the special rapporteur should monitor and investigate human rights violations, undertake a visit to Sri Lanka and the region and engage with stakeholders, submit reports to the UN General Assembly and UNHRC on the situation in the north and east of Sri Lanka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaiko-wants-referendum-held-under-un-supervision/article33736059.ece
03 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three women killed||Three women, who were planting saplings on the Outer Ring Road median near Vandalur, died after they were hit by a lorry going to Tiruneermalai on Tuesday morning. According to the police, the women were hired by a private agency to plant saplings and sweep the road. Around 9.15 a.m., when Pachaiammal, 40, Suganthi, 40, and Senji Ammal, 60, and a few others were planting saplings, a lorry knocked them down. The three suffered head injuries and died on the spot. Passers-by caught Palanivel, who was suspected to be driving the lorry under the influence of alcohol. A case has been registered at the Poonamallee police station, and the driver arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-women-knocked-down-by-lorry/article33736038.ece
03 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rajini fans cautioned||Actor Rajinikanth’s political aide Tamilaruvi Manian on Tuesday urged Rajini Makkal Mandram (RMM) members not to fall into the trap laid out by political parties after the actor decided against entering electoral politics. In a statement, Mr. Manian said he hated political parties enticing RMM members and would never ask the members to join Gandhiya Makkal Iyakkam. “Rajinikanth has not said he will not enter politics. And he has not dissolved Rajini Makkal Mandram. I regret some fans joining the same parties that spoilt the system and are looking to join other political parties,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rajini-fans-cautioned/article33736054.ece
03 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rela Hospital achieves high success in transplant||Rela Hospital set a benchmark with a 99.2% survival rate for patients who underwent liver transplant in the past year. Hospital chairman Mohamed Rela said the multi-speciality quaternary care centre had performed over 120 liver transplant surgeries in the past year and except for one patient, the rest had survived. “Internationally, it is a benchmark for a high quality liver transplant programme. Rela Hospital’s current patient survival rate of 99.2% is a significant achievement,” he said. The survival rate is based on how many patients survive the month after surgery. The survival rate stood at 95% three months after the surgery, he added. According to him, patients die several years after the transplant for various reasons other than that of surgery. “We are an outlier in the right direction and are proud of these results. Globally, the survival rates for liver transplantation averages at 90%. Our survival is much higher than global standards. This improved survival is a boon for our patients,” Dr. Rela said. He attributed the success to COVID-19 restriction. It reduced visits to hospitals by patients’ relatives, preventing the spread of infection. Of the transplant patients, 40 were children and 20 to 30 were patients from abroad. Chief executive officer of the hospital K. Ilankumaran said patient access, innovative treatment and proactive care had ensured good outcomes for the patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rela-hospital-achieves-high-success-in-transplant/article33736037.ece
03 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested for attacking policeman in Madhavaram||Two persons, who attacked a head constable on duty in the Madhavaram police station limits, were arrested on Tuesday. Vijayaraman, head constable attached to a patrolling team, was on night rounds. On receiving information about a clash at Thanikachalam Nagar in the early hours of Tuesday, he and his colleagues rushed to the spot where four persons were quarrelling. One of them drove a car and hit an electric pole. Mr. Vijayaraman tried to intervene and disperse all the four from there. They abused him and attacked him. As locals gathered, two of them fled, while the other two were caught by the police. The names of the arrested were given as N. Selvaraj, 45, of Pollachi, and Sheik Ryas, 29, of Madhavaram. They have been remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-arrested-for-attacking-policeman-in-madhavaram/article33736034.ece
03 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sasikala may return to T.N. soon||Former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s aide V.K. Sasikala, who finished serving a four-year sentence in a Bengaluru prison last week in connection with a disproportionate assets case, is expected to return to Tamil Nadu shortly. She is under quarantine at a resort after getting discharged from Victoria Hospital in Bengaluru on Sunday. She was admitted there after contracting COVID-19 a few days before her release from prison. Sources said the exact date of her return would become clear in a day or two.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sasikala-may-return-to-tn-soon/article33736056.ece
03 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kilambakkam terminus work resumes||The construction work of the Kilambakkam bus terminus, the biggest to come up outside the city, has resumed. CMDA officials are hopeful of completing the work by the end of March. N. Sreenivasa Rao, Superintending Engineer, CMDA, said that over 50% of the work had been completed before COVID-19 struck. He said, “If not for the pandemic, due to which more than 10 months were lost, the bus terminus would have been completed [by now].” Mr. Rao said that although the work had been resumed, the contractor faced problems in finding workers as they had gone back to their native places in north India. The CMDA officials pointed out that the terminus, coming up on more than 65 acres on GST Road on an outlay of Rs. 307 crore, would hold more than 300 cars in the parking facility and 250 buses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kilambakkam-terminus-work-resumes/article33736049.ece
03 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Nothing new in Governor’s address, says Ramadoss||Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) founder S. Ramadoss said on Tuesday that Governor Banwarilal Purohit had not made any new announcement for people’s welfare in his address to the Assembly. In a statement, Mr. Ramadoss said the Governor’s address focused on the State government’s measures to contain COVID-19, provide 7.5% horizontal reservation and how the State government had ensured the payment of pending GST dues from the Centre. Routine statements “These are routine announcements, and it is not wrong. But the Governor’s address should be like the ring of the bell that is heard before the elephant arrives. It is an opportunity for the State government to announce its plans for the next year. Except for the integrated grievance redress system for speedy disposal of petitions, there is nothing new,” the PMK leader said. Dr. Ramadoss said he hoped Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami would unveil new plans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nothing-new-in-governors-address-says-ramadoss/article33735642.ece
03 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Munusamy’s remark on TTV personal’||Fisheries Minister and the AIADMK’s organisation secretary, D. Jayakumar, on Tuesday termed party deputy coordinator K.P. Munusamy’s views on “condoning” AMMK leader T.T.V. Dhinakaran as “personal”. Mr. Munusamy, a few days ago, stated that the party leadership would take a decision if Mr. Dhinakaran gave an apology letter to it for “re-admission” [into AIADMK]. Mr. Jayakumar said only a statement issued by the party’s coordinator [Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam] and co-coordinator [Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami] on any matter could be regarded as the organisation’s stand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/munusamys-remark-on-ttv-personal/article33735648.ece
03 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two drown in Trisulam stone quarry||Two men drowned at a stone quarry in Trisulam on Monday. The names of the dead were given as Dinesh Kumar, 21, of Avadi, and his friend Akash, 21, who had completed a visual communication course at a city college recently. On Monday evening, they came to the spot with a camera. While shooting at the spot, they fell into a pit filled with water one after another.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-drown-in-trisulam-stone-quarry/article33736026.ece
03 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||BAI Southern Centre gets new office-bearers||The Builders Association of India (BAI) Southern Centre elected a new team of office-bearers at its general body meeting on January 29. L. Shantha Kumar of Sagas Construction was re-elected Chairman of BAI (Southern Centre) for the year 2021-2022. The other office-bearers elected are R.R. Shridhar (Vice-Chairman), A.N. Balaji (Secretary), R. Nimrode (Joint Secretary) and N.G. Lokanathan (Treasurer).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bai-southern-centre-gets-new-office-bearers/article33736033.ece
03 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gold seized at Chennai airport||Air Customs officials seized 588 g of gold worth Rs. 29.74 lakh at the Chennai airport. Nassarul Huq, who arrived from Dubai, had hidden 430 g of gold in the form of a paste in his underwear. In another case, Sivasankar Reddy, who came from Singapore, had concealed 158 g of gold inside a cordless screwdriver. Further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-seized-at-chennai-airport/article33736035.ece
03 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Metro rail project rekindles hope for Coimbatore||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman mentioning metro rail for tier two cities in the 2021-22 Union Budget has revived hope in the city for having the mass transport facility. In her Budget speech, Ms. Sitharaman said, “Two new technologies i.e., ‘MetroLite’ and ‘MetroNeo’ will be deployed to provide metro rail systems at much lesser cost with same experience, convenience and safety in Tier-2 cities and peripheral areas of Tier-1 cities.” This is an opportunity that the State government and Coimbatore Corporation should not miss. In fact, they must go all out to bring home the project to Coimbatore, what with they missing the first opportunity 10 years ago when the then Central government included Coimbatore in the list of tier two cities that were eligible for the mass rapid transport project, say those interested in the city’s development. The only way the government and the Corporation can undo the damage they did by failing to implement a mass transport project in the city is by using the Budget announcement to implement the project, says MDMK’s Youth Wing Secretary V. Eswaran. The reason for the delay or failure in implementing a metro project in the city is the government changing the nature of public transport based on the whims and fancies of those in power, he says and points out that first it was metro rail, then the government changed it to mono rail and now it is back to metro rail. In the 10 years since the Central government included Coimbatore in the list of eligible cities what has happened is that cities like Kochi that were behind Coimbatore in the list have marched ahead, he points out. Not surprisingly, in the Budget Ms. Sitharaman has announced Rs. 1,957.05 crore financial assistance for Phase II of Kochi Metro Rail project for 11.5 km. Referring to the assistance for Kochi, District Road Safety Committee member and consumer activist K. Kathirmathiyon says the advantage that the Kerala is having over Coimbatore because of metro rail and international airport will only grow if the State government does not act fast. Whether it is metro or metro lite or metro neo, the government must decide at once and start implementation. For, the project has been on the drawing board for long enough. Not just that; the delay in finalising the metro rail project for Coimbatore is also impacting important road development or flyover construction projects because the State Highways Department wants to know the metro route alignment before starting ground work, he adds. Vanitha Mohan, Vice Chairperson, Kongu Global Forum, says for Coimbatore to not go the Bengaluru way with more flyovers, more vehicles, frequent traffic jams and more pollution, a mass transport project in the nature of metro rail is a must. With the city set to witness more vehicles and more traffic congestions because of increase in business, it is imperative that the State governments implements the metro rail project for the city. And, to this end, the Forum will demand political parties to include it as a promise in their election manifesto for the ensuing Assembly election, she adds. Sources in the district administration say that the feasibility study for a mass transport project is complete and a high-level discussion is taking place. Very soon, there will be an announcement in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metro-rail-project-rekindles-hope-for-coimbatore/article33736068.ece
03 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||DMK stages protest over poor condition of FCI Godown Road||Highlighting the poor condition of the FCI Godown Road that branches off Sathyamangalam Road in Ganapathy, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam staged a protest on Tuesday. A. Maheshkumar, DMK ward secretary, and resident of the area, said the road had been in very bad shape for the last 10 years as the Food Corporation of India that was in-charge of maintaining the road had not bothered to rebuild it. As a result, the road was full of potholes and during rain the potholes were filled with rainwater and the road turned slushy causing several accidents. Several motorists had injured themselves after losing balance and car riders had their vehicles damaged. Being an important road that connected Sathyamangalam Road with eastern parts of the city, thousands of two wheelers and cars and hundreds of lorries that went to the FCI godown and LPG refilling depot there used the road. Singanallur MLA N. Karthik, who led the protests, said the district administration and State government were to be blamed for the poor condition of the road as they should have written to the FCI seeking no-objection for maintaining the road. Despite reminders and raising the issue in the Assembly, the two had failed, Mr. Karthik said and added that if there was no solution in the next 10 to 15 days, the DMK would stage a ‘road roko’ agitation. The police detained around 700 persons who participated in the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-stages-protest-over-poor-condition-of-fci-godown-road/article33736081.ece
03 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Invoke Goondas Act against BJP functionary’||Coimbatore District United Jamath, Federation of Islamic Organisations and Muslim-centric political parties on Tuesday staged a mass protest at Ukkadam, seeking detention of BJP’s State executive committee member R. Kalyanaraman under provisions of the Goondas Act for his remarks on Islam and Prophet Muhammad during the party’s meeting held at Mettupalayam on Sunday. Kalyanaraman and BJP’s Mettupalayam divisional organising secretary D. Sathish Kumar were arrested by the police late on Sunday. More than 25 members of SDPI who disrupted the meeting were also arrested. Eight other BJP workers, who were also booked by the police, were yet to be arrested. Coimbatore rural police on Tuesday retained deployment of a large number of personnel in and around Mettupalayam. Members of Coimbatore United Jamath, Jamathul Ulama Sabai, Indian Union Muslim League, Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam, Popular Front of India, Jamaat-e-Islami Hind, Jamiyyathu Ahlil Quran val Hadees, Social Democratic Party of India, Manithaneya Makkal Katchi, Manithaneya Jananayaga Katchi, India Thowheed Jamath, Yegathuva Muslim Jamath, Welfare Party of India and Wahdat-e-Islami Hind took part in the protest. In Tiruppur, Tamil Nadu Thowheed Jamath staged a protest in front of the Tiruppur Municipal Corporation office demanding detention of Kalyanaraman under provisions of the National Security Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/invoke-goondas-act-against-bjp-functionary/article33736076.ece
03 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Customs duty on cotton imports disappoints textile sector||The textile and clothing sector here has expressed disappointment over the levy of customs duty on cotton imports in the Union Budget. Manoj Patodia, chairman of the Cotton Textiles Export Promotion Council, said that the plan to establish seven mega investment textile parks in three years was a positive step towards making the industry globally competitive. It would attract investments and boost employment. However, the plan to levy customs duty on cotton imports would make import of branded cotton expensive, he said. T. Rajkumar, chairman of Confederation of Indian Textile Industry, pointed out that levy of customs duty on cotton and cotton waste, that so far came under nil duty, comprises 5% basic customs duty and another 5% Agriculture Infrastructure and Development Cess (AIDC) on cotton and 10 % basic customs duty on cotton waste. The new import duty comes into effect from February 2, 2021. Fall in exports He appealed to the Prime Minister to withdraw the levy to sustain the global competitiveness of Indian textiles and apparel industry. Otherwise, there will be a fall in the exports of cotton textile and clothing products, he said. Southern India Mills Association chairman Ashwin Chandran said that the imports were cotton varieties that are not produced in India and cater to some of the niche segments in the domestic and international markets.  The levy of customs duty on cotton has come as a “rude shock” to the industry. When the government introduced customs duty on cotton in 2008 the entire textile value chain went on a nationwide bandh, he said. Apparel Export Promotion Council chairman A. Sakthivel said the mega textile parks would help create world class infrastructure for the industry and increase exports. Tiruppur Exporters Association president Raja Shanmugham said allocation of Rs. 100 crore for skill development and higher allocation for technology upgrade were much needed measures for the industry. The Indian Texpreneurs Federation said reduction of basic customs duty on nylon would help the MMF sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/customs-duty-on-cotton-imports-disappoints-textile-sector/article33735674.ece
03 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||What is ‘MetroLite’||Light Urban Rail Transit System or MetroLite comes with lesser passenger capacity and at lower cost. Most of the rail surface will be on ground (at-grade) to bring down construction cost. There will be a dedicated corridor for rail movement and it will be separated from road traffic. Road width required will be a minimum of 8.5m If road width does not permit, one line will be provided on the road and a parallel road will be chosen for another line. Integrated road and metro traffic signalling system will be provided with priority for metro lite system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/what-is-metrolite/article33736069.ece
03 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Thekkampatti elephant camp from February 8||The 48-day annual rejuvenation camp for temple and mutt elephants from across the State will be held from February 8 at Thekkampatti near Mettupalayam, officials from the Revenue Department and Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department told The Hindu on Tuesday. Earlier, District Collector K. Rajamani convened a meeting with officials from various departments regarding the preparatory works for the elephant camp. A press release said that the Forest Department was instructed to set up watch towers and deploy anti-poaching watchers to monitor the movement of wild elephants around the camp premises. The Department of Animal Husbandry will also set up a temporary camp and veterinarians will be present to ensure the health of all the elephants. The Health Department will also set up a temporary camp to perform COVID-19 tests and to cater to health emergencies for the mahouts and assistants of the elephants, the release said. Supply of water and electricity must be ensured at the camp, Mr. Rajamani instructed the officials. Usually held in December-January, the annual rejuvenation camp for elephants was postponed last year due to the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thekkampatti-elephant-camp-from-february-8/article33736064.ece
03 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘DMK outsourced all political matters to I-PAC’||The DMK has outsourced all of its political matters to the political consulting firm Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC), alleged BJP State vice-president K. Annamalai.  Speaking to reporters after taking part at a private event near Kinathukadavu recently, he claimed that the initiatives of DMK President M.K. Stalin are similar to that of Chief Minister of West Bengal Mamata Banerjee, whose party has also roped in I-PAC for the Assembly elections. “The party [DMK] does not have the capacity to win [the election] using its own strength,” he alleged. On the AIADMK-BJP alliance ahead of the Assembly elections, Mr. Annamalai said that both the parties are equally part of the National Democratic Alliance. The AIADMK will lead the alliance for the Assembly elections and there are no confusions regarding this, he asserted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-outsourced-all-political-matters-to-i-pac/article33736066.ece
03 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Raising ceremony for NCC Air Wing held||The National Cadet Corps (NCC) organised a raising ceremony for its Air Wing cadets recently. Commanding Officer of INS Agrani Commodore Ashok Rai, Command of Air Force Administrative College, Coimbatore Air Commodore Rajnish Verma , Group Commander of NCC Group, Coimbatore Col. L.C.S. Naidu and Commanding Officer of the 2 Tamil Nadu Battery of Coimbatore NCC Group Lt. Col. Girish Parthan participated in the event. The officers participated in a sapling plantation event following the ceremony, according to a release. Lt. Col. Parthan said that the NCC Air Wing will be formed at 16 institutions in Coimbatore district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/raising-ceremony-for-ncc-air-wing-held/article33736067.ece
03 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man held for sexual assault on minor||The All Women Police Station, Coimbatore west, have arrested a 32-year-old man on charges of sexually assaulting a minor girl. The police said that M. Riswan, who hails from a residential area near Ukkadam, was arrested based on the complaint lodged by the parents of an eight-year-old girl. The police said that the accused had been doing odd jobs for a living. As per the complaint, the accused assaulted the minor girl sexually when she had come out of her house to a nearby shop on Sunday. The police produced him before a magistrate who remanded him in judicial custody. In another case, the All Women Police Station, Coimbatore east, arrested a 26-year-old man from Thoothukudi on charges of marrying and sexually assaulting a 17-year-old girl from Coimbatore. The police said that the accused befriended the girl while working in Coimbatore. The man took the girl to Thoothukudi recently and married her. The parents of the girl lodged a complaint with the police after she was reported missing. The police traced the girl and the man to Thoothukudi and brought them to Coimbatore on Monday. He was arrested and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-sexual-assault-on-minor/article33736078.ece
03 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested on charges of producing fake documents||The Race Course police on Monday arrested two persons on charges of producing forged documents before a court when they stood as sureties for the bail of a man. A. Palanisamy (55) of Annur in Coimbatore district and K. Devi (52) of Anupparpalayam in Tiruppur district were arrested based on a complaint lodged by the bench clerk of the Special Court for Tamil Nadu Protection of Interests of Depositors Act cases. The complaint said that the two persons submitted fake documents for the bail of a person named Senthil, an accused in a case registered by the Economic Offences Wing, Coimbatore. The police were on the lookout for one more accused named Meeranbai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-arrested-on-charges-of-producing-fake-documents/article33736077.ece
03 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Talks on with AIADMK, says Sarathkumar||All India Samathuva Makkal Katchi (AISMK) president and actor R. Sarathkumar has said that talks with the AIADMK are under way regarding the alliance for the Assembly election. He and AISMK women’s wing leader Radikaa Sarathkumar participated in a meeting of party functionaries held at a private hall in Coimbatore. He told journalists that the party will announce its stance after the talks. Ms. Radikaa will contest the Assembly election given her oratorical skills and experience in campaigning, he said. On the Union Budget, Mr. Sarathkumar said that it could be judged only based on the implementation of its various projects and schemes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/talks-on-with-aiadmk-says-sarathkumar/article33735673.ece
03 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore-Sharjah flight five days a week||Air Arabia will operate five flights a week on Sharjah-Coimbatore-Sharjah segment from February 8. According to Authorities at the Coimbatore International Airport, the new schedule will not have flights on Thursday and Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-sharjah-flight-five-days-a-week/article33735675.ece
03 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Leadership programme for 88 officials||The Department of Personnel and Training in association with Isha Foundation conducted a five-day programme on leadership for 88 officials at the Isha Yoga Centre recently. A release said that the programme was held from January 25 to 29 with objectives including enhancing one’s ability to handle stressful situations and improving inter-departmental collaboration. Officials from Indian Administrative Service, Indian Police Service and other Civil Services officials participated in the camp, the release said.    MSME Development Institute will organise a free motivation camp for unemployed youth on Feburary 4 and 5 at Angeripalayam in Tiruppur. A release said that candidates shortlisted in this camp will undergo training under the entrepreneurship skill development programme to start their own micro or small enterprise. Those between the age of 18 years and 45 years with a proposal to start a micro or small enterprise are eligible to attend the programme. Those interested may contact 94422 41361, 0422-2233956 / 2230426 to register their name on or before February 4, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/leadership-programme-for-88-officials/article33736070.ece
03 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Hospital gets award||Sri Ramakrishna Hospital received the award for treating the most number of patients under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme – Ayushman Bharat – Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana for the ninth consecutive year. A release said that District Collector K. Rajamani presented the certificate to C.V. Ramkumar, Chief Executive Officer of SNR Sons Charitable Trust, during the Republic Day celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hospital-gets-award/article33736079.ece
03 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||In view of the proposed maintenance works to be carried out at the Vilankurichi sub-station on Thursday (February 4), there will be no power supply in the following areas from 9.15 a.m. to 5 p.m.: Thaneerpandal, Lakshmi Nagar, Murugan Nagar, Cheranma Nagar, Kumudham Nagar, Jeeva Nagar, Sengaliappan Nagar. Somanur, Elachipalayam, Karumathampatti and Kalipalayam sub-stations on February 5 (Friday) from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m.: Somanur, Karumathampatty, Krishnapuram, Samalapuram, Ramachiyampalayam, Thottipalayam, Senthil Nagar, Segudanthali, Paramasivampalayam, part of Kaniyur, Elachipalayam, Rayarpalayam, Karumathampatty four road juction, Thaneerpandal, parts of Kalipalayam and Ayyampalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article33736072.ece
03 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Old locomotive engine installed at Erode Railway Junction||An old locomotive engine was mounted on a pedestal constructed at the entrance of the Erode Railway Junction here on Tuesday. Before the introduction of the electric locomotives, the diesel powered locomotives were widely used both for the passenger and goods trains.  Withdrawn from service However, after the wider usage of electric locomotives, most of the diesel locomotives were withdrawn from services, while it is still being used for shunting and transporting empty rakes. The engine displayed at the entrance of the junction was used on metre gauge and after the metre gauge was converted into broad gauge, the service of the engine was withdrawn. Vintage steam locomotives were installed at the Salem Railway Divisional Office in Salem and also at the Coimbatore Railway Junction. Sources said the General Manager of Southern Railway was expected to inaugurate the display during his inspection on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/old-locomotive-engine-installed-at-erode-railway-junction/article33735681.ece
03 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Govt. urged to scrap New Pension Scheme||Urging the State government to scrap the New Pension Scheme and implement the old pension scheme, members of Tamil Nadu Government Employees Association (TNGEA) staged a road roko outside the Taluk Office here on Tuesday. Led by its district president R. Rakimuthu, members said the State government had introduced the Contributory Pension Scheme for its employees who joined service after April 1, 2003. But the guidelines for the new scheme were yet to be announced whereas the contribution was deducted every month from the employees all these years. They said the government was yet to announce what it did with the contributions as employees were left in the lurch. They wanted the old pension scheme implemented at the earliest. They wanted over 3.5 lakh workers in anganwadi centres, assistants at village revenue offices, rural librarians, MRI nurses, who were currently receiving consolidated salary, given time-scale pay. The members also said the 41-month suspension of Highways Department road employees should be considered as work period and demanded withdrawal of the 17B notices served on JACTO-GEO leaders during the protest held in 2019. The protesters were removed in police vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-urged-to-scrap-new-pension-scheme/article33735684.ece
03 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Man beaten to death||A man was reportedly beaten to death over his illicit relationship at Punjai Puliyampatti here on Monday night. The police said Mahendran (32) of Annai Coundampalayam, a van driver, was in a relationship with Vasanthi (50) of the same area. Vasanthi’s relative Alli Muthu (31) had warned them many times. On Monday night, when Mahendran went to Vasanthi’s house, he had an altercation with Alli Muthu who also came to the house. Alli Muthu assaulted Mahendran in which he fell down and died. The police are on the lookout for the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-beaten-to-death/article33735682.ece
03 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||As Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board is carrying out works, power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on February 4 in the following areas:  Sakthi Road line : Bharathi Street, Agilmedu Street, Nachiappa Street, Thillai Nagar, Muniyappan Kovil Street, Eswaran Kovil Street (rear side), Kottai Kannagi Street, Nehru Street, Sakthi Road, Masjid Street, Brindha Street, Palanimalai Street, Ottukara Chinnaiya Street, Krishna Street, ABT Road, Kandasamy Street, KAS Nagar and Market areas.  Ashokapuram line: Ammu Mess to Le Jardin Hotel , V.O.C. Park Main Gate area and temporary vegetable market areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article33735685.ece
03 February 2021||KARAIKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘DMK, Congress playing hide-and-seek over Rajiv Gandhi case convicts’||Congress and DMK leaders were playing hide-and-seek over the release of the seven life convicts in former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, said BJP national secretary H. Raja in Karaikudi on Tuesday. He said the Congress was firm that the seven convicts should not be released whereas the DMK was in favour of their release. This exposed the confusion prevailing between the allies, he said. Mr. Raja told journalists that it was the prerogative of the Governor to decide on their release. He was of the view that no one could interfere with the Governor’s powers and responsibilities. The BJP leader said it was up to Sasikala, the aide of late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, to play a political role again, and it was for the AIADMK leadership to decide on her reinduction into the party. Mr. Raja claimed that it was the media that gave a hype that actor Rajnikanth would enter politics. The media was “upset” when that did not happen, but political parties and the actor’s fans had welcomed his decision, he added. He charged that when some Hindu outfit leaders commented on minorities, the police arrested them, but those who made controversial remarks against Hindu deities were roaming freely.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-cong-playing-hide-and-seek-over-rajiv-gandhi-case-convicts/article33735670.ece
03 February 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||IMA takes out two-wheeler rally against ‘mixopathy’||Members of Indian Medical Association here took out a two-wheeler rally on Tuesday opposing the Central Government’s move to mix modern medicine with traditional medicine (mixopathy). According to authorities, a two-wheeler rally was flagged off in Hosur on Monday to create awareness on the possible problems of letting traditional medicine practitioners do 58 kinds of surgeries. The Central Council of Indian Medicine had recently issued regulation for Post Graduate studies of Ayurveda and it permitted Ayurveda doctors to conduct 58 surgeries. The association said the move would affect the public. According to organisers, the rally reached Krishnagiri Headquarters Hospital on Tuesday. Motorcycle rallies started from four zones and they would meet in Tiruchi from where they would go to Chennai on February 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ima-takes-out-two-wheeler-rally-against-mixopathy/article33735687.ece
03 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Revenue officials, frontline staff to be vaccinated in next phase||With the COVID-19 vaccination currently under way for healthcare workers in the district, preparations are under way to start vaccination for revenue officials and other frontline workers in the next phase. Deputy Director of Health Services K. V. Arjun Kumar said that currently around 1,500 revenue officials had been identified for COVID-19 vaccination in the district. Additional number of beneficiaries from the revenue department is being uploaded. Frontline workers, including police personnel, officials from local bodies and revenue department, would be covered in the next phase of vaccination. Health department officials say that they are awaiting a communication from the government regarding commencement of vaccination for frontline workers in the next phase. A total of 6,090 healthcare workers were administered COVID-19 vaccination in the district as on Tuesday. Initially, five COVID-19 vaccination centres were started in the district. Then the number was increased to nearly 20 centres across the district. Around 20,000 healthcare workers have been identified for COVID-19 vaccination in the district. Government Rajaji Hospital, Melur Government Hospital, Tirumangalam Government Hospital, Usilampatti Primary Health Centre; block-level Primary Health Centres at Alanganallur, Samayanallur, Kallandhiri, Katchaikatti, T. Kallupatti, Kallikudi, Elumalai, Chekkanoorani, and Karungalakudi; and Divisional railway hospital are some of the vaccination centres. Centres "The COVID-19 vaccination centres were opened across various blocks to ensure that all healthcare workers easily get access to vaccination centres," said Dr. Arjun Kumar. In the private sector, Velammal Hospitals, Apollo Hospital and Aravind Eye Hospital are the COVID-19 vaccination centres. The highest number of beneficiaries were vaccinated at GRH, followed by Tirumangalam Government Hospital and Melur Government Hospital. Dr. Arjun Kumar said that the number of beneficiaries getting vaccinated for COVID-19 is gradually increasing. The district initially received 23,100 doses of COVID-19 vaccine and then received an additional 25,000 doses, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/revenue-officials-frontline-staff-to-be-vaccinated-in-next-phase/article33736162.ece
03 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Govt. employees stage demo||Members of Tamil Nadu Government Employees' Association (TNGEA) staged a demonstration near Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai on Tuesday demanding scrapping of the New Pension Scheme and pressing for a charter of other demands. Headed by district president J. Moorthi, the protesters urged to bring back the old pension scheme. They demanded to scrap the Contributory Pension scheme (CPS) as there was a lack of clarity on the implementation of the scheme. "The State government has still not got the approval of Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority regarding the CPS. So, they must repeal the scheme," said K. Neethiraja, district secretary of the association. All anganwadi workers, nurses appointed through Medical Services Board and nutritious meal workers who are currently under contract or consolidated pay basis, must be bought under time scale pay, they demanded. The government must immediately pay arrears for the delay of 21 months in implementing the Seventh Pay Commission recommendations. The Government Order of freezing Dearness Allowance in the view of the COVID-19 pandemic, must be scrapped, demanded the protesters. Around 250 members participated in the protest and nearly 170 of them were arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-employees-stage-demo/article33736158.ece
03 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court Bench deplores lethargic attitude of government officials||Expressing shock over the fact that the compensation amount for the land acquired 54 years ago for the bus depot in Palani was yet to be settled, the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court on Tuesday observed that neither the government nor its officials were interested in the welfare of the citizens and honoured the orders of the court. Justice R. Subramanian observed that,“This can happen only in this country and with these government officials”. It demonstrated how lethargic, indifferent and cruel the government officials were in dealing with the rights of the citizens, the judge said and observed that if the entire balance compensation was not deposited by the Dindigul Collector by March 25, the Collector will have to appear before the court on March 26. The court was hearing an application filed by the Dindigul district authorities who sought extension of time to comply with the order of the court passed in 2018. In 1967, the land was acquired by the government to set up a bus depot in Palani. The Land Acquisition Officer fixed a sum of Rs. 1.70 per sq.ft. The compensation amount was enhanced to Rs. 7.82 per sq.ft by the Sub Court, Palani, in 2004, nearly 30 years after the award by the Land Acquisition Officer. This fixation was challenged before High Court and the appeal filed by the Land Acquisition Officer was dismissed. The fixation of the enhanced compensation was confirmed. The legal heirs of the original owner of the land filed an execution petition in 2007 seeking the execution of the award. In 2010, the executing court directed the attachment of tables and chairs in the office of the Palani Revenue Divisional Officer. Challenging the order, a revision was filed before the High Court in 2011. The State submitted a memo of calculation signed by a Special Tahsildar showing the balance to be Rs. 25,42,894. It was undertaken the said amount would be paid in 2019. However, the amount was not paid and time was sought.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-deplores-lethargic-attitude-of-officials-in-settlement-of-damages/article33735666.ece
03 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||JICA to foot 85% cost of AIIMS Madurai: RTI reply||While Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) will fund 85% of the total cost of the establishment of an All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) at Thoppur in Madurai, the remaining 15% will be contributed by the Central government, reveals an RTI reply obtained by R. Pandiaraja, a social worker. It has been over two years since the Prime Minister laid the foundation stone for AIIMS in Madurai. A preparatory survey of the site was conducted by officials of JICA in February 2020. Spike in cost Initially, the total cost of the project was pegged at Rs. 1,264 crore. Then, an RTI reply obtained by Mr. Pandiaraja last December showed that the total cost had increased to Rs. 2,000 crore. The RTI reply received on Tuesday showed that the increased cost was as per the estimates prepared by JICA. Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan, who met Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan and Joint Secretary (AIIMS) Nilambuj Sharan in January, had said that the government proposed to construct a communicable diseases hospital at AIIMS, which had led to an increase in the estimated budget for the project to Rs. 2,000 crore. Mr. Venkatesan said the officials had communicated that a loan agreement for sanctioning funds from JICA would be signed by March-end. The RTI reply said there was no information available on the layout plan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jica-to-foot-85-cost-of-aiims-madurai-rti-reply/article33735647.ece
03 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Man caught while fleeing after carjacking||Madurai district police arrested a 38-year-old man, M. Alagarsamy, while he was fleeing in a car that he had taken away from its driver on Sunday night. The police said that Venkateswaran (30) of Villapuram, who runs a taxi, was engaged by Alagarsamy. He had claimed that he wanted to go to Vellore after visiting Madurai. As the car was proceeding near Kinnimangalam, Alagarsamy asked the driver to slow down the vehicle and suddenly pulled out a knife, threatened him with dire consequences and forced him to leave the car. As he got down, the accused fled away with the vehicle. However, after being alerted, the district police intensified vehicle check, and the car, along with the accused, was caught. The police said that Alagarsamy had a few criminal cases pending against him. Chekkanoorani police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-caught-while-fleeing-after-carjacking/article33736165.ece
03 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||College student murders mother in Madurai||A 19-year-old college student murdered his mother by crushing her head with a boulder in Sellur in the small hours of Tuesday. Police sources said that the woman had divorced her husband and was living with her son at Meenambalpuram in the city. Stating that the woman had an illegal affair with another man, which the adolescent boy had objected to. However, her mother continued to have friendship with the man. While she was fast asleep, the boy killed her on the spot. As he was walking towards police station at 12.30 a.m. a night rounds police officer noticed him and brought him to station. The Sellur police arrested him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/student-murders-mother/article33735645.ece
03 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Order inspection of SEPC Thermal Power Plant’||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court on Tuesday ordered notice to the Centre and the State in a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to Tamil Nadu Coastal Zone Management Authority and Deputy Director General of Forests to inspect the site of the SEPC Thermal Power Plant in Thoothukudi district. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi ordered notice on the petition filed by S.P. Muthu Raman of Tirunelveli who complained that the project was taking place in close proximity to the eco-sensitive zones. Therefore, the authorities must inspect the site and submit a report, the petitioner said. He said that construction was going on at a fast rate and if the plant was allowed to operate, it would harm the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/order-inspection-of-sepc-thermal-power-plant/article33736168.ece
03 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC orders job, damages to girl who lost speech in temple elephant attack||Bringing relief to 23-year-old engineering graduate, Sindhu Lakshmi, who at the age of three lost her speech after she and her mother were attacked by the Samayapuram temple elephant in 1999, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the State to pay Rs. 25 lakh as compensation and provide her a suitable job in Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department in Tiruchi. In 1999, three-year-old Sindhu Lakshmi of Tiruchi visited the Mariamman Temple accompanied by her parents. They were attacked by the temple elephant and she suffered severe injuries to her throat after falling down. Sindhu lost her speech and since then is breathing through an artificial tracheal tube and takes only liquid food. Granting relief to the petitioner who sought a direction to the State to provide her a job based on her educational qualification, Justice Krishnan Ramasamy observed that ‘life’ under Article 21 of the Constitution had undergone a complete transition. The judge said that it was the basic expectation of every human being to live a healthy and an active life. If such an expectation was breached due to the negligence of the State or its agencies, it became an obligation of the State to do what was necessary for restitution of the person who had suffered due to the negligence of its servants. The judge observed that several temples maintained by the State were keeping elephants on their premises as part of tradition and religious practices. This practice of having elephants in temples was seen from historic times. Recently, in a popular temple in the State, the deep bonding between the elephant and mahout was shown on several TV channels. It was remarked that an elephant was a huge animal with a child’s mindset and despite its intelligence, it needed proper care and caution. This being so, the State should be very cautious when the devotees were visiting a temple with an elephant. ‘Fit case’ This was a fit case where the court would be justified in awarding monetary compensation of more than Rs. 1 crore along with appointment on compassionate grounds. However, the relief sought in this petition was only to provide the appointment. If at all this court intended to render complete and comprehensive justice to the petitioner, it could be done only by providing monetary compensation as well as the appointment, the judge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-orders-job-damages-to-girl-who-lost-speech-in-temple-elephant-attack/article33735612.ece
03 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||50-year-old man ends life||P. Pitchai (50) was found lying dead on a brick kiln premises in Vadakkoor under Silaiman police station limits on Tuesday. Police said that the man, who was a partner with his brother-in-law, Ramanpal, in the brick kiln business, wanted to come out of the partnership. He was promised of return of his share of Rs. 72 lakh. However, even before his share was settled, Ramanpal had sold the kiln to another person. As his money was not settled, he had sought money from his brother-in-law. However, Ramanpal had directed Pitchai to the new owner. The new owner said that he never had a partnership with him. Frustrated over the dilly-dallying tactics, Pitchai who came to the brick kiln on Tuesday morning, had consumed poison. He was rushed to a private hospital in Tirupuvanam. However, he was declared brought dead. The police said that the deceased had a note left in his pocket in which he had blamed both the persons for his death. Relatives sought action against them for abetting him to commit suicide. A case of suspicious death has been filed. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/50-year-old-man-ends-life/article33736163.ece
03 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||LIC staff oppose budget announcements||Members of Madurai Division of Insurance Corporation Employees' Union staged a demonstration here on Tuesday condemning the announcements made for the insurance industry in the Union budget. Headed by Association General Secretary N.P. Ramesh Kannan, the protesters criticised the announcement that the government would amend the Insurance Act 1938 to increase Foreign Direct Investment in the insurance sector from 49% to 74% and allow foreign ownership in insurance with some safeguards. The announcement to privatise one general insurance company and two public sector banks was also criticised. The protesters also opposed the announcement that the government would bring the LIC IPO in this financial year. FDI hike in insurance would only help foreign capital gain greater control over the domestic savings. It is important that in a developing economy like India, the State exercises greater control over domestic savings, said the protesters.  They said that the LIC IPO announcement will be a be a big blow to the very concept of “Atmanirvar Bharat” that the government has been constantly emphasising upon. The LIC IPO will undermine the very objectives of its creation, the protesters said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lic-staff-oppose-budget-announcements/article33736159.ece
03 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||90 persons receive prizes||A total of 90 persons, who had visited the transport offices here on Monday to apply for learner's licence, won prizes for giving correct answers for questions on road safety. Quiz programmes were organised at the three Regional Transport Offices (Madurai Central, Madurai North and Madurai South) and at the Motor Vehicle Inspector Offices at Vadipatti and Tirumangalam as part of the Road Safety Awareness Month. A total of 325 persons, who had come to apply for learner's licence, participated in the quiz. Among them, 90 people won eversilver water bottles, tiffin boxes and pens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/90-persons-receive-prizes/article33736160.ece
03 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Father of deceased fisherman moves HC||N. Anthony Raj, father of A. Mesiya of Ramanathapuram who drowned with three other fishermen in January after their boat sank as the Sri Lankan authorities tried apprehending it has filed a petition before the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court seeking a direction to State Bank of India, Ramanathapuram, to honour the cheque presented to him by the State. In his petition, Mr. Anthony Raj said the State government awarded a cheque of Rs. 10 lakh as compensation. When the cheque was produced before the State Bank of India, Ramanathapuram branch, it was not honoured on the ground that there was a mismatch in the name. The petitioner said that this would cause much hardship to the family members, as without the compensation amount it would be difficult to make ends meet. Justice V. Parthiban directed the petitioner’s counsel L.P. Maurya to ask the petitioner to go to the State Bank of India on February 3 during the working hours. The bank authorities should ascertain the identity, the judge said. The case was posted for hearing on February 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/father-of-deceased-fisherman-moves-hc-against-sbi/article33735660.ece
03 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Girl robbed of mobile phone||Two unidentified persons robbed a minor girl of a mobile phone when she was sitting in an autorickshaw near Samayanallur on Sunday. Police said G. Srinivasan (42) of Nilakottai, had, along with his daughter, was travelling in the autorickshaw. Srinivasan and the driver Nagendran left the girl inside the parked vehicle to have tea. Two persons, who came on a bike, approached the girl and suddenly snatched the mobile phone from her and fled. Kadupatti police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/girl-robbed-of-mobile-phone/article33736166.ece
03 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘JICA to foot 85% cost of AIIMS in Madurai’||While the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) will fund 85% of the total cost for the establishment of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) at Thoppur in Madurai, the remaining 15% of the cost will be contributed by the Central government, reveals an RTI reply obtained by R. Pandiaraja, a social worker. It has been over two years since the Prime Minister laid the foundation stone for AIIMS in Madurai. A preparatory survey by the officials of JICA at the site in Thoppur was conducted in February 2020. Initially, the total cost of the AIIMS project was at Rs. 1,264 crore. Then, an RTI reply obtained by Mr. Pandiaraja in December last showed that the total cost of the AIIMS project had increased to Rs. 2,000 crore. The RTI reply received on Tuesday showed that the increased cost for the AIIMS project is as per the estimates prepared by JICA. Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan, who met Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan and Joint Secretary (AIIMS) Nilambuj Sharan in January, said that the government proposed to construct a communicable diseases hospital at AIIMS, which has led to an increase in the estimated budget of the project to Rs. 2,000 crore. He said that the officials had communicated that a loan agreement for sanctioning funds from JICA will be signed by March-end. The RTI reply received on Tuesday said that there was no information available on the layout plan for Madurai AIIMS. HITES has been appointed as the executing agency for pre-investment activities at the site for AIIMS Madurai. Pre-investment activities are still under progress at the site, the RTI reply said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jica-will-foot-85-cost-of-aiims-in-madurai/article33735664.ece
03 February 2021||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||SC to examine plea against T.N.’s 69% quota in colleges, govt. jobs||The Supreme Court on Tuesday agreed to examine a petition seeking an immediate stay on the implementation of a Tamil Nadu law that allows 69% quota in educational institutions and government jobs in the State. A three-judge Bench, led by Justice Ashok Bhushan, issued notice and gave the Tamil Nadu government two weeks to file its response to a writ petition filed by a student, C.V. Gayathri, through her father, S. Vaitheeswaran, challenging the constitutionality of the Tamil Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Reservation of seats in Educational Institutions and of appointments or posts in the Services under the State) Act of 1993. The law is protected under the ninth Schedule of the Constitution from judicial review. Section 4 of the Act provides 30% reservation to the Backward Classes, 20% for the Most Backward Classes and de-notified communities, 18% for the Scheduled Castes and 1% for the Scheduled Tribes. Thus, a total of 69% reservation is provided. “Tamil Nadu Reservation Act, 1993 provides 69% reservation in admissions and in public services, which is arbitrary, unreasonable and excessive. This excessive reservation seriously affects general category students and candidates to the public services,” the petitioner, represented by advocate G. Siva Bala Murugan, said. Indira Sawhney case The petition said the Act was contrary to the principle laid down by a nine-judge Bench of the Supreme Court in the Indira Sawhney case, which had concluded that reservation of “50% shall be the rule; only in certain exceptional and extraordinary situations for bringing far-flung and remote areas population into mainstream, said 50% rule can be relaxed”. “This court has held that in doing so, extreme caution has to be exercised by the State and a special case has to be made out. Tamil Nadu Reservation Act, 1993, does not pass the test mentioned in Indra Sawhney case, therefore needs to be declared unconstitutional,” the petition said. “It is submitted that courses like medical, engineering, etc., almost all professional courses, require permission of regulatory authority for increasing seats. No seats can be increased without applying to the regulatory authority within stipulated time frame. Therefore, formula of increasing seats is not practically implemented. Thereby, general category students are suffering,” the petition said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sc-to-examine-plea-against-tns-69-quota-in-colleges-govt-jobs/article33735650.ece
03 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. totally neglected in Budget, says CM||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Tuesday said the Union Budget for 2021-22 presented by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday had “totally neglected” the Union Territory. Addressing a press conference, Mr. Narayanasamy said it was unfortunate that the Budget had ignored the development aspirations of the Union Territory, more so when it had allocated funds for infrastructure upgrades in other poll-bound States such as Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Kerala. “This only goes to show how the BJP-led government at the Centre sidelines the Union Territory. The Budget also showed that there was nothing to back up the tall claims made recently by BJP national president J.P. Nadda that the Centre would revive industry, spur job growth and reopen ration shops. Where are the funds for all this in the Budget?,” asked Mr. Narayanasamy. Mr. Narayanasamy said the Budget proved that all the talk of developing Puducherry by both Mr. Nadda and those who had now joined the party were all spin and empty promises. “Those whose expectations had been raised by the pre-Budget hype have been let down,” he said. He also took a dig at the Opposition leaders in Puducherry who had praised the Budget. “How can they welcome a Budget with nothing for the Union Territory? I hope they read the contents before issuing statements.” Mr. Narayanasamy said though Union Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari had assured funding for nine infrastructure projects, including a four-lane highway between Chennai and Puducherry along the East Coast Road and a flyover from Rajiv Gandhi square to Marappalam, there was no mention in the Budget. The Union Territory was eligible for about Rs. 3000 crore as grant to facilitate implementation of territorial government’s budgetary proposals. However, in reality the Central allocation for the Union Territory was hardly a third of the anticipated annual grant. He pointed out that the Centre had earmarked only Rs. 1,729 crore during the 2021-2022 financial year which was a measly Rs. 26 crore more than the allocation of the previous year. The Chief Minister also raised concerns over the inadequate allocation for Defence, especially when India was in a hostile neighbourhood. The Budget had also let down rural workers by downgrading allocations to the MGNREGS and ignored the most significant constituents — farmers, youth and women. The Centre was going down a risk-fraught path of privatising public sector undertakings, including banks, that would eventually be detrimental to the interests of the common man, Mr. Narayanasamy said. “The Centre should abandon the move to hand over public sector undertakings to private players. There should be a healthy mix of public and private sector enterprises,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-totally-neglected-in-budget-says-cm/article33736217.ece
03 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Schools at the forefront of waterbody rejuvenation||A school-driven campaign to protect and nourish an estimated 600 waterbodies in Puducherry was launched under the auspices of a collective at the SRS Government Girls’ Higher Secondary School on Tuesday. The ‘One School One Pond’ initiative, which was rolled out on World Wetlands Day, as part of the Water Festival ’21, would support schools in adopting a waterbody in their locality. The OSOP launch marked the creation of a pond on a wasteland adjoining the SRS School in Saram. What was once a snake-infested dump and a den of anti-social elements is now a community rainwater harvesting system. In a message, Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi, who was unable to attend the launch, said the creation of a pond was in line with the mandate of the Puducherry Water Policy-2016. She noted that A. Anbarasu, former Education Secretary, and the NGO PondyCan had got together to build a community rainwater harvesting structure on the low-lying land adjacent to the school. The ‘One School One Pond’ initiative will connect students with the environment to provide holistic learning, with the pond serving as an eco education centre. Students will nurture the waterbody and, apart from planting saplings, the premises will be elevated to a biodiversity spot with a butterfly park, bees and fish species, Ms. Bedi said. The campaign is led by the “All For Water for All” project, Water-Rich Puducherry movements and the Alliance for Good Governance. The effort is supported by the Puducherry Heritage Festival 2021, Alliance Francaise, French Institute of Pondicherry, National Centre for Coastal Research under the Ministry of Earth Sciences and 10 government departments, including School Education, PWD, LAD and Forests. Prabir K. Banerjee, of All for Water for All project, said the OSOP campaign would seek the rejuvenation of an estimated 600 ponds. “We hope to rope in 100 schools this year and the remaining institutions in the following year,” he said. Puducherry had earlier launched a Neerum Oorum (water and village) scheme to adopt waterbodies, renovate them and protect them. These served as groundwater recharge systems, sources for drinking water and also the backbone for agriculture. A. John Kumar, MLA, launched the ‘Neer Nilai’ mobile app that would help students to geo-tag ponds and map all relevant water characteristics in the presence of S.K. Dash, scientist, NCCR, Satish Nallam, president of Alliance Francaise, N. Tamilselvan, Deputy Collector, and T.P. Raghunath, of All for Water for All. The Kamaraj Nagar legislator promised to ensure that the pond would be protected from miscreants and encroachments. P.T. Rudra Goud, Director of School Education, stressed on the importance of raising consciousness about the life-sustaining virtues of water and the importance of conservation among schoolchildren, especially in a place like Puducherry which did not have river systems and was dependent on groundwater reserves for its drinking water needs. C.H. Balamohanan, of All for Water for All, administered a water conservation pledge to the school students. Earlier, volunteers planted saplings around the waterbody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/schools-at-the-forefront-of-waterbody-rejuvenation/article33736215.ece
03 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. records 27 new cases||Puducherry added 27 new COVID-19 cases to its overall tally on Tuesday while no deaths were reported in the last 24 hours. The new cases, which were confirmed from 2,275 tests, were spread out in Puducherry (18), Mahe (7) and Karaikal (2). No new cases were recorded in Yanam. With 26 patients discharged, the active cases stood at 286. Of this, 125 patients were in hospitals and 161 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 1.18%, case fatality rate 1.66% and recovery rate 97.6%. The cumulative total is 39,123 cases and the total recovered patients 38,186. Of an estimated 5.79 lakh tests carried out by the Health Department so far, about 5.36 lakh samples tested negative. Cuddalore district reported two fresh cases on Tuesday, taking the district’s tally to 24,942. While 24,611 persons have been discharged, the active cases stand at 46. In Villupuram district, four persons tested positive, taking the tally to 15,195. Kallakurichi district reported two positive cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-records-27-new-cases/article33736169.ece
03 February 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||New eco-tourism project begins in Gulf of Mannar||The Forest division in Ramanathapuram, with the participation of the local community, has started a community-based eco-tourism project at Pichaimoopanvalasai near Erwadi in the the Gulf of Mannar. A.S. Marimuthu, Wildlife Warden of Ramanathapuram and Director of Gulf of Mannar Biosphere Reserve Trust, inaugurated the boating service on January 29. Zonal Officer M. Loganathan said that two boats would be available for the sightseers, including a boat with a glass bottom. “Passengers can travel for some distance on the ordinary boat and hop on to the glass bottom boat, through which they can see the undersea corals,” he said. Passengers can register in advance for the boating service. A website is under construction for the purpose, he said. The entry fee for each passenger is Rs. 200. All passengers must wear face masks and undergo thermal screening before travelling on the boat, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-eco-tourism-project-begins-in-gulf-of-mannar/article33735652.ece
03 February 2021||RAMESWARAM,TAMIL NADU||22 theerthams opened again for devotees at Rameswaram temple||After 315 days, devotees visiting Ramanathaswamy Temple here on Tuesday had the opportunity to pour on their heads holy water from the 22 theerthams, which remained out of bounds due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Following representations, the Tamil Nadu government announced that the 22 theerthams would be opened to the devotees in accordance with the Standard Operating Procedure followed in the COVID-19 protocol. The Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments officials said though the temple was opened on September 1, 2020, the theerthams remained out of bounds for the devotees. The 22 theerthams Now on, the devotees can have the holy water from the following 22 theerthams: Mahalakshmi theertham, Kenthamadana theertham, Savitri theertham, Brahmahathi theertham, Gayathri theertham, Ganga theertham, Saraswathi theertham, Yamuna theertham, Sangu theertham, Gaya theertham, Sakkara theertham, Sarva theertham, Sethu Madhavar theertham, Siva theertham, Nala theertham, Saadyamamirtha theertham, Nilaa theertham, Surya theertham, Kavayaa theertham, Chandra theertham, Kavatcha theertham and Kodi theertham, said officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/22-theerthams-opened-again-at-rameswaram-temple/article33735654.ece
03 February 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Sanitary workers demand clearance of salary dues||Sanitary workers under the Salem Corporation protested in front of the Corporation office here on Tuesday demanding clearance of salary dues. Members of Salem District Rural Development and Local Administration Employees Association, in their petition, said there were about 2,500 sanitary workers under the Corporation. Despite repeated requests, salaries were not paid to them on first day of the month and the salaries were due from December. The protesters said sanitary workers had been working risking their lives during the COVID-19 pandemic and delay in payments had affected their livelihood severely. They demanded that their salaries should be paid at the earliest and payments should be made on first day of the month in future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sanitary-workers-demand-clearance-of-salary-dues/article33735690.ece
03 February 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||LIC employees protest disinvestment move||Employees of Life Insurance Corporation staged a protest in front of their zonal office here on Tuesday condemning proposals regarding insurance firms in the budget announced on Monday. The protesters said several proposals in the budget for insurance sector were against the interests of the country and it would severely affect the insurance sector. They questioned the need for increasing Foreign Direct Investments in insurance companies from 49% to 74%. The protesters said that several firms had not used even the earlier provision fully and opined that it would affect the economic development of the country. The protesters said the Centre’s move to disinvest the shares in LIC contradicted its goal of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’. LIC paid its profit dividends to the government and the policy holders and the move was almost like betraying people of the country. The protesters also opposed the proposal to privatise a general insurance company and two nationalised banks and urged the government to withdraw the move.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lic-employees-protest-disinvestment-move/article33735688.ece
03 February 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Couple arrested for forced termination of pregnancy||The Attur All Women Police arrested a couple, S. Subramani and Selvi, for allegedly forcing their 19-year-old daughter to terminate her pregnancy. She was into her fourth month of pregnancy. According to the police, the girl married a guy from Ramanathapuram outside her caste about four months ago and the accused were opposed to it. Recently, she visited her family here without her husband’s knowledge and her parents asked her to stay. The accused, who came to know of their daughter’s pregnancy, forced her to terminate it without the knowledge of her husband. Later, the victim informed her husband about this. Based on a complaint from him, the police arrested the couple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/couple-arrested-for-forced-termination-of-pregnancy/article33735686.ece
03 February 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Traders oppose move to remove shops near Anandha bridge||Traders and vegetable vendors running shops along the Anandha bridge protested on Tuesday against the move by the Salem Corporation to remove the shops in the area. They said they had been running shops along the Anandha bridge on the banks of Thirumanimutharu river here for over 10 years and the traders had been paying charges to the Corporation. On Tuesday, officials from the Corporation visited the place to remove encroachments. However, the traders opposed the move and demanded the authorities to offer them alternative place. They said several persons were dependent on the business and their livelihood would be affected. N. Vijay, a trader, said, “the livelihood of more than 400 persons are dependent on this. All traders have been paying charges to the Corporation and we have been asked to vacate the place without any prior notice. Power supply cut The power supply to our shops were cut on Monday. No alternative place has been allocated to us.” Another trader said that they were ready to leave the place, but the Corporation should provide them with alternative place for business. The officials offered to provide a solution and left the place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traders-oppose-move-to-remove-shops-near-anandha-bridge/article33735692.ece
03 February 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Water supply to be disrupted||Drinking water supply through the dedicated scheme would be disrupted on February 4 in the Salem Corporation limits due to maintenance works at Thotilpatti, Mettur, by the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation, a release said. Corporation Commissioner N. Ravichandran advised the public to use water cautiously, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-supply-to-be-disrupted/article33735691.ece
03 February 2021||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Nine fined Rs. 9.25 lakh for poaching deer||Forest Department officials slapped a fine of Rs. 9.25 lakh on nine persons for poaching sambar deer in Sivagiri reserve forest recently. Sources in the department said the prime accused, Ramar, 45, of Kovilur near Rajapalayam in Virudhunagar district, had allegedly been selling deer meat to his elite customers for Rs. 300 a kg for several years after hunting the animals in the reserve forest areas of Sivagiri and Rajapalayam Ranges with country-made guns. When Ramar and his associates were sharing the meat among themselves around 4 a.m. on January 4, the Forest personnel arrived at the spot following a tip-off. Ramar, fled the spot with the major portion of the meat along with his accomplices, and dumped it in a well. However, the Forest personnel seized nine kg of meat from the spot. Later, they nabbed Madasamy, 51, of Krishnapuram near Rajapalayam, his son Arun, 23, and Arun’s cousin Prakash, 28, and collected a fine of Rs. 1.50 lakh each from them. Ramar and five others were detained on Monday and an air-gun, two bikes and a car were seized from them. While Rs. 1 lakh fine was imposed on Ramar, Rs. 75,000 each was collected from Selvam, 50, Rajendran, 48, Sannasi, 59, Raja, 42 and Sakthivel, 36, all hailing from Kovilur, Chokkanathapuram and Devipattinam. After they paid the fine, they were released.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nine-fined-rs-925-lakh-for-poaching-deer/article33736267.ece
03 February 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Innovations should be affordable to end-users’||Innovations should be affordable to the end-users, observed R.A.Mashelkar, eminent scientist and former Director-General, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), while delivering an endowment lecture organised by the Indian Institute of Food Processing Technology in memory of the institution’s founder, V.Subrahmanyan, here on Tuesday. In an address through virtual media on “Re-imagining and reinventing post-COVID India,” he lauded the temperament of Indian scientists in proving their abilities in the race to produce a vaccine for the novel coronavirus. Claiming that the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan has the vision to make a new India wherein the country and its citizen remain independent and self-reliant in the post COVID-19 scenario, he said that the five “mantras” - ‘buy better, make better, buy to make better and making together better,’ - was the need of the hour to make the country self-reliant and independent. C.Ananadharamakrishnan, director, IIFPT highlighted the contributions made by the institution in food processing sector aimed at the enhancement of farmers’ livelihood and nation building. On the occasion, Dr.V.Subrahmanyan Best Performer awards (for the year 2019-20) were presented to IIFPT staff by the director to R.Mahendran, Associate Professor and Head, Centre of Excellence in Non-Thermal Processing (scientist category), R.Paranthanam, Senior Technical Officer, Department of Computational Modelling and Nano-Scale Processing Unit (technical staff category) and J.Jayalakshmi, Senior Secretariat Assistant, Purchase Division (support staff category).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/innovations-should-be-affordable-to-end-users/article33735626.ece
03 February 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Thyagaraja Aradhana held at Tiruvaiyaru||Scores of musicians and instrumentalists rendered ‘pancharatna kritis’ in unison at the samadhi of Sri Thyagaraja on the banks of the Cauvery at Tiruvaiyaru on Tuesday, marking the high point of the 174th aradhana of the saint-composer. The event commenced with the ‘mangala isai’ by nagaswaram artistes around 8.30 a.m., followed by a brief musical tribute to the ‘Nadhabrahmam’ by flute artistes. The main event, the rendering of ‘pancharatna kritis’ by vocalists, supported by flute, veena, mridangam, ghatam, ganjira, morsing and violin artistes, went on for about an hour, coinciding with the ‘maha aarti’ at the Adhishtanam when the vocalists were rendering the song ‘Endaro Mahanubhavulu’ by the saint-composer. Earlier, the vocalists recited ‘Jagadanandakaraka’, ‘Dudukugala’, ‘Sadhinchene’ and ‘Kanakanaruchira’, which are the other four ‘kritis’ forming part of the ‘pancharatna kritis’. Musicians like Sudha Ragunathan, Mahathi and Vishaka Hari participated in the event. Curtailed event The aradhana, organised by Sri Thyagabrahma Mahotsava Sabha, Tiruvaiyaru, was curtailed to a two-day event this year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In the absence of several popular musicians, the platform to offer a musical tribute on the day of ‘Bahula panchami' to the ‘Thyagabrahmam’ this year was grabbed by many young and up-and-coming vocalists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thyagaraja-aradhana-held-at-tiruvaiyaru/article33735640.ece
03 February 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Mullaperiyar dam site gets power supply after 20 years||Kerala Electricity Minister M.M. Mani switched on electricity connection to the Mullaperiyar dam area on Monday. After about 20 years, the dam area had been provided with lighting for which the Tamil Nadu government had remitted about Rs. 1.65 crore since 2005 as fees and deposits to the Kerala State Electricity Board. The State government had also remitted Rs. 13.74 lakh to the Forest Department for use of their land. At a function held at the dam site, Theni Collector M. Pallavi Baldev and senior officials from various departments participated in the function in which top officials from the Kerala State Electricity Board, Public Works Department (Water Resources Organisation) and Forest, Peermedu MLA E.S. Bijumol participated. After reports of wild animals being electrocuted in the area, the Kerala State Electricity Board snapped the power supply in June 2000. The Forest Department officials also raised objections due to the deaths. Under such circumstances, the Tamil Nadu government wanted underground cable laid for the electricity supply and agreed to remit the money required for the same. But the relationship between the two States were not cordial due to the Mullaperiyar reservoir storage level issue. After Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami held discussions with his Kerala counterpart Pinarayi Vijayan on the water sharing issue and decided to open dialogue, the relationship turned cordial, officials said. Following a request from the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister, the Kerala officials agreed to provide electricity connection to the dam site by laying cables for a distance of 5.5 km. The work, which commenced last month, was completed in about three weeks after getting no objection certificate from the Forest Department too, the officials said.  The work began last month and was completed in about three weeks after getting NoC from Forest Department Official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mullaperiyar-reservoir-site-gets-power-supply-after-20-years/article33735655.ece
03 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Jail Warder recruits pass out||A total of 197 Jail Warder recruits including 21 women passed out on Tuesday after completing six months of training here. A ceremonial passing out parade was held at the Central Prison complex here with the Director General of Police, Prisons and Correctional Services Sunil Kumar Singh inspecting the march past and taking the salute. He gave away medals to best recruits and addressed them. The Inspector General of Police, Central zone H.M. Jayaram, Commissioner of Police J. Loganathan, Deputy Inspector General of Police , Tiruchi Range Z. Annie Vijaya and Deputy Inspector General of Prisons, Tiruchi Range R. Kanakaraj participated. The training commenced on August 3 last year at the Jail Warders Training School at Central Prison complex during which the Recruits were taken classes on various subjects including Prison Manual, Indian Penal Code, Code of Criminal Procedure, Human Rights Act, Psychology, Constitution of India, Right to Information Act and Prisoners Information System. They were also trained in parade, yoga, karate and firing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jail-warder-recruits-pass-out/article33735614.ece
03 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Major burst in underground drainage pipeline||A major burst on underground drainage (UGD) pipeline on Old Post Office Road caused extensive flow of sewage on streets in Bheema Nagar here on Tuesday. The burst occurred on a pipeline carrying sewage to the pumping station at Othakadai around 1.45 p.m. leading to heavy sewage flow on Old Post Office Road, Marsinghpettai, Mettutheru, Heber Road and neighbouring residential areas. In some areas, residents had to wade through the dirty water to reach homes or shops. Most residents, shop keepers, traders and vegetable vendors of Bheema Nagar had a torrid time due to flow of sewer and foul smell. “It is horrible to see the flow of sewer on roads. I could not stomach the bad smell and I had to go out for about three hours to escape from the onslaught of sewer flow,” said K. Jahir Hussain, a shopkeeper on Heber Road. On information, a team led by Kumaresan, Executive Engineer, Tiruchi Corporation, rushed to the spot and identified the location of the burst. Accompanied by a team of 10 sanitary workers, fitters and welders, they began the task of arresting the sewer. The leakage was brought under control to an extent by 5 pm. Mr. Kumaresan said that the UGD main was laid in 1987. It could not withstand the pressure as it had worn out. The problem would be rectified fully within a day. Bheema Nagar had been included in the rejuvenation of the old underground drainage project. A tender had been floated for executing the project and it would bring about a permanent solution to the problem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/major-burst-in-underground-drainage-pipeline/article33736260.ece
03 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||New bridge to be completed by May-end||The new high level bridge, coming up soon across the Kollidam river near the Grand Anicut, connecting Thiruvanaikovil Road and Grand Anicut Road, is expected to be completed by the end of May. The bridge, being built by the Projects wing of the Highways Department, would provide a new link between Tiruchi and Thanjavur districts, immensely benefiting residents of the region and facilitating free flow of traffic between the two districts. It is being built at a cost of Rs. 90.96 crore as per the revised estimates, though it was originally sanctioned at an estimate of Rs. 67 crore. It runs a distance of about a 1050 metres, excluding the approach roads on both sides. The total width of the bridge would be 12.90 metres and the carriageway would be 10.50 metres wide. The project was announced by former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa during the Collector’s conference held in December 2013. Tiruchi Collector S.Sivarasu, who inspected the progress of construction of the bridge on Tuesday, told reporters that 90% of the work has been completed. “Only the construction of the approach roads and junction improvements have to be completed. Retaining walls for the approach roads have been built. The works will be completed by the end of May,” he said. The Highways Department had, a few years ago, widened and strengthened the left bank of the Cauvery that leads to the Grand Anicut from the city and once the new bridge comes up, the road would provide a quicker access to towns in Thanjavur district from Tiruchi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-bridge-to-be-completed-by-may-end/article33735621.ece
03 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||53 more test positive in central region||Fifty-three more persons tested positive for COVID 19 in the Central region on Tuesday. No death was recorded in the region in the bulletin issued by the Health Department for the day. Five of the eight districts in the region recorded less than 10 cases while there was no fresh case in Perambalur. Only Tiruchi and Thanjavur recorded new cases in double digits. While 18 persons tested positive for the virus in Thanjavur, the results of a dozen patients returned positive in Tiruchi. Ariyalur, Nagapattinam and Pudukottai districts reported four fresh cases each. Karur added six new cases and Tiruvarur five. As on Tuesday, there were 108 active cases, including those in home treatment, in Tiruchi district, 86 in Thanjavur, 59 in Nagapattinam, 52 in Tiruvarur, 40 in Pudukottai, 33 in Karur, 20 in Ariyalur and six in Perambalur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/53-more-test-positive-in-central-region/article33735624.ece
03 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Move to regularise guest lecturers flayed||Teachers’ associations have taken exception to the move by the Higher Education Department to regularise the services of 500 guest lecturers in government colleges through a special recruitment drive, which they complain, lacks transparency. The Directorate of Collegiate Education is understood to have obtained particulars of those who had completed five years of service and possess the requisite qualification for lectureship. Aided College Teachers’ Association (ACTA), Tamil Nadu Universities and Colleges SC/ST Teachers’ Association have criticised the move. The Tamil Nadu Universities and Colleges SC/ST Teachers’ Association has made a representation to the Principal Secretary of Higher Education requesting the department to fill vacancies for Assistant Professors in government arts and science colleges in a transparent manner. The TRB had issued a notification to fill 2,331 vacancies in arts and science colleges and colleges of education during August, 2019. Guest lecturers in government colleges and faculty in private and self-financing colleges had applied for the posts. The TRB had said it had received 41,000 applications of which 31,128 had been accepted. Now, the question arises as to why the guest lecturers in government colleges alone have been accorded the privilege of service regularisation. “We request the State government to intervene and make the selection process transparent through TRB on the basis of 200-point roster reservation with applications received in the 2019 notification. We request that the guest lecturers of government colleges be recruited through TRB,” M. Kannaiyan, general secretary of Tamil Nadu Universities and Colleges SC/ST Teachers’ Association said. In a similar letter to the State government and the Governor and Chancellor, ACTA general secretary S. Sahaya Sathish said the move for absorption of guest lecturers in government colleges in permanent posts was ‘undemocratic and controversial.’ Such a step was totally against the established norms. Thousands of eligible and qualified teachers working in private and constituent colleges have been denied their opportunity,’ Prof. Sahaya Sathish said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/move-to-regularise-guest-lecturers-flayed/article33736256.ece
03 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Two more BG stretches to go electric this month||Two more broad gauge (BG) sections in Tiruchi Railway Division's limits are poised to become electrified by this month-end. Overhead electrification works are apace on the Mannargudi - Nidamangalam and Cuddalore - Vriddhachalam BG sections with the projects being executed by the Central Organisation for Railway Electrification (CORE). Work on the short distance Mannargudi-Nidamangalam stretch (10 km) falling under the delta region was taken up during the lockdown period about three months ago. The electrification work is nearing completion with final touches being given. The project would be completed by this month-end, a senior railway official said. The CORE is also simultaneously executing the electrification project on the 55 km Cuddalore - Vriddhachalam BG stretch, also falling under Tiruchi Division. The project had entered the final stage of completion with checks being carried out deploying a tower car, the official said. Overhead electrification works commenced on this stretch too last year after the lockdown was imposed. The CORE authorities would soon be submitting separate applications seeking approval from the Electrical Inspector for charging both stretches. The approval from the Electrical Inspector was required for charging the sections to carry out trial run by deploying an electric locomotive on the electrified stretches prior to inviting the Commissioner of Railway, Southern Circle, Bengaluru, to conduct statutory inspection, the official said. In Tiruchi Division, broad gauge stretches from Tiruchi to Karaikal via Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagore, Nagapattinam and the entire 228 km long mainline section from Villupuram to Thanjavur via Cuddalore, Chidambaram, Mayiladuthurai and Kumbakonam have already been electrified. While the Tiruchi - Karaikal overhead electrification project was executed by the CORE, the Rail Vikas Nigam Limited carried out the project on the mainline section. The official said the CORE had completed electrification works in another short stretch from Nagapattinam to Velankanni (12 km) and conducted trial run by deploying an electric locomotive. It is also executing overhead electrification works on the Tiruchi - Pudukottai BG section (about 50 km). Mast erections were proceeding apace and wiring works would commence soon. About 18 to 20 masts were being erected every kilometre as part of the project. The Tiruchi - Pudukottai electrification work is part of the Tiruchi - Pudukottai-Karaikudi-Manamadurai-Virudhanagar overhead electrification project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-more-bg-stretches-to-go-electric-this-month/article33736257.ece
03 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Father ‘comes alive’ to bless daughter||The marriage of Lakshmi Praba, 27, of Pattukottai in Thanjavur district with Kishore of Kumarapalayam a few days ago has become the talk of the town as the couple entered into wedlock in front of a life-size wax statue of the bride’s father, who died about nine years ago. Invitees, relatives and friends, made a beeline to take photographs along with Selvam, the bride’s father, “present” in the form of a wax statue. Tears of happiness rolled down from the cheek of Ms. Praba when she prostrated before the statue seeking his blessings. She had been missing her lovable father since he died in 2012. Ms. Praba now feels that her father, whom she considers a mentor, guide and philosopher, has come alive. Kalavathi, the mother of Ms.Praba, too was happy that her husband “was present” on the occasion to solemnise the marriage of her daughter. It all started when Praba’s sister Bhuvaneswari came down to India from London to arrange the marriage for her. After deciding to present a surprise to her sister, Bhuvaneswari and her husband Karthick Sivakumar met Sidhara Murthy, a wax sculptor in Bengaluru, a few months ago and expressed her desire to design a wax statue of her father. They had to stay in Bengaluru for several days so as to enable the artist to design Selvam’s figure. After making a number of corrections, Mr. Murthy designed him perfectly using rubber, silicone, wax and other materials. As planned the wax statue of Selvam was brought and placed in the marriage hall. The newly-married couple, Mrs. Selvam and two other daughters stood beside the statue to make it a perfect family image. Many invitees were bowled over by the affection that the family members of Selvam, a leading prawn culturist in his heyday, had for him. “He is a role model for us. He toiled hard to provide quality education to all three of us as he felt that education was a major step to women's empowerment. If we are in a good position, it is because of my father. I dedicate the wax statue to the parents of all girl children,” said Ms.Bhuvaneswari.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/father-comes-alive-to-bless-daughter/article33735628.ece
03 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Consultant appointed for food parks||SIPCOT has appointed Grant Thornton Bharat LLP to conduct a detailed research on potential of the proposed food parks at Manapparai in Tiruchi district and in Theni district. A webinar meeting last week focussed on the advantages accruing from the mega food parks involving both established industries and start-ups. For the 250-acre food park at the 1,077-acre SIPCOT Industrial Park in Tiruchi entailing an investment of Rs. 200 crore, there are 110 applicants, Chairman of Tiruchi Trade Centre and former president of Tiruchi District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association N. Kanagasabapathy said. The contours of the food parks in the two districts and the scope for twinning with central government schemes were highlighted by V. Padmanand, Partner, Grant Thomas Bharat LLP. The deliberations involved participation of P. Murugesa Boopathi, Former Vice-Chancellor, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University; T. Arumugam, Dean, Horticulture College and Research Institute, Periyakulam; R. Ilango, president, TIDITSSIA; K. Srinivasan, president, Theni SIDCO Industrial Estae Industries Association; and Mr. Kanagasabapathy. Namakkal, Thanjavur, Tiruchi, Karur, Pudukottai, Dindigul, Madurai and Sivaganga have been identified as the catchment areas for the food park in Manapparai for sourcing of raw materials such as fruits, oilseeds, pulses, cereals and other agricultural commodities. The products identified for processing encompass banana, green gram, black gram, groundnut, tapioca, jowar, paddy, maize, coconut, mango, grapes, sorghum, millets, sugarcane, cashew, and red gram. The processing infrastructure in the food parks constitute common collection centres, primary processing centres (pre-cooling, grading, pulping, ripening chambers, sorting, waxing, packing and storage); central processing centres for pulping, aseptic packing, logistics centre; storage infrastructure including warehouses; and specialised cold storages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/consultant-appointed-for-food-parks/article33736258.ece
03 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Land acquisition for service lanes will be completed by May: Collector||Acquisition of land for constructing service lanes along the 4.5 km-long city stretch of Tiruchi-Thanjavur Highway is expected to be completed by end of May. Disclosing this to reporters here on Tuesday, Collector S.Sivarasu said that the land acquisition for the service lanes has been completed in four out of nine villages. The acquisition process in the remaining five villages would most probably be completed by May 31. The issue has been agitating the minds of residents in colonies along the Thanjavur highway ever since the highway section of National Highway 67 was widened into a four-lane by the National Highways Authority of India in 2009-10. The Federation for Retrieval of Tiruchi-Palpannai-Thuvakudi Service Roads has been pressing for early completion of the land acquisition and laying of service lanes to avoid accidents. He said that 90% of the land acquisition process for the unfinished by-pass road Panchapur and Thindukarai, connecting Tiruchi-Madurai and Tiruchi-Karur national highways, has been completed and the required lands will be handed over to the NHAI by March. The section of the semi-ring road, between Thuvakudi and Mathur, has almost been completed. He said the no objection certificate for getting the Defence land for completing the unfinished road over bridge near the Railway Junction was expected within a month. The district administration had offered land of equal value at the adjacent Tamil Nadu Special Police Battalion in exchange for the Defence land. The issue of carrying out necessary improvements at the Odathurai Road-Chennai Bypass Road intersection would be discussed at the District Advisory Council meet scheduled on February 9. The NHAI would be requested to carry out necessary improvements in consultation with the police authorities, he said. Wrong side driving at the intersection has been a major threat to road safety. The district administration has requested the NHAI to consider building an underpass in front of the Tiruchi Airport as suggested by the Airports Authority of India. The Tiruchi Airport Director had sought construction of an underpass in front of the airport on the Pudukottai highway on safety ground. Mr.Sivarasu said that the Tiruchi Corporation has recently called for tenders to repair roads, including those dug up for laying underground drainage pipes, at a total estimate of Rs. 32 crore. The works will begin shortly. The district administration has forwarded proposals to repair roads in other parts of the district at an estimate of about Rs. 20 crore, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/land-acquisition-for-service-lanes-will-be-completed-by-may-collector/article33735622.ece
03 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Awards presented||The SMART Journal Awards were presented to five five eminent personalities recently. Registrar of Bharathidasan University Gopinath Ganapathy conferred the awards on M.R. Rahunathan, founder, Meenakshi Ramasamy Group of Institutions (SMART Journal Distinguished Educational Administrator Award), Prof. D. Ilangovan, Department of Commerce, Annamalai University (Distinguished Lifetime Achievement Award), G. Veerakumaran, Professor, Department of Cooperative Management, Kerala, (Distinguished Lifetime Achievement Award), G. Indhumathi, Assistant Professor, Department of Commerce, Mother Teresa Women's University (BDU COM Distinguished Alumni Award) , and Manoj Kumar Joshi, Assistant Professor, School of Business Studies, Sreenidhhi Institute of Science and Technology (Autonomous), Hyderabad (SMART Journal Best Paper Award).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/awards-presented/article33735619.ece
03 February 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||‘Revert to old pension scheme, fill vacancies’||Demanding reintroduction of old pension scheme and filling up of over 4.50 lakh vacancies in various departments, government employees staged a road blockade near the Collectorate on Tuesday. The police arrested 30 protestors, including two women, who were released later. The protestors said the 4.50 lakh posts lying vacant in various government departments had badly affected the quality of work executed by the official machinery and hence the government should accord highest priority to fill these vacancies. The contributory pension scheme, introduced by the government, had badly affected the teachers and government employees who would not have any social security after their retirement. Hence, the old pension schheme must be reintroduced for all government employees and teachers. Anganwadi and nutritious meal scheme workers, village assistants and temporary nurses should be given time scale of pay. The Adiseshaiah Committee report that favoured downsizing of workforce in the government departments should be trashed as it is denying employment opportunities to qualified unemployed youth. Another stir Demanding withdrawal of contributory pension scheme and reintroduction of old pension scheme, members of Tamil Nadu Government Departments Pensioners’ Association staged a protest in Palayamkottai. The protestors said anganwadi workers, revenue village workers, panchayat secretaries and forest guards should be given minimum monthly pension of Rs. 7,850 and one month pension money as ‘pongal gift.’ The family welfare fund of pensioners should be increased to Rs. 3 lakh and insurance firms should bear the entire medical expenses of all procedures done in all hospitals. Thoothukudi In Thoothukudi, the government employees, who assembled in front of the Government Employees Union Office on Palayamkottai Road, staged a protest. Tamil Nadu Government Employees’ Union’s district president T. Murugan, secretary D. Murugan and State vice-president N. Venkatesan addressed the protestors.  In Kanniyakumari, the police arrested 27 protestors, including six women, as they attempted to stage a road roko near the Collectorate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/revert-to-old-pension-scheme-fill-vacancies/article33736264.ece
03 February 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||FDI cap: LIC employees plan to intensify protest||The Narendra Modi-led government’s decision to increase Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) cap in the insurance sector from 49% to 74% has triggered unrest among employees of Life Insurance Corporatiuon (LIC), who staged a demonstration in front of the LIC Divisional Office in Palayamkottai on Tuesday. While presenting the Union government’s Budget proposals for the next fiscal in the joint session of the Parliament on Monday, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitaraman said the FDI cap would be upwardly revised to 74% from existing 49% “with safety measures.” “The Centre’s decision to go in for Initial Public Offer (IPO) or increasing FDI will undermine the well-being of LIC, its employees and also the policyholders. This move will enable foreign investors or a small number of billionaires to control LIC’s valuable resources worth lakhs of crores of rupees,” said Muthukumarasamy, secretary of LIC Employees Union, addressing the protestors. He said the LIC, despite stiff competition from private players, had won the people’s trust and hence was leading the sector. It had been sharing its surplus funds with the government and the policyholders as per its founding objectives. They would be weakened if the IPO was allowed. “It will fall into the hands of the foreign companies if the FDI is increased. The profits given to the government for executing welfare schemes and development projects and shared with the investors will go the hands of a small number of super rich investors or foreign firms,” he said. He said the All India Insurance Employees’ Association and the Insurance Corporation Employees’ Union were mobilising public opinion against increasing FDI cap in insurance sector. Moreover, 350 MPs had been explained about the danger of the proposal. “The people and the MPs have understood the threat. With their backing, we will fight against this move,” Mr. Muthukumarasamy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fdi-cap-lic-employees-plan-to-intensify-protest/article33735656.ece
03 February 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Extend Tejas Express to Tirunelveli, says MP||S. Gnanathiraviam, MP, has urged the Railway Ministry to extend the Chennai - Madurai Tejas Express to Tirunelveli. When the Budget session of the Parliament was going on, Mr. Gnanathiraviam met Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Railway Board Suneet Sharma in New Delhi on Monday and submitted a memorandum to this effect. In the memorandum, Mr. Gnanathiraviam said Train Number 22671 / 22672 Chennai - Madurai Tejas Express should be extended to Tirunelveli as the service would be of great help to the public, especially to traders and officials travelling in this section frequently. Since there is no MEMU (Mainline Electric Multiple Unit) service in southern Tamil Nadu, the Thiruvananthapuram – Nagercoil MEMU should be extended to Tirunelveli. Moreover, Train Number 56311 / 56316 Thiruvananthapuram – Nagercoil passenger trains should be converted into MEMU service, which should also be extended to Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi to ensure better connectivity between these two important towns of southern Tamil Nadu with the capital of Kerala. Stoppage at Panagudi for Ananthapurai Express (Train Number 16723 / 16724), which was withdrawn recently after it was converted as special train, should be granted again. Similarly, the Tirunelveli – Palakkad Paalaruvi Express (Train Number 16791 / 16793) should be stopped at Keezha Kadayam and Pavoorchathiram on both directions again as both the stoppages were withdrawn recently. Passenger train services between Tirunelveli - Shencottai, Tirunelveli – Tiruchendur and Tirunelveli – Thoothukudi should be resumed at the earliest, Mr. Gnanathiraviam said in the memorandum. “The Chairman assured that he would consider the feasibility of the appeals and take a positive decision within a week,” Mr. Gnanathiraviam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/extend-tejas-express-to-tirunelveli-says-mp/article33735663.ece
03 February 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Papanasam dam on Tuesday stood at 139.05 feet (maximum permissible level is 143 ft.), with an inflow of 525.63 cusecs and a discharge of 1,264.75 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 115.80 ft. (118 ft.), with an inflow of 164 cusecs and a discharge of 445 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article33736266.ece
03 February 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Efforts on to turn ‘Rivaldo’ into captive elephant||‘Rivaldo’, one of the most seen and photographed wild elephants in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR), is being “led” with its favourite food to the Theppakadu Elephant Camp by the Forest Department, where it will be turned into a captive elephant. The 40-year-old tusker, which is known throughout the region for its gentle demeanour and majestic tusks, was found near Mavanallah in the MTR buffer zone on Tuesday by the forest staff. The long walk to the Theppakadu Elephant Camp is being undertaken by ‘Rivaldo’ along with a team of forest guards, with the elephant being tempted with its favourite mix of fruit and sugarcane. Field Director of MTR, K.K. Kaushal said the decision to turn ‘Rivaldo’ into a captive elephant was made after the death of a 50-year-old elephant in the region on January 19. The elephant, known to locals as “S.I.”, died after a local home-stay owner threw a crude firebomb on it. “We have been receiving calls to capture ‘Rivaldo’ for a long time now, as it frequently strays into human habitations. We were completely opposed to its capture. But recent events have forced our hands and we want to stop ‘Rivaldo’ from meeting the same fate as the other elephant,” said Mr. Kaushal. Deputy Director of MTR L.C.S. Srikanth said the Forest Department hoped to ‘lure’ Rivaldo to Theppakadu by Wednesday evening. “We will try to keep tempting it towards Theppakadu with food, and try to restrict its movement at night by providing it with enough food,” he said. Mr. Srikanth said that as ‘Rivaldo’ had sustained an injury to its trunk a few years ago, its breathing was more laboured when compared with other elephants. “As a result, it is very risky to try and tranquillise the tusker and move it to Theppakadu by force. So, we are attempting this method. Of course, its success will rely entirely on how the elephant responds,” said Mr. Srikanth. Environmentalists have voiced their concern over another elephant being removed from the landscape. “This elephant is a prime example of what happens when an animal becomes habituated to humans. For years, the Forest Department has known that local resort owners feed this elephant and use it to draw tourists,” said a Nilgiris-based environmentalist. “They should have acted against the people feeding the elephants years ago, which could have prevented this situation,” said the environmentalist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-department-begins-efforts-to-turn-rivaldo-into-captive-elephant/article33735677.ece
03 February 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||CMC performed country’s first successful kidney transplant 50 years ago||It has been 50 years since a team of doctors at the Christian Medical College (CMC) here performed the country’s first successful kidney transplant. Since then, the departments of Urology and Nephrology of the CMC have performed 3,755 transplants and 188 deceased donor transplants. Mohan Rao, who was a surgeon at the CMC, recalled the incidents that led to the first transplant on February 2, 1971. In 1965 and 1966, there were three unsuccessful kidney transplantation attempts — two in Mumbai and one in Varanasi. Meanwhile, the CMC was planning to begin its transplant programme, according to a press release. The then principal Jacob Chandy deputed Dr. Rao and nephrologist K.V. Johny to Adelaide, where the first successful transplant in Australia had taken place in The Queen Elizabeth Hospital. On returning to Vellore in 1970, they started to plan the first kidney transplant at the CMC. The then director, Dr. Webb, cautioned Dr. Rao about the delicate nature and significance of the first attempt. If this was unsuccessful, then there may be no more transplants in the CMC since patients may refuse to come. The team was asked to go ahead with the transplant with whatever was available. Without two operating theatres — one for the donor and the other for the recipient — Dr. Rao started the operation around 7 p.m. and finished close to midnight. The patient received a kidney from his father. “I stayed with the patient till morning as I had no trained transplant nurses — a practice I continued till the team gained confidence. The transplanted kidney started producing urine on the table and continued. There were no complications and the patient was discharged after two weeks,” Dr. Rao recalled, according to the release. They did another transplant three weeks later with good results. That was the start of kidney transplantation in India, he added. In 1992, the deceased donor transplant programme began at the CMC, followed by laparoscopic donor nephrectomies in 1999, the release said. The department of nephrology has also done ABO incompatible transplants and swap transplants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cmc-did-countrys-first-successful-kidney-transplant-50-years-ago/article33736058.ece
03 February 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore reports 7 fresh cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 20,759 with seven new cases reported on Tuesday. While a total of 20,310 have been discharged, the active cases stand at 101 and the death toll 348. In Ranipet district, six cases were reported positive, taking the total to 16,131. In Tirupattur district, three cases were reported on Tuesday. The total number of positive cases stood at 7,582. In Tiruvannamalai district, three new cases were reported, taking the tally to 19,365. Of this, 19,052 have been discharged and the active cases stand at 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-reports-7-fresh-cases/article33736218.ece
03 February 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||PMK’s demand for reservation politically motivated: CPI (M)||CPI(M) State secretary K. Balakrishnan has flayed PMK leader Dr. S.Ramadoss for demanding separate reservation for the Vanniyar community and dubbed the demand as "politically motivated". Talking to reporters here on Tuesday, Mr. Balakrishnan said that the demand for separate reservation would also be injurious and do injustice to the Vanniyars and other castes. "This is not a healthy trend," he said. Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit, who presented his customary address at the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly, had not made any mention in his speech on the release of the seven convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, he pointed out. “Why Mr. Purohit was silent in his address is a surprise. This only shows that the Centre was delaying the decision,” he said. He alleged that regularisation of faculty and staff in Tamil Nadu government departments and institutions was becoming impossible without bribe. The Union Budget has let down unemployed youth and the working class. The NDA government was plunging the nation into pitch darkness by disappointing the youth and the workers, he charged. The Centre was keen about privatisation and disinvestment of public sector undertakings which would hit the people drastically.   Separate reservation will do injustice to the Vanniyars and other castes||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpim-says-pmks-demand-is-politically-motivated/article33736212.ece
03 February 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Child Care Desk opened at Virudhunagar railway station||Tamil Nadu Railway Police, in association with Childline ‘1098,’ have set up Child Care Desk at Virudhunagar station as part of 15-day ‘Operation Smile’ campaign to rescue runaway children from railway stations. The child care desk was opened on Monday. “We have posted a woman constable at the desk to keep an eye and rescue children who run away from home after quarrel with parents or who get stranded in railway stations not knowing their way back home,” Inspector of Police (TRP-Virudhunagar), M. Gurusamy said. The women constables in civvies would try to calm down the frightened children and make them feel at home. After enquiries, the parents would be informed and children handed over to them if their houses are in the neighbourhood. “If the children are from far off places, the children would be handed over to Childline officials, who would keep them safely at designated homes,” the Inspector said. On Monday, the TRP personnel spotted a 15-year-old boy at Rajapalayam railway station. Upon enquiry, it was found that the boy from Srivilliputtur was on his way to his grandparents’ house but somehow was left behind at the railway station. Since, these minor children are vulnerable if they fall into the hands of anti-social elements, rescuing them on time will help ensure their safety, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/child-care-desk-opened-at-virudhunagar-railway-station/article33735658.ece
03 February 2021||Virudunagar,TAMIL NADU||Government employees stage protest in Virudhunagar||A total of 39 members of Tamil Nadu Government Employees Association on Tuesday were arrested after they staged a dharna in front of Collectorate pressing a charter of demands. The fill-the-jail protest was held as part of the association’s State-wide programme. The protest was led by its district secretary K. Karuppaiah. He said the State government had only withdrawn the charges against the government employees who had taken part in the JACTO-GEO strike held in 2019. However, the suspension order against the association’s former president M. Subramanian and five others has not been revoked. Their other demands were: scrapping of new pension policy, revocation of freezing of DA and leave surrender.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/government-employees-stage-protest-in-virudhunagar/article33735659.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Shallot price moves up in Dindigul wholesale market||In the wake of heavy and unseasonal rains in January, arrival of shallots (small onions) in the wholesale market here has been affected as a result of which the price has increased from Rs. 70 a kg to Rs. 110 a kg on Tuesday. Dindigul, which houses a huge market for onions and shallots, receives the produce from the Bengaluru region, in and around Dindigul, Tiruchi, Rasipuram and among other districts. In the Dindigul region, shallots are raised in Ayyalur, Gujiliamparai, Eriyodu and Kovilur. Traders from various parts of southern districts and Kerala procure the shallots. Normally, the onion wholesale market functions three days a week and receives 3,000 bags of shallots a day from farmers, said Marimuthu, a merchant. They used to be sold for 70 a kg in the recent days and depending on the variety and quality, they may comnand another Rs. 5 or Rs. 10 a kgs, he said. However, over the past one week, the arrival has fallen to 1,200 bags, a shortage of 1,800 bags, which has resulted in the price moving upwards. On Monday, the shallots were quoted at Rs. 110 a kg at the wholesale market. When asked for the reason for the sudden rise, Mr. Marimuthu attributed it to the unseasonal rains in January. “Crops, which were ready for harvest, were drenched by the continious rains and got destroyed. In many fields, where the terrain was uneven or low-lying, the plants were washed away totally,” he said. The shortage is likely to continue for the next 15 to 30 days till the next harvest cycle, which may take at least three weeks more, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shallot-price-moves-up-in-dindigul-wholesale-market/article33735668.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district reports 54 new cases||Coimbatore district on Tuesday logged 54 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total number of cases reported so far in the district to 54,500. The district had 422 COVID-19 patients under treatment at various hospitals. As many as 56 persons from the district were discharged from different hospitals on Tuesday. Tiruppur district reported 24 fresh cases, taking its overall case tally to 17,943 cases. No deaths were reported in the district. As many as 17,512 patients have recovered and 210 were active cases. Tiruppur district reported 221 deaths overall. On Tuesday, 24 patients from the district were discharged from various treatment centres. In the Nilgiris, six people tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 8,216. The number of deaths in the district stood at 47 on Tuesday while 53 people are undergoing treatment. Nilgiris Collector gets vaccinated Nilgiris District Collector J. Innocent Divya received a dose of the COVID-19 vaccine in Udhagamandalam on Tuesday. Speaking to reporters after she received the dose, Ms. Divya said that 4,800 frontline staff have been vaccinated in the district so far, while a similar number of frontline workers, including police personnel, revenue department staff and others would receive the vaccine in the second phase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district-reports-54-new-cases/article33736074.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||TIIC to get fresh capital of Rs. 1,000 crore over three years, Governor announces in Assembly||During his customary address to the House, Mr. Purohit said a new MSME policy had been finalised during consultations with stakeholders, and it would be released by the Chief Minister shortly. “The registration fee was reduced to 0.1% from 1% for agreements for micro and small enterprises. To further ease access to formal credit, the government will amend the Registration Act, 1908, to permit online registration of agreements relating to the memorandum of deposit of title deeds for term loans and working capital loans and do away with the need for the physical presence of borrowers and lenders for the execution of such deeds,” he added. BharatNet would be rolled out in a third of revenue villages by March 31, he said. Referring to the destruction caused by cyclones Nivar and Burevi last year, the Governor pointed to the two memoranda presented to the Centre, seeking aid of Rs. 3,750 crore and Rs. 1,514 crore, respectively. “We urge the Government of India to release funds at the earliest,” he said. The Governor also reiterated Tamil Nadu’s stand on its water disputes with Karnataka and Kerala over the Mekedatu and Mullaperiyar dams. Fishermen issue Referring to the killing of four Tamil Nadu fishermen in the Palk Strait, he said, “This government strongly condemns the incident, in which four fishermen of Tamil Nadu lost their lives when a Sri Lankan naval vessel deliberately collided with their fishing vessel while the fishermen were engaged peacefully in fishing in their traditional waters.” As for the National Education Policy, Mr. Purohit maintained that the government was fully committed to the continuance of the two-language policy, and “there shall be no dilution of it”. The State Minorities Commission would be expanded through legislation to provide representation to linguistic minorities, he said. The Governor also reiterated the State’s request to the Centre to accord formal approval for their equity participation, on a 50:50 cost-sharing model, for Phase II of the Chennai Metro Rail project. “Passenger services of the Phase I extension of the Chennai Metro Rail project from Washermenpet to Wimco Nagar will be inaugurated by the Prime Minister later this month,” he said. Before winding up his speech, the Governor placed on record his heartfelt gratitude to the frontline staff and officials of all government departments and local bodies for having worked tirelessly during the COVID-19 pandemic, and to members of the Assembly and all citizens who contributed to the response against it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiic-to-get-fresh-capital-of-rs-1000-crore-over-three-years-governor-announces-in-assembly/article33735631.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||27 COVID-19 cases in Erode||Erode district reported 27 new cases on Tuesday, taking the district’s tally to 14,410. While 29 persons were discharged, 182 persons continue to be under treatment. In Salem, 17 cases were reported, of which 13 were indigenous and four patients returned from Namakkal. In Namakkal, 12 cases were reported, one patient returned from Tiruchi. In Krishnagiri, five indigenous cases were reported and Dharmapuri saw six cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/27-covid-19-cases-in-erode/article33735678.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||ERODE||Nandha Naturopathy and Yoga Medical College: Freshers’ Day, Parichay’21, V. Shanmugan, Chairman, Sri Nandha Educational Trust, presides, 10 a.m.  Kongu Naturopathy and Yoga Medical College and Hospital: Inauguration of first year classes of BNYS, Novice Medics, Santhalinga Marudhasala Adihalar, Perur Aadheenam 25th Pontiff Kayilai Punithar, chief guest, Babu Joseph, Director, Nethaji Yoga Naturopathy Hospital, Ernakulam, Kerala, guest of honour, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode/article33735679.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore today||GEM Hospital: World Cancer day, celebration of 1000 successful esophagus cancery surgeries, Hospital premises, 4.30 p.m.  Hindusthan Institute of Technology: DST-sponsored sixc6 weeks online programme on entrepreneurship development training, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-today/article33736071.ece
03 February 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Objection to Goa CM’s statement on Mahadayi||Kannada organisations have taken objection to the statements of Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant about the neighbouring State not willing to share Mahadayi waters with Karnataka. Mr. Sawant said in Panaji on Monday that “Goa will not let Karnataka take a drop of water from the Mahadayi”. He also countered criticism by Congress leaders saying that the Goa government never instructed its officers to draft legal and other documents in such a way that they could favour Karnataka in the Mahadayi dispute. These statements have come under fire from activists. “When the Mahadayi tribunal has granted us 36 tmcft of water, it is binding on both riparian parties. How can the Goa Chief Minister make such statements?’’ asked Ashok Chandaragi, convenor of the action committee of Kannada organisations. Goa may have gone to court against the tribunal order, but Mr. Sawant should not make such statements in public as the matter is sub judice , he said. He also argued that the Goa government should not drag Karnataka into its internal politics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/objection-to-goa-cms-statement-on-mahadayi/article33735701.ece
03 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||It’s showtime: Focus on Indian defence||Bengaluru’s sky will once again witness breathtaking manoeuvres as flying birds are back to perform their magic at the 13th edition of Aero India. The marquee aerospace business event will get under way on Wednesday in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic. The first global aerospace event in times of the pandemic, Aero India 2021 is being held as a hybrid version with focus on the virtual platform. This year’s event will mainly focus on India’s defence research and technology capabilities with public sector undertakings participating in full strength even as participants from abroad have declined drastically, making the event look muted in comparison to the previous editions. An ‘India Pavilion’ that showcases India’s strength is among the highlights. On Tuesday, a full dress rehearsal saw the might of the Indian Air Force with the newly inducted Rafael, Tejas and Sukhoi 30 Mk1 in action. The famed aerobatic teams of Surya Kirans and Sarang put up an integrated display for the first time. The vintage Dakota also turned up. The highlight of the event would be the Chiefs of Air Staff Conclave and IOR Defence Minister’s conclave. Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, which are in the process of establishing defence corridors, will make a pitch seeking investments, along with Karnataka, Telangana and Gujarat. Though the total number of exhibitors has increased to 601 against 403 in the last edition, the number of foreign exhibitors is down from 165 to 78 this year. The number of foreign delegations is also down from 44 to 14. There are 248 virtual exhibitors at the event, which is largely out of bounds for the public. The participation is also low since not many big defence deals are expected to happen now, an exhibitor said. The five-day event has been reduced to three days, leaving out the two public days that was the norm in the earlier editions. The flying display will be mostly from the Indian Air Force and HAL, and about 40 aircraft will participate. “Many companies, which had earlier confirmed their participation, withdrew later due to the pandemic scare,” said an IAF official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/its-showtime-focus-on-indian-defence/article33736015.ece
03 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Yediyurappa points to ‘big scam’ in BDA||Corruption is rampant in the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) and officials do not even show documents of sites and layouts without payment of bribes, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Tuesday told the Legislative Assembly. Intervening during the debate on the motion of thanks on the Governor’s address, Mr. Yediyurappa said corruption was so high that many officials were involved in encroachment of sites, formation of unauthorised sites/layouts, and auction of sites. “It is a big scam,” the Chief Minister said, and informed the House that this was revealed during a recent meeting with BDA officials. Mr. Yediyurappa sought four to five months to change the functioning of the BDA. Many people, including MLAs, have been allotted sites but BDA officials had denied sites, the Chief Minister said. He said the government has been identifying vacant sites in the city to either auction them or allot to eligible beneficiaries. Earlier, Araga Jnanendra (BJP), who is also the chairman of the Karnataka Housing Board (KHB), said that officials have been seeking bribes for giving documents of sites. The amount of bribe depended on the square feet of the site. “For each square foot, the amount increases,” he said. KHB officials had denied information to him about vacant sites in the colony developed in the 1970s in Kengeri in the city, but he later came to know that 74 vacant sites existed, he said. Mr. Jnanendra said even police do not take complaints related to fake documents of sites and alleged that they collude with officials of civic agencies such as BDA, BBMP, and KHB. S.R. Vishwanth, who is also the BDA chairman, said officials had not allocated alternative sites for MLA S.C. Managuli, who recently died, for the past 20 years in BTM Layout. MLC K.C. Kondiah too has been denied an allocated site by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yediyurappa-points-to-big-scam-in-bda/article33735833.ece
03 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Quarry blast: Govt. says ‘no’ to probe by HC judge||The State government on Tuesday refused to budge, while the Opposition demanded a probe by a High Court judge into the recent Shivamogga quarry blast that killed six. The Opposition Congress staged a walkout over the issue in the Legislative Council. Replying to a debate under Rule 68, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said there would not be any change in the government’s stand and argued that a judicial inquiry would not do justice. “There is a criminal offence which needs to be investigated, not inquired into,” he argued. The government has now instituted a probe into the accident and misuse of explosives by an officer of Additional Director- General of Police (ADGP) rank, which had already made progress. “The source of the explosive has been identified, the dealer booked and a large cache of explosives seized in Anantapur [Andhra Pradesh],” Mr. Bommai said. Meanwhile, a separate probe by the Revenue Secretary has been instituted into the alleged violations of law with respect to mining. Leader of the Opposition in the Council S.R. Patil said the case had acquired an inter-State dimension and the fact that the incident occurred in the Chief Minister’s home district, meant only a judicial probe would bring out the truth. R.B. Timmapur (Congress) and Maritibbe Gowda (JD-S) came down heavily on the government for not fixing responsibility on the officers and taking action against them. Mr. Bommai andMines and Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani pointed out that the coalition government granted licence in March 2019 for the crusher where the accident occurred despite two cases against the firm over illegal use of explosives and blamed the Congress for the accident, leading to commotion in the Council. “If I point fingers at you, I also know I am pointing fingers at myself too,” Mr. Bommai said, adding that the government had treated the incident as a wakeup call. The Congress then staged a walkout.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/quarry-blast-govt-says-no-to-probe-by-hc-judge/article33735712.ece
03 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No-confidence motion against Council Chairman accepted||Members of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) tabled a no-confidence motion against Legislative Council Chairman K. Prathapchandra Shetty in the Council on Tuesday. The motion was accepted and Mr. Shetty said a suitable time to take up the debate on the motion would be announced soon. Sources said that Mr. Shetty was inclined to submit his resignation as soon as the motion was accepted, but reportedly the Congress asked him not to. “We want to expose JDS as the ‘B team’ of BJP on the floor of the House,” a senior Congress MLC said. Senior BJP MLC Ayanur Manjunath tabled the motion under Rule 165 of Rules of Procedure of Karnataka Legislative Council and Section 183 (c) of the Constitution. Mr. Shetty said the motion will be accepted if it finds the support of more than 10 members and asked all those who support the motion to stand up. As all BJP and JD(S) members present in the House stood up, Mr. Shetty said the Council had accepted the motion and a time for debate will be announced. It can be recalled that Mr. Shetty had rejected the motion that the BJP moved against him in December, 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-confidence-motion-against-council-chairman-accepted/article33735828.ece
03 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Schools not following order on fee: parents||With several schools allegedly not complying with the order issued by the State government regarding fees for this academic year, parents are seeking the intervention of officials of the Department of Public Instruction (DPI). However, officials are unable to respond to them as the district-level committees to resolve disputes pertaining to fees have still not been formed. According to the order issued by the government, for the 2020-21 academic year, schools managements can charge only 70% of the tuition fees that they charged in 2019-20. The order states that no other fees can be charged owing to the financial distress faced by parents during the pandemic. If parents have already paid more than 70% of the tuition fees, schools have been directed to either refund it or adjust it with the fees for the next academic year. Although it has been five days since the order was issued, the department is yet to set up the district-level committees. A parent whose child studies in a city-based CBSE-affiliated school, said, “The school managements call us every day and are forcing us to pay the full tuition fees and are not willing to comply with the government order. The government should have taken this decision in June before schools began.” A Block Education Officer in Bengaluru said several parents had complained to him that schools were charging the full fee structure and violating norms. “School managements are reportedly telling parents that they have no clarity on the order. We are telling schools that the order is clear and that they can charge only 70% of the fees. But we are waiting for the district-level committees to be formed so that we can direct parents to lodge complaints with the committee,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/schools-not-following-order-on-fee-parents/article33735714.ece
03 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Indo-U.S. partnership will continue to deepen’||The United States is committed to strengthening its partnership with India and deepening military-to-military relationship and cooperation, U.S. defence representatives told mediapersons on Tuesday. U.S. Air Force Deputy Undersecretary, International Affairs, Kelli L. Seybolt said India was a major defence partner and one of the premier security partners of the U.S. in the Indo-Pacific region. “Together, we are deepening defence ties through avenues like exercises, cooperative agreements, and the integration of advanced U.S. defence systems and platforms into the Indian armed services,” she said. The defence partnership between the U.S. and India would continue to deepen under the new administration. “We will work closer together and a good demonstration of that is the Secretary of Defence Austin’s first call was to his counterpart in India, and that speaks volumes,” she added. Don Heflin, U.S. Chargé d’Affaires, said, “India plays a key role in the Indo-Pacific region, and our cooperation advances our shared vision of a rules-based international order that promotes the prosperity and security of all countries.” The growing number of joint ventures and partnerships between U.S. and Indian defence companies continue to strengthen the robust network of defence suppliers in India, with the potential of equipping partners in the broader Indo-Pacific region. A B-1B Lancer heavy bomber will perform a “fly-by” during the inaugural ceremony. It carries the largest conventional payload of both guided and unguided weapons in the U.S. Air Force and is considered the backbone of America’s long-range bomber force.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/indo-us-partnership-will-continue-to-deepen/article33736013.ece
03 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BEML to showcase transporter landing system||BEML will display a Transporter Landing System (TLS), a ground-based precision landing system that can improve access to airports where terrain or land constraints make the installation of an instrument landing system (ILS) prohibitive in terms of cost or non-feasible. TLS can be installed even on short runways ending with water or obstructions. This will be manufactured in India by BEML in collaboration with Advanced Navigation and Positioning Corporation, U.S.A., said a release. Variants of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) will be on display, including Primoco UAV designed for civilian and defence purposes. It is built to take off and land autonomously in poor weather conditions. Bharat Electronics Ltd. (BEL) will showcase a host of high technology products from its stable, including 30 products and systems developed as part of the Aatmanirbhar Bharat initiative. LCA division inaugurated The second plant of HAL’s Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) division, which will increase the production capacity, was inaugurated in Bengaluru by the Defence Minister Rajnath Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/beml-to-showcase-transporter-landing-system/article33736016.ece
03 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ban on hookah bars?||Karnataka is seriously considering a complete ban on hookah bars, in concurrence with licensing authorities like the BBMP, announced Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai in the Legislative Assembly. Replying to a question raised by Congress member Sowmya Reddy during Question Hour on Tuesday, he said the government was consistently cracking down on illegal hookah bars. It was considering a ban on hookah bars on the lines of what had been done in other States, he added. On the drug menace, the Home Minister said crackdown had gone beyond routine raids and seizures. “For the first time we have been able to crack down on synthetic drugs coming through the dark net,” he said. Mr. Bommai said that rules, which earlier weighed more in favour of the accused, are now being strengthened. “Things are set to change,” he promised. Hoping that vigil will remain strong, Ms. Reddy said, “Crackdown on drug peddlers and suppliers cannot be seasonal like mangoes or avarekai, something that lasts only a couple of months.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ban-on-hookah-bars/article33735830.ece
03 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Set deadline to meet reservation demand’||There was a heated debate for sometime in the Legislative Assembly on Tuesday when BJP member and former Union Minister Basanagouda Patil Yatnal raised the issue of the demand by the Panchamasali (Lingayat) community for inclusion in 2-A in the OBC list and the demand by the Kuruba community o be listed as Scheduled Tribes Raising the issue during Zero Hour, he demanded that the Chief Minister give a specific deadline to meet these demands. He was not content with Social Welfare Minister B. Sriramulu’s reply that there were legal issues to be considered and the demand would be considered favourably “very soon.” Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa intervened to say that there should be more time dedicated for discussion on this topic. He was joined in by other members, including those from the Congress and the JD(S). Some members walked to the Well of the House and demanded more discussion, while Speaker Vishweshwara Hegde Kageri said that he would consider it if a separate notice is given. As former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah watched, some members were heard asking why Congress members had joined in if indeed the demand for Kuruba agitation was being fulled by the RSS as he claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/set-deadline-to-meet-reservation-demand/article33735831.ece
03 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Demand for mutton up’||Following the ban on slaughter of cattle in the State, the demand for mutton has increased and sheep rearing has become lucrative, said members of the Congress and the JD(S). During a debate on calling attention to the notice of Poornima K. (BJP) on the delay in the payment of compensation for the sheep killed in accidents and rain havoc in the Legislative Assembly on Tuesday, K.M. Shivalinge Gowda (JD-S) said that demand for mutton increased following the implementation of the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Ordinance, 2020. He said each sheep now fetches between Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 12,000 and rearing sheep has become a lucrative business for farmers and poor households in rural Karnataka. The government had not paid compensation of Rs. 5,000 each for the accidental death of sheep to farmers and the poor, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/demand-for-mutton-up-post-cow-slaughter-ban/article33735834.ece
03 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||395 new cases, three deaths||The State on Tuesday reported 395 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 9,40,170. With three deaths, the toll rose to 12,223. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 412 persons were discharged on Tuesday, taking the total recoveries to 9,22,004. Of the remaining 5,924 active patients, 148 are being monitored in ICUs. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.65%, the CFR touched 0.75%. Bengaluru Urban reported 199 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/395-new-cases-three-deaths/article33735710.ece
03 February 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Water adalat||Traffic movement in KIA road has been regulated from February 3-5 to facilitate Aero India. A few roads have been converted into one-way, heavy vehicles will be banned in some others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/water-adalat/article33736010.ece
03 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Objection to diversion of sub-plan funds||Former Minister Priyank Kharge raised objections to the diversion of funds set aside under SC/ST sub-plan for other purposes as “deemed expenditure.” Raising this issue in the Assembly, he said this was a violation of the Karnataka Scheduled Castes Sub-Allocation & Tribal-Sub Allocation (Planning, Allocation and Utilisation of Financial Resources) Act, 2013.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/objection-to-diversion-of-sub-plan-funds/article33735829.ece
03 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||3% tax on sugarcane combine harvesters||Sugarcane combine harvesters have been brought under the tax net following the passage of the Karnataka Motor Vehicles Taxation (Second Amendment) Bill, 2020, in the Legislative Assembly on Tuesday.  The Karnataka Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Bill, 2020, was also passed in the Assembly to impose fine up to Rs. 50,000 or imprisonment for three months or both for violating the rules and regulations made under the Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/3-tax-on-sugarcane-combine-harvesters/article33735835.ece
03 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bill on depositors passed amid opposition||Despite the Opposition from the Congress and the JD (S), the Legislative Assembly passed the the Karnataka Protection of Interest of Depositors in Financial Establishments (Amendment), Bill, 2020. Rizwan Arshad, K R Ramesh Kumar, U T Khader (all Congress), A T Ramaswamy, and K M Shivalinge Gowda (both JD-S) termed the Bill as “toothless” since it has no stringent provisions to punish owners of firms cheating depositors. The Bill authorises the government to investigate complaints in fraudulent transactions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bill-on-depositors-passed-amid-opposition/article33735836.ece
03 February 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Directive to temples||Chikkamagaluru Assistant Commissioner H.L. Nagaraj has said all temples, other than those under the Muzrai Department, have to register with the administration within a month. Those who fail to do so would face action, he said at a press conference in Chikkamagaluru on Tuesday. “The registration process will avoid the possible misuse of funds. The applicants have to furnish details of the place, bank account, buildings belonging to each temple to get the registration done”, he said. The government would evaluate gold, silver and other valuables belonging to the temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/directive-to-temples/article33735820.ece
03 February 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Appeal to segregate waste||The Hassan City Municipal Council has appealed to the public to segregate waste before dumping it into auto-tippers, meant to collect the waste. In a press release, R. Krishnamurthy, Commissioner, said the National Green Tribunal had issued an order directing the urban local bodies to segregate the waste as dry and wet at collection points. “The residentsshould cooperate with the council to keep the city clean”, he said. Further, he said it was the duty of every citizen to segregate the municipal waste. The urban local body would impose a penalty in the form of tax on violators and, subsequently, cut supply of drinking water and underground drainage facility to their houses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/appeal-to-segregate-waste/article33735821.ece
03 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Rs. 59 lakh in cash, other assets unearthed during ACB raid||Sleuths of Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) raided residential property and offices pertaining to two government officials in Hubballi and Dharwad on Tuesday and found Rs. 59 lakh in cash and assets worth crores of rupees in the house of one. The searches were carried out by Superintendent of Police (ACB) B.S. Nemagouda and Deputy Superintendent of Police Venugopal in the houses pertaining to executive engineer of minor irrigation Devaraj Kalmesh Shiggavi at Rajiv Nagar, Balaji Nagar (near Bengeri) and Kotilinga Nagar in Hubballi. The searches began early in the morning and continued for several hours. According to Mr. Nemagouda, during the raids on the property of Mr. Shiggavi, they found Rs. 59.84 lakh in cash, Rs. 30 lakh in savings accounts, 500 grams of gold, four kilograms of silver and household articles worth Rs. 3 lakh. Documents pertaining to a two-storey luxurious house at Rajiv Nagar and a duplex house at Kotilinga Nagar were recovered. The estimated cost of both the buildings is around Rs. 1.16 crore. The team also seized documents pertaining to two residential plots at Kotilinga Nagar worth Rs. 50,000 each. Documents pertaining to 26 acres of agriculture land at Inam Neeralagi of Hanagal taluk in Haveri district and Devara Gudihal in Hubballi taluk worth Rs. 38 lakh, two four-wheelers worth Rs. 8 lakh were also seized. The executive engineer who was recently transferred from Hubballi was awaiting posting. The raids followed complaints about Mr. Devaraj amassing wealth disproportionate to his known sources of his income. Another team of ACB led by Deputy Superintendent of Police Mahantesh Jiddi carried out searches at the office and official residence of Srinivas, serving as assistant conservator of forests (Social Forestry) in Dharwad. During the search operations that lasted three hours, several documents have been seized. ACB sources said that searches were conducted at the officer’s houses in Chitradurga and Davangere and also at his farmhouse. There were several complaints against Mr. Srinivas too, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-59-lakh-in-cash-other-assets-unearthed-during-acb-raid/article33735704.ece
03 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Doctors are the real warriors’||Dharmasthala Dharmadhikari and Chancellor of Sri Dharmasthala Manjunatheshwara (SDM) University Veerendra Heggade has said that doctors are the real warriors who have sacrificed their family life to work round-the-clock to serve COVID-19 patients. He was addressing young graduates of SDM College of Medical Sciences and Hospital at the 12th Graduation Day at Sattur near Dharwad on Tuesday through a video link. Mr. Heggade urged the graduating doctors to treat patients with warmth and humility and elaborated on how a doctor’s approach influenced a patient’s health. Referring to advancements in the healthcare sector, he told the graduating doctors to indulge themselves in research and development activities and take the field of medicine to newer heights by developing innovative techniques and treatments. Mr. Heggade said that being content in life is very important and it can be achieved only with rendering yeoman service to society. “Medical sciences is the only profession wherein doctors can serve the needy till their last breath. Through sheer dedication and commitment, young doctors should pledge themselves to building a healthy society,” he said. Vice-Chancellor of SDM University Niranjan Kumar briefed about the progress and achievements of the medical college and also the various community activities planned by it. Principal of the college Ratnamala Desai and others were present. Gold medals At the graduation ceremony, Raghavendra Prahlad Desai emerged as the “Golden Boy” by bagging 16 gold medals. A resident of Nuggikeri in Dharwad, he said that he was inspired by a doctor Vivek Javali who saved his grandmother suffering from heart ailment, to choose the medical profession.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/doctors-are-the-real-warriors/article33735706.ece
03 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Goudar murder: CBI names Vinay Kulkarni ‘accused no. 1’||Filing a supplementary charge-sheet on Tuesday in connection with the murder of zilla panchayat member Yogeeshgouda Goudar, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has named Congress leader and former Minister Vinay Kulkarni as Accused No 1. In the supplementary charge-sheet filed in the CBI Special Court in Dharwad on Tuesday, Vinay Kulkarni’s uncle Chandrashekhar Indi alias Chandu Mama of Indi has been named Accused No 2 and Shivanand Biradar Accused No 3. According to CBI officials, investigation revealed that the former Minister conspired with his associates and executed the murder with the help of one of his associates. According to the charge-sheet, an associate of the accused (Vinay Kulkarni) arranged for the other accused to come from Bengaluru and they visited Dharwad on two occasions. On the first occasion, they stayed in a resort at Dandeli and committed the crime in their second attempt and fled after committing the crime. Yogeeshgouda Goudar, an aide-turned-foe of Vinay Kulkarni and a zilla panchayat member of the BJP from Hebballi constituency, was murdered by an armed gang at his gym in Saptapur in Dharwad on June 15, 2016. The Dharwad Police subsequently arrested six persons,.Basavaraj Mutagi, Vikram Ballari, Keerthi Kumar, Sandeep Savadatti, Vinayak Katagi and Mahabaleshwar Hongal alias Muduka from Dharwad, and charge-sheeted them for the murder. However, Gurunath Goudar, brother of Yogeeshgouda Goudar supported by BJP leaders, demanded CBI investigation in the case which was finally fulfilled after the BJP-led government came to power in the State. The CBI, which took over the investigation on September 24, 2019, identified and arrested eight other accused and filed charge-sheet on May 20, 2020. Santosh Savadatti of Dharwad, Dinesh M., Sunil K.S., Harshith, Aswath S., Nazeer Ahamad, Shanawaz and Nutan S.. all various other places, were named as accused in the first charge-sheet. Vinay Kulkarni was arrested on November 5, 2020 and has been in judicial custody in the Hindalga Jail of Belagavi. Vinay Kulkarni’s bail plea has been rejected twice, first by a lower court and then by the High Court. The CBI has to produce Vinay Kulkarni before the CBI Special Court on February 5 as his judicial custody ends on that day. Meanwhile, CBI sleuths have continued further investigation in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vinay-kulkarni-is-accused-no-1-in-goudar-murder/article33735707.ece
03 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Teacher’s feat recorded as the fastest by Book of Records||The recent feat of a 35-year-old government school teacher, Nagaraj Kharvi, swimming a distance of one kilometre in 25 minutes and 16 seconds in the sea after keeping his legs in chains, has been acknowledged as the fastest by the India Book of Records. Mr. Kharvi swam the distance, with his legs chained, in Padmasana pose at Tannirbhavi here on December 18, 2020. After looking at the raw video footage of the feat and other documents that were submitted, India Book of Records based in Haryana issued a certificate a week later confirming that Mr. Kharvi’s feat was the fastest in Padmasana pose. Mr. Kharvi told reporters here on Tuesday that the certificate by India Book of Records, which was issued on January 6, 2021, was received by him a week ago. He got it unveiled from D. Veerendra Heggade, Pattadhikari of Shri Kshetra Dharmasthala, who felicitated him with a silver medal that has the image of Lord Manjunatha. Mr. Kharvi thanked his trainer B.K. Naik, his family members, his classmates and members of Mangala Swimming Club, where he goes for swimming, for their support. Mr. Kharvi, who teaches at the Government Higher Primary School, Kalmanja village of Bantwal taluk of Dakshina Kannada, also thanked Deputy Director of Public Instruction Malleswamy and his other colleagues for encouraging him to achieve the feat. Also, Mr. Kharvi hailed the feat of 65-year-old Gangadhar G. Kadekar, a former employee of Transport Department, swimming in Padmasana pose a distance of 1.4 km in 73.7 minutes in Padukare of Udupi district on January 24. “In the coming days, I have planned to cover more distance in this pose, which is unique,” said Mr. Kharvi, who comes from a family of fishermen who spend long hours in the sea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/teachers-feat-recorded-as-the-fastest-by-book-of-records/article33736177.ece
03 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Train runs down black panther in Kundapur||A black panther was found dead after being hit by a speeding train on a railway bridge in Kundapur forest range in the wee hours of Monday. Passers-by noticed the carcass of the animal in the middle of the Mangaluru-Mumbai track on the railway bridge across Souparnika river between Nada-Badakere and Arehole in Byndoor taluk of Udupi district on Monday morning. They immediately informed Forest Department officials. Kundapur Range Forest Officer Prabhakar Kulal told The Hindu that the panther, around four or five, must have been walking on the track on the bridge to cross the Souparnika. While panthers are generally very quick to respond to exigencies, this one appears to have had no time to respond as it was in the middle of the bridge when the train reached the spot. The carcass was removed and a post-mortem was conducted before burning it, Mr. Kulal said. Black panthers are not commonly sighted in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/train-runs-down-black-panther-in-kundapur/article33736181.ece
03 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Students asked to face challenges in life to emerge strong||Motivational speaker Manjunath D. on Tuesday asked students to think positively and face challenges in life to emerge strong. Addressing MBA students of Post Graduate Department of Business Administration, Alva’s Institute of Engineering and Technology, Moodbidri, at a programme jointly organised by the institute and The Hindu in Mangaluru, he asked students to have an open mind while dealing with issues. “Mind is like a parachute. Keep it open,” he said. Mr. Manjunath said that developing a positive attitude will help overcome negative thoughts. “If one wants to develop positive attitude, then one has to face the challenges,” he said. Asking students not to hesitate in appreciating others, encouraging and sharing their happiness, he said that one can, if required, criticise too in a healthy manner. “Start loving yourself. Your best friend is yourself,” he said and asked students to set goals in life and make efforts to achieve them with confidence. Claret Mendonca, Head, Post Graduate Department of Business Administration, and Neeraj Rai, Assistant Professor, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-asked-to-face-challenges-in-life-to-emerge-strong/article33736174.ece
03 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||LPG tanker overturns||Traffic movement between Kalladka and Mani stretch of the Mangaluru-Bengaluru National Highway was affected for nearly 10 hours after an LPG tanker overturned near Soorikumeru at around 4 a.m. on Tuesday. The police said that the tanker carrying Indane gas was going from Mangaluru to Bengaluru. There was no leakage of gas. Personnel from an Indane emergency response team rushed to the spot to remove the overturned tanker. To and fro traffic from Mangaluru was diverted via Kalladka-Vitla and Mani-Budoli-Kabaka routes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lpg-tanker-overturns/article33736178.ece
03 February 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||MUDA to prepare feasibility report on Peripheral Ring Road||Given the cost escalation and uncertainty over funding, the Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) has decided to prepare a feasibility report on the Peripheral Ring Road (PRR) mooted for the city. The PRR was initially mentioned in the Mysuru Master Plan 2031 which received administrative nod from the government in January 2016. But five years after announcing the intent for PRR, it remained grounded due to lack of funds and uncertainty as to who would foot the cost besides land acquisition issues. MUDA Chairman H.V. Rajeev told The Hindu that he has sought a fresh study to be conducted for preparation of a feasibility report as there are issues related to funding. “There is endless debate on funding of the project and hence before even preparing a DPR we will assess whether Mysuru really needs a PRR at this point in time and if there was traffic to justify the cost’’, said Mr. Rajeev. When asked whether it amounted to junking the project altogether or putting it in the backburner again, Mr. Rajeev said the feasibility report will decide the way forward for MUDA to pursue it. The key issue revolves around land acquisition for the PRR which requires more than 600 acres in addition to 400 acres already with the MUDA. The land acquisition cost alone is expected to be in excess of Rs. 1,000 crore, a sum which the government cannot release in the present time as its revenue has taken a hit due to the pandemic. Land is at premium outside the city limits and hence procuring it at market rates may make the project financially unviable. But other sources said even if the government finds a way out to fund the infrastructure project which received a boost in the new budget of the Union government, it has to be justified in terms of city’s projected growth and traffic density. Hence the need for a feasibility report before preparing a DPR and taking the project to the appropriate authorities to seek funds, the sources added. Though the original intent of the proposed PRR which will have a length of 106 km , was to wean away the traffic to ensure that the city’s vehicle density on roads remain low, a project of this scale without a feasibility report cannot be taken forward, the sources said. The MUDA Chairman had also discussed the issue with officials of the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) and the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) during their visit. Though they were positive about the project, a feasibility report taking into consideration the city’s projected population growth, industrial development and the consequent increase in the vehicle density have to be assessed. The PRR was supposed to come at a distance of 5 km to 6 km from the existing Outer Ring Road and the alignment hugged most of the semi-urban areas which are now outside the MUDA’s jurisdiction. Though the PRR was a key selling point for land developers in those areas on the grounds that the area linked by PRR will witness rapid growth, such speculations have to wait till the feasibility report is ready.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/muda-to-prepare-feasibility-report-on-peripheral-ring-road/article33735823.ece
03 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Film screening only if demand is met: single-screen theatres||Even as the continued stand-off between exhibitors and producers/distributors over the issue of revenue sharing has led to non-screening of films despite the Centre easing all curbs, the Karnataka Film Exhibitors’ Federation has recommended a new revenue-sharing model based on the percentage system to resume screening of films in single-screen cinemas of all languages, including Kannada, Hindi, English, Tamil, Telugu. “This new system was proposed since there was no positive response from the producers/distributors in the previous meetings on our demand,” said Federation Chairman R.R. Odugowdar. Addressing a press conference here on Tuesday, he said all members of the Federation sought change in revenue sharing by switching over from fixed screening charges to percentage system. The exhibitors are also demanding withdrawal of non-refundable advance (NRA), minimum guarantee (MG) and heavy advances the producers and distributors seek from them for releasing the films. The advances had caused heavy capital loss to the theatres, he claimed. The revenue-sharing model proposed by the exhibitors is like this – exhibitors or theatres would get 35 per cent and producer/distributor 65 per cent if the collection on houseful net of theatre is 75-100 per cent. Likewise, if the collection was 50-74 per cent, the exhibitor would get 45 per cent and producer 55 per cent. Similarly, the exhibitors’ share would be 70 percent and the distributors’ 30 percent if the theatre collection was 30-49 per cent. Finally, the exhibitors would get 80 per cent share and the producers 20 per cent if the collection was 1 to 29 percent. The Federation suggested that the producers/distributors share 50 per cent of the revenue in first week’s collections, 40 per cent for the second week and 30 per cent for the third week irrespective of the collections for their movies screened at multiplexes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/film-screening-only-if-demand-is-met-single-screen-theatres/article33735825.ece
03 February 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||ZP member, nine others booked||Shahapur Police registered a case against Yadgir Zilla Panchayat member Kishan Rathod, a native of Chamanal Tanda in Shahapur taluk, on the charge of kidnapping Dhanu Rathod, a native of Hotpeth Melina Tanda, on January 30. The FIR has said that the complainant, Raju, son of Dharu Rathod, submitted a written complaint on February 1 stating that his father [Dharu Rathod] went to attend a court matter and also, to pay a visit to hospital on January 30. But, later, he telephoned him saying that 10 people forcibly took him away. The complainant suspected that Mr. Kishan Rathod could be involved in the crime and sought police action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/zp-member-nine-others-booked/article33735702.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Two members of dacoit gang arrested||Two members of a six-member gang involved in dacoity and chain-snatching incidents were arrestedon Monday when they were moving around suspiciously near pawnbrokers’ shops in Chamundipuram. The duo - Shivakumar, 30, a resident of D. Salundi village in Jayapura near here and Harish Yadav, 23, a resident of Sharadadevi Nagar in Mysuru – were part of the gang involved in a case of dacoity in Vidyaranyapuram police station limits in August 2020. The Vidyaranyapuram police, who had booked a case in this regard, stumbled upon two of the accused on Monday when they were going around pawnbrokers’ shops, looking for prospective buyers for the stolen valuables. The police recovered 70 grams of gold ornaments, two mobile phones, and a two-wheeler.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-members-of-dacoit-gang-arrested/article33735824.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Man posing as MLA’s gunman arrested||The West division police, on Tuesday, arrested a 30-year-old man for allegedly posing as the gunman of an MLA and cheating a person from Davanagere after promising a job. According to the police, the accused, Narayana Ramachandra Hedge from Sirsi, befriended the victim on social media introducing himself as the gunman of the Dharwad MLA, and offered to get him a job in the city armed reserve police force.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-posing-as-mlas-gunman-arrested/article33736019.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||10 years jail for ATM attack accused||Reddy’s counsel pleaded before the court to give minimum punishment as his mother is bedridden and has no caretaker, but the court, considering the brutality of the attack and the criminal background of the accused, awarded maximum punishment. Reddy, soon after attacking Jyothi Uday, snatched her purse containing a small amount of cash, debit card and ID card. The victim pleaded to be let go, but the accused attacked her with a machete multiple times and escaped, leaving her bleeding profusely. The entire incident was captured on the CCTV camera and the footage sent shock waves across the city and beyond, creating a fear psychosis among people visiting ATMs. Reddy was arrested by the Madanapalli police in 2017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/10-years-jail-for-atm-attack-accused/article33736021.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Truck driver murdered by armed gang||An armed gang allegedly murdered a 36-year-old truck driver in Electronics City on Monday. The deceased, Syed Afzal, a resident of Shikaripalya, was standing near Vittasandra when the assailants arrived on a bike and attacked him with lethal weapons. While trying to escape, Afzal tripped and fell down. The accused crushed his head with a boulder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/truck-driver-murdered-by-armed-gang/article33736018.ece
03 February 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||2,233 applications for assistance from CMDRF||The second leg of Santhwana Sparsham, the grievance redressal adalat of the State government, was held at Edathua in Kuttanad on Tuesday. A total of 5,797 applications were received for consideration at the programme held for the people of Kuttanad and Chengannur taluks. Officials said that of the total applications, 2,233 petitions were seeking financial aid from the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund (CMDRF). Of the 2,233 applications, 1,213 had been settled. An amount of Rs. 2.55 crore was sanctioned from the CMDRF. Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran, Food and Civil Supplies Minister P. Thilothaman, and others attended the adalat. The first adalt was held for the people of Cherthala and Ambalappuzha taluks at Lajanathul Muhammadiya School, Alappuzha, on Monday. Officials said that a total of 10,536 applications had been received in the two adalats. A sum of Rs. 5.66 crore from the CMDRF was allocated at the adalats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2233-applications-for-assistance-from-cmdrf/article33735787.ece
03 February 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||DCC vice president courts controversy||Alappuzha District Congress Committee (DCC) vice president T.G. Reghunatha Pillai has courted a controversy after he inaugurated a fund collection drive initiated by the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh for the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. Mr. Pillai, who is also the president of the Pallippuram Pattarya Samajam, launched the fund collection drive by handing over his contribution to Anandha Padmanabhan Namboothiri, chief priest of Sree Mahalakshmi Temple, Kadavil, Pallippuram, recently. The photographs of the ceremony were posted on social media. It later triggered a controversy with several Congress workers criticising the DCC vice president for taking part in the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh initiative. ‘Factional rivalry’ Mr. Pillai, however, said that he took part in the programme as the office-bearer of the Pattarya Samajam and the temple trust. He said that he was being targeted as part of the factional rivalry in the party. The Congress district leadership has come out in support of him. Meanwhile, DCC president M. Liju released a photograph of CPI(M) Kumarapuram branch secretary L. Thankammal donating money to RSS-BJP workers for the Ram Temple construction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dcc-vice-president-courts-controversy/article33735795.ece
03 February 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||One elephant herd chased back into forest||Officials of the Forest and Wildlife Department on Tuesday drove back into the forest one of the two herds of wild elephants that had strayed into human habitations in Meppadi and Chundale areas in the district. The operation was initiated after the death of two persons in separate attacks by wild elephants at Kunnampetta and Elambilery under the Meppadi forest range of the South Wayanad forest division recently. Threat to public There are two herds of elephants, one with six animals, including a tusker, and a seven-member herd with two tuskers. In addition, a lone tusker has been posing a threat to the public in Elambilery, Chundale, and Kunnampetta areas for the past many weeks. “We drove away the six-member herd to the Thollayiram section of the forest on the border of the South Wayanad and Nilambur forest divisions from a human habitation at Kunnampetta around 5 p.m. and we have been chasing the seven-member herd to Elambilery forest from Chembra School Kunnu,” N.K. Shameer, forest range officer, Meppadi range, said. “We are planning to drive them back to the Thollayiram section of the forest on Wednesday,” Mr. Shameer, said. It took nearly eight hours to chase the pachyderms into the forest by bursting crackers and sounding huge drums and firing 12-bore pump action guns. Two teams of frontline forest staff, a team comprising 40 members each, led by K. Ashif, forest range officer, Rapid Response Team; K. Jose, forest range officer, Kalpetta range; and Mr. Shameer participated in the operation. “The lone elephant has been under observation near a human habitation at Kunnampetta and it will be driven out into the forest in the coming days,” he said. South Wayanad forest divisional officer B. Ranjith Kumar supervised the operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-elephant-herd-chased-back-into-forest/article33735728.ece
03 February 2021||Kannur,KERALA||CPI(M), BJP aiming to wipe out Congress: Chennithala||Ramesh Chennithala, Leader of Opposition, on Tuesday said that the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and Bharatiya Janata Party had come to an understanding in Kerala and that the “sabotage” of the gold smuggling case was proof of it.. Mr. Chennithala, who met the media during his visit to the district as part of his Aishwarya Kerala Yatra, said the probe by the Enforcement Directorate and National Investigating Agency was halted after Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had written a letter to the Prime Minister on the issue. Similarly, the Lavalin case, in which the Mr. Vijayan was an accused, had been postponed 20 times at the request of the CBI, he said. He said the “Pinarayi-Modi political alliance” was aimed at a Kerala without the Congress and the UDF. CPI(M) secretary A. Vijayaraghavan was sounding more anti-Muslim than BJP president Surendran. The move was to brand the entire Muslim community as fundamentalists and terrorists. This was dangerous politics and also pointed to a CPI(M)-BJP alliance, he said.It was the Chief Minister who had started playing the communal card by saying that the Muslim League decided the KPCC president. Mr. Chennitala said the LDF government had played a game to strengthen the BJP on the Sabarimala issue. Mr. Chennithala said that like him, all devotees were concerned over the Sabarimala issue. The government should clarify with whom it would stand in this matter, he said. Rally in Kozhikode The Congress–Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) combine has planned to make the Aishwarya Kerala Yatra a show of strength in Kozhikode district. The UDF district leaders said the two-day yatra would culminate in a rally on the Kozhikode beach on Thursday evening. IUML State president Syed Hyderali Shihab Thangal will inaugurate the rally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-bjp-aiming-to-wipe-out-congress-chennithala/article33735735.ece
03 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Mayor asks KWA to restore trenched road||The Kochi Corporation has directed the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) to take urgent steps to temporarily restore parts of the Kathrikadavu-Thammanam Road that were trenched over a week ago to lay water pipelines, in the wake of accidents being reported in improperly-filled areas. Mayor M. Anilkumar said that the KWA is duty-bound to temporarily restore the stretch. “With accidents being reported during the past few days, I instructed Kochi Corporation’s executive engineer to take this up with KWA and to restore the trenches as per the agreement reached by the two agencies. The KWA (which is executing AMRUT’s water pipeline project) had agreed to complete the work in a week,” he said. The level difference between the road and the trenched portion was causing accidents, especially at the junction where Azad Road meets Kathrikadavu-Thammanam Road and at the junction immediately after that, said Aashin U.S., an entrepreneur, who resides in an apartment beside the narrow but busy road. “I was witness to one such accident as I was driving along the stretch on Monday, in which a cargo autorickshaw was trapped in the trenched portion. About a dozen of us helped pull out the vehicle from the area. The improperly restored road also caused multiple accidents, mostly involving two-wheelers during the past two days. The KWA has failed to ensure that its contractor restored the road back to use by motorists and pedestrians. The police also sounded helpless when they were informed of the situation,” he said. The PWD (Roads wing), which intends to widen the Thammanam-Pullepady Road and to extend it to MG Road and NH Bypass, has not yet taken over the road from Kochi Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mayor-asks-kwa-to-restore-trenched-road/article33736154.ece
03 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||State’s first human milk bank at Ernakulam GH||Kerala’s first Human Milk Bank, ‘Nectar of Life’, will be opened at Ernakulam General Hospital (GH) on Friday. Health Minister K.K. Shylaja will inaugurate facility at a function at the hospital at 3 p.m. It is being set up with the support of the Rotary Club of Cochin Global. The state-of-the-art facility is set up with an aim to ensure breast milk for newborn babies who are not being breastfed by their own mothers who may be sick, deceased or due to insufficient production of breast milk. “Though the concept had come to India 32 years ago, Kerala did not have a milk bank till now for reasons unknown. This is where Rotary took the lead to bring the project to the State with two such breast milk banks — one at Ernakulam and the other at Jubilee Medical Mission Hospital in Thrissur,” said Madhav Chandran, former Governor of Rotary District 3201. Safety protocols He added that all safety protocols and procedures for collecting, preserving and distributing milk were ensured as per guidelines of the government. The collected milk could be stored up to six months in the bank. In the beginning, milk will be provided free of cost to only the babies admitted in the neonatal intensive care unit of the hospital. Later on, a network of hospitals for multiple collection and safe distribution points will be planned. Although approximately 3,600 babies are born in the General Hospital a year, 600 to 1,000 sick babies are admitted into the NICU. “Providing the low birth-weight premature babies, infants whose mothers are unable to provide sufficient milk and babies separated from mothers with the pasteurised breast milk from the bank will reduce the risk of infections and boost their immunity,” said Paul P.G. of Rotary Cochin Global. He added that the donors would be mothers who had delivered babies at the hospital and all their health statistics would be available at the hospital. “The mothers with excess milk will be encouraged to participate in the noble cause to save the life of other newborns,” he said. The human milk bank, which consists of pasteurisation unit, refrigerators, deep freezers, hospital grade breast pumps, RO plant, sterilising equipment and computers, was set up at a cost of Rs. 35 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/human-milk-bank-in-kochi/article33735726.ece
03 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Strike: HC quashes GO on leave||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Tuesday quashed a government order (GO) dated January 31, 2019 granting leaves with salary to government employees and teachers who were absent during a nationwide general strike held on January 8 and 9 in protest against the Central government’s economic policies. The High Court Bench of Chief Justice S. Manikumar and Justice Shaji P. Chali passed the verdict while allowing a public interest litigation filed by G. Balagopalan, former Director, Police Fingerprint Bureau, State Crime Records Bureau (SCRB), Thiruvananthapuram, challenging the order. He contended that allowing the employees who took part in the strike to take leave was illegal and an abuse of power. Not eligible for pay The court observed that it was clear from earlier government orders and rules that if a government servant participated in any strike, the consequential unauthorised absence would be treated as dies non and during the period of dies non he/she shall not be eligible for pay and allowances. The court pointed out that it was clearly specified in Part I of the Kerala Service Rules and other conduct rules that if any government staff indulged in strike, he/she was liable to be proceeded in accordance with the provisions of the rules. It was not mentioned in the order that leaves would be granted to eligible persons alone. But on the other hand, it clearly specified that orders were being issued for permitting grant of eligible leave, including casual leave, to the government employees and teachers who had not attended office, in connection with the strike. However, quite contrary to the provisions of the law, the government had issued a notification absolutely protecting the interests of the government employees, who had struck work. Against law The Kerala High court further observed that going by the proposition of law laid down by the apex court and the rules in vogue, it was clear that not only was there no right conferred on the government servants to go on strike, but also there was clear prohibition under the law to call for and participate in strikes. Therefore, the action of the government in issuing the order regularising an illegal act could not be sustained in law. The court said the order enabled the striking workers to go scot-free, unmindful of the imperatives contained in the provisions of the law, a practice clearly deprecated by the apex court. The court also directed the heads of departments to scrutinise the attendance registers, and take action, in accordance with the law, within two months from the date of receipt of a certified copy of the judgment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/strike-hc-quashes-go-on-leave/article33735737.ece
03 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Pact inked for Rs. 2,950-cr. deep sea fishing project||The Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation (KSINC) has tied up with U.S. firm EMCC International India Pvt Ltd. for a Rs. 2,950-crore project for deep sea fishing. This is the biggest work order that the KSINC has received and is one of the biggest FDI schemes in Kerala, said Prasanth N, MD of KSINC. He and Shiju Varghese, president of the U.S. firm, inked the MoU here on Tuesday. The MoU was inked on the basis of an agreement between the U.S. firm and the State government at Ascent 2020 investment meet. It involves construction of trawlers worth Rs. 400 crore by the firm in tandem with KSINC. Fishers now rely more on trawlers built outside India. Allied projects like development of harbours too will be taken up. Kerala’s fishing sector will leave an indelible mark once the scientifically-readied project becomes a reality. “The KSINC would have to ready basic infrastructure so that the firm can build trawlers here. Building a world-class trawler costs Rs. 2 crore. These vessels will be handed over to fisherfolk. The KSINC will develop new harbours since existing ones do not have berthing space for more number of trawlers. Processing units will be established in the State for fish procured by them. Family members of fishers will be given preference in recruitment. Fish will be sold through 200 outlets in Kerala, while the rest will be exported,” Mr. Varghese said. All these ventures will together create 25,000 job opportunities, considerably augmenting the income of fishermen families in the State. The scheme also covers construction of hospitals and other basic infrastructure for families of fishers, Mr. Prasanth said. A trawler built under the venture will be handed over to CMFRI free of cost for research purpose. The trawlers built under the scheme will promote eco-friendly fishing, as is being promoted by CMFRI, he added. The KSINC is among the agencies that come directly under Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Former Chief Secretary Tom Jose is its Chairman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pact-inked-for-rs-2950-cr-deep-sea-fishing-project/article33736151.ece
03 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||48% of health workers vaccinated||Around 48% of the registered health workers in the district have taken the first dose of the Covishield vaccine so far. Till Tuesday, 31,878 people out of the registered 65,535 people had taken the shot at 397 centres, according to a release from the district administration. Of the total, 9,369 health workers in the government sector and 22,509 in the private sector have taken the vaccine. Tuesday saw the highest number of health workers vaccinated on a single day so far with 6,786 people taking it at 91 centres. A total of 251 minor adverse events were reported following vaccination so far, said Dr. M. G. Sivadas, Reproductive and Child Health officer and nodal officer for vaccination. Registration of frontline workers for vaccination is under way in the district. 755 new cases Meanwhile, 755 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Tuesday. Nine health workers were among them. The source of infection could not be determined in 24 cases. In Thripunithura, 28 new cases were recorded, 27 in Karukutty, 25 in Kalamassery and 23 in Thrikkakara. A total of 667 people tested negative on the day, while 10,649 people are recovering from it. Of those who have been infected, 8,483 people are recuperating at home, 51 patients are at the Government Medical College Hospital, 76 at PVS Hospital, 20 patients at the Fort Kochi Taluk Hospital and 765 at private hospitals. For testing, 6,225 samples were sent on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/48-of-health-workers-vaccinated/article33736150.ece
03 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Walayar mother moves High Court||The mother of two minor girls who committed suicide in Walayar approached the Kerala High Court on Tuesday seeking a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the death of her younger daughter as well, saying the government has ordered a CBI probe only into the death of her elder daughter. In a petition, the mother pointed out that the government notification had authorised the CBI to conduct an investigation into the crime relating to the death of her elder daughter and did not state anything about the crime registered in connection with the death of her younger daughter. She also sought monitoring of the CBI probe by the High Court to ensure that the investigation was not delayed indefinitely. The case The petitioner said her 13-year-old elder daughter was found dead at her home on January 13, 2017 and her nine-year-old younger daughter also committed suicide on March 5, 2017. Later, the Special Court for POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) cases had acquitted the accused in the cases on the ground that the prosecution failed miserably to prove the cases. However, the High Court had set aside the acquittal and remanded the case to the court for a fresh trial. The High Court had also allowed the prosecution to seek further investigation before the sessions court, if any. The petitioner pointed out that the government, after the High Court verdict, had constituted a special team, headed by officer Nishanthini, which filed a report seeking permission from the trial court for conducting further investigation. Govt. order The government in the meantime issued an order authorising the CBI to conduct the investigation following a public outcry and demands of the parents. However, the government had entrusted only one crime to the CBI for investigation. The CBI cannot investigate the death of her younger daughter in absence of a government order. She alleged that the government was not interested in bringing out the truth behind the death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/walayar-mother-moves-high-court/article33735738.ece
03 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||‘KMRL open to demand for Kochi metro’s loop line through Menaka’||The steep decline in passenger patronage for Kochi metro and the Centre according sanction for Kochi metro’s Infopark extension have given impetus to the long-pending demand to construct an approximately 2-km loop line extending up to Menaka or a little beyond up to Ernakulam Boat Jetty, a passenger-dense corridor.  Responding to this, Alkesh Kumar Sarma, MD of Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL), said that the metro agency is open to explore the possibility of building a loop line along the busy route. This will be taken up at the appropriate time, in a phased manner. The focus now is on completing the Pettah-Thripunithura corridor and the Pink Line up to Infopark in Kakkanad, he said. “The metro would have recorded substantial ridership had it been routed through Menaka — as was the original plan, than through M.G. Road,” said G. Karthikeyan, president, Kerala Merchants Chamber of Commerce. Routing it through M.G. Road did not have any advantage, while at the same time affected the business of shops there. “Metro’s extension to the city’s passenger-dense western end will considerably benefit tens of thousands of islanders and others who commute to commercial and other places in the vast area,” said Felix J. Pulloden, president of Greater Cochin Development Watch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kmrl-open-to-demand-for-kochi-metros-loop-line-through-menaka/article33736152.ece
03 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Re-examination option a relief for MGU students||Nearly 200 students who had remained either in quarantine or tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 availed themselves of the option to appear for re-examination for undergraduate and postgraduate students of Mahatma Gandhi University (MGU) since July last. The university had offered the re-examination option to ensure that the aspirants did not lose out an exam after being in quarantine or having tested positive. The 200-odd students who secured the re-examination option belonged to sixth semester undergraduate batches; fourth semester postgraduate batches; B. Ed; and B.Tech. programmes. They had missed out on the exams held from July to September when stringent restrictions were in place. “The option to appear for a re-test has turned advantageous for the candidates,” pointed out C.M. Sreejith, Controller of Examinations. “They did not take the risk of travelling all the way to exam centres, as per the protocol. Of the nearly 200 students who had availed of the re-test option, the majority were candidates who had remained in quarantine,” he said. The varsity has decided to continue offering the re-test option to students who are in quarantine or test positive for the disease. “It will be available till further notice,” said Dr. Sreejith. Safety guidelines Managements of affiliated colleges have been told to strictly comply with the safety guidelines to be followed while holding semester exams. They have to inform the health and police authorities about the exam schedule in advance. The entry for teachers and students should be restricted through the main gate. Candidates should wear masks and break the chain by washing their hands at the kiosks set up at the entrance of each college. The authorities have to provide soap and sanitiser. Students should not be allowed to crowd inside or outside the campus after the examination is over.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/re-examination-option-a-relief-for-mgu-students/article33735799.ece
03 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Students who test positive allowed to write exams||Students who are tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 can appear for university examinations while strictly adhering to the guidelines issued by the Health Department. They have to contact the institution two days before and inform whether they were tested positive or having symptoms. Students under quarantine or containment zone should also inform the authorities in advance. Such students will have to use the sanitised corridor as prescribed by the department while appearing for the examination. Conveyance to and from their place of quarantine to the examination centre should be arranged by students or parents. Drivers of these vehicles should adhere to the State advisory for taxi drivers. Parents have to remain in their vehicles if they are accompanying their children to exam centres. The college authorities will have to provide separate entrance and pathways to students tested positive. There should be separate rooms for candidates coming under these categories. Students need to be informed about the pathways or sanitised corridors with map and directions for each category. Separate toilets have to be identified for them. Examinations need to be held in halls or classrooms with good air circulation. The time spent by invigilators could be minimised by using CCTV monitoring. Students can drop their answer papers into a large plastic bag kept in the classroom or exam hall. The invigilator can tie and seal the plastic bag. The answer sheets need to be stored separately and should be valued only after seven days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/students-who-test-positive-allowed-to-write-exams/article33736146.ece
03 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Two held for operating illegal telephone exchanges||The Kochi City police have taken into custody two persons in connection with the alleged operation of two illegal telephone exchanges. The suspected illegal exchanges were found operating from flats in Thrikkakara and Marine Drive. The police raided the two places and seized equipment, including routers, used for operating the facilities. “The owners of the flats were reportedly ignorant about the illegal operations and were under the impression that some call centres were being operated from there. The raid comes in the wake of a complaint by the Department of Telecom after some responsible citizens complained about receiving overseas calls as local calls. We are looking into the offence, which will attract charges under Sections 4 and 20 of the Indian Telegraph Act and the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, including for cheating and depriving government exchequer of the revenue,” said C. H. Nagaraju, District Police Chief (Kochi City).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-held-for-operating-illegal-telephone-exchanges/article33736149.ece
03 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Data handling a challenge in e-governance: IT Secretary||State IT Secretary K. Mohammed Y. Safirulla has cited handling and protecting data without compromising on data privacy and stifling entrepreneurship as key challenges in e-governance. He was addressing a session on ‘Legal and Policy Dimensions – Way Forward’ with regard to e-governance on the second day of Kerala Looks Ahead, an international conference and consultation being organised by the Kerala State Planning Board virtually, on Tuesday. He emphasised the need to handle and protect data in adherence to rules and regulations without compromising on data privacy. While there are enough protective mechanisms at data centres and private networks, proper cyber security still remains a challenge though it should be done without stifling start-ups and projects emerging in evolving areas, Mr. Safirulla said. Apar Gupta, executive director of the Internet Freedom Foundation, said that transparency and civic participation should be ensured in the deployment of technology in governance. Innovation is an invention to adapt to meet human needs, and should be rooted in foundational principles of Constitution, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/data-handling-a-challenge-in-e-governance-it-secretary/article33736145.ece
03 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||FICCI hails Union Budget||Co-chair of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) Kerala State Council, M. I. Sahadulla, called the Union Budget 2021-22 “a growth-oriented budget that lays a strong foundation for an Atmanirbhar Bharat”. In a statement, he said that the government chose growth over fiscal consolidation with a sharp focus on capital expenditure. “It’s heartening the Finance Minister has taken steps to improve the ease of doing business and encourage compliance,” he said. There is also a strong emphasis on infrastructure development and the increased allocation to strengthen the health sector was a welcome step. The government has shown commitment to augment resources through several bold and strategic measures such as the disinvestment agenda, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ficci-hails-union-budget/article33736155.ece
03 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Two arrested||The Paravur police on Tuesday arrested two more persons on the charge of assaulting a man for making a social media post that offended them. The arrested were identified as Subair, 43, of Edavanakkad, and Riyas, 30, of Pallippuram. The police had already arrested two others — Sulfikar of Edavanakkad and Ayub of Maya Bazar — in the case. The victim identified as Pramod was assaulted last Monday near Pullamkulam school in Paravur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-arrested/article33736156.ece
03 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Stress on digitised primary health care||Kerala has been urged to leverage its ubiquitous primary healthcare facilities to become the first fully digitised primary healthcare provider in the country. The suggestion was thrown up by Infosys co-founder D. Shibulal during a session on Information Technology held on the second day of Kerala Looks Ahead, an international conference being organised by the Kerala State Planning Board virtually, on Tuesday. “Kerala must challenge itself with audacious goals like becoming zero-cash, zero-waste, and zero-carbon State in the country aided by its start-up ecosystem that will energise the IT industry and investment climate,” said Mr. Shibulal. He also urged the State government to become the best and first consumer to promote the industry by, for instance, being in the forefront in the switch to electronic vehicles.  ‘10 million jobs’ Saji Gopinath, Vice Chancellor, Kerala University of Digital Sciences, Innovation and Technology, predicted that the market for software and hardware would reach 350 billion dollars and 400 billion dollars, respectively in India by 2025. “In the next five years, as many as 10 million jobs will be created,” he said. During her lecture on how Kerala should leverage the opportunities in electronics hardware sector through appropriate policy intervention, Nivruti Rai, Country Head, Intel India, forecast how India’s share in global electronics manufacturing is set to jump from 3.3% in 2019 to 6% in 2025 when it will also emerge third globally in Electronics System Design and Manufacturing (ESDM) and fifth in ESDM consumption.  Effective policy Srikanth Srinivasan, Head, Membership and Outreach NASSCOM, while urging Kerala to take advantage of emerging trends in digital transformation observed how multiple small, sector-specific and focussed policies rather than an all encompassing large technical industry policy was found to be effective in many States. Nandakumar K. Nair, founder and CEO of Suntec Business Solutions, urged the State government to build on its past efforts. “Focus on creating product-based start-up ecosystem and help start-ups scale by doing initial business with them. Encourage employees of IT companies to turn entrepreneurs and faculty of education institutions to join start-ups on deputation,” he said. Prahlad Vadakkepat, entrepreneur, researcher, and philanthropist urged the State to develop a new mantra based on open innovation and co-development, inclusive leadership, frugality and sustainability, and agile development. He said that the government should support robotics industry by adopting the model evolved by South Korea where a ministry was created to oversee the industry, emphasis was made on demand creation and social awareness, and enhancing innovation capabilities of the industry. Santhosh Kurup, CEO, ICT Academy, moderated the session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spotlight-on-digitised-primary-healthcare/article33735729.ece
03 February 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Woman gets title deed after five-decade wait||Ninety-five-year-old Annamma was all smiles as she left Government Higher Secondary School, Punalur, on Tuesday. One of the complainants who attended Santhwana Sparsham 2021, the Chief Minister’s public grievances redressal adalat, the elderly woman had bought ten cents of land with her entire savings at Karavaloor around five decades ago. But it took her some years to realise that the land had no proper documents and Ms. Annamma has been running from pillar to post to resolve the issue. Though it became all the more difficult for her after her husband Daniel’s death, she never stopped fighting. Her 50-year-old wait ended on Tuesday as Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma, Forest Minister K. Raju, and Cooperation Minister Kadakampally Surendran handed her the title deed of the land. Ms. Annamma, who attended the adalat with her grandson Joji, expressed her gratitude to all Ministers before leaving the venue.   Sajayakumar, who was born without both hands, left the adalat with hopes of a permanent job.  Special consideration The 34-year-old is a postgraduate in Fine Arts and uses his legs to write and draw. He had also cleared Kerala Teacher Eligibility Test (K-TET) and the Pattazhy-resident has been working as a temporary drawing teacher in schools for the last five years. Mr. Surendran promised to recommend his application for special consideration of the Chief Minister. Among the participants who received financial aid was Prabhakaran, a heart patient from Araynkavu. A patient of Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology for several years, Mr. Prabhakaran was unable to continue his treatment after his health prevented him from working as a tourist guide at Palaruvi. His grievance was quickly addressed with Mr. Raju sanctioning him Rs. 50,000 for treatment. Varghese, a Valakam-resident who lost vision after an accident in 2017 and 65-year-old wheelchair-bound Abraham were among the others who received financial aid at the adalat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-gets-title-deed-after-five-decade-wait/article33735789.ece
03 February 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Care Home to provide 300 houses: Minister||Department of Cooperation will construct homes for 300 landless families in the district in the second phase of its Care Home project, said Cooperation Minister Kadakampally Surendran here on Tuesday. It was District Collector B. Abdul Nasar who brought the matter to the attention of the Minister during Santhwana Sparsham 2021, the Chief Minister’s public grievances redressal adalat held at Government Higher Secondary School, Punalur. The houses will be built for LIFE Mission beneficiaries and the Minister ensured all support of the department. The housing complexes will come up in three acres of land at Pathanapuram, Pavithreswaram, and Kadakkal.  “The help of cooperative societies, voluntary organisations, and the public is needed for this,” said the Minister. Mr. Surendran also added that the adalat held in last two days could improve the relation between the government and the public. “Santhwana Sparsham, which aims to solve grievances without delay, is a dream project of the Chief Minister. Most of the participants had no idea about the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund and financial aid for medical treatment. Through the adalat we could identify such persons and support them,” he added. A total of Rs. 58.85 lakh was sanctioned as financial assistance for medical treatment at the adalat held for the residents of three taluks. While 15 title deeds were issued, eight persons with possession certificates were given ownership certificates. Apart from 1,804 online complaints from Kottarakra, Punalur, and Pathanapuram taluks, 805 applicants came before the adalat on Tuesday. Among them, a total of 1,284 complaints were settled at the adalat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/care-home-to-provide-300-houses-minister/article33735790.ece
03 February 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Renovation of KTDC hotel inaugurated||Kerala Tourism Development Corporation (KTDC) chairman M. Vijayakumar inaugurated the renovation of Tamarind Easy Hotel, its economy property at Asramam. The property situated on the banks of Ashtamudi Lake will be rebranded as Aqualand after the work. Mayor Prasanna Earnest and Tourism Secretary Rani George were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/renovation-of-ktdc-hotel-inaugurated/article33735796.ece
03 February 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Vacancy of social worker||The Women and Child Development Department has invited applications for the post of social worker/case worker (temporary) at Sakhi one-stop centre, Nedungolam. Qualification required is MSW/LLB and three years of experience in related field. Women coming in the age group of 25 to 45 can apply and the last date for accepting applications is February 5. Applications should be addressed to Women Protection Officer, Kollam District Probation Office, Civil Station, Kollam-13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vacancy-of-social-worker/article33735797.ece
03 February 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||10 years of jail for killing sibling||Kollam Additional Sessions Judge M.Manoj on Tuesday sentenced Mahesh, a 34-year-old Thrikkovilvattm resident to 10 years of imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs. 10,000 for murdering his brother Manu (24).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/10-years-of-jail-for-killing-sibling/article33735739.ece
03 February 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Poonjar set to witness four-cornered battle||If Pala remains the focal point of the ongoing seat-sharing negotiations in Kottayam, Poonjar — a constituency in its neighbourhood — looks to grab all the attention once the stage is set for electioneering. With the United Democratic Front (UDF) shelving an earlier proposal to take the Kerala Janapaksham (Secular) on board, the outfit led by P.C. George, MLA, has now declared its plan to go it alone in the constituency. Accordingly, Mr. George will be contesting from the seat once again, making it a gritty four-way fight once again. ‘UDF not confident’ “It seems even the UDF is not confident of winning a majority in the Assembly this time and hence looks to experiment with seats like Poonjar by fielding a Congress candidate. In this context, I have decided to contest under the party symbol of the KJ(S),” Mr. George said. Though the UDF leadership had prevailed on its plan to support the regional outfit from outside, the talks fell through mid-way following objection raised by a section of the Congress workers and the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML). A proposal by the UDF that Mr. George, who had won the previous election with a majority of 27,821 votes, be replaced with his son as the candidate, cut no ice with the Janapaksham leadership either. The collapse of negotiations with the Janapaksham, meanwhile, is likely to trigger a wrangling of sorts within the UDF over the seat, which remains open with the exit of the Kerala Congress (M) led by Jose K. Mani. While the Congress looks keen to take over the seat, the Kerala Congress led by P.J. Joseph too has asserted its natural claim over the seat, besides the IUML that commands a significant presence in Erattupetta and Erumeli regions. “An array of leaders from the Congress and the Joseph group are aspiring for the seat and are pressing ahead with their demand,” confirmed a senior UDF leader. Mani group At the same time, the Mani group is most likely to field a candidate from the seat on behalf of the Left Democratic Front. Among the names being considered by the party include former district panchayat president Sebastian Kulathungal and KC(M) leader Lopez Mathew. The Bharatiya Janatha Party, meanwhile, appears keen on taking over the seat from its constituent Bharat Dharma Jana Sena (BDJS), which fielded a candidate here in 2015.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poonjar-set-to-witness-four-cornered-battle/article33735791.ece
03 February 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||621 new cases in Kottayam district||As many as 621 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Tuesday. Of the new cases, 618 persons, including a health worker, contracted the virus through local contact. The new cases also included 56 children and 109 persons aged above 60. With 126 cases, Kottayam municipality led the tally, followed by Athirampuzha with 25 cases. With 496 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 5,886 active cases. 587 in Kollam The district reported 587 new COVID-19 cases and 321 recoveries on Tuesday. Those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 include 577 contact cases, two NRIs, three persons from another State, two health workers, and three cases with no known source. The health workers who contracted the infection are a 32-year-old Ezhukone resident and 43-year-old Mundakkal resident while cases with no known source have been reported from Elampaloor, Karicode, and Mynagappally. The district has 11,095 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 7,34,879. While 1,475 persons completed home quarantine on Tuesday, the Health Department has traced 1,64,124 primary and 14,262 secondary contacts of the patients.  524 in Pathanamthitta As many as 524 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Tuesday Of the new cases, 502 persons contracted the virus through local contact and among these, the contact source of 39 cases were yet to be identified. Thiruvalla reported 36 cases, followed by Enadhimangalam and Koyipram with 22 cases. The disease claimed five more lives in the district and the victim were identified as 80-year-old Konni native, 73-year-old Mallappally native, 76-year-old woman from Konni, 54-year-old Ezhamkulam native, and 51-year-old man from Thiruvalla. With 244 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 5,405 active cases. 313 in Alappuzha The district reported 313 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. The fresh cases include 310 patients who contracted the disease through local transmission, The source of infection of two persons remains unknown. One person who came from abroad also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Meanwhile, 249 people who were undergoing treatment tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 4,435. (With inputs from Kollam, Pathanamthitta, and Alappuzha bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/621-new-cases-in-kottayam-district/article33735794.ece
03 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Curbs being reimposed as COVID-19 cases surge in Kozhikode||With the active COVID-19 case load remaining high in Kozhikode district in the past few weeks, the district administration is clamping restrictions in public places again to contain the infection. According to media reports, Kozhikode is among the 13 districts across the country in terms of the highest number of infected persons. The number of infected people from the district, which went below 6,000 in the first week of January, went beyond 8,000 in around three weeks. As on Tuesday, over 7,600 people from Kozhikode are either in home isolation or are undergoing treatment in government or private facilities. Around 200 people from other districts too are being treated here. The daily test positivity rate (TPR), the number of people testing positive for the virus per hundred samples, has been high in the district too. Over the past few weeks, it has been between 8% and 13% on most days. Easing of restrictions The easing of restrictions, opening of schools and colleges and public places such as tourism spots, and a general sense of lethargy in the wake of the arrival of the Covishield vaccine have been cited as some of the reasons for the surge. Large numbers of people are seen in places such as the Kozhikode beach and tourism spots like the Thusharagiri waterfalls. Though there is a restriction on children aged below 10 and senior citizens in public places, many people are openly flouting it and even families are visiting tourism spots like the Thusharagiri waterfalls. Use of masks Another issue is the non-use or improper use of face masks in public places. Social distancing norms are given the goby in crowded places as well. Public events Public events including political rallies and meetings, which were completely stopped in the wake of the pandemic, are slowly resurfacing. In the wake of this surge in infections, the Health Department is checking buildings to find out if people are crammed into them without proper space for air circulation. Crowd control Police officials are now being deployed to contain the infection in crowded places such as shopping malls, hotels, and restaurants and places of worship. In Kozhikode city, police personnel were seen telling those who took along children in their vehicles not to repeat the act. In the coming days, bringing children to public place may attract a fine of Rs. 2,000. This restriction is, however, not applicable to those seeking medical treatment in hospitals. 501 new cases As many as 501 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Tuesday. The daily test positivity rate was 10.77% when 4,651 samples were tested. There were 750 recoveries on Tuesday. The District Medical Officer said in a release that there were 485 locally acquired infections and the source of 10 others was not known. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 157 cases, Villiappally 36 and Vadakara 25. Five deaths were reported at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, on Monday, and another person died on January 30, according to a medical bulletin.  The easing of restrictions, opening of schools and colleges and public places such as tourism spots, and a general sense of lethargy in the wake of the arrival of the Covishield vaccine have been cited as some of the reasons for the surge||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/curbs-being-reimposed-as-covid-19-cases-surge-in-kozhikode/article33735732.ece
03 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Field health staff allege raw deal||Field-level staff in the Health Department have complained of a raw deal in the proposals for salary hike for government staff recently submitted to the State government by the 11th Pay Commission. Some of the functionaries of the department staff unions claimed that the qualification for Junior Health Inspector (JHI) and Junior Public Health Nurse (JPHN) had been a two-year diploma and a pass in Plus Two (Science). They pointed out that the staff with similar qualification and similar pay scale had been given more salary in the pay panel proposals. According to them, the basic pay for JHI Grade 2, JPHN Grade 2, Pharmacist Grade 2, and Lab Technician Grade 2 was Rs. 22,200 earlier. It was revised to Rs. 35,500 for all except JHIs by the pay panel now. For JHIs and JPHN Grade 2, it is Rs. 31,100. K. Remjith, general secretary, Kerala State Health Inspectors’ Federation, told The Hindu on Monday that the field level staff were in the forefront of all major public health emergencies reported from the State, including the floods in 2018 and 2019 and the ongoing fight against COVID-19. “Most of the other State governments had given incentives for health workers in recent times. Here, however, our salaries had been cut in the wake of floods and the pandemic. We expected a proportional pay rise this time like what was implemented in Karnataka. Our hopes, however, were dashed,” he said. Mr. Remjith said that people like pharmacists and lab technicians had to work only in shifts when the pandemic broke out while the health inspectors and public health nurses were the only group active on the field round the clock. The staff unions are planning to submit a memorandum to the Health Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/field-health-staff-allege-raw-deal/article33736250.ece
03 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Govt. giving equal priority to development, social welfare’||The State government is giving priority to development works and social welfare in equal measure, Minister for Higher Education K.T. Jaleel has said. He was speaking at the Santhwana Sparsham adalat held at the Town Hall in Vadakara on Tuesday. Financial help for reconstruction of house, demand for piped water connection, ration cards, and application for homes under the LIFE Mission were some of the issues raised at the adalat. Mr. Jaleel said 60.31 lakh people were getting welfare pension delivered at home. The distribution of food kits, started when the COVID-19 pandemic broke out, was being continued, he added. Many development projects, earlier dubbed as not feasible, were being implemented at present. New roads and bridges were being constructed. The government faced the pandemic utilising facilities in government hospitals. The patients recovered and went home with hearty smiles, he said. The Minister said the era of dilapidated school buildings with damaged classrooms and unclean premises was over. As many as 6.75 lakh new students had enrolled in government schools.Ministers T.P. Ramakrishnan and A.K. Saseendran too were present. Adalat in Wayanad The Santhwana Sparsham adalat will be held in Wayanad district on February 15 and 16. According to a release here on Tuesday, Ministers A.K. Balan, E. Chandrashekharan and Kadannappally Ramachandran will chair the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-giving-equal-priority-to-development-social-welfare/article33735734.ece
03 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||CPI(M) to deal with bickering allies tactfully||To possibly stave off an unpleasant political situation, the CPI (M) is devising its own tact to deal with the infighting in the Nationalist Congress Party and the acrimonious spat between its constituents, the Janata Dal ( Secular) and the Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) ahead of the Assembly polls. The CPI (M) appears to be wavering to give into the pressures of the NCP to settle the dispute with Jose K. Mani faction of the Kerala Congress (M) over the Pala assembly segment. However, the NCP State unit remains adamant not to concede to fewer than four seats for the party to contest in the elections. The CPI(M) Kozhikode district unit has decided to take over the Elathur segment which NCP leader and Minister A.K. Saseendran has been successfully contesting for the last two terms, sources said. Another issue confronting the CPI(M) leadership is the tussle between the JD (S) and LJD over the Vadakara Assembly segment in Kozhikode district. Last time the contest was between these two political entities although the Janata Dal (United) has now transformed into the LJD. Here too, the CPI(M) leadership is planning to put up its own nominee or an acceptable face rather than let any of its constituents fight the electoral battle. Like in Elathur, the JD(S) has been winning the seat only because of the CPI(M)’s clout. Final call A final call on the seat-sharing arrangement will be taken by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan whatever the outcome of the parleys between NCP national president Sharad Pawar with CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury and CPI general secretary D. Raja in New Delhi. The CPI (M) leadership, the sources said, did not want the NCP to walk out of the LDF camp over the issue of seat-sharing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-to-deal-with-bickering-allies-tactfully/article33736251.ece
03 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Indian Society for Spices to present awards||The Indian Society for Spices (ISS), located at the ICAR- Indian Institute of Spices Research (IISR) here, will present the Sugandha Bharathi and Sugandhasree awards during SYMSAC-2021, International Symposium on Spices and Aromatic Crops. Dr. P.N. Ravindran, plant breeder, author and writer, best known for his contributions in the field of spices research, development and documentation, has been selected for the Sugandha Bharathi Award. He was former director and project coordinator of the ICAR-IISR and a distinguished scientist who has authored spices-related books, according to a press release here on Tuesday. The ISS has been honouring outstanding achievements in the field of spices research and development with the Sugandha Bharathi Award once in four years. The ISS has selected T. Joseph, a nutmeg farmer from Kottayam, for the Sugandhasree award in recognition of his innovations in spice crops for enhanced income with sustainability. Mr. Joseph, a retired employee of FACT, has been engaged in intercrop cultivation while focusing on nutmeg. ISS presents the award once in two years to promote farmers’ innovations. The awards will be presented during the four-day symposium at the ICAR-IISR to be held from February 9 to 12. Nine life members of the ISS will be conferred fellowship at the event. The fellows of the year are Dr. R. Suseela Bhai, Dr. N.K. Hegde, Dr. T. Pradeep Kumar, Dr. Suchand Datta, Dr. S.N. Saxena, Dr. Rashid Pervez, Dr. C.N. Biju, Dr. Gargi Deepak Shirke and Dr. Amar Chand Shivran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sugandha-bharathi-sugandhasree-awards-to-be-presented/article33735725.ece
03 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||New firm at Cyberpark||Digital technology firm IOCOD Infotech commenced operations at the Cyberpark in Kozhikode, moving into the Smart Business Centre on the 45-acre campus after seven years of functioning in the city. Founded by tech enthusiast K.K. Fasil, who is the CEO, IOCOD has 25 employees. The company specialises in developing software for U.S.-based finance investment companies, according to a release on Tuesday. Cyberpark General Manager C. Nireesh inaugurated the unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-firm-at-cyberpark/article33735722.ece
03 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Briefly||All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in charge of Kerala Tariq Anwar made a courtesy call on All India Sunni Jamiyyathul Ulama general secretary Kanthapuram A.P. Aboobacker Musliyar on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/briefly/article33735800.ece
03 February 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||IUML to hit back at CPI(M)||The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) has decided counter the Communist Party of India (Marxist)’s communal charges against the party. The IUML is viewing the attack from a section of the CPI(M) led by its State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan as “calculated and highly inflammatory with the potential to inflict irreparable damage to the secular fabric of Kerala society.” “We have begun countering the dangerous game the CPI(M) is playing the best way we can in a fair manner. We are going to the people exposing the CPI(M)’s evil designs. They are aware of the IUML’s credentials,” said party State general secretary K.P.A. Majeed. The recent meeting between two Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church metropolitans and the IUML leadership at IUML chairman Syed Hyderali Shihab Thangal’s house at Panakkad was part of the party’s counter-moves. The metropolitans had warned against the alleged attempts by some sections to create a wedge between the Muslims and Christians in the State. Communal card Mr. Vijayaraghavan had earlier too kicked up a controversy by communal branding of groups that opposed the CPI(M). He had courted a controversy a couple of years ago by describing the anti-GAIL pipeline protesters in Malappuram as extremists. Until the last Lok Sabha elections, the CPI(M) had hobnobbed with the Jamaat-e-Islami’s political front, the Welfare Party of India (WPI). When the WPI switched sides to support the United Democratic Front in the recent local body elections, the CPI(M) lost no time tagging it communal. The ‘communal’ campaign the CPI(M) unleashed against the UDF for making electoral adjustments with the WPI had made some gains for the LDF, but at the cost of some deep imperceptible wounds in the secular Congress. Some Congress leaders, including Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president Mullappally Ramachandran, walked into the trap set by the CPI(M) by communally segregating the WPI. Interestingly, even while targeting the UDF for its association with the WPI, the CPI(M) had brokered tacit electoral adjustments with the Social Democratic Party of India, the political wing of the Popular Front of India. Moreover, Mr. Vijayaraghavan’s attempt to give a communal colour to Congress leaders’ recent visit to Panakkad has not gone down well within the CPI(M) itself. IUML general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty and working secretary E.T. Mohammed Basheer said the CPI(M) was playing the communal card for fear of losing the Assembly elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iuml-to-hit-back-at-cpim/article33735814.ece
03 February 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Two killed in accident||Two persons were killed when a truck plunged into a ravine from Vattappara hairpin bend near Valanchery in the district in the early hours of Tuesday. The police said the truck driver Shabari alias Muthu Kumar from Madukkarai, Tamil Nadu, and cleaner Ayyappan from Malampuzha near Palakkad were trapped under the lorry that fell into a depth of 30 feet. The fatally wounded men were taken out after a four-hour rescue work. The accident took place around 4.30 a.m. The driver was suspected to have dozed off while negotiating the dangerous curve on NH 66.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-killed-in-accident/article33735736.ece
03 February 2021||NEW DELHI,KERALA||Central team to visit State||The Union Health Ministry has decided to depute two multi-disciplinary teams to Kerala and Maharashtra to collaborate with the State health authorities in instituting public health measures for virus management. At a time when almost all States and Union Territories are showing a declining trend in the number of cases and deaths due to COVID-19, Kerala and Maharashtra continue to report a large number of cases, the Ministry said. “At present, these two States alone are contributing almost 70% of the active COVID-19 cases in the country,” it said. As on Tuesday, Maharashtra has 44,944 active cases while Kerala has 69,456 active cases, according to the Health Ministry data updated at 8 a.m. The Central team to Kerala would comprise officials from the Ministry of Health along with experts from the regional office of Health and Family Welfare, Thiruvananthapuram, and Lady Hardinge Medical College, New Delhi. The teams shall work closely with the State Health Departments, take stock of the ground situation and recommend necessary public health interventions to contain the large number of cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/central-team-to-visit-state/article33735806.ece
03 February 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Man arrested for scalding son||The Adoor police on Tuesday arrested a 31-year-old man who allegedly scalded his eight-year-old son with a hot spatula. The accused was identified as Sreekumar, a native of Pallickal, near here. The case followed a statement given by the child’s mother, the police said. As per the case, the accused allegedly used a hot spatula to burn the boy’s right leg in an attempt to discipline him. The incident took place two days ago when his mother was away from home. Alerted by local people, Childline intervened in the case and lodged a police complaint. The boy, who has burn marks on his arms and legs, has been shifted to a shelter under the District Child Welfare Committee in Pathanamthitta, the police said. The accused, meanwhile, was produced at a court and remanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-arrested-for-scalding-son/article33735785.ece
03 February 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||IP wing at Konni MCH to be inaugurated on February 10||The in-patient facility at the Government Medical College Hospital in Konni will be thrown open to the public on February 10. According to K.U. Janeesh Kumar, MLA, Health Minister K.K. Shylaja will inaugurate the new facility at a function to be held here. To begin with, the authorities are setting up 100 beds in the ward, which will be gradually expanded to 300 and 500 beds respectively. In view of the ward’s opening, the authorities have began the process of appointing permanent as well as temporary doctors. Staff, including the Nursing Superintendent, four Head Nurses and 11 staff nurses, have already joined. The rest of the nursing staff are expected to join soon. Transportation To arrange transportation facility for the employees as well as the patients, a meeting of the KSRTC officials will soon be held. A meeting convened by the MLA on Tuesday to review the arrangements tasked the Hospital Superintendent to complete arrangements at the IP ward, besides expediting the delivery of furniture and equipment.  Addressing the meeting, Sajith Kumar, Superintendent of the Hospital, said the dental OP ward would start functioning on February 4. Preparations were also under way to start a gynaecology OP on February 8. In view of the new facilities at the hospital, the office of the medical college has been relocated to an area adjacent to the cabin of the Superintendent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ip-wing-at-konni-mch-to-be-inaugurated-on-february-10/article33735792.ece
03 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Mass gatherings trigger fears of fresh spike in cases||Amid the surge in COVID-19 cases, mass gatherings at two major events in the State are giving jitters to the police and the administration and raising concerns of a fresh spike. The first leg of the Aishwarya Kerala Yatra led by Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala saw huge crowds milling around the Congress leader at several venues in Kasaragod and Kannur. Further south, the Santhwana Sparsam public grievance redressal adalat organised by the government also witnessed hundreds of people gathering at the venues in Alappuzha on Monday and Tuesday as officials remained helpless in enforcing the COVID protocols. Social distancing, wearing of masks and use of hand sanitisers, all went for a toss at the two events. All along the course of the yatra, United Democratic Front supporters were seen jostling for space and taking photographs with leaders. Sectoral officers deployed by the Collectors in Kasaragod and Kannur could do little to enforce the protocols. For punitive steps Kasaragod District Medical Officer A.V. Ramdas said the failure to observe the protocols would have its implications, leading to a spike in cases. It is up to the police and district administration to take punitive steps. Mr.Chennithala, however, said it was part of a negative campaign by the Left Democratic Front. “The government is organising mass programmes attended by Ministers, but they have a problem when the Congress takes out the yatra,” he said. Chennithala’s stance Mr.Chennithala attributed the increase in cases to the inefficiency of the government. The UDF, he said would go ahead with the yatra by following the protocols. People gathered in large numbers at the venues of the Santhwana Sparsam adalat in Alappuzha and Edathua on Monday and Tuesday respectively. The adalats were attended by Ministers G.Sudhakaran, T.M. Thomas Isaac and P. Thilothaman. Warnings and advisories went unheeded. At Edathua, prior to the commencement of the adalat in the morning, Mr. Sudhakaran directed the people to follow the protocols. Collector A. Alexander said chairs and other facilities were arranged in accordance with the guidelines. The number of counters for receiving petitions were increased, but people continued to assemble in huge numbers outside the hall. Three Cs Public health experts pointed out that unless we tighten the controls and ensure strict avoidance of the three Cs – confined and enclosed spaces with poor ventilation, crowded settings and close-contact settings – the disease transmission can get out of hand. "The epidemic curve’s rising trend had been evident and already the State is two weeks behind in launching control measures,” an expert said. “It is not yet time to let go of the vigil because a chunk of the State’s population is still susceptible to COVID. Politicians should lead the way in maintaining the protocols and help get the message across to the public,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mass-gatherings-trigger-fears-of-fresh-spike-in-cases/article33735813.ece
03 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Technocity campus to be opened tomorrow||The Technocity campus in Pallipuram, where a sprawling 2 lakh square feet IT complex will be opened on Thursday, is set to witness a lot of activity in the next one year, with several companies expected to set up shop here. Also in the works within the campus are a Space Park, World Trade Centre, the Kerala University of Digital Sciences, Innovation and Technology, and other major projects. Technopark CEO Sasi Pilacheri Meethal told The Hindu that both established companies as well as startups had come forward expressing interest to occupy the space here. “The Technocity is spread over an area of 390 acres. Suntec’s new campus has already become operational here. The Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) initially had a plan to set up an international training centre here, however they have now given a fresh proposal to set up a major development centre. On the other side of Technocity, we have the Space Park, which will have space-related companies and startups. A lot of demands are coming up for this. Another major project is the technology centre for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, which is in an advanced stage. An MoU has already been signed with the Brigade group for a World Trade Centre project, which will have office and residential spaces with a walk-to-work model,” said Mr. Meethal. Fourth phase The Technocity has been envisaged as the fourth phase of Technopark. The original Technopark campus is fully occupied, while the phase 3 campus has small spaces remaining to be occupied. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the ‘Kabani’ IT complex on Thursday. The ground floor of the three-storied complex is designed as a plug-and-play space for small and medium firms to set up smart business centres. Each module has a manager cabin, discussion room, server room, and an extended workstations area. While the 27-seat module covers an area of 1,800 square feet, the 10-seat module covers 1100 square feet. According to Mr. Meethal, 23 companies are now ready to occupy the new building. The Digital University, part of the State government’s push towards a knowledge economy, will become fully functional soon, offering courses in emerging areas including block chain, artificial intelligence, and machine learning. It will be offering short-term as well as long-term courses. With the Technocity becoming fully functional, it will also mean further expansion of the capital city’s IT corridor, spurring growth in other sectors too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/technocity-campus-to-be-opened-tomorrow/article33736243.ece
03 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Local governance in limelight||The discussions on local governance on the second day of Kerala Looks Ahead, an international conference being organised by the State Planning Board, was marked by stocktaking on the achievements of decentralised governance in the past 25 years. Economist Prabhat Patnaik said panchayats should not just remain as administrative and fund-dispersing bodies, but also became productive bodies that owned and controlled direct production. He pointed to the model of township and village enterprises in China, which could be incorporated into the panchayats to produce for local needs. Social activist Aruna Roy said there was a need to evolve narratives of local achievements to counter the threat of majoritarianism. “This is an important intervention at a time of decision-making processes that are completely impervious to what the people think as was seen with the enactment of farm laws. Any law put up in Parliament should be discussed from the panchayats upwards,” she said. Patrick Heller, Professor of Social Sciences at the Brown University, said the rapidly growing cities of Kerala needed to be States within States, having tremendous autonomy. “There is still a lack of long term strategic planning and land management in Indian cities. Also, though most departments are quite effective, but they are still largely top-down service delivery departments that do not answer to the cities. In a recent study we conducted in 15 Indian cities, we found very high levels of service delivery in cities like Kochi, but there are gaps in the quality of service,” he said. V.K. Ramachandran, Vice Chairperson of the Kerala State Planning Board, saidthe local governments rallied and provided the backbone to the main thrust of the State’s response to the floods. Minister for Local Self Governments A.C. Moideen said local bodies have been asked to prepare local disaster management plans to control the impact of disasters. Local bodies from various parts of the state made presentations focussing on innovative and model programmes implemented by them.  Panchayats should not just remain as administrative bodies but become productive ones that own and control direct production. Prabhat Pattnaik Economist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/local-governance-in-limelight/article33736236.ece
03 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||5,716 cases from 52,940 samples||Kerala’s cumulative burden of COVID-19 rose to 9,38,353 cases on Tuesday when the State reported 5,716 cases after 52,940 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The test positivity rate on the day was 10.8%. With 5,747 patients reported to have recovered from the disease, the active case pool of the State came down slightly to 69,157 cases. The cumulative recoveries reported in the State till date has risen to 8,65,168. On Tuesday, 16 more deaths were added to the official list of COVID fatalities, taking the State’s toll ever since the pandemic began to 3,776. Ernakulam reported seven deaths, Kannur three, Thiruvananthapuram two, while Kollam, Idukki, Kozhikode and Malappuram reported one death each. As on Tuesday, official reports said the number of critically ill patients being treated in ICUs across the State is 794 with 216 of them requiring ventilator support. Among districts, Ernakulam again reported the maximum number of 755 cases, Kottayam 621, Kollam 587, Thrissur 565, Pathanamthitta 524, Kozhikode 501, Malappuram 454, Thiruvananthapuram 383, Kannur 340, Alappuzha 313, Palakkad 251, Wayanad 218, Idukki 121, and Kasaragod 83. U.K. virus variant Over the past one month or more, 77 persons who reached the State from the United Kingdom have tested positive for COVID-19. Official reports said 59 of them had since tested negative. So far, only 10 persons had tested positive for the virus variant B.1.1.7 first reported in the U.K. and said to be highly transmissible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/5716-cases-from-52940-samples/article33735805.ece
03 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Need to overhaul curricula stressed||Concerned over the factors that ail higher education in Kerala, academicians have called for priority in overhauling curricula before ushering in innovation in governance. The idea was first mooted by Kannur University Vice Chancellor Gopinath Ravindran at a deliberation on higher education organised as part of the ‘Kerala Looks Ahead’ virtual conclave on Tuesday. Quality of syllabi Taking a dim view of the quality of syllabi and questions posed during examinations, Prof. Ravindran attributed the lacunae to the lack of exposure of the teaching community to best practices within and outside the State. “While the syllabi of most universities are long lists of topics, course objectives are seldom published on university websites,” he said. His view was echoed by Shyam B. Menon, Professor of Education, Delhi University, and former Vice Chancellor of Ambedkar University, who called for a balance while constituting faculty. Prof. Menon also cautioned against treating public higher education institutions as government departments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/need-to-overhaul-curricula-stressed/article33736208.ece
03 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||District nursery to distribute plant seedlings to public||Forest Minister K. Raju will formally inaugurate a district nursery established on a one-acre plot held by Kerala Prisons and Correctional Services Department at Poojappura on Wednesday. The facility, established as a permanent facility to nurture and distribute seedlings to the public and organisations in the district, was set up at an outlay of Rs. 80 lakh. The nursery complex comprises an office building, sales outlet, poly house, shade house, rain shelter, potting mixture and labour shed, and storage shelter. A digital plant library has also been established to familiarise researchers, students and people from other walks of life with various plant varieties. The construction of the nursery was undertaken by Kerala Agro Industries Corporation Ltd. The project was implemented using funds sanctioned by the Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority (CAMPA) for social forestry activities, Y.M. Shajikumar, Assistant Conservator of Forests (Social Forestry), Thiruvananthapuram, said. During the inaugural function, Director General of Prisons and Correctional Services Rishi Raj Singh will launch the distribution of tool kits free-of-cost to licensed snake catchers in the district. O. Rajagopal, MLA, will preside.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-nursery-to-distribute-plant-seedlings-to-public/article33736239.ece
03 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Conserving a glimpse of State’s political history||Much before GIS, cartographic maps were what aided navigation and demarcated boundaries. In a first in the State, nearly 3,000 cartographs in the possession of the Archives Department are set to be scientifically conserved and digitised by Keralam Museum, the nodal agency of all museums in the State. The maps — handwritten, litho maps, boundary maps, railway, forest, and postal maps and of different sizes and materials — go as far back as the 19th century, and a comprehensive conservation is being taken up as part of a Rs. 69-lakh pilot project, says Archives Director J. Reji Kumar. Some of the oldest are Travancore British boundary maps that demarcate Travancore from areas governed by the British such as parts of Madurai district, maps of Travancore and Cochin and their boundaries, and a foldable Malabar district map that was used by survey officials and others on tours. A huge collection of railway maps, including that of the entire Indian Railways; maps depicting railway stations along various lines; and a sketch of the Thampanoor railway station and the Central station building are also among the records. Postal maps earmarking locations of post offices in erstwhile Travancore, district maps with boundaries, and village maps are also available. Some of the maps are made of paper, others of cloth. Some are made of heterogenous materials, such as paper maps reinforced by cloth. Some of them are huge and can be folded into book-size for convenience. Exclusive for maps This is the first time that a conservation scheme is being prepared by the Archives Department for maps alone. The conservation will be taken up by experienced local talent under the supervision of the department’s conservators. Mr. Reji Kumar says that after the Survey Department, the Archives Department has the largest collection of maps. Though geographical representations, they also provide a glimpse of the State’s political history. Once conserved and digitised, these will be of immense benefit to research scholars and those keen on cartography. Minister for Museums Kadannappally Ramachandran will inaugurate the project at a function at Vyloppilly Samskrithi Bhavan on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/conserving-a-glimpse-of-states-political-history/article33735808.ece
03 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Buoy capital expenditure: Isaac||Capital expenditure should be enhanced from the present 2% to 20-25% of the State Gross Domestic Product (GSDP) within the next five years to ensure long-term development of the State, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac has said. “Kerala can look forward by ensuring substantial increase in capital expenditure within the shortest period and the State government is earnestly putting its effort towards this end,” Dr. Isaac said on Tuesday. He was addressing a special session on ‘Federalism and Development Financing’ jointly organised by the State Planning Board and the Gulati Institute of Finance and Taxation (GIFT) as part of the three-day international conference and consultation Kerala Looks Ahead. The Minister said GST had reduced buoyancy in revenue collection and curtailed fiscal autonomy of the States. Alleging that the Centre had manipulated the system that ensured due share in the divisible pool, Dr. Isaac said this had constrained the policy autonomy of the States in various aspects. Following the pandemic, revenue expenditure had increased manifold. The pace of increase in revenue expenditure was 12 to 14%. The pandemic had made serious shift in priorities of expense. There was a pressing need on the State to ensure growth to the tune of 14 to 16% in revenue collection. Lashing out at the Centre, the Minister said the States should be given flexibility in fixing rates of SGST as the social and financial status of each State was different. GST rates were not revenue neutral. The rates were 30 to 40% lower than the pre GST rates and this had seriously affected tax collection. He urged the States to explore the possibility of increasing non-tax revenue collection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/buoy-capital-expenditure-isaac/article33736238.ece
03 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Special council meeting convened at Corporation||The city Corporation on Tuesday convened a special council meeting to discuss the issue regarding revision projects for the year. The meeting was called after Opposition councillors of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the United Democratic Front (UDF) alleged that some of the projects meant for their wards were removed while preparing the revision projects list. In the special council, the Opposition councillors listed out some of the projects from their respective wards which, they said, should have been retained. The ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) councillors maintained that considering the fact that it was the fag end of the financial year, only the most necessary maintenance and construction projects needed to be retained, while diverting funds to the more important housing projects for the poor, for purchase of land for construction of houses, and for projects in the health sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-council-meeting-convened-at-corporation/article33736245.ece
03 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Joint drive by MVD, police against erring motorists||A joint awareness campaign against erring motorists by the Enforcement wing of the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) and the police in connection with the month-long road safety observance has begun. On Tuesday, Regional Transport Officer, Enforcement, Thiruvananthapuram, Dilu A.K. and SP, Traffic, South Zone, B. Krishnakumar, flagged off the awareness campaign. The drive will focus on use of helmets and seat belts this week. Motorcyclists and pillion riders who arrived without wearing helmets were counselled on the need for wearing them. Four-wheeler drivers who failed to wear seat belts were also counselled. The presence of law enforcers on roads had helped increase use of helmets among motorcyclists and pillion riders and in reducing accidents, Mr. Krishnakumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/joint-drive-by-mvd-police-against-erring-motorists/article33736240.ece
03 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Food coupons to be given to students||Instead of kits, food security allowance for the months from September last to this March for all students eligible for mid-day meals will be distributed in the form of coupons. The government has issued orders sanctioning the distribution through Supplyco outlets on production of the coupons. Food kits were distributed as food security allowance to students through Supplycofor the months of June, July, and August. However, now Supplyco has expressed practical difficulties in preparing and transporting food security allowance kits to schools as it is tied up with distribution of COVID-19 survival food kits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/food-coupons-to-be-given-to-students/article33735809.ece
03 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||383 more added to patient list in capital||The COVID-19 active caseload rose to 4,396 when 383 people tested positive and 326 recovered from the illness on Tuesday. The test positivity rate jumped to 12.19, as 3,141 people were subjected to tests during the last 24 hours. Imported cases While there were nine imported cases, the source of infection is unknown in 81 cases. Three health care workers were among those who tested positive. The death toll stood at 745 in the district. As many as 1,308 people were placed under quarantine, while 1,303 others were permitted to conclude quarantine. There were currently 22,445 people being supervised in homes and 55 in various institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/383-more-added-to-patient-list-in-capital/article33736242.ece
03 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘Kerala in good spot to augment fish wealth ‘||Kerala could very well increase the contribution of fisheries to the State’s food basket and create employment, Dr. Modadugu Vijay Gupta, World Food Prize winner and former assistant director general, World Fish Centre, says. Dr. Gupta was speaking on ‘Fisheries and developing economies: New challenges and opportunities’ at Kerala Looks Ahead conclave where he called for an increase in the production of exportable fishes and the diversification of markets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-in-good-spot-to-augment-fish-wealth/article33736237.ece
03 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State’s focus on Police dept.’s development||The State government has given high priority to the improvement of basic infrastructure in the Police department in the past five years, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He was speaking at a videoconferencing event on Tuesday for the inauguration of new buildings constructed for the Police department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/states-focus-on-police-depts-development/article33736244.ece
03 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Minister to lay the stone for new ITI building||Labour Minister T.P. Ramakrishnan will lay the stone for the new building of the Varkala ITI on Wednesday at 3.30 p.m. The building will be constructed at a cost of Rs. 5.5 crore in 1.15 acres of land provided by the government, near the Varkala taluk office. The ITI is currently functioning from a rented building.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-to-lay-the-stone-for-new-iti-building/article33736246.ece
03 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1,366 govt. offices get green tag||As many as 1,366 government offices in the district, out of the 1,726 offices surveyed, became eligible for Haritha (green) certification in the green audits held in the district. District panchayat president D. Suresh Kumar presented the ‘A’ grade certificate for the District Collectorate office to Collector Navjot Khosa. In the district, 458 offices secured ‘A’ grade, 447 offices secured ‘B’ grade, and 461 offices got ‘C’ grade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1366-govt-offices-get-green-tag/article33736247.ece
03 February 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||565 cases in Thrissur||A total of 565 COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Tuesday while 437 people recovered from the disease. There are 4,524 active cases. So far 88,386 COVID-19 cases have been reported from the district and 82,262 people have recovered. According to the official statistics, 553 people, including two health workers, contracted the disease through local contact. Of them, 78 people are above the age of 60 and 24 are children below the age of 10. In all, 3,035 people are under home care. A total of 98 persons were admitted to the hospital for treatment of COVID-19 on Tuesday. A total of 4,742 samples were collected for the test on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/565-cases-in-thrissur/article33736207.ece
03 February 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Best researcher award for KAU professor||C.R. Elsy, Professor, (Plant Breeding & Genetics), Kerala Agricultural University, has been given the best researcher award at the KAU foundation Day-2020 ceremony. Dr. Elsy heads the All India Coordinated Research Project on Medicinal and Aromatic Plants, Thrissur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/best-researcher-award-for-kau-professor/article33735803.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Voicing their protest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/voicing-their-protest/article33736148.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Harvesting on||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/harvesting-on/article33736253.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||New councillor||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-councillor/article33736255.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Temple ritual||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/temple-ritual/article33736211.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Against ‘mixing’ medical streams||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/against-mixing-medical-streams/article33736249.ece
03 February 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Inter-State border survey resumes in Ballari reserve forest||A team of Survey of India led by Superintendent Surveyor Prem Kumar, along with the officials of Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh governments, resumed the survey work for demarcation of the inter-State border in the Ballari Reserve Forest. The demarcation exercise in this region rich in iron ore mineral wealth assumes significance. The Survey of India team and the officials of both the States began the survey and demarcation of 76 border stones in the first week of December last year as per a Supreme Court directive, but it was stalled for unknown reasons. Later, the top revenue officials of both the States resolved all issues and the exercise resumed on Monday. Supreme Court order The work, however, seems to have slowed down on Tuesday due to the ill health of Survey of India official Prem Kumar. All the stones have been fixed with the mutual agreement of the location. Now, the team is ascertaining the exact coordinates with the help of the Differential Global Positioning System (DGPS), which the officials said, is an enhancement to the Global Positioning System (GPS) that provides improved location accuracy, from the 15 metre in GPS up to around 10 cm. The exercise is resultant of the order pronounced by a two-judge bench of Supreme Court comprising Justice Madan Lokur and Justice Deepak Gupta, that heard an Special Leave Petition (SLP) filed by of the Andhra Pradesh government against Obulapuram Mining Company (OMC). Traverse Data map Meanwhile, Ganesh, who holds a mining lease at Malapamgudi and Siddapuram in Andhra Pradesh and at Tumti in Karnataka, showed the tri-junction point of the three villages marked on a rock in August 2018 during the survey conducted by the Deepak Sharma Committee, which has not been taken into consideration now. The border deviates by a large extent during the demarcation exercise, he says, demanding that the Traverse Data map be used for demarcating the boundary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/inter-state-border-survey-resumes-in-ballari-reserve-forest/article33735498.ece
03 February 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||10 operatives held, red sanders logs worth Rs. 1 crore seized||The Red Sanders Anti-smuggling Task Force and forest officials seized the perioucs logs worth Rs. 1 crore and arrested 10 operatives in three separate incidents. The task force teams seized red sanders logs worth Rs. 50 lakh, three cars and nabbed six accused after a 180-km chase from Chandragiri near Tirupati till Kolar in Karnataka. Acting on a tip-off that a group of operatives were getting ready to transport red sanders logs from the Tirumala foothills near Chandragiri to Karnataka, special teams raided the stretch from A.Rangampeta to Ithepalle road, connecting to the national highway towards Kolar. In the early hours, the task force spotted three cars. Seeing the combing party, two cars sped away towards the NH from a rural road, abandoning one car near Ithepalle. The task force teams gave a hot chase to the vehicles till Kolar. They intercepted the vehicles after the car carrying the logs got punctured near Nerlahalli village in Karnataka. Syndicate members identified Six youth, including four hailing from Karnataka and two from Chandragiri mandal in Chittoor district, were nabbed. The seized logs and vehicles were brought to the task force office in Tirupati. Task force Deputy SP K.C.Venkataiah said the accused were produced before the Tirupati court on Tuesday and remanded. Some key people of the smuggling syndicate have also been identified in Karnataka and efforts are on to trace them, he said. In another incident, forest officials of the Chittoor West division nabbed two operatives hailing from Tamil Nadu and seized logs worth Rs. 50 lakh, and a mini lorry. According to Forest Range Officer (Punganur) Balakrishna Reddy, forest guards spotted the mini lorry, with around 50 persons on board, moving towards Karnataka in the early hours. They intercepted it at Jendaman cross junction near Piler. A majority of the operatives managed to flee while two of them, both natives of Tamil Nadu, were nabbed. A case has been registered and Investigation is on. Meanwhile, the task force officials nabbed two more operatives hailing from Tamil Nadu at Nagapatla beat when they were trying to cross into the Seshachalam hills near Chandragiri. Seeing the combing party, several operatives fled. The police seized axes and provisions meant for camping in the forest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/10-held-red-sanders-logs-worth-rs-1-crore-seized/article33735698.ece
03 February 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Parents involved in Madanapalle sibling muder case, say police||There is no other person except for the parents involved in the murder of Madanapalle siblings Alekhya and Divya Sai as CCTV footage support the theory, said Deputy SP (Madanapalle) A. Ravi Manohar Achari who is investigating the case. The Madanapalle police found the bodies of the siblings, aged 27 and 23 respectively, in a pool of blood in their house on January 24 night, while their parents showed signs of psychological imbalance. Social media account The couple, both highly educated and well placed in academic circles, baffled the police with their bizarre views on occult practices. In this backdrop, the police arrested them. The Deputy SP rejected many speculations surrounding the murder. “The social media account of Alekhya had no posts since January 22, two days before her murder. Investigation revealed that the account was not being handled or tampered with by any other person. The account of of Divya Sai was found inactive at the time of the murder. Though highly educated, the parents have not been maintaining any social media account,” the Deputy SP told The Hindu . Deputy SP clears air on rumours He observed that the black magician had nothing to do with the case. “The person has been living in Madanapalle and practising the vocation since five decades. The speculation that a Bengaluru-based mendicant had visited their house is also baseless,” he said. “The family is not worth hundreds of crores as being speculated. They have only one ancestral house which is now in the possession of Purushottam’s younger brother, a farmer,” the official said. ‘Parents now repenting’ The Deputy SP said the couple lodged in Madanapalle sub-jail is showing signs of getting back to normal. “If the medical officers advise their shifting for treatment, it would be done accordingly. We have reports that the couple is now repenting for what happened to their daughters,” he said. The incident A week prior to the murder, the younger girl who went for an outing and reportedly started behaving hysterically after returning home. The parents tried to clam her down by beating her up with neem leaves. They they might have hit her with a dumb-bell by accident which caused her death, the Deputy SP said. Mr. Ravi Manohar Achari observed that immediately after the death of her younger sister, Alekhya reportedly started behaving in a similar fashion and the parents might have repeated what they did to Divya Sai, he said. “Our inquiry with the family circles revealed that Padmaja’s mother and some of her close relatives had the history of psychological imbalance. We are probing the case from some more angles,” the Deputy SP added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/parents-killed-madanapalle-siblings-say-police/article33735572.ece
03 February 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Wetlands need to be preserved, says PCCF||Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Andhra Pradesh), N. Prateep Kumar, stressed on the importance of preservation of wetlands. Speaking at a programme held on World Wetlands Day, Mr. Prateep Kumar said that it was unfortunate that few people are aware of the need for preservation of wetlands, and said this is the cause behind the rapid extinction of wetlands. An area saturated with water either permanently or seasonally with characteristics of a distinct ecosystem is called a wetland. All wetlands have enormous ecological benefits , including trapping 20% carbon emissions naturally, slowing down floodwaters, stopping erosion, treasuring biodiversity, retaining water during dry periods, water purification and water cycle augmentation. The threat to ecosystems includes filling and dumping garbage and conversion of wetlands for non-wetland purposes. The World Wetland Day was celebrated for the first time on February 2, 1971. The PCCF released a poster on the occasion of Wetlands Day. World Wetland Forest director Farida Tample said that wetland preservation is essential for balancing ecology. Chief Conservator of Forests, Rahul Pandey, and Saravanan, CCF, Tirupati, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/wetlands-need-to-be-preserved-says-pccf/article33736229.ece
03 February 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Atchannaidu’s unruly conduct led to his arrest: Peddireddi||Minister for Panchayat Raj Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy has condemned the “false allegations” being levelled by the TDP on the arrest of its State president K. Atchannaidu. “The TDP leader’s unruly conduct has led to his arrest,” Mr. Ramachandra Reddy said while addressing the media at the YSRCP central office here on Tuesday. “Mr. Atchannaidu has threatened the YSRCP-backed candidate, K. Appanna, against filing his nomination papers for the Nimmada sarpanch post. The telephonic conversation of Mr. Atchannaidu purportedly threatening Mr. Appanna is doing the rounds in the social media,” the Minister said. The police filed a case and arrested Mr. Atchannaidu under the relevant sections, and it had nothing to do with the government, he made it clear. “TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu is falsely accusing Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for the arrest and trying to create a chaotic atmosphere in the village,” the Minister alleged. Cash-for-vote case “Mr. Naidu and State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar are working in tandem and echoing one another’s remarks,: he alleged. The SEC should speak about Mr. Naidu’s involvement in the cash-for-vote case while touring Chittoor district as he had broached several issues while touring in Kadapa, said Mr. Ramachandra Reddy. The Minister said he was suspecting a conspiracy behind the app for reporting irregularities in the elections being developed at a private company in Vijayawada. “However, we have to see its functioning,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/atchannaidus-unruly-conduct-led-to-his-arrest-peddireddi/article33736189.ece
03 February 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Focus on setting up special Disha Courts: CM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has asked the Home Department to focus on establishing basic amenities required for implementing the Disha Act. Addressing a review meeting on the Act at his camp office on Tuesday, he directed the officials to focus on setting up special Disha Courts and women help desks at the Disha Police Stations. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the Act ensured that a chargesheet was filed against the accused involved in atrocities against women and children in seven days. Cyber Kiosks He also reviewed the working of Cyber Kiosks, which had been set up in the urban areas. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy wanted the officials to set up boards indicating the directions to be followed while using the kiosks to lodge complaints. “The kiosks should be set up near educational institutions too. They should be named as Disha Cyber Kiosks. I also want wide publicity for various services provided under the Act at the Disha Police Stations, colleges, ward and village secretariats. Also, create awareness on the Act among ASHA workers and ANMs,” he said. The Chief Minister also directed the police to act swiftly on complaints and call the victims in distress. ‘Spandana’ at ward secretariats The Chief Minister further said that the personnel working in the ward and village secretariats should have uniforms and should conduct ‘Spandana’ programme every day for two hours. Earlier, the officials said that the Disha Act had proved to be a deterrent to the criminals as there was 7.5% reduction in crime rate in 2020 when compared to that of 2019. In 471 cases, chargesheets were filed within seven days, in 1,080 cases chargesheets were filed in 15 days and in 103 cases, there were convictions, they said. ‘Cyber bullying’ was also being treated sternly, they said. The police had booked 1,531 cases, they added. The officials also explained that they had analysed the data of 1.40 lakh criminals involved in molestation. With regard to the Disha App, the officials explained that 12 lakh people had downloaded the app, and action had been taken in 799 incidents. This apart, 154 FIRs had been filed. Taking a cue from Andhra Pradesh, the States of Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Himachal Pradesh, and Madhya Pradesh too had enacted the Disha Act, the officials said. Minister for Home M. Sucharitha, Director General of Police D. Gautam Sawang, Disha special officers Kruttika Shukla and Deepika Patel, Secretary, Women and Child Welfare, A.R. Anuradha, and Special Chief Secretary Poonam Malakondaiah were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/focus-on-setting-up-special-disha-courts-cm/article33736199.ece
03 February 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan moots ‘Rythu Bharosa police stations’||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has mooted ‘Rythu Bharosa police station’ in every district. During a review meeting on the Disha Act on Tuesday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that the police should stand by the farmers who were victims of frauds in the sale of seed and fertilizers, and who were cheated by the commission agents at the market yards. “I am thinking of how the police system works for the farmers and ensure that they are not taken for a ride by the traders,” the Chief Minister said. “To begin with, set up a help desk for farmers on the lines of the one for women, and later think of integrating the Rythu Bharosa Kendras with the police stations. I want the officers to work out the modalities and come with a proper action plan,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-moots-rythu-bharosa-police-stations/article33736188.ece
03 February 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEC working with mala fide intentions: Sajjala||Adviser to Chief Minister (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy has said that State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar has been working with mala fide intentions. Mr. Ramesh Kumar did not care to pay a visit to Nimmada, or enquire into the incident in the village, where TDP State president K. Atchannaidu was involved in threatening a candidate over filing of nomination papers for the panchayat elections, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy alleged at a press conference here on Tuesday. There were no elections at Nimmada for nearly a decade, and nearly seven persons, who either filed nominations or raised questions, had been brutally murdered in the past, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy alleged. “Why did Mr. Ramesh Kumar not visit Nimmada? Why did he not order an inquiry into the Nimmada incident, even as he visited a distressed family in East Godavari and suspended policemen holding them responsible for the incident?” he questioned. Speaking on the special app designed by the SEC for reporting irregularities, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said the SEC refused to use the Nigha app designed by the government and was going for a new one from a private company. He suggested using the State-owned app, or C-Vigil developed by NIC and used by Central Election Commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sec-working-with-mala-fide-intentions-sajjala/article33736190.ece
03 February 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Local holidays on polling days in Guntur||Collector and District Election Authority A.S. Dinesh Kumar has issued orders declaring local holidays on the days of polling — February 9, 13, 17, and 21 — for all government offices, local bodies and government institutions in areas where elections to the the office of Sarpanch and ward members of gram panchayats will take place in Guntur district, under the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881. Mr. Dinesh Kumar said that in view of elections, the managements of those undertakings and firms are requested to declare on poll days a paid holiday in the areas concerned for the elections and that any other subsequent holiday may be made a working day. Further, Central government employees who are bonafide voters and desire to exercise their franchise are also permitted to avail the facility subject to normal exigencies of service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/local-holidays-on-polling-days-in-guntur/article33735573.ece
03 February 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEB seizes Rs. 30 lakh ‘unaccounted’ cash||The Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) of the Police Department seized cash of Rs. 30 lakh from a car at Eguvapalle in Kadapa district on Tuesday. SEB sleuths were conducting a routine inspection of vehicles entering the district in view of the panchayat elections, when they intercepted the car coming from Hyderabad and found wads of currency notes tied in bundles in it. With those travelling in the car failing to provide supporting documents, the cash was marked as ‘unaccounted’ and seized. The police seized the car as well and handed the property over to the Pendlimarri Police Station. Police said they were waiting for the passengers to submit valid documentary evidence to claim the cash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seb-seizes-rs-30-lakh-unaccounted-cash/article33735575.ece
03 February 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Will examine aspirant’s plea to postpone poll’||State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar on Tuesday assured S. Pushpavathi, a sarpanch aspirant, of examining the possibility to postpone the election to the Gollalagunta gram panchayat in East Godavari in response to an appeal made by her. Mr. Ramesh Kumar met Ms. Pushpavathi to console her over the death of her husband, Srinivas Reddy, who reportedly ended his life by hanging on Monday. Speaking to newsmen later, he appealed to parties not to politicise the death. “The police are investigating the case and District Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy will follow up the issue.” “I have been requested by Ms. Pushpalatha to postpone the election and it is possible on the grounds of humanity. Family members of the deceased have been assured of police protection,” said Mr. Ramesh Kumar. On Sunday morning, Srinivas Reddy was allegedly abducted by some miscreants to prevent his wife from filing nomination papers. Later, he was traced in the nearby forest. On Monday, Mr. Srinivas Reddy was found hanging from a tree in a field in the village after the police sent him back following preliminary inquiry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/will-examine-aspirants-plea-to-postpone-poll/article33736192.ece
03 February 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Too many unanimous wins dampen spirit of elections’||A.P. State Election Commission Chairman Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar on Tuesday said that the percentage of unanimous election of Sarpanches was below seven in the previous elections in East Godavari district. ‘Good sign’ Speaking to reporters at a press conference here, Mr. Ramesh Kumar said; “The Election Commission is not discouraging the unanimous wins in Sarpanch elections. However, too many unanimous wins will dampen the spirit of the elections. It is a good sign that more aspirants are keen to be in the fray in East Godavari district". “A dedicated mechanism developed by the Election Commission to watch and monitor the polling exercise will begin function from Wednesday. However, the mechanism will not be an alternative to the media,” Mr. Ramesh Kumar said. “The Commission will continue to take inputs from the media to conduct the election peacefully. Security arrangements and other preparedness measures are in full swing in the district,” he said. East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar, Joint Collectors G. Lakshmisha, Ch. Kirthi, Eluru Range DIG K.V. Mohana Rao and other officials explained the preparedness measures and nomination exercise in the district during the review meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/too-many-unanimous-wins-dampen-spirit-of-elections/article33736193.ece
03 February 2021||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||3,004 ‘trouble-mongers’ bound over in Krishna district||Police have identified 3,004 suspected trouble-mongers, including rowdy, history and suspect sheeters, dossier criminals and political trouble mongers in Krishna district, and all of them have been bound over for peaceful conduct of gram panchayat elections, said Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu. Security has been tightened at all border checkposts on A.P.-Telangana border to prevent liquor smuggling, flow of cash and entry of rowdy elements into the State. Panchayat elections are being conducted in 870 villages and 1,827 polling stations have been set up. Officials identified 487 as sensitive and 386 hyper-sensitive, and six inaccessible polling centres located in island villages. Preventive Detention (PD) Act had been invoked on five persons, who were allegedly involved in anti-social activities, ID liquor brewing and smuggling of non-duty paid liquor and gutkha smuggling. Instructions had been given to Nandigama, Gudivada, Nuzvid, Avanigadda and Machilipatnam Deputy Superintendents of Police (DSPs) and Station House Officers (SHOs) to keep a vigil on the movement of suspicious persons. “Cordon and search, vehicle checking and flag march was conducted in Machilipatnam, Jaggaiahpeta, Kanchikacherla, Nagayalanka, Mopidevi, Vatsavai, Kaikalur and other places. Instructions have been given to the police officers to visit the polling stations,” Mr. Babu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3004-trouble-mongers-bound-over-in-krishna-district/article33736282.ece
03 February 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. staff to take jab in second phase||The stage is set for the rollout of the second phase of the COVID vaccination programme in South Coastal districts from Wednesday. The staff members from the departments of Panchayatraj, Revenue and Municipal Administration will take the jab. 128 session sites in Nellore As many as 128 session sites have been set up to administer the vaccine to over 30,000 State government employees, said Nellore District Medical and Health Officer S.Rajyalakhsmi while overseeing arrangements for the massive exercise. As many as 18,000 of the 29,000 targeted health workers have been covered so far in the district. The vaccination drive was suspended in view of the three-day pulse polio programme. In Prakasam district, the programme picked up pace with health workers in private hospitals coming forward to get immunized. Over 13,000 health workers were covered during the first phase. Preference would be given to the staff members posted to oversee conduct of local body elections from Wednesday. “We plan to cover over 40,000 government staff during the second phase,” Prakasam DMHO P. Ratnavalli said. Health workers who have been left out during the first phase of the programme would also be given another opportunity to take the jab. Meanwhile, Prakasam district reported zero cases in the last 24 hours, while two persons tested positive in Nellore district. With this, active cases have come down further to 130 in the two coastal districts which clocked 99% recovery rate. There were no deaths in the two districts in the last one month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-staff-to-take-jab-in-second-phase/article33736186.ece
03 February 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man gets lifer for murdering wife, son||A 30-year-old man was convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment for murdering his wife and 18-month-old son at Mangapuram village, near Podili, in Prakasam district five years ago. VIth Additional District Judge of Markapur S. Rajani upheld the prosecution that the man, S. Ramana Reddy, fatally hit the duo with a pestle suspecting her fidelity, on November 1, 2015, Additional Superintendent of Police B. Ravichandra, who probed the case as Podili Circle Inspector then, said in a release on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-gets-lifer/article33736141.ece
03 February 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Thyagaraja Aradhana held||Religious fervour marked Thyagaraja Aradhana held in Ongole to mark the 174th death anniversary of the saint-composer on Tuesday. Special puja was performed to the saint who composed umpteen Carnatic songs in praise of Lord Rama in Telugu, while Vedic chants rented the air. In Tirupati, students and musicians paid a musical tribute to Sri Thyagaraja at Sri Venkateswara College of Music and Dance. The mass rendition of his five classical gems, collectively called as ‘Pancharatna Kritis’ stood out as the highlight of the show during the ‘Brunda Ganam’, in which music exponents joined to lend their voice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/thyagaraja-aradhana-held/article33736187.ece
03 February 2021||PALAKOL (WEST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Will take false cases to notice of SEC: Veerraju||BJP State president Somu Veerraju has said the party will complain to the State Election Commission (SEC) on the false cases filed against the party leaders and on unanimous decisions in the gram panchayat elections. Addressing the media here on Tuesday, Mr. Veerraju alleged that the police were foisting false cases against the BJP cadres to prevent them from filing nominations in the panchayat elections. “In Vizianagaram district, the police are harassing the party activists on the pretext of counselling. In East Godavari, the police are booking party leaders in cockfight and gambling cases,” Mr. Veerraju said, and added that the party would take the matter to the notice of SEC. ‘Budget pro-poor’ Referring to the Union Budget, Mr. Veerraju said top priority had been accorded to health, agriculture, education, infrastructure, and skill development, and termed that it was pro-poor. The BJP leader blamed the YSRCP government for misguiding the people on the allotment of funds by the Centre. “Rythu Bharosa Kendras, Nadu-Nedu, housing, panchayat office buildings, school compound walls and many other works have been taken up with the MGNREGS funds, but the government is giving false information,” he alleged. “Education sector in the State has been pushed into crisis and the quality of education has come down. Though the Centre has been allotting good amounts to the priority sectors in Andhra Pradesh, the State government is suppressing the facts,” he alleged. The Ministry of Railways completed doubling of tracks in 670 km with Rs. 5,800 crore in the State, he said. Later, Mr. Verraju held a meeting with the district party leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/will-take-false-cases-to-notice-of-sec-veerraju/article33735579.ece
03 February 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Atchannaidu remanded for 14 days||TDP State president and Tekkali MLA Kinjarapu Atchannaidu was arrested in the early hours of Tuesday on the charge of preventing the YSRCP-backed candidate, Kinjarapu Appanna, from filing his nomination papers for the panchayat elections at Nimmada, the home turf of the TDP leader. Mr. Atchannaidu was produced in the Kotabommali court, which remanded and sent him to Ampolu sub-jail for 14 days. As many as 22 TDP leaders and activists had so far been arrested in the case. Mr. Atchnnaidu’s close relatives K. Hariprasad and K. Suresh were named accused number one and two respectively in the case. The TDP State president was named accused number three. Policemen, who included officers of the rank of the DSP and CI, were deployed to prevent agitations during the arrest of Mr. Atchannaidu. Leaders condemn arrest The police confined the villagers to their houses so as not to give them the scope to register their protest, or take photographs or make a video recording of the arrest. Srikakulam MP Kinjarapu Rammohan Naidu, TDP Srikakulam parliamentary wing president Kuna Ravikumar, and former MLA Gunda Lakshmi Devi condemned the arrest of Mr. Atchannaidu and sought his immediate release. “The police have not filed a case against YSRCP leader Duvvada Srinivas, who is in fact responsible for violence at Nimmada, a village known for maintaining a peaceful atmosphere. The government is trying to win the election by hook or by crook. People will teach the government a lesson,” Mr. Rammohan Naidu said. He further objected to the proposed visit of YSRCP Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy to Nimmada. “Mr. Vijaya Sai is supposed to protect the interests of the State by raising issues such as SCS and railway zone in the ongoing Parliament session. But he is intruding into the panchayat elections,” said Mr. Rammohan Naidu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-leader-atchannaidu-remanded-for-14-days/article33735503.ece
03 February 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Win maximum seats, YSRCP leaders told||YSRCP Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy on Tuesday directed party leaders to ensure a victory in the maximum number of panchayats in Srikakulam district by highlighting the welfare programmes of the government. Mr. Vijaya Sai held a review meeting with former Minister Dharmana Prasada Rao, YSRCP district president Killi Kruparani, Kalinga Vysya Corporation chairman A. Suribabu, and other leaders here. Mr.Vijaya Sai, who was scheduled to visit Nimmada to meet the family members of Kinjarapu Appanna who were reportedly prevented from filing nomination papers, cancelled his trip at the last minute in the backdrop of the arrest of senior TDP leader K. Atchannaidu. Party leaders reportedly requested him not to visit Nimmada as it would lead to more tension and clashes between YSRCP and TDP cadres. Mr. Vijaya Sai stayed at Mr. Prasada Rao’s residence and reviewed the preparedness for the polls though they are conducted without party symbols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/win-maximum-seats-ysrcp-leaders-told/article33736197.ece
03 February 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Arrack sachets seized||The Special Enforcement Bureau(SEB) of Excise Department seized 8,400 arrack sachets near Chinnakarrivanipalem in Kaviti mandal in Srikakulam district on Tuesday, said Circle Inspector J. Janardhana Rao. The inspector said that the huge quantity of arrack, reportedly being brought from Odisha, was sold in border areas of the district. He said they were being carried in plastic bags and dumped in beach areas all along A.P.-Odisha coastal areas. Mr. Janardana Rao said that joint teams from the two States have cracked down on illicit liquor dumps in several parts previously.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/arrack-sachets-seized/article33736220.ece
03 February 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Police are crossing all their limits’||TDP State president and MLA K. Atchannaidu, who was arrested at Nimmada on Tuesday, alleged that the police were crossing all their limits and harassing him with false cases at the behest of the powers that be in the government. “The policemen who have misused their power will face the music after the TDP forms the government in the future. I will then request party national president N. Chandrababu Naidu to allocate me the Home portfolio. It enables me to initiate action against the police officers, including Tekkali DSP and Circle Inspector,” he said. “I am not aware of the tension that reportedly prevailed during the nomination filing process of YSRCP-backed candidate K. Appanna. But a case has been booked against me and other TDP leaders. Instead of giving me a notice, I have been arrested. The police have entered my bedroom without any prior information. It is highly unwarranted,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-are-crossing-all-their-limits/article33736194.ece
03 February 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||A musical tribute to Saint Tyagaraja||Students and musicians paid a musical tribute to Sadguru Sri Tyagaraja, the first of the Carnatic music’s trinity, on his 174th death anniversary, observed as ‘Pushya Bahula Panchami Aradhanotsavam’ at Sri Venkateswara College of Music and Dance here on Tuesday. The mass rendition of his five classical gems, collectively called as ‘Pancharatna Kritis’ stood out as the highlight of the show during the ‘Brunda Ganam’, in which teachers, old students and music exponents of the temple city joined to lend their voice. Members of the audience remained spellbound at the group concert, in which violin, flute and Mridangam instrumentalists also excelled. Earlier, special puja was performed to the idol of saint Thyagaraja, consecrated at the college alongside the deities of Sri Nataraja and portraits of Sita and Rama. TTD’s Deputy Executive Officer (Education) C. Govindarajan, College principal Jamuna Rani, SV Recording Project OSD A.V. Sharma were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/musical-tributes-paid-to-saint-tyagaraja/article33736223.ece
03 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||An ode to Saint Tyagaraja||Pancharathna Kritis reverberated around the Ghantasala Venkateswara Rao College of Music and Dance here as Carnatic singers and musicians converged to pay musical homage to composer Tyagaraja on Tuesday. The calendar event organised by the city-based Sangeeta Sanmandali was attended by a large number of music lovers. Sublime performances by the musicians enthralled the visitors. The celebrations began with a ‘nagara sankeertan’. The artistes took out a procession from the music college carrying idols of Anjaneya Swamy and Tyagaraja. This was followed by a musical tribute to Tyagaraja. Both vocalists and instrumentalists paid their tributes in an hour-long ‘brindagaanam’ as part of the ‘Sadguru Sri Tyagaraja Swamivari Aaradhana Sangeethotsavam’. The vocalists performed an ensemble of Pancharatna Kritis composed by Tyagaraja that are considered to be the five crowning jewels of Carnatic music. ‘Jagadanandakaaraka’ in Naata Raga, ‘Dudukugala Nanne’ (Gowla Raga), ‘Saadhinchane’ (Aarabhi Raga), ‘Kanakanaruchira’ (Varali Raga) and ‘Endaro Mahanubhavulu’ (Sri Raga) captivated the audience. The vocalists began rendition of Tyagaraja’s pancharatna keertanas in unison with artistes playing mridangam, morsing, violin, veena and gatam. It was a rare musical treat for music buffs as the college environs reverberated with songs hailing the Almighty. The performances drew widespread applause from the audience. This was followed up by a vocal concert by noted vocalist Malladi Suribabu, who hailed Tyagaraja for taking Carnatic music to new heights. “Even the raagas wished to be sanctified through the saint-poet. We owe much of the joy we experience in Carnatic music to the saint-poet,” he said. C.V.P. Sastry, Popuri Gowrinath, Ganduri Srinivas and others of the Sanmandali, college principal K.S. Varadarajan and others took part in the celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/an-ode-to-saint-tyagaraja/article33735577.ece
03 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP leader attacked in Vijayawada||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national official spokesperson K. Pattabhi Ram was attacked by unidentified miscreants near his residence in the city on Tuesday. His car’s front and rear windshields were damaged in the attack. Mr. Pattabhi Ram said that a mob of 15 persons attacked his vehicle with rods. They surrounded the car and attacked the driver while he was on his way to the party office, he alleged. Stating that he had received threatening calls 10 days ago, he alleged that the police did not respond to his requests for protection. Recalling that his vehicle was damaged earlier too, he alleged that he was attacked for ‘uncovering’ scams by ruling party YSRCP leaders. “I will not be cowed down by such attacks, and will continue to expose the corruption and failures of the government,” he said. TDP national president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu and other senior leaders rushed to his residence in a show of support. “The attack reflects the lawlessness prevailing under the YSRCP regime. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is supporting the ruffians,” he alleged, adding the police should respond immediately and arrest the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-leader-attacked-in-vijayawada/article33736202.ece
03 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||10.26 lakh children enrolled in Anganwadi pre-schools||As many as 10,26,580 children, aged three to six years, have been enrolled in 55,607 Anganwandi centres, which were renamed as Anganwadi pre-schools, out of 12,18,239 children identified in the State. In all, 8,35,209 children attended school on the first day on Monday, after reopening of the centres after the pandemic. The staff served mid-day meals to 8,34,595 students in the pre-schools, Women Development and Child Welfare (WD&CW) Director Kritika Shukla said. Visakhapatnam district has enrolled 1,17,058 students, the highest in the State, followed by 1,02,003 students in Anantapur district, 99,102 students in East Godavari, and 97,380 in Kurnool district. Regarding attendance in pre-schools, 98,806 children attended classes on the first day in East Godavari district, 96,255 in Visakhapatnam and 76,062 children in Prakasam district in strict adherence to COVID-19 protocols, Ms. Shukla said on Tuesday. The mid-day meal scheme is being implemented at all Anganwadi pre-schools in the State. The staff will serve rice, dal and rasam under the scheme, the Director said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/1026-lakh-children-enrolled-in-anganwadi-pre-schools/article33736272.ece
03 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State records two deaths, 104 new cases in 24 hours||The State witnessed two coronavirus deaths and 104 new cases in the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning, taking the tally to 8,88,004 and the toll to 7,156. The number of active cases came down to 1,197 as 147 patients recovered in the past day. The total number of recoveries was put at 8,79,651 and the recovery rate was 99.06%. In the past day, 29,309 samples were tested with a positivity rate of 0.35%. So far, 1.318 crore samples have been tested, with the overall positivity rate of 6.73%. Guntur and Krishna districts reported one death each. Visakhapatnam reported 27 new infections, the highest single-day tally among the districts in the past day while Prakasam reported no new cases Krishna district reported 25 new cases while Chittoor reported 17. The remaining nine districts reported new cases in single digits. They include Guntur (8), East Godavari (6), West Godavari (5), Kadapa (4), Anantapur (3), Kurnool (3), Nellore (2), Srikakulam (2) and Vizianagaram (2). Active cases Even as the active cases are on the decline across the State, the same in Krishna district is increasing of late. As on Tuesday morning, Krishna has 277 active cases, nearly a quarter (23.14%) of the total. Vizianagaram has only 12 active cases while Srikakulam has 19 active cases. West Godavari has 87 active cases, followed by Nellore (73), Kadapa (69), Prakasam (57), Kurnool (45) and Anantapur (37). The districts with more than 100 active cases include Visakhapatnam (124), Chittoor (129), Guntur (132) and East Godavari (136). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,24,281), West Godavari (94,241), Chittoor (87,056), Guntur (75,519), Anantapur (67,651), Nellore (62,335), Prakasam (62,175), Kurnool (60,821), Visakhapatnam (59,800), Kadapa (55,272), Krishna (48,695), Srikakulam (46,128) and Vizianagaram (41,135).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-records-two-covid-deaths-104-new-infections/article33736204.ece
03 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||LVPEI introduces special scleral contact lenses||L.V. Prasad Eye Institute (LVPEI)'s Kode Venkatadri Chowdary campus in the city has introduced the special scleral contact lenses for its patients for the first time. The lenses benefit patients suffering from advanced corneal diseases, complex eye problems and patients who underwent surgeries like corneal transplantation and others. In a release, LVPEI Vijayawada cornea consultant Sushank Abhalerao said that LVPEI city facility was now equipped to offer the best quality-specialised scleral lenses to its patients. He said, patients with advanced corneal eye problems like dry eyes, post-LASIK dry eyes, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, keratoconus, corneal grafts, chemical and thermal burn injuries, regular contact lens users unhappy with their vision or people unable to see clearly despite glasses and surgery, hugely benefit from these lenses. The LVPEI facility is ISO 13485:2016 certified and accredited by the British Standards Institute (BSI) for its quality management. The Kode Venkatadri Chowdary (KVC) Campus at Tadigadapa is a third tertiary eye care centre of LVPEI and over 661,964 outpatient examinations and 62,218 surgeries have been performed since 2011. Dr. Sushank said 36% of the examinations and 53% of the surgeries were done free of cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lvpei-introduces-special-scleral-contact-lenses/article33736276.ece
03 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APMERC board formed||The State Government has constituted a board for the Andhra Pradesh Medical Education and Research Corporation (AMERC), which was established for the revitalisation of tertiary hospitals and health care services, strengthening of existing hospitals and nursing colleges. Construction of new hospitals, medical and nursing colleges will also be taken care of by the corporation. It was stated that Health, Medical and Family Welfare Secretary to the government has named the chairman of the c orporation. Secretary to Government, Finance Department, Commissioner, Health and Family Welfare, CEO of Dr. YSR Arogyasri Health Care Trust, Vice Chairman and MD, APMSIDC, Commissioner, A.P. Vaidya Vidhana Parishad and Director of Medical Education, (Admn) were named members of the Corporation board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apmerc-board-formed/article33736278.ece
03 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Second phase of COVID vaccination begins today||Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Health, Medical and Family Welfare Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas has said that the second phase of vaccination against COVID-19 will begin on Wednesday and it will cover the employees of Panchayat Raj, Municipal and Revenue and sanitation workers. Addressing the media at Secretariat on Tuesday, Mr. Srinivas said that in the first phase of vaccination drive 48.90% of the beneficiaries were given the vaccine so far. A total of 3,88,307 beneficiaries, including frontliners, have registered for the vaccination and 1,89,890 of them were administered with the first dose. For the second phase, 5.90 lakh beneficiaries have registered and 3,181 session sites are available for the drive across the State, according to the Minister. Mr. Srinivas said that the beneficiaries included in the first phase have apprehensions over the efficacy and safety of vaccine due to which vaccine couldn't be administered to them. He said that the government was having a closer look at AEFI cases and all arrangements were in place to deal with them. The kin of ASHA worker, who died after COVID vaccination, was given Rs. 50-lakh compensation and Dr. Dhanalakshmi, a government doctor in Ongole, who fell ill post-vaccination was shifted to a corporate hospital in Chennai, he said. Principal Secretary to Government (Health, Medical and Family Welfare) Anil Kumar Singhal said that for the second phase 1.89 lakh police, 1.55 lakh municipal and 3.32 lakh revenue employees have registered in the Co-WIN app. Currently, the State has 16.31 lakh COVID vaccine doses, he said. Undiagnosed illness Regarding the undiagnosed illness reported in West Godavari, Mr. Srinivas said that the government was closely monitoring the situation as 600 persons fell sick since December 5 in East Godavari and West Godavari districts. The government has already formed 21-member committee to investigate the cause of the illness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/second-phase-of-vaccination-begins-today-across-the-state/article33735570.ece
03 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEB seizes 211 vehicles||The Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) has booked a total of 1,728 cases and arrested 1,262 persons apart from seizing 211 vehicles. The total number of persons bound over were 11,034. During vehicle checking at Panchalingala check-post in Kurnool district, the officials detected an ornament gold case and seized 170 pieces of jewellery weighing 3.799 kg, studded with 3.42 kg of gold, 439.11 carats of diamonds. Two persons were involved in the case. Total cost of the jewellery was about Rs. 2.47 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seb-seizes-211-vehicles/article33736200.ece
03 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Interviews for lecturer posts from Feb. 10||The Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission will conduct oral test (interviews) for the post of lecturers in government degree colleges as part of A.P. Collegiate Education Service from February 10 to 25. The APPSC has made available onhttps://psc.ap.gov.inthe schedule for verification of original certificates followed by oral test and along with call letter (memo), check list, attestation form, non-creamy layer certificate and deformity certificate (if required), for the provisionally qualified candidates. It has also displayed on its website the list of candidates provisionally selected for the post of junior lecturers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/interviews-for-lecturer-posts-to-be-conducted-from-february-10/article33735578.ece
03 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Injustice meted out to State in Union Budget, allege CPI leaders||The CPI leaders got their heads tonsured near the Gandhi statue here on Tuesday in protest against the reported injustice done to the State in the Union Budget. CPI City secretary M. Pydiraju, executive member K. Satyanarayana and party leader M. Srinivas got their heads tonsured. A.P. Mahila Samakhya State executive president A. Vimala and leader G. Jayamma got their hair cut in protest. Addressing the gathering, CPI State assistant secretary J.V. Satyanarayana Murthy deplored the injustice done to the State. He said there was no allocation of funds for the Visakhapatnam railway zone (South Coast Railway zone), Special Category Status (SCS) and special package to the backward districts of north Andhra and Rayalaseema and the Polavaram project, which was declared as a national project. He alleged that the Budget was prepared to benefit corporates. There was no mention on funds for operationalisation of the Visakhapatnam-headquartered S Co R. The YSR Congress Party government has also failed to exert pressure on the Centre to fulfil the assurances given in the A.P. Reorganisation Act, 2014, he said. On the other hand, profit making PSUs were planned to be sold to corporates, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpi-leaders-get-their-heads-tonsured-to-protest-injustice-to-state/article33736225.ece
03 February 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Motivate voters to exercise their franchise in panchayat polls: SEC||Expressing satisfaction over the arrangements made by the district administration for the upcoming panchayat election, State Election Commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar, urged the administration to motivate the voters to express their franchise, without any fear or worry. The district administration of Visakhapatnam has done a good job making the arrangements, but the polling percentage of the district has always been lower compared to the State’s average. When the State’s average is about 85%, Visakhapatnama clocks around 75%, he said. It is up to the district administration to convey the message that all arrangements have been made, keeping the COVID-19 pandemic in mind and voters need not fear, he said. He was speaking to the media after holding a review meet with the district administration, which was attended by District Collector V. Vinay Chand, Commissioner of Police Manish Kumar Sinha, DIG (Visakhapatnam range) L.K.V. Ranga Rao, Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao, election observer Praveen Kumar and other senior officials from various departments. The SEC is on a two-day tour of the North Coastal districts and is accompanied by Additional DG N. Sanjay. The SEC further said Election Commissioner’s office is an impartial Constitution body and the office goes by the guidelines enshrined in the Constitution. Speaking about the necessity of the panchayat polls, Mr. Ramesh Kumar said, “When elections are held for Parliament and the State Assemblies on time, why there is delay or doubt over conducting local body polls, including panchayat elections. Local bodies such as Panchayat is the stepping stone for democracy and governance and that is why it should be held without any apprehensions or delay.” Unanimous elections Critical about unanimous elections, he said, “Getting elected unanimously is not right for democracy. In democracy, opportunity should be given to every voice, including the weakest ones.” The SEC also informed the media that a special cell will be opened at the SEC’s office on Tuesday for receiving complaints and urged the media to give impartial feedback on the ongoing election process. Expressing concern over the reported death of the husband of a Sarpanch candidate at Gollalagunta under Jaggampeta police station limits in East Godavari, he said that he will visit the area to get a first hand information in the incident. On Monday, the body of Sabbella Srinivas Reddy (45) was found hanging from a tree under mysterious circumstances. His wife S. Pushpavathi had filed her nominations for sarpanch of Gollalagunta panchayat on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/motivate-voters-to-exercise-their-franchise-in-panchayat-polls-sec/article33736289.ece
03 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||JSP seeks probe into death of Srikakulam student||General Secretary of Jana Sena Party (JSP) Bolisetty Satyanarayana demanded a detailed probe into the death of an engineering student from Nuvvalarevu village. Addressing a press conference here on Tuesday, he said that it has been close to one week since the incident had happened, and so far the police are clueless. The partially burnt body of Muvvala Nagesh (18), a resident of Nuvvalarevu village in Vajrapukotturu mandal, Srikakulam district, was found near Sitampeta village in Ranastalam mandal, on January 27. Nagesh was studying engineering first year at a private engineering college in Etcherla. According to Mr. Satyanarayana, the student hailed from fishing community who inhabit Nuvvalarevu village. He was the first from the village to join an engineering college. He joined the college in the first week of January and had come home on January 21. He had returned to the college on January 26 for the Republic Day celebrations and next day his partially burnt body was found in a field. “We suspect ragging and he might have been assaulted in his room, before being dragged to the field where he was burnt alive, as traces of blood was found in his hostel room,” said Mr. Satyanarayana. “JSP president Pawan Kalyan had asked me and Mr. Shiva Shankar to visit the village and the college to find out what had happened. What we understand is that so far the police have not made any headway in the investigation,” he alleged. “Minister of Animal Husbandry and Dairy Development Seediri Appalaraju, who also hails from the same area and community, had visited the village and promised quick investigation, but even then nothing has moved,” said Mr. Satyanarayana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jsp-seeks-probe-into-death-of-srikakulam-student/article33736226.ece
03 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSERMC members detect flaws at a corporate college||Members of the Andhra Pradesh School Education Regulatory and Monitoring Committee (APSERMC) visited a corporate junior college in CBM Compound area on Tuesday and found a number of issues in the institution. Speaking to The Hindu , APSERMC member V. Narayana Reddy said that the institution was primarily not following and implementing G.O. 57, which regulates the fee collection. According to the G.O., all institutions are supposed to give a concession of 30% on fees and collect only 70% of the tuition fees, keeping COVID pandemic in view. But in this case, they were collecting full fees ranging from Rs. 90,000 to Rs. 1.3 lakh, including fees for library, computer labs and playground, without having or providing any of these facilities, said Prof. Reddy. ‘Washrooms not clean’ The APSERMC members also said that no drinking was provided to the students and the washrooms were not cleaned and not hygienic. “Most importantly, 105 students were accommodated in a class of 30 students. The COVID protocols of social distancing was not being maintained and we are proceeding for criminal case against the institution,” said Prof. Reddy. “The Commission, which has already toured Vijayawada and Tirupati, will soon submit a report to the government for action against a number of institutions. Already we have banned close to 75 errant institutions,” he said. Speaking about a major private school in the CBM Compound area, he said that the school management had refused to accept and implement G.O. 57 and the commission was submitting a report to the State government. “We will also write to the CBSE Board recommending the cancellation of the affiliation,” he said.  ‘Parents to blame’ APSERMC member C.A.V. Prasad said that parents are to be blamed as they do not come forward to protest against the injustice. “Moreover, they force their wards to join such corporate schools and colleges, with the intention of making them engineers and doctors, without caring to understand the children’s wishes and inclination,” he said. “Schools are meant for holistic development and this is not being followed by most of them,” said Dr. Prasad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apsermc-members-detect-flaws-at-a-corporate-college/article33736290.ece
03 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 24,000 officials to be drafted for polls||About 24,765 men and officers from various government departments will be deployed for election duties at 9,556 polling stations which have been readied for the panchayat elections in the four divisions of the district – Anakapalle, Narsipatnam, Paderu and Visakhapatnam. The arrangements were discussed at a review meeting held by State Election Commissioner, here on Tuesday. According to a release from the district administration, as many as 3,306 polling stations have been identified in Anakapalle division where the first phase of elections are going to be held on February 9. As many as 3,939 ballot boxes were given to this division. Similarly, 3,647 ballot boxes have been allotted to Narsipatnam divison, where the second phase of elections will be held on February 13. The officials set up 2,604 polling stations in this division. Similarly, Paderu where the third phase of elections will have about 2,446 polling stations for which 3,364 ballot boxes are going to be allotted. The officials have identified 1,200 polling stations to organise gram panchayat elections in Vizag division and will be allotting 1,850 ballot boxes. The ballot boxes used in the first phase of election will be shifted for the third phase. Similarly, the boxes used in second phase will be again used in the fourth phase. The officials said that all the ballot boxes were distributed to mandals organising phase I and II elections and all the boxes are in good condition. By February 1, the officials have appointed 8,642 polling officers and assistant polling officers, and they will be assisted by 964 polling staff. The district officials have also appointed Returning Officers and Assistant Returning officers to all the divisions. Training classes are being conducted at every division at least for two times. According to the officials, they have arranged around 20 lakh ballot papers. A total of 962 counting centres including one in every gram panchayat were arranged. Control rooms have been set up for to implementation of Model Code of Conduct and also to receive general complaints related to elections. Monitoring teams were formed to check election related issues||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-24000-officials-to-be-drafted-for-polls/article33736286.ece
03 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Linking every issue to CM not fair: Krishna Das||All arrests, attacks and unfortunate events cannot be linked to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy or YSR Congress Party, said Deputy Chief Minister and Revenue Minister Dharmana Krishna Das. He was addressing the media here on Tuesday, after TDP MLA and the party’s State president Kinjarapu Atchannaidu was arrested at his home in Nimmada of Srikakulam district. The Minister pointed out that the TDP leader was arrested after a complaint was lodged by YSRCP-supported sarpanch candidate for Nimmada, Kinjarapu Appanna. Mr. Krishna Das alleged that Atchannaidu threatened Mr. Appanna to withdraw from the fray. Based on this he was arrested, but TDP leaders were blaming the Chief Minister for it. With regard to the attack on TDP leader Pattabhi in Vijayawada, he said: “Any attack on any political leader or any person was unfortunate and should be condemned. But unless you have proof of who engineered the attack, you should refrain from blaming anyone. But without losing a minute and without any proof, TDP leaders, including party’s national president N. Chandrababu Naidu, have cast aspersions on the Chief Minister and the YSRCP leaders.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/linking-every-issue-to-cm-not-fair-krishna-das/article33736203.ece
03 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||MGCHRI bags ‘Mahatma Award’ for cancer care||Mahatma Gandhi Cancer Hospital and Research Institute (MGCHRI), Visakhapatnam, has bagged the “Mahatma Award” for ‘social good in cancer care’ in recognition of its distinguished services in the field of oncology. Dr. Murali Krishna Voonna, MD of the hospital, received the award from Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Amit Sachdev on the 73rd death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, in New Delhi, on January 30. “The award motivates us to work harder. We have performed 850 cancer surgeries during the pandemic,” said Dr. Murali Krishna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mgchri-bags-mahatma-award-for-cancer-care/article33736294.ece
03 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||NTPC-Simhadri to hike its capacity by 25 MW||NTPC- Simhadri will augment its production capacity by another 25 mw, by mid of this year, taking the total capacity to 2,025 MW. Addressing the media on Tuesday, NTPC Simhadri’s Group General Manager Diwakar Kaushik said that a 25 MW floating solar plant on its 155-acre reservoir, is being installed and it will be ready by June this year. “We already have four functional units of 500 mw each and this will take the total capacity to 2025 mw,” he said. He also pointed out that the COVID-19 pandemic has also affected the power sector and Simhadri had experienced a grid loss of 7,375 mw, due to low demand from the buyer States. Mr. Kaushik also explained that the plant was going for 100% utilisation of ash. He also said that the plant was aiming for 100% FGD (Flue-gas desulfurization) in all units for SO2 (sulphur dioxide) reduction before December 2022 and Combustion Modification for Nox (nitrogen oxide) reduction by December 2021. He said that consumption of sweet water has reduced to 18.1 MLD, as against 21.6 MLD, in this year. Talking of CSR activities, he said that the entire CSR fund for this year was diverted towards prevention of COVID. “We have given about Rs. 30 lakh to KGH, Rs. 30 lakh to the District Collector and Rs. 22.5 lakh to GVMC,” he said. GM (O&M) G.C. Choukse, GM (M) S. Garg, GM (FM) M.N.V.S. Bhaskar, and other senior officers were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ntpc-simhadri-to-enhance-its-capacity-by-25-mw/article33736233.ece
03 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Decision to terminate tribal trainees opposed||The AP Adivasi Joint Action Committee has condemned the decision of the State government permitting the AP Mineral Development Corporation (APMDC) to terminate the services of tribal trainees, who were selected for the bauxite project in Visakhapatnam. In a statement issued here on Tuesday, the AP Adivasi JAC district convener Rama Rao Dora said that the State government had permitted the APMDC to remove the tribals trainees on November 11, 2020. The APMDC Board at its meeting at Vijayawada on February 1 resolved to terminate the services of tribal youths for the bauxite project, Visakhapatnam. Mr. Rama Rao alleged that the State government was neglecting the interests of tribals and called upon the people not to vote for the candidates, supported by the ruling party, in the panchayat elections. He said that 214 unemployed youth were recruited and trained by the APMDC in 2004, with the promise of recruiting them in the bauxite mining works. Now that the bauxite mining G.O. has been cancelled, the government has permitted the termination of the services of the tribal youths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/decision-to-terminate-tribal-trainees-opposed/article33736283.ece
03 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP condemns arrest of Atchannaidu||TDP State general secretary Md. Nazeer has strongly condemned the arrest of TDP State president K. Atchannaidu and demanded immediate lifting of ‘false cases’ against him. Speaking to the media on Tuesday, Mr. Nazeer alleged that the YSRCP government was unable to bear the public support enjoyed by Mr. Atchannaidu and his questioning the government on violence. He alleged that the attack on TDP leader K. Pattabhi Ram in Vijayawada was done by the YSRCP workers. Mr. Nazeer demanded unconditional release of Mr. Atchannaidu and lifting of cases booked against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-condemns-arrest-of-atchannaidu/article33736230.ece
03 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Induction programme organised for AMC students||An Induction programme was conducted at AMCOSA function hall for students and parents of the 98th batch of MBBS students, admitted to Andhra Medical College, here. Welcoming the new students, Principal P.V. Sudhakar spoke on learning and etiquette to be followed in the college. Meanwhile, GITAM Deemed to be University Vice-Chancellor K. Sivaramakrishna inaugurated the MBBS course at GITAM Institute of Medical Science and Research (GIMSR) here on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/induction-programme-organised-for-amc-students/article33736284.ece
03 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Free cancer screening camp on February 4||A free screening camp will be conducted by the Lions Cancer Hospital, Seethammadhara, here for detection of cancer at an early stage on the occasion of World Cancer Day on February 4. The free screening camp will be conducted from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. at Lions Cancer Hospital at Seethammadhara. Details can be obtained by calling on the landline nos. 0891-2543214 or 2503228.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/free-cancer-screening-camp-on-february-4/article33736285.ece
03 February 2021||VISAKHPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Orientation course for NCC officers begins||A two-week orientation course for newly joined NCC caretaker officers began at Visakhapatnam NCC group headquarters at Andhra University, here on Tuesday. According to the NCC officials, the course will be supervised by officer from 13 Andhra Battalion NCC Lt.Col.Sajit. Lt.Col. DT Anthony, Commanding officer, 13 Andhra Battalion NCC inaugurated the course. In his opening address, he said this course would be very useful to the cadet officers, who attended the pre-commission course at OTA ( Officers Training Academy). Capt. Dr. N. Ramakrishna, Maj T. Bharmananda Reddy and other 10 officers attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/orientation-course-for-ncc-officers-begins/article33736287.ece
03 February 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Union govt. ignoring weaker sections’||Bahujan Shramik Union State general secretary and senior advocate P. Chittibabu on Tuesday alleged that the Union government has meted out injustice to downtrodden sections, including scheduled castes and tribes, with meagre allocations and sanctioning of funds without any proper vision. Addressing a media conference here, he said that the Union government sanctioned Rs. 1,26,259 crore but Rs. 77,862 crore of it were allocated for unwanted schemes and programmes. Mr. Chittibabu has also expressed concern over reduction in allocation from Rs. 7,000 crore to Rs. 3,415 crore for post-metric scholarship programmes, saying it would burden students of SC and ST categories and deny them their right to education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/union-govt-ignoring-weaker-sections/article33736221.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||1,140 liquor bottles seized||The Police conducted raid in Pendyala village in Krishna district on Tuesday, and seized 1,140 liquor bottles, allegedly smuggled from Telangana, said Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP) Mallika Garg. On a tip-off, police team led by Nandigama DSP G. Nageswara Reddy and CI Satish checked an abandoned auto and seized the liquor stocks packed in gunny bags. Police took auto owner Sk. Mohin Pasha and driver Shaik Siddiq Pasha into custody and are questioning them. “Investigation officers are trying to find out from they they procured the liquor and since how long the accused were doing the illegal business,” Ms. Garg said. In another raid, the Mandavalli police seized 230 litres of countrymade liquor in Unikili village and took two persons into custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/1140-liquor-bottles-seized/article33736270.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cultural extravaganza||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cultural-extravaganza/article33736275.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Safety tips||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/safety-tips/article33736280.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Doctors launch relay fast against ‘mixopathy’||Doctors under the aegis of Indian Medical Association (IMA), Visakhapatnam, launched a relay hunger strike on Monday against ‘mixopathy’, in response to the call given by IMA national president Rajan Sharma. The doctors carried placards and displayed banners against the medical pluralism advocated by the National Education Policy-2020 and the four committees of NITI Aayog for officially integrating the systems of medicine in medical education, practice, public health and administration. The doctors opined that the proposed ‘one nation one system’ policy would ring a death knell of modern medicine system as a whole. IMA-Visakhapatnam president P.A. Ramani has said that they are opposing this ‘illegal and unethical’ notification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/doctors-launch-relay-fast-against-mixopathy/article33736231.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Good catch||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/good-catch/article33736293.ece
03 February 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Bal Adalat receives over 500 petitions||Over 500 representations, including grievances related to children, came up before the “Bal Adalat”, a sitting of Telangana State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (SCPCR)’s bench, in Bhadrachalam on Tuesday. The day-long session was held under the aegis of SCPCR Chairperson J. Srinivasa Rao. A five-year old physically challenged boy from Palvancha filed a petition complaining that his family was deprived of pension under the “differently-abled” category of the Aasara pension scheme despite fulfilling the eligibility criteria. The Chairperson directed the District Rural Development Agency (DRDA) officials to look into the grievance and expeditiously resolve it in a fortnight.  SADAREM certificate Pujitha from Polaram village in Yellandu mandal submitted a memorandum seeking SADAREM (Software for Assessment of Disabled Access Rehabilitation and Empowerment) certificate for securing “differently-abled” pension. Umarani, a girl from Anantharam village in Karepalli mandal of Khammam district, complained that she was “denied” admission into the State-run residential junior college under the ST category.   ST certificate  Mr. Rao instructed the officials of the School Education Department to immediately admit her into the State-run educational institution by Wednesday and submit a compliance report to the Commission. Grievances related to education and health among other issues besides various cases of violation of child rights came up for redressal during the Bal Adalat, sources said. Exhibition Earlier, the SCPCR chairperson along with the Commission members visited an exhibition organised by the Department of Women, Children, Disabled and Senior Citizens at the sub-Collector’s office premises. Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA), Bhadrachalam, Project Officer P. Gowtham, who is also the sub-Collector of Bhadrachalam, accompanied them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bal-adalat-gets-over-500-petitions/article33736137.ece
03 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC’s ABC fails to curb stray dog menace||Stray dog menace has reached diabolical proportions in the city as evidenced by the death of an eight-year-old boy Mohammed Ayan from Kishanbagh in a canine attack recently. The boy was flying kites along with friends close to Musi River, when a pack of stray dogs attacked the group. While two of his friends could escape, Ayan became easy victim when he fell down while fleeing. The incident has exposed the gaping chinks in GHMC’s claims of regularly conducting Animal Birth Control (ABC) operations on the stray dogs in joint operations with non-governmental organisations. After the latest instance, GHMC’s veterinary wing officials have conducted a drive and rounded up a total of 43 stray dogs in two days. The dogs will be vaccinated, sterilised and released in the same locality, officials said. However, the moot question is as to how such a high number of dogs were thriving when sterilisations were being conducted in required numbers. The corporation has five shelters in the city, where the surgeries are performed. However, dogs are brought here only when there is a complaint from a particular locality. The number of surgeries per day is too low when compared with the total number of free ranging dogs in the city. As per the official claims, 250 ABC surgeries are performed each day on stray dogs across all the six zones. However, this figure is highly disputable, say sources under the condition of anonymity. “The most hectic day in any shelter sees not more than 10 surgeries in a single day. Most often, the number hovers around two to three per day,” shared a worker. Considering that the city is home to a total of 4.61 lakh stray dogs, the number of surgeries per day is but a drop in the ocean. The Charminar Zone alone has a total of 90,000 stray dogs, reveal officials. “Earlier, GHMC had proposed an ABC drive in the lines of Polio vaccination, whereby all the dogs from a chosen locality are rounded up, sterilised at once, and released on the same day. The Animal Welfare Board of India has refused to grant permission for the same, and said recovery period for each dog is two to three days at shelter. We have no wherewithal to do it at such massive scale,” shared an official under the condition of anonymity. Another problem lay with the infiltrating dogs from the surrounding municipalities. Charminar Zone shares borders with other municipalities such as Jalpally and Bandlaguda, where ABC measures are not in force. Dogs from these municipalities enter the GHMC when the local dogs are taken away for birth control operations, say officials. “They come here to rummage through trash, when the resident dogs are away, and make the territory their home. After we release the local canines, the number grows exponentially,” says an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmcs-abc-fails-to-curb-stray-dog-menace/article33736122.ece
03 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GW improves up to 10 m below ground level in 86% of State||Nearly 86% of the State’s geographical area has groundwater at the depth of up to 10 metres below ground level in January, thanks to copious rainfall recorded across Telangana during the south-west monsoon period of the current water year. It’s the best groundwater position in the month of January since formation of Telangana and also for the last 10 years. The improvement in the groundwater table is attributable mainly to the surplus rainfall recorded during the monsoon period as also to the completion of a few irrigation projects, due to which water availability in tanks and reservoirs has increased, officials of the Groundwater Department said. According to the groundwater scenario report prepared by the department for January 2021, although the average groundwater availability in the State was 6.56 metres the water table was as high as 2.69 metres below ground level in Wanaparthy district to as deep as 11.48 metres in Medak district. Officials attributed the improved groundwater scenario to excess rainfall ranging from 21% to 133% in 27 districts during June 2020 to January 2021 period. The remaining six districts had normal rainfall — ranging from 7% above normal rain to 16% below normal. Technically, rainfall in the range of 19% above normal to 19% below normal is considered normal itself.  Net rise A net rise (average) of 2.32 metres in groundwater position was observed in January this year, compared to January last year. District-wise, increase in the groundwater level was observed in 26 districts, fall in six districts and no change in one district this January compared to the same month last year. The officials explained that a minimum rise of 0.1 metre was observed in Mulugu district, while it was maximum of 8.16 metres in Rangareddy district. Similarly, minor fall in groundwater table was observed in Bhupalapally and Karimnagar districts and maximum fall of 0.51 metres was noticed in Nizamabad district.  Water in Plenty  Shallow water level of 5 metres below ground level was observed in 41,716 square km area (37.19%) out of total area of 1,12,160 sq.km Groundwater table in the range of 5 to 10 metres below ground level in 54,545 sq.km (48.63%) area Groundwater in the range of 10 to 15 metres depth in 13,059 sq.km (11.64%) area Moderately deep groundwater table in the 15 to 20 metres below ground level was noticed in 2,039 sq.km (1.82%) area Very deep water levels of over 20 metres below ground level was observed in 801 sq.km (0.7%) area Actual rainfall in the State from June 1, 2020 to January 31, 2021 was 1,259.7 mm against the normal of 852.2 mm – 48% higher  Easy to draw Average Groundwater level in January (in metres below ground level) Year GW Level 2021 06.56 2020 08.88 2019 11.88 2018 10.08 2017 09.36 2016 13.75 2015 10.97||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gw-improves-up-to-10-m-below-ground-level-in-86-of-state/article33736127.ece
03 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NMDC iron ore output and sales higher this January||Public sector enterprise NMDC produced 3.86 million tonnes of iron ore in January, a 16.7% increase compared to the 3.31 MT production for the corresponding period in 2020. Iron ore sales last month was 3.74 MT or 26.4% higher from the 2.96 MT registered in January 2020. A release on the January 2021 performance of the country’s largest iron ore producer said the production and sales were the highest ever January number since inception of the company. On January 31, NMDC was able to achieve a production of 1.65 lakh tonnes on a single day, the highest for any day in this financial year. Iron ore production of 25.66 MT up to January is on a par with the production in the corresponding period last year. Similarly, iron ore sales up to January were 26.01 MT, above CPLY. The release said, with the encouraging production and sales, NMDC will do better than last fiscal. CMD Sumit Deb said, “We performed remarkably well during the crisis of 2020 and with modern processes being implemented we are confident to do even better. NMDC is the first PSE to implement SAP S4 HANA making us frontrunners in the digital transformation of the mining industry.” On the Union Budget presented on Monday, he said its thrust on infrastructure and manufacturing will drive the demand for steel which in turn will drive the demand for iron ore. NMDC, with its seven operational iron ore mines, is committed to meet the increased demand of iron ore in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nmdc-iron-ore-output-sales-higher-in-jan/article33736106.ece
03 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Double-decker buses set for comeback||Double-decker buses are set to roll out on the city streets again with the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) calling for tenders for 25 such vehicles. According to the specification mentioned in the tender, these double-decker buses will be non-AC, and have to comply with the BS-VI emission standards. “The bidder shall design, manufacture, test, supply and commission the above buses. The tenderer shall be well established and must have manufacturing and supply facilities of fully built buses in India. The manufacturer shall have type approvals as per CMV Rules and AIS,” an except from the tender reads. Interested companies have been instructed to send sealed tenders to the Chief Mechanical Engineer. The transport juggernaut is expecting tenders from reputed manufacturers. The TSRTC is scheduled to convene a pre-bidding meeting on February 18. It was on November 6, 2020, that Information Technology Minister K.T. Rama Rao quote-tweeted a Twitter user’s post and reminisced fond memories of travelling in double-decker buses when he was in school. Addressing Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar, he said, “Not sure why they were taken off the roads. Any chance we can bring them back Transport Minister @puvvada_ajay Garu? (sic)”. The Transport Minister tweeted that double-decker buses would soon be made available for the public. Earlier, TSRTC Employees Union office bearer K. Raji Reddy had welcomed the move. He said double-decker buses would prove to be useful for the public, especially tourists who arrive in the city. He opined that the buses could be used for organising sightseeing trips to important cultural sites in Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/double-decker-buses-set-for-comeback/article33736112.ece
03 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Governor visits Bowenpally green power plant||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has congratulated and felicitated the entire scientific team of CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT), TS department of marketing and Ahuja Engineering Services for executing the ‘vegetable waste to gas plant’ at the Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Agriculture Market in Bowenpally here on Tuesday. The Governor visited the plant along with IICT Director S. Chandrasekhar, TS agriculture secretary B. Janardhan Reddy, chief scientist A.G. Rao and others, following the Prime Minister Narendra Modi mentioning about the innovative biogas plant in the market yard in his Sunday radio address ‘Mann Ki Baat’. The Governor lauded the initiative of agriculture, marketing officials for translating the idea into a reality thus setting an example for others to follow. The plant is a true role model for other agriculture markets across the country and deserves replication for effective disposal and utilisation of vegetable waste generated in the markets, she said. “Renewable energy is environmental friendly and needs to be promoted as it is like creation of wealth from waste,” she added. The Governor went round the market and interacted with the vegetable sellers and farmers. She was accompanied by her husband and nephrologist P. Soundarajan and secretary K. Surendra Mohan. Marketing department director Lakshmi Bai was also present.CSIR-IICT has developed and patented the technology to convert the waste to wealth, based on ‘Anaerobic Gas lift Reactor (AGR) for generation of methane-rich biogas and nutrient-rich bio-manure. The plant was installed as a ‘Swachh Bharat Mission’ initiative jointly funded by the Department of Biotechnology (DBT) and TS marketing department. It has a capacity to treat 10 tonnes of market and vegetable waste every day generating 400-500 units of electricity, and replace about 30 kg of LPG on a daily basis. About 1,400 tonnes of market and vegetable waste has been used for generation of 34,000 m3 of biogas converted to 32,000 units of electricity. More than 600 kg of LPG has been replaced and about 700 kilolitres of bio manure was produced from the plant which is made available to the farmers for use. Average electricity bill of the agricultural market committee got reduced to Rs. 1.5 lakh from Rs. 3 lakh per month, explained innovator Dr. Rao. DBT has sanctioned another project for installation of five more plants — while a 500 kg/day capacity has already been commissioned at Erragadda vegetable market, remaining four plants at Gudimalkapur (5 tonne/day), Gaddiannaram (5 tonne/day) , Alwal (500 kg/day) and Saroornagar (500 kg/day) market yards are underway. CSIR-IICT is now making efforts to install biogas-based CNG plants for replacement of conventional vehicular fuel with renewable green fuel, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/governor-visits-bowenpally-green-power-plant/article33736116.ece
03 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Training academy on Everester’s mind||President Ramnath Kovind appreciated the achievements of city-based mountaineer Amgoth Tukaram and advised him to make a documentary on his journey in the world of adventure for Doordarshan television channel to inspire the country’s youth. “Your feat of scaling the highest peaks in the world is not ordinary. I wish you the best of luck in scaling the seven highest peaks across the world and would love to meet you again,” the President told Tukaram when the latter called on him in Delhi on Tuesday. Tukaram is the youngest person from South India to scale Mt. Everest through the South Cole, which is said to be an extremely treacherous route to the high-risk terrain in May 2019. Asked about his dream, he told the President that he was keen to start an academy to train mountaineers. “The President also appreciated my messages for social causes such as environment protection, encouraging khadi in daily life, protecting five elements of Earth, national pride and fervour. He wished me many more success stories,” said Tukaram, who also holds the world record for being the youngest to scale peaks in four different continents in a record span of 10 months. Later in the day, the mountaineer also called on Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu and shared with him his recent achievements and plans. “My plans include climbing Mt Denali in North America, Mt Vinsan (Antartica) and all Dead Zone peaks,” he informed Mr Naidu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/training-academy-on-everesters-mind/article33736108.ece
03 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||10,000 free MRI, CT Scan for the poor||Aster DM Healthcare management has announced that they would provide 10,000 free MRIs and CT Scan to patients in need of the high-end investigation but cannot afford them. This will be offered for a year as part of their 34th Foundation Day. The announcement was made by founder chairman and managing director of Aster DM Healthcare, Azad Moopen. Patients can opt for the treatment by doctor as per their preference and need not visit private hospital after undergoing the diagnosis. CEO of Aster Prime Hospitals-Ameerpet, K.T. Devanand said the hospitals under Aster DM Health Care in India and GCC have come forward to offer the medical investigations free of cost to needy patients who are referred by doctors (internal and external), NGOs, support groups, government hospitals and medical colleges. To avail the facility, a patient needs to submit a referral letter from any of the above along with other documents as listed on AsterFreeIN website. The patient has to approach the hospital with prescription for scans issued by a MBBS or a specialist doctor (allopathy) along with documents as proof of their income. The service is open only to people below poverty line. Managing director of the hospital in Ameerpet, Satish Reddy said as per initial plans, it was decided to do a minimum of 120 scans per month which comes to 1,440 scans in a year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/10000-free-mri-ct-scan-for-the-poor/article33736104.ece
03 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Aadhaar update at post-offices||Department of Posts has informed that the Hyderabad postal region has made 124 Aadhaar centres and 15 mobile kits operational at post-offices in 28 districts of Telangana to help ration card holders to update their ‘Iris’ and mobile number in Aadhaar card, keeping in view of discontinuation of biometric system due to COVID-19 pandemic. A fee of Rs. 50 need to paid for updating the mobile number or Rs. 100 for ‘Iris’update. It is Rs. 100 for both mobile number and Iris update. Aadhaar card proof is necessary for the process. Post-offices have taken up awareness through their delivery staff of postmen/and gramin dak sevaks for creating awareness among ration, food security, Annapurna and Antyodaya card holders in coordination with local fair price shop dealers to avail these services. The department has also offered to provide camps for free updation of the Aadhaar records in their respective apartments or residential welfare associations. Between January 15-31, a total of 107 special camps were organised and 733 enrolments, 9,152 updations totalling 9,885 transactions were done in the region, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/aadhaar-update-at-post-offices/article33736118.ece
03 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Petitioner imposed costs of Rs. 25000 for suppressing facts||Suppression of material facts will not only amount to playing fraud on the court but is an abuse of the process of the court. Making this observation, Justice A. Abhishek Reddy of Telangana High Court on Tuesday imposed Rs. 25,000 costs on an association holding it guilty of filing a writ petition by concealing important information. The judge instructed Vivekananda Nagar Colony Plot and House Owners Association to deposit the costs with the Telangana State Legal Services Authority within two weeks and dismissed the plea filed by it. The Association filed the petition seeking to declare failure of authorities in demolishing Gold Stone Maple Home Lotus, a stilt plus five-storeyed building, claiming that it was built without permission. It also told the court that the building located in Nekmanpur village of Gandipet mandal of Rangareddy district was built in a place meant for club house, swimming pool and park of the colony. Gandipet Tahsildar sent a report to Manikonda Municipality stating that the building came under survey numbers 97, 98 and 99 and not in survey number 95/P as claimed by the builder. The Director of Town and Country Planning also wrote the municipality not to mutate the property, the petitioner told the court. The respondents, however, refuted the petitioners’ contentions claiming that they purchased plot numbers 47 and 47A admeasuring 847 square yards from a woman P. Pramila. They presented the registered sale deed. They entered into an agreement to develop the land and the builder constructed the stilt plus five-storeyed structure. The respondents told the court that 10 persons under the guise of the Association demanded Rs. 10 lakh from the builder. Later, the builder had also filed two civil suits in Second Additional Civil Judge at LB Nagar and secured ad interim injunction orders. Meanwhile, the Association filed a separate suit in Second Additional District Judge of Rangareddy district. The Association also filed a writ petition earlier and the HC had dismissed it on the grounds of suppression of material facts. It again filed another writ petition. “...it is not understandable as to how the petitioner can have the audacity to file another writ petition by not only suppressing the earlier orders but also the fact that civil cases were pending between the parties,” the judge remarked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/petitioner-imposed-costs-of-rs-25000-for-suppressing-facts/article33736130.ece
03 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Non-health frontline warriors to get COVID shots from February 6||COVID-19 vaccination for frontline workers such as those from municipality and police department would begin on February 6. Currently, healthcare workers (HCWs) in the government and private sectors are being immunised. The vaccination programme was launched on January 16 at government hospitals. After giving opportunity to the HCWs from State Health department, the vaccines were given to the HCWs at private hospitals from January 25. Meanwhile, mop-up rounds are being held for the HCWs from government sector who missed the jab, irrespective of their reasons. The second priority group includes frontline workers from Revenue, Panchayat Raj, municipality and police departments. Senior officials said vaccination for them would begin from February 6. Since Pulse Polio programme was held for three days starting from Sunday, COVID vaccination was kept on hold. “It would resume from Wednesday,” said Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/non-health-frontline-warriors-to-get-covid-shots-from-february-6/article33736103.ece
03 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘TRS trying fool to unemployed youth one more time’||AICC secretary and former legislator Challa Vamshichand Reddy has alleged that the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) was trying to fool the unemployed youth one more time by talking of filling vacancies, with the fear of defeat in the forthcoming Graduate MLC and Nagarjunasagar Assembly bypoll. Talking to newspersons here on Tuesday, he said the TRS government had been betraying the youth from day one disregarding the fact that both the formation of Telangana and TRS Government was due to the sacrifices made by the youth and the unemployed. However, it had failed not only to provide jobs but also give unemployment allowance, as promised before the December 2018 Assembly elections. The government was trying to deceive the youth again with a fake promise of filling 50,000 jobs and giving unemployment allowance. Even a committee was not formed to find out the eligible unemployed youth for the allowance and drawing up the modalities of the scheme, he said. Further, he alleged that the number of employees removed from service was more than the appointments made by the TRS government and cautioned the youth to be cautious and teach TRS a lesson to the party in the forthcoming elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-trying-to-fool-unemployed-youth-one-more-time/article33736128.ece
03 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pay revision delay making employees impatient||State government employees at different levels are becoming impatient due to the delays in the announcement of fitment and other benefits. More than a month after the Pay Revision Commission has submitted its report, the process is yet to take a firm step forward. The three member high power committee headed by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has conducted discussions with 14 different employees’ unions over the past week and took on record their grievances relating to recommendation of 7.5 % fitment recommended by the Pay Revision Commission, which was far below the expectations of the employees. The three-member committee has started evaluation of the representations made by the employees’ representatives for ascertaining the financial implications the demands would have on the State exchequer. The discussion gains significance in the light of presentation of Union Budget 2021-22, which did not give any assurances of additional releases to the State in terms of finances. Indepth study It was decided at the meeting of the three-member committee to undertake an in-depth examination of the financial implications at the earliest so that employees’ unions could be explained about the burden that implementation of their demands would entail. However, the employees’ unions are firm that it was for Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to take a political decision on the quantum of fitment and other benefits that should be given to the employees who had been waiting for announcement of pay revision since almost three years. Avoidable delay But the delay in submission of report by the three-member committee to the Chief Minister is likely to further delay the entire process. Representatives of some employees unions are suspecting that this was a strategy to further delay the process. “We are at a loss to understand the essence of instructions given to the three-member committee by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao,” an employees’ union leader told The Hindu . It appears that the process will be delayed till this month-end so that the announcement will be made next month and the actual implementation of new scales of pay and other benefits would be effective only from the next financial year, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pay-revision-delay-making-employees-impatient/article33736131.ece
03 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. to promote use of electric vehicles: Minister||The State government is committed to promote the use of battery operated electric vehicles to contain the ever increasing pollution levels, Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar said. The government has accordingly brought in a new electric vehicle policy announcing incentives to users as well as manufacturers towards making Telangana a pollution-free state. Guidelines for implementation of the electric vehicle policy 2020-30 including concessions offered to users and manufacturers were issued on Tuesday, he said exhorting the stakeholders to effectively utilise these concessions. The Minister said the policy was announced in line with the government’s plans to develop the State as electric vehicle and energy storage hub in view of the benefits that electric vehicles would offer. Accordingly, there would be total exemption of road tax registration fee and the government had intensified its efforts to promote battery charging stations along with use of electric vehicles. Steps have also been initiated to ensure employment generation through promotion of electric vehicles and guidelines in this direction have been incorporated in the new policy that has become operational in the State. The Minister wanted the people to opt for environment friendly electric vehicles rather than the conventional ones that result in emission of pollutants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-to-promote-use-of-electric-vehicles-minister/article33736140.ece
03 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||8 UK returnees tested positive for new variant||From the last week of December 2020, a total of eight people who returned to Telangana from the United Kingdom were detected with the new variant of SARS-COV-2. Officials from the State Health department said as many as 5,361 UK returnees were screened and 44 were found positive for COVID-19. The screening was conducted at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport at Shamshabad. They were admitted to Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences. Samples collected from them were sent for genome sequencing. Eight of them were found to be infected with the new variant and were isolated for a period of at least 14 days. Medical condition of none of the eight patients was serious.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/8-uk-returnees-tested-positive-for-new-variant/article33736105.ece
03 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Man involved in many temple thefts held||A person allegedly involved in several thefts in temples was apprehended, police said on Tuesday. Kulsumpura police, who are investigating the case, identified the accused as Emani Ram Babu (52), who is in the pearl selling business. He is a resident of Netaji Nagar in Neredment. Police recovered three gold nose rings, a mangalsutra, nose ring, gold chain, two gold coins, among other valuables from his possession. Cases were registered against the accused in different police stations such as Kulsumpura, Gandhi Nagar, Begumpet, Madgul and Chilkalguda, in connection with theft of these items. According to police, the accused is a habitual offender, and is in the habit of committing thefts at temples where he used to decamp with ornaments which adorned idols. He is allegedly involved in as many as 42 cases in Hyderabad, and 21 in Andhra Pradesh. As much as 3.7 tolas in gold ornaments, 50 grams in silver ornaments were recovered from his person.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-involved-in-many-temple-thefts-held/article33736124.ece
03 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two held for smuggling foreign exchange at RGIA||Two Dubai-bound passengers who were trying to smuggle foreign currencies equivalent to Rs. 54 lakh were apprehended by the officials of Customs department at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport, Shamshabad in Hyderabad on Tuesday morning. The passengers, who were caught separately, concealed the forex in boondi (savoury) packets.While scanning the baggage, officials at the security check of the international departure identified suspicious images and upon physical check they found Saudi Riyals, Dollars of United States and Australia, Kuwaiti Dinars, United Arab Emirates Dirhams, Omani Rials and Bahraini Dinars concealed inside the packets. They were scheduled to board Emirates flight number EK-525. When the passengers in question failed to submit valid documents for the currencies in their possession, the forex was seized and they were booked under relevant Sections of Customs Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-held-for-smuggling-foreign-exchange-at-rgia/article33735700.ece
03 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Woman mowed down||A 35-year-old woman was mowed down by a concrete mixer truck on Tuesday which led to her instantaneous death. According to Chandrayangutta police, the victim Farheen Begum, a sweeper at the Government Unani Hospital in Charminar, and a resident of Mohammed Nagar, was on her way to work riding pillion on her nephew Shaik Feroz’s two-wheeler when the concrete mixer truck hit them from behind as they were crossing the Falaknuma Railway Bridge. The impact threw the victim off the two-wheeler and she was crushed to death under the wheels of the heavy vehicle. Feroz sustained injuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/woman-mowed-down/article33736125.ece
03 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Seven held for murder of woman||The Chotuppal Rural police on Tuesday arrested seven persons in connection with a kidnap and murder case. According to the police, Nenavath Bujji (45), a farmer by occupation, and resident of Gandhinagar thanda, was murdered after which a case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code was registered. The accused have been identified as Megavath Narsimha (30), who is in the poultry business, Megavath Nagesh (26), a lorry driver, Megavath Baddu (65), a tractor driver, Korra Shanker (45), also a tractor driver, Angothu Seetharam (45), a lorry driver, K Naresh (23), a student, and Megavath Bangari (60), a coolie. Two others, identified as G Rajashekhar Reddy and Veeramalla Swamy are absconding. After a string of unfortunate events which befell Narasimha, such as his brother’s death due to electrocution, his wife falling ill, and him sustaining losses in business, the accused started believing that the victim knew ‘sorcery’, police said. He hatched a conspiracy to kill the victim and took the other accused into confidence. On January 31, Narasimha and his father-in-law Seetharam took the victim to the top of a hillock where Narasimha smashed her head with a rock.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/seven-held-for-murder-of-woman/article33736143.ece
03 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||E-convocation of University of Silicon Andhra||University of Silicon Andhra at Milpitas, California, honoured the class of 2021 in a virtual celebration organised on January 30. The event was organised to celebrate the accomplishments of the year’s graduating students. The live-streamed event, according to a press release here, marked the end of Fall Semester 2020 and the completion of degrees and diplomas for 38 students from the departments of Kuchipudi dance, Carnatic music, Bharatanatyam and Sanskrit. Students with families tuned in from North America, India and South Africa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/e-convocation-of-university-of-silicon-andhra/article33736100.ece
03 February 2021||Mumbai,TELANGANA||Fire at Prabhas, Saif’s film set||A major fire broke out at the set of Adipurush , a film starring actors Prabhas and Saif Ali Khan, in suburban Goregaon on Tuesday afternoon. The two actors were not present when the incident took place and nobody was reported injured, police said. “Adipurush”, an adaptation of the Ramayana, went on floors on Tuesday with a special set erected on open ground near Inorbit Mall in Bangur Nagar. The fire started around 4:10 pm, a police official said, adding that eight fire engines and six water tankers were rushed to the spot and dousing operation was under way. Sources said director Om Raut and a small crew were filming on the set. “Prabhas and Saif were not present. There has been no injury to anyone. Paramedics, fire brigade and ambulances were arranged immediately,” sources said. Fire brigade officials declared it to be a `level two’ fire which is considered as major. The film is slated to be released in theaters on August 11, 2022||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fire-at-prabhas-saifs-film-set/article33736142.ece
03 February 2021||P Sridhar,TELANGANA||Sonu Sood inspires a child’s name||Bollywood actor, famous for his negative character roles in reel life, Sonu Sood, who emerged as a real-life hero by extending help to many stranded migrant workers during the lockdown at the height of COVID-19 crisis, continues to win admiration for his acts of charity. Mustikuntla, a small village in Bonakal mandal, near here came alive on Tuesday with the celebration of “Annaprasana” (grain initiation) ceremony at the house of a young couple, P. Naveen and Triveni, who named their baby boy after Sonu Sood in honour of the latter. They hosted a lunch for their relatives and friends after giving the first solid food (rice) to their baby boy as per the traditional “Annaprasana” ritual at their house.  Philanthropic work Sharing their joyous moments with the guests, Mr. Naveen and his wife Ms. Triveni said they named their baby boy after Sonu Sood inspired by the actor’s philanthropic works during the COVID-19 lockdown. He rendered timely help to thousands of stranded migrant workers in Delhi and elsewhere in the country to reach their homes by providing food, shelter and transportation, amid unprecedented crisis, Mr. Naveen noted. “My son was born during the lockdown period last year and we thought it apt to name him after Sonu Sood in honour of the great humanitarian,” he said, asserting that they will try and ensure their child imbibes virtues like empathy and integrity and help him grow into a socially responsible and resourceful citizen.  Blessings sought “We have sent a message to the actor on Twitter seeking his blessings for our son,” Mr. Naveen said delightedly. Apart from his unparalleled philanthropic works during the lockdown and post-lockdown in various States, Mr. Sonu Sood gifted a tractor to a poor farmer in Andhra Pradesh’s Chittoor district to support the impoverished family and the education of the farmer’s two daughters, recalled Ms. Triveni. Real hero “We revere him as a real-life hero for his unmatched generosity and vow to emulate his magnanimity,” she said elatedly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sonu-sood-inspires-a-childs-name/article33736136.ece
03 February 2021||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Villagers hold ‘Maha Dharna’ for underpass on highway||Hundreds of residents of Jajireddygudem of Thungathurthy held a ‘Maha Dharna’ on Tuesday demanding that the officials take up construction of an underpass, to prevent repeat accidents at the village-highway intersection. Residents staged a highway blockade at the entrance of Jajireddygudem-Arvapally, where the stretch of NH-365B has a terminal. The blockade was cleared after the Tahsildar and officials from the R&B Department intervened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/villagers-hold-maha-dharna-for-underpass-on-highway/article33736134.ece
03 February 2021||TUNKI KHALSA (SIDDIPET DISTRICT),TELANGANA||Teacher with a heart of gold||It is now over two decades since Puli Raju, a youth from Etigaddakiskhtapur of Toguta mandal, one of the villages that is getting submerged under the Mallannasagar project, became concerned about the frequent reports of suicide by farmers in the erstwhile Medak district. Being the son of a farmer, he could relate to their plight. With the increasing number of famers committing suicide, Mr. Raju, now a 47-year-old school teacher, started collecting data from these villages as well as from newspapers about these incidents. Later, he began visiting the families of the suicide victims and recorded his information in a register. In the last two decades, he had interacted with more than 2,000 families of farmers who had ended their life and given a patient hearing to their problems. Mr. Raju is a teacher in a primary school at Tunki Khalsa in Wargal mandal. Once he began teaching children of the farmers, his emotional attachment with the farmers who ended their life grew stronger and he started thinking of doing something for them. Generally, he schedules his interactions with the ill-fated families on school holidays, but sometimes he is forced to take leave to meet these families. He has taken it upon himself to ensure that these families get some benefit in the long run. Soon, he has become the spokesperson for these poor villagers and made their voices heard by philanthropists. Media reports on suicides also helped him in his endeavour. Mr. Raju helped three children from Timmapur village in Jagadevpur mandal get their education sponsored. The two boys and a girl turned orphans at a very tender age. Mr. Raju made their voices heard and as a result, Harinder Sikka from Piramal Group came forward to take charge of their education in 2015. One of the boys, Kyasala Swamy, is doing his graduation now. Many other children like him are educated today because of this school teacher with a heart of gold. In another case, Chekkala Raju of Guravannapet village in Komuravelli mandal lost his father and brother in a gap of three years, Mr. Raju came to his family’s aid. He took care of five children and three women. Learning of the sad tale, G. Chakradhar Goud, a native of Siddipet, gave Rs. 2 lakh to purchase an auto for a family member. Mr. Raju is paying the balance amount in instalments. When asked, Mr. Raju said: “My intention is to make sure these children do not drop out from schools due to pain and poverty. Coming from a family of farmers, I can understand their problems and want to assist them as much as I can.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/teacher-with-a-heart-of-gold/article33736110.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Testing the waters||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/testing-the-waters/article33736114.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Illuminated glory||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/illuminated-glory/article33736235.ece
03 February 2021||Ghaziabad,||New police fortifications have unintended effect at Ghazipur||Multiple layers of obstructions put in place to ‘box in’ farmers is ironically attracting not just more protesters but also visitors to the Ghazipur border. The strict security arrangements found mention in speeches as well as songs from the dais. Many protesters said the new layers of security have helped them fortify their own ranks over the last few days. Over a kilometer-long walk through a winding, semi-forested dirt road leads to the farmers’ protest site. Security layers include razor wire on top of rows of iron barricades, followed by rows of concrete barriers. Large spikes have also been cemented to the road. This is followed by rows of more iron barricades. Contingents of both local and commando units of the Delhi and Uttar Pradesh police as well as the Rapid Action Force (RAF), a specialised paramilitary unit for riot and crowd control contingencies, are deployed in varying numbers on either side of the stationary obstructions. “When the government has done all this, it means it has finally realised that the farmers should not be taken lightly. We were right to not leave till the laws are repealed. The government has seen the need to contain the power of our unity,” said Ranjit Dalal from Jhajjar. He said he came to the protest following an emotional appeal for support by Bhartiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait. On the flyover where farmers have erected a stage above, each side of the carriageway has a layer of five Delhi Police barricades topped with the same razor wire, another with concrete barriers below more fencing, a layer of three metal barricades with a contingent of paramilitary personnel in between, followed by another row of barricades. “I have been camping at the Singhu border but came here specially to see all the security personnel and other arrangements they have made. I saw pictures on social media but couldn’t believe it,” said Gurpreet Singh from Punjab’s Barnala. Some protesters, referred to as “elder uncles” by others, sat in a small group with the paramilitary personnel inaudibly discussing the situation. A family from neighbouring Vaishali, which said it was visiting to lend support to the farmers, accused “the government” of attempting to water down the intensity of the protest by trying to control access to it. ‘Like Pakistan border’ “I have walked 5 km just to see whether the news reports about deployment here being like that at our border with Pakistan is true. I have not been to the border but I sure have seen such security arrangements in films,” said Kiranbala Katiyar, a boutique owner with arthritis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/new-police-fortifications-have-unintended-effect-at-ghazipur/article33735844.ece
03 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Nursery admissions to begin soon: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said the government will soon begin the admission process for nursery classes, which has been delayed since December last year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Kejriwal, who was speaking at an interaction with principals and the management of private schools at the Delhi Secretariat, said although there have been demands to reopen schools for all classes, incidents in other countries have shown that it is advisable to wait till all students are vaccinated against the virus. Appreciating the work that private schools have done in providing quality education, Mr. Kejriwal said education has always been the top priority for the Aam Aadmi Party government. He said that although the government was working to provide quality education at public schools, it was not against the private ones. The Chief Minister said there needed to be a partnership between private and government schools, which are the “two arms of the Delhi education system”. “The Delhi model of COVID management was appreciated across the world because the government and private hospitals worked together. Similarly, government and private schools need to work together to create a world-class education system in Delhi,” Mr. Kejriwal said. He added that private schools had complete autonomy to run however they wanted but at the same time, the government would not allow any injustice against students and their parents. The principals and management of schools were from the Action Committee of Private Unaided Recognized Schools, which has more than 1,000 schools as its members. CM thanks committee Mr. Kejriwal thanked the committee for donating close to Rs. 1.34 crore for the Chief Minister Relief Fund along with thousands of PPE kits and dry ration during the pandemic. The government has permitted the opening of schools under strict COVID protocols for Classes 9 and 11 from February 8. For students scheduled to appear for CBSE exams in May, classes resumed on January 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/nursery-admissions-to-begin-soon-says-kejriwal/article33735847.ece
03 February 2021||New Delhi,||Daily COVID-19 deaths hit 10-month low||The national capital reported 114 fresh COVID-19 cases and two deaths due to the disease on Tuesday. This is the lowest number of daily deaths in around 10 months. The death toll stood at 10,858, while the cumulative COVID-19 case count rose to 6,35,331, said authorities.  A total of 58,598 tests were done in the past 24 hours. Of the total cases, 6,23,256 people have recovered and there are 1,217 active cases. Meanwhile, a total of 9,357 healthcare workers took the COVID-19 vaccination in the city on Tuesday and there were 17 cases of Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI), said the Delhi government. The number of vaccination sites were increased to 183 on Tuesday, from 106 sites till Monday.  More vaccination days The Delhi government has also decided to increase the number of vaccination days in a week from four to six, a senior official said. “This will happen from this week. There will be no vaccination on Sunday. The government is also planning to increase the number of vaccination sites to 300,” the official said. The number of people vaccinated on Tuesday was 51.13% of the target — 18,300. This is less compared to Monday when it was 74.4% of the daily target — 10,600. The number of vaccination sites was increased from 81 to 106 on Thursday. Delhi has been using both vaccines for COVID-19, Covaxin and Covishield. Of the 17 AEFI reported, 14 were from using Covishield and three were from Covaxin. The city is currently inoculating about 2.4 lakh healthcare workers whose names have been registered with the government. The government had said it is planning to immunise front-line workers from later this week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/over-9000-healthcare-workers-get-the-jab/article33735851.ece
03 February 2021||New Delhi,||Centre gave no funds to civic bodies as it knows they are corrupt, claims AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party on Tuesday alleged that the Central government has not given any funds to the BJP-ruled municipal corporations in the Union Budget as they know that the “corporations are corrupt”. The party also said employees of the corporations are not being paid salaries on time. “Yesterday [Tuesday] after the announcement of the Union Budget the citizens of Delhi were again deprived because the Centre left the civic bodies high and dry with zero allocation against the demand of Rs. 12,000 crores. Leaders of Delhi BJP unit and Mayors of the civic bodies had met the Union Finance Minister and demanded grants. But, despite their demands, the BJP-ruled Central government has not provided a single penny to them,” said AAP leader Durgesh Pathak. He alleged that the Centre also accepts that the BJP Delhi unit is “completely corrupt”. “AAP also believes that the Centre is confident that if they provide grants to the civic bodies then the Delhi BJP leaders and councillors will utilise that money for corruption. Neither the Centre nor any agency under it has any kind of confidence in the Delhi BJP and civic bodies,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/no-funds-to-municipal-corporations-as-centre-knows-they-are-corrupt-pathak/article33735842.ece
03 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Noida Metro to start ‘fast trains’ on Aqua Line soon||In a bid to reduce travel time on the Noida-Greater Noida Aqua Line, ‘fast trains’ will be introduced by the Noida Metro Rail Corportation (NMRC) over the coming days. The NMRC in a statement on Tuesday said: “Out of a total of 21 stations on the Aqua Line, 10 stations will be skipped by these ‘fast trains’ during peak hours. QR tickets will be sold at the stations. The stations, which will be skipped are Noida Sector 50, 101, 81, 83, 143,144, 145,146,147 and 148 metro stations, the NMRC said. With the implementation of the fast trains, the average running time between Sector 51 metro station and Greater Noida will be reduced to 36 minutes from the earlier 45 minutes. “Services starting from terminal stations between 8 a.m. and 11 a.m. and 5 p.m. and 8 p.m. on weekdays will be fast trains,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/noida-metro-to-start-fast-trains-on-aqua-line-soon/article33735845.ece
03 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Gangster with Rs. 5 lakh bounty in custody||A wanted gangster, who had been on the run since 2014, has been arrested along with his accomplice, the police said on Tuesday. DCP (Special Cell) Manishi Chandra said the accused, Ashok Pradhan (36), carrying a reward of Rs. 5lakh on his arrest. His accomplice Arun Baba was carrying a reward of Rs. 1 lakh on his arrest. The arrests were made with the help of technical and manual surveillance. “On Jan. 31, we received a tip-off that Pradhan and Baba may travel towards Millennium Parkfor some purpose. Accordingly, we dispatched a team, which managed to nab the accused, who were travelling in a car at that time,” Mr. Chandra said. Firearms loaded with live cartridges were recovered from them, he added. The duo was planning to eliminate rivals — Neeraj Bawana and Naveen Bali.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/gangster-with-rs-5-lakh-bounty-in-custody/article33735852.ece
03 February 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Alarm over damage to heritage site||The controversy over the destruction of ancient monuments around the 11th century Lingaraj Temple in Odisha’s capital Bhubaneswar amid a State-sponsored redevelopment drive, spiralled with the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH) stating that irreparable damage had been done to the temple and ancient shrines around it. The INTACH’s findings come close on the heels of Union Petroleum and Natural Gas Minister Dharmendra Pradhan urging the Union Culture and Tourism Minister Prahlad Singh Patel to help salvage and preserve priceless ancient architecture. The Odisha government’s Ekamra Kshetra beautification project is aimed at creating space adjoining the Lingaraj Temple to accommodate around two lakh devotees expected to visit the temple for the festival of Shivaratri in March. The space in front of the ancient temple can now barely accommodate 10,000 to 15,000 devotees. “We find that no standard guidelines have been followed by the project implementation authorities and excavating teams. Irreparable damage has been done to adjoining ancient shrines,” INTACH’s preliminary investigation says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/alarm-over-damage-to-heritage-site/article33735865.ece
03 February 2021||Chandigarh,||Badal’s cavalcade attacked by Cong. men: Akali Dal||Ahead of the local body elections in Punjab, slated for February 14, the Shiromani Akali Dal on Tuesday alleged the cavalcade of party president Sukhbir Singh Badal was attacked by Congress workers at Jalalabad in Fazilka district. Party members led by Mr. Badal held a ‘dharna’ demanding registration of an attempt to murder case against the Congress party members. They alleged that the Congress party was preventing SAD candidates from filing nomination papers for the Jalalabad municipal committee elections. Mr. Badal said a mob led by the Congress party members had attacked the Akali workers and his vehicle immediately after they entered the sub-divisional magistrate office complex in Jalalabad. “The purpose was to stop Akali candidates from filing nomination papers. A murderous attack was launched against us by Congress goons resulting in bullet injuries to three persons,” he said, adding that two Akali workers had been admitted to the Faridkot medical college hospital. He said the ‘dharna’ would continue till justice was done and attempt to murder cases were registered. Senior party leader Daljit Singh Cheema said “it seems there was a premeditated attempt on the SAD president’s life and the Jalalabad police were complicit in this crime by allowing the attackers a free-run.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/badals-cavalcade-attacked-by-cong-men-akali-dal/article33735863.ece
03 February 2021||GURUGRAM,||Haryana villagers block road over Internet ban||Several residents of Shahpur-Kandela village in Haryana’s Jind briefly blocked the Jind-Chandigarh road late on Monday evening in protest against the continued suspension of the Internet services in the area for the past four days. Soon after the Haryana government announced to extend the suspension of the Internet services in seven districts, including Jind, till February 2, for another 24 hours, a large number of local villagers gathered on the Jind-Chandigarh road around 8 p.m. and blocked the traffic. The angry villagers demanded that the Internet services be immediately restored. Kaptan Singh Redhu, a resident of Shahpur, said the government’s action was aimed at preventing the spread of information regarding the growing farmers agitation and was undemocratic. The local police reached the spot after they got the news of the blockade and convinced the locals to allow the traffic on the road. “The road was blocked only for a few minutes. The police managed to convince the locals to lift the blockade,” said Inspector Dinesh Kumar, Station House Officer, Jind (Sadar). On Tuesday, the Haryana government again extended the suspension of mobile internet services (2G/3G/4G/CDMA/GPRS), SMS services (only Bulk SMS) and all dongle services etc. provided on mobile networks except the voice calls in the territorial jurisdiction of seven districts namely Kaithal, Panipat, Jind, Rohtak, Charkhi Dadri, Sonipat and Jhajjar till 5 p.m. on February 3. Curbs in seven districts The Haryana government had initially suspended Internet services in three districts to later extend it to 14 districts. However, it later revised it order to limit the ban on Internet services in only seven districts. The State Government has decided to impose this suspension of Internet services in order to stop the spread of disinformation and rumours through various social media platforms, said a press statement by the Haryana government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/haryana-villagers-block-road-over-internet-ban/article33735862.ece
03 February 2021||Jaipur,||New destination emerges for farmers’ protest in Rajasthan||A new destination of farmers’ protest against the Union government’s agriculture sector laws has emerged in Rajasthan, with hundreds of cultivators from far-off villages assembling for a ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ at Meena Seemla village in Dausa district. The farmers have announced a plan to hold a grand rally at the district headquarters on February 5. The protest, organised under the banner of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) on Monday, witnessed student leaders, retired bureaucrats and police officers, academicians and farmer leaders calling for an immediate repeal of the farm laws. ‘Obstinate stance’ The speakers condemned the BJP’s “obstinate stance” and flayed the alleged attempts being made to discredit the farmers’ agitation. C.L. Thikariya, president of Sharaab Mukt Abhiyan, said the Union government was extending all benefits to rich industrialists and corporate houses at the cost of poor farmers and labourers. Withdrawal of farm laws was the only way to prevent their destructive impact on agriculture, he added. The farmer leaders extended support to the protesters staging a sit-in near Shahjahanpur, at the Rajasthan-Haryana border, for several days. They said the farmers from Dausa and elsewhere would join them to give strength to their movement. Slogans like ‘Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan’ and ‘Kisan Ekta Zindabad’ (long live farmers’ unity) rent the air. ‘Intense anger’ Gujjar leader Himmat Singh said farmers from eastern Rajasthan would soon announce a plan to lay siege to the Parliament House. “There is an intense anger among the farmers over the rumours spread about the incidents in Delhi on the Republic Day. Nothing less than a repeal of the laws is acceptable to us,” he said. Congress MLAs Murari Lal Meena from Dausa and Gajraj Khatana from Bandikui have started mobilising farmers for the February 5 rally at Rajesh Pilot Stadium in Dausa. Mr. Meena said on Tuesday that 21-member committees had been formed for each Assembly constituency in eastern Rajasthan for interacting with farmers and generating awareness by explaining the ‘harmful’ impact of the farm statutes.  Common cause The series of public meetings in Dausa district and the dharna near Shahjahanpur seem to have united farmers and cattle-rearers belonging to the Meena, Gujjar and Meo communities in eastern Rajasthan. Jat leader and Nagaur MP Hanuman Beniwal has also created a political upheaval by quitting the National Democratic Alliance and withdrawing his Rashtriya Loktantrik Party’s support to the BJP-led government over the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/new-destination-emerges-for-farmers-protest-in-rajasthan/article33735861.ece
03 February 2021||Jaipur,||IPS officer held in Rajasthan||The Rajasthan Anti-Corruption Bureau on Tuesday arrested Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Manish Agarwal on charges of corruption during his tenure as Superintendent of Police in Dausa. Mr. Agarwal’s house was raided after his arrest and he was being interrogated by a team of investigating officers. Mr. Agarwal's name cropped up in a case in which a petrol pump owner, Neeraj Meena, was arrested from Dausa for allegedly demanding Rs. 38 lakh as bribe from a highway construction firm on behalf of the officer. Mr. Agarwal was posted as SP in Dausa from July 6, 2020 to January 6, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ips-officer-held-in-rajasthan/article33735864.ece
03 February 2021||Mumbai,||On first day, over 30 lakh used local train services||Over 30 lakh commuters travelled in the suburban local trains in Mumbai on Monday, the first day of their reopening to the general public. According to Western Railway (WR) officials, 12,44,658 passengers used the local trains while on the Central Railway (CR), over 19 lakh commuters travelled in the trains. The Maharashtra government allowed the train services from February 1 for all passengers in select hours. The general public is allowed to travel in the suburban trains from the time of start of services till 7 a.m., from 12 noon to 4 p.m., and from 9 p.m. till the closure of services for the day. On February 1, the total sale of tickets for the WR was 2,44,108 while the season ticket sale was 45,968, and the number of services was 1,300, according to railway officials. On the CR, the number of train services was 1,586. “We were eagerly waiting for the local train services as travelling via road was not only time consuming but also a nightmare due to constant traffic jams. We were spending a lot of money on road travel. Now that train services have resumed, it becomes easier and cheaper to travel,” said Amod Sathe, who commutes from Dombivli to Byculla daily. A railway official said that measures had been taken to avoid crowding at stations. “Wearing a mask is must before you enter a railway station. At the same time constant announcements will be made at the station as well as on train to follow safety guidelines,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/on-first-day-over-30-lakh-used-local-train-services/article33735778.ece
03 February 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Mathadi workers give ultimatum to traders||Mathadi workers, who went on a strike on Monday, resumed work at the APMC onion-potato market on Tuesday after issuing an ultimatum of 15 days to traders to ensure that each sack of produce did not weigh more than 50 kg for loading or unloading. “There is a notification by the Central government that the load of each sack should be up to 50 kg. Since March 1, 2020, we have been demanding the implementation of this rule,” Tunga Patil, a Mathadi worker, said. He further said that the protest that was held on Monday was scheduled for April 1, 2020, but due to the pandemic, it was postponed. “But we kept coordinating with the APMC board and finally on November 1, 2020, APMC authorities put up boards in the market specifying that Mathadi workers would not load or unload any sack weighing more than 50 kg. But even now this rule is not being followed and sometimes a sack weighs even more than 70 kg,” Mr. Patil said. Former MLC Narendra Patil and Mathadi union leaders said that traders needed to follow the notification and they must ask producers or sellers to send their produce in 50 kg sacks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/mathadi-workers-give-ultimatum-to-traders/article33735779.ece
03 February 2021||Pune,||Quota issue: Maratha Kranti Morcha lashes out at Sharad Pawar||The Maratha Kranti Morcha, which is spearheading the agitation for the implementation of the Maratha quota law in Maharashtra, has castigated Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar for ostensibly sidelining the thorny reservation issue. The outfit said that Mr. Pawar, despite being known as a ‘Maratha strongman’, chose to ignore the demands of his fellow community members at home but focused on supporting the farmers’ agitation in distant Delhi instead. Rajendra Kondhare, convenor, Maratha Kranti Morcha, said no attention was being paid to aspiring Maharashtra Public Service Commission students from the Maratha community, who were protesting the inordinate delay in implementing the quota, at Mumbai’s Azaad Maidan. “Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s Maha Vikas Aghadi [MVA] government has supported the ongoing farmers’ agitation. However, Mr. Pawar, whose NCP is part of the tripartite MVA, has not even bothered to pay attention to the plight of the protesting Maratha students at Azaad Maidan. Neither has Congress leader and minister Balasaheb Thorat expressed sympathy or support for them,” Mr. Kondhare said. He said that a State-wide protest would be held on February 4, ahead of the hearing on the reservation issue in the Supreme Court on February 5. “If the apex court’s verdict [removing the stay on the implementation of the Maratha quota law in the State] is in our favour, then it will be well and good, else we will be planning the future course of our protests against the State government,” Mr. Kondhare said. In November last year, Bharatiya Janata Party MP Udayanraje Bhosale, considered an influential Maratha community leader, had taken aim at the MVA government, accusing it of indulging in ‘delaying tactics’ which ensured that the Maratha reservation law was not being implemented in Maharashtra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/quota-issue-maratha-kranti-morcha-lashes-out-at-sharad-pawar/article33735781.ece
03 February 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra’s active cases down to 41,586||Recoveries yet again outweighed cases across Maharashtra on Tuesday as a robust 4,011 discharges were reported as opposed to just 1,927 new COVID-19 cases. The active case tally dipped further to 41,586 while the total cases have reached 20,30,274. As many as 30 fatalities saw the death toll climb to 51,139. The cumulative recoveries stand at 19,36,305 while the State’s recovery rate has marginally increased to 95.37%. “Of a total 1,47,06,992 laboratory samples tested thus far, 20,30,274 (with the case positivity rate down to 13.80%) have returned positive with over 50,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, adding that the case fatality stood at 2.52%. Pune reported more than 350 new cases to take its total case tally to 3,89,126. As per the State Health Department figures, just two deaths were reported to take the toll to 7,970. According to the district administration, however, the district’s fatality count has gone up to 9,064. The district’s active case tally stands at 5,057 with a recovery rate of 96.30%. Mumbai city recorded 334 fresh cases to take its total tally to 3,09,637 of whom just 5,530 are active. Seven fatalities pushed the city’s death toll to 11,368. Nagpur district in Vidarbha registered 181 new cases, taking the district’s total infections to 1,36,316 of whom 3,435 are active. Three deaths saw the toll touch 3,364.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtras-active-cases-down-to-41586/article33735780.ece
03 February 2021||Thane,||Death toll rises to two in Thane building collapse||The death toll in the building collapse in Thane has risen to two, with one more person succumbing to his injuries, a civic official said on Tuesday. Earlier, on Monday, a security guard died and six others were injured after the single-storey building, where a godown of an online goods delivery firm was located, collapsed in Bhiwandi. One of the injured , Kritik Suresh Patil (49), who was undergoing treatment died late on Monday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/death-toll-rises-to-two-in-thane-building-collapse/article33735776.ece
03 February 2021||Yavatmal,||12 children given sanitiser instead of polio drops||In a case of gross negligence, 12 children were administered hand sanitiser drops instead of oral polio vaccine drops in a village in Yavatmal district of Maharashtra, an official said on Monday. The affected children, aged below 5, were admitted to a government hospital, where their condition is stated to be stable, the district official said, adding three healthcare workers will face action for the lapse. The incident occurred on January 31 at Bhanbora PHC in Kapsikopri village when the national pulse polio vaccination drive for children aged 1-5 years was under way, the official said. Yavatmal zilla parishad CEO Shrikrishna Panchal said they were given two drops of sanitiser in place of polio drops. Subsequently, one of the children complained of vomiting and uneasiness, he said. All the children who were given sanitiser drops were administered polio drops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/12-children-given-sanitiser-instead-of-polio-drops/article33735782.ece
03 February 2021||Yangon,||Myanmar’s Generals tighten control after seizing power||Myanmar’s Generals were in firm control on Tuesday after a surgical coup that saw democracy heroine Aung San Suu Kyi detained, although her party issued a defiant demand she be released and global outrage built over the power grab. Armed troops patrolled the capital of Naypyidaw, where Ms. Suu Kyi and other National League for Democracy (NLD) party leaders were detained in pre-dawn raids on Monday just ahead of the scheduled resumption of Parliament. Soldiers were also stationed on Tuesday outside the dormitories for parliamentarians in Naypyidaw, with one NLD MP describing it as “an open-air detention centre”, though by nightfall some lawmakers said they were free to leave. Ms. Suu Kyi and President Win Myint remained under house arrest, the lawmaker told AFP. By afternoon, a party officer said they still have not had direct contact with Ms. Suu Kyi, though a neighbour sighted the de-facto leader in her Naypyidaw residence. ‘Suu Kyi in good health’ “According to her neighbour we contacted, she walks sometimes in her compound to let others know she’s in good health,” NLD press officer Kyi Toe said. Despite the intimidation, a statement was posted on the NLD’s verified Facebook page on Tuesday, calling for the release of Ms. Suu Kyi’s and others. “We see this as a stain on the history of the State and the Tatmadaw,” it added, referring to the military by its Burmese name. It also demanded the military “recognise the confirmed result of the 2020 general election”. The military justified its seizure of power by alleging widespread fraud in elections held three months ago that the NLD won. The military announced on Monday that it would hold power under a state of emergency for 12 months, claiming it would then hold fresh elections. U.S. President Joe Biden led the chorus of global outrage, calling for a quick restoration of democracy and warning that Washington could reimpose sanctions. “The international community should come together in one voice to press the Burmese military to immediately relinquish the power they have seized,” Mr. Biden said. UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, the EU and Australia were among others to condemn the coup. Britain summoned Myanmar’s envoy in formal protest. The United Nations Security Council scheduled an emergency meeting on the situation for Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/myanmars-generals-tighten-control-after-seizing-power/article33735486.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Biden set to review Trump policies||U.S. President Joe Biden, who has begun his second full week in office, will sign executive orders reviewing — and in some cases rescinding — his predecessor Donald Trump’s policies. These will include the establishment of a task force to unite minor children who had been separated from their parents at the southern border during the Trump administration, actions to address migration via the southern border and orders regarding legal migration, which could impact Indian citizens seeking work visas to the U.S. One of Mr. Biden’s three executive orders will create a task force that will make recommendations to him and federal agencies on how families can be reunited. It will also be required to report to him regularly on how family separations can be avoided, according to a statement from the White House. The Trump administration’s ‘zero tolerance’ policy of detaining adults as they attempted to cross the southern U.S. border resulted in 3,000 children being taken from their parents in 2018. Six hundred and eleven of these children are still away from their parents, according to a court filing. Mr. Biden will also order a review of the Migrant Protection Program — Mr. Trump’s policy to return asylum seekers to Mexico while their applications are reviewed. The Biden administration had already stopped accepting new entrants into the programme. The order will also seek to restore the U.S.’s asylum programme. Third, Mr. Biden will order a “top-to-bottom” review of Trump administration’s regulations that have hampered legal migration, the White House statement said. Work visa suspension Mr. Trump’s orders related to legal migration also included temporary suspensions of most work visas and new immigrant visas. These suspensions — scheduled to expire at the end of 2020 — had been extended by Mr. Trump to March 31. Given that close to three quarters of H1B visa or temporary visas for skilled workers went to Indian citizens each year in recent years, the Biden administration’s review could possibly bring relief to those hoping to get visas from India, to the extent they reverse Mr. Trump’s policies in this regard. As of this writing, it is unclear which legal migration policies of the Trump administration will be rescinded. The orders will also elevate the role of the White House in integrating migrants and establish a Task force on New Americans to help ensure that the “legal immigration system operates fairly and efficiently”, according to the White House. Additionally, Mr. Biden will order a review of the “public charge rule” (Mr. Trump had made financial pre-requisites to immigration more difficult to meet) and streamline the process to acquire U.S. citizenship. Mr. Biden had already issued six immigration related orders on his first day in office and sent an immigration Bill to Congress that proposed, among other things, policies to provide a path to citizenship for undocumented foreigners, reducing visa backlogs for families and removing country-wise caps on the number of employment-route green cards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-to-sign-orders-reviewing-trumps-policies-on-migration/article33735481.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Why did the military stage a coup?||Myanmar’s powerful military chief Min Aung Hlaing had raised doubts about last year’s election results even before the polls were held. “We are in a situation where we need to be cautious,” he told the local media before the November 8 elections. Daw Aung San Suu Kyi’s National League for Democracy (NLD) swept the polls by winning almost 80% of the vote, while the Army-backed Union Solidarity and Development Party (USDP) suffered a humiliating defeat. The USDP did not accept the result. The military backed the USDP’s allegations of fraud, without offering any evidence. Myanmar’s Union Election Commission dismissed the allegations. On Monday, hours before the new Parliament was to convene, the Generals moved into action. They detained State Counsellor Suu Kyi, President Win Myint and other top leaders of the NLD; declared a state of emergency for a year; and took power in their hands. Myanmar, which started a fragile transition to democracy 10 years ago after decades of military dictatorship, is back in the hands of the Generals. Failed transition The political climate in the junta-led Myanmar started changing around 2010. In 2008, the military had written a new Constitution that made sure the Generals’ interests would be protected even if there is a transition. Than Shwe, who had been ruling the country since 1992, shook up the power structure, promoted young soldiers who were loyal to him and conducted elections under the new Constitution. The NLD, which had not recognised the Constitution, boycotted the 2010 election, which the USDP won. In the next five years, the Army loosened its grip on the government and society. Political prisoners, including Ms. Suu Kyi, were released. Media censorship was eased. Ms. Suu Kyi’s party also changed its earlier position and accepted the Constitution. The NLD won the 2015 election, and formed the government, raising hopes that the country is on its way to full transition to democracy. But the 2008 Constitution has enough clauses to prevent such a change. According to the Constitution, the President must have military experience and he himself, his spouse or children “shall not be subject of a foreign power or citizen of a foreign country”. Ms. Suu Kyi, whose two sons are British citizens, cannot become President. The Constitution also mandates that the Defence and Interior Ministries be controlled by the military. Also, 25% of the total seats in Parliament (166 out of the 664-member house) are reserved for the military, giving it a veto over any move to change the Constitution. So even when the Army allowed power to be transferred to an elected government, it made sure that it would continue to drive defence and internal security policies, and that the USDP, its political vehicle, has an edge over other parties in elections with the reserved seats in Parliament. But the Generals wanted more. What Army wants? The timing of the coup is self-explanatory. It unfolded hours before the new Parliament was scheduled to convene. Tensions have been rising between the NLD and the military ever since the November election. The 2015 and 2020 election results showed the growing popularity of Ms. Suu Kyi and the unpopularity of the military. The 2020 elections were held after the Army launched a brutal crackdown on Rohingya in Rakhine State, which forced over 7,00,000 Rohingya Muslims to flee Myanmar. The Army was also projecting Commander-in-Chief Gen. Min Aung Hlaing as a tough soldier dedicated to the security of the country. He went to social media to popularise his activities. But neither the war nor the public relations work helped the Army-backed politicians win elections. With 166 seats reserved for the military, the USDP wanted only 167 seats to form the government and appoint the next President (according to some reports, Gen. Min Aung Hlaing has presidential ambitions), whereas the NLD needed 333 seats for an outright victory. The voters gave the NLD 396 seats, while the USDP ended up with just 33. This set the alarm bells ringing in the headquarters of Tatmadaw, as the Myanmar military is called. The Generals may have sensed that even the limited democratic experiment was threatening the military’s entrenched interests with Ms. Suu Kyi remaining immensely popular. Ms. Suu Kyi had tried to buy peace with the Generals in her first term, especially on the Rohingya issue. She defended the Army crackdown on the Rohingya. But the Generals were still not pleased. What’s next? The Army says it has declared the emergency as the NLD government failed to act on its complaints on voter fraud. The NLD has called for protests against the coup. The U.S. has reacted harshly. India has expressed “deep concerns”. But if China’s response is any indication, the Generals won’t face any heat from Beijing. This means, they could circumvent pressure from the U.S., even economic sanctions, by moving closer to China, which is already making huge investments in Myanmar. But Ms. Suu Kyi’s popularity and an energised NLD that was in power for five years would be an impediment for them. And their own unpopularity, a burden.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/why-did-the-military-stage-a-coup/article33735483.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,||China calls for all parties to safeguard Myanmar’s stability||China on Tuesday called for all parties to help maintain stability in Myanmar, as it refrained from criticising the military leadership for seizing power in a coup and urged the international community to not interfere. Beijing said it was not in favour of external powers “taking actions that would raise tensions”, the Foreign Ministry said, with analysts in Beijing expressing concerns over possible sanctions from the U.S., which strongly criticised the military-led coup that threatened to undo the transition to democracy that has been under way since 2011. China had on Monday said it “hope[s] all parties in Myanmar can properly handle differences under the constitutional and legal framework and safeguard political and social stability”, not mentioning the democratic transition, which, a number of countries, including India, had voiced support for in their statements following this week’s developments. Even prior to 2011, China maintained close relations with the Myanmar military leadership and often backed the country from the threat of sanctions as a permanent member of the UNSC. On Tuesday, Foreign Ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin said “the international community should not take any action that would raise tensions in Myanmar.” “We have maintained communication with all relevant parties with regard to the matters to be discussed at the UN Security Council,” he said. “Any action taken by the international community should be conducive to political and social stability in Myanmar and beneficial to a peaceful resolution, instead of worsening tension and further complicating the situation.” ‘Cabinet reshuffle’ China’s State media outlets have refrained from calling the seizing of power a coup. The official Xinhua news agency on Monday only reported the “Myanmar military announced a major cabinet reshuffle hours after a state of emergency was declared.” The Communist Party-run Global Times quoted an unnamed expert in Beijing as saying the military’s actions “can be viewed as an adjustment facing Myanmar’s imbalanced power structure,” referring to the declining popularity of the military and the growing political power of Aung San Suu Kyi’s National League for Democracy (NLD). Fan Hongwei, director of the Center for Southeast Asia Studies at Xiamen University, told the newspaper, “the U.S. may impose sanctions on Myanmar, and military pressure cannot be rolled out”, a prospect that concerns China, which neighbours Myanmar and is a major investor there in projects, including a gas pipeline that links the two countries. China is Myanmar’s largest trading partner and accounted for one-third of its total trade last year. “The situation in Myanmar is likely to be an opportunity for the Biden administration, which has multiple members from Team Obama, to repair relations with Myanmar, to make Myanmar problematic and use Myanmar to put pressure on China,” Mr. Fan said. “Myanmar is a country that does not welcome interference by big powers. China has maintained good relations with both the current government and the military, so it still hopes that the two sides can negotiate a compromise to maintain peace and stability.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-calls-for-stability-in-myanmar/article33735488.ece
03 February 2021||Washington,||U.S. lawmaker says she is a sexual assault survivor||U.S. lawmaker Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez has revealed that she is a survivor of sexual assault, in an emotional video on Monday, in which she described fearing for her life during the storming of the Capitol on January 6. The New York Congresswoman drew parallels between the lawmakers seeking to “move on” from the Capitol riot and the denial tactics used by abusers. “They’re trying to tell us to move on without any accountability... without confronting the extreme damage, loss of life, trauma,” she said, as she accused Republicans of encouraging violence in the lead-up to the riot. “I’m a survivor of sexual assault,” she told her Instagram followers. “As a survivor, I struggle with the idea of being believed.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-lawmaker-says-she-is-a-sexual-assault-survivor/article33735491.ece
03 February 2021||Moscow,||Court hears Navalny case||The Kremlin’s most prominent critic Alexei Navalny was in a Moscow courtroom on Tuesday facing several years in prison, after his arrest last month triggered protests across Russia and Western condemnation. Navalny is charged with violating the terms of a suspended sentence in 2014.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/court-hears-navalny-case/article33735484.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,||U.S. in touch with India and Japan||The U.S. State Department announced that it has made a determination that the military takeover in Myanmar is a coup d’état. The U.S. is in touch with allies, including India, on the unfolding situation, as per a State Department official. “After a review of all the facts, we have assessed that the Burmese military actions on February 1 having deposed the duly elected head of government, constituted a military coup d’état,” a State Department official said. The U.S. has called for their release, “immediately and unconditionally.” U.S. officials have also been in “frequent” contact with “like-minded allies and partners in the region,” another official told reporters. With regard to India and Japan, the official said, “We’re having daily on-going conversations with them and we certainly appreciate that some other countries have better contacts with the Burmese military than we do, so we’re continue those conversations.” U.S. officials have not been in touch with members of the (now deposed) ruling NLD party or Ms. Suu Kyi, reporters were told. Due to the coup determination, the U.S. will stop some types of assistance to Myanmar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-in-touch-with-india-and-japan/article33735998.ece
03 February 2021||MOSCOW,||Moscow court sends Navalny to prison||A Moscow court on Tuesday sentenced Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny to more than two years in prison despite nationwide protests and a Western outcry. The decision to turn a 2014 suspended sentence into real jail time will see Mr. Navalny, who accuses the Kremlin of poisoning him last year, serve a lengthy prison term. Judge Natalya Repnikova ordered a suspended three-and-a-half-year sentence Mr. Navalny received on fraud charges in 2014 to be changed to time in a penal colony, an AFP journalist at the courthouse said. Judge Repnikova said the time Mr. Navalny previously spent under house arrest in the sentence would count as time served, and, according to his team, that would mean at least two-and-a-half years in prison now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/moscow-court-sends-navalny-to-prison/article33735999.ece
03 February 2021||ISLAMABAD,||Pearl murder accused off death row||Pakistan’s Supreme Court on Tuesday ordered the Pakistani-British man acquitted of the 2002 gruesome beheading of American journalist Daniel Pearl off death row and moved to a so-called government “safe house.” Ahmad Saeed Omar Sheikh, who has been on death row for 18 years, will be under guard and will not be allowed to leave the safe house, but he will be able to have his wife and children visit him. “It is not complete freedom. It is a step toward freedom,” said Sheikh’s father, Ahmad Saeed Sheikh, who attended the hearing. The Pakistan government has been scrambling to keep Sheikh in jail since a Supreme Court order last Thursday upheld his acquittal in the Wall Street Journal reporter’s death, triggering outrage by Pearl’s family and the President Biden’s administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/man-acquitted-in-pearl-murder-off-death-row/article33735489.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,||It’s goodbye to fiscal orthodoxy||Enough of fiscal orthodoxy. Spend like there is no tomorrow. That is what the Narendra Modi government’s Budget for 2021-22 seems to signal with its fiscal deficit at 9.5% of GDP for FY21 and 6.8% in FY22. A mix The change in fiscal stance is part of a selective departure from market orthodoxy that has marked the government’s economic policy in the last few years. The government has increased duties on some imports in order to protect and foster domestic industry. It has introduced performance-linked incentives for designated sectors, something that goes counter to market economics. The government is, however, happy to adhere to other elements of market orthodoxy, such as privatisation and a greater role for foreign direct investment (FDI). To comprehend the shift in fiscal thinking, you only need to compare one document in the Budget with that of previous years. This is the document titled Medium Term Fiscal Policy cum Fiscal Strategy Statement (https://bit.ly/3aFM0pJ). The document begins with a table on various fiscal indicators. In previous years, the document would give the indicators for the past two years as well as the projections for the next two years. The idea was to show that the economy was moving along a fiscal consolidation path, with a fiscal deficit of 3% of GDP as the eventual target. In this year’s Budget, the yearly projections are missing. All we have is a commitment in the Finance Minister’s speech to lower the fiscal deficit to 4.5% of GDP by 2025-26. For well over a decade-and-a-half, we have kept up the pretence of attaining the deficit targets set out in the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act (2003). In this Budget, the pretence goes out of the window. The Finance Minister has promised to introduce an amendment to the FRBM Act to formalise the new targets. Moving away from framework The Budget thus marks an important departure from one of the key tenets of the Washington Consensus, the framework for market-oriented economics which has dominated policy making in most parts of the world. ‘Macroeconomic stability’ is central to the Consensus. ‘Macroeconomic stability’ means that government budgets need to be broadly in balance so that borrowings to finance the deficit are kept to the minimum. ‘Austerity’ became something of a mantra. It has been bitterly contested in recent years, especially in Europe, but austerity won the day until the COVID-19 crisis struck. The Economic Survey that preceded the Budget laid the groundwork for a departure from a rigid adherence to fiscal consolidation. It has a quote from economist Olivier Blanchard, “If the interest rate paid by the government is less than the growth rate, then the intertemporal budget constraint facing the government no longer binds.” The “intertemporal budget constraint” means that any debt outstanding today must be offset by future primary surpluses. Blanchard was saying that this is not true if the Interest Rate-Growth Differential (IRGD), the difference between the interest rate and growth rate, becomes negative. In the advanced economies, as interest rates have turned negative, Blanchard’s condition has been met. So governments there do not have to worry that deficits will render public debt unsustainable. ‘Spend more’ The International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank, both flag-bearers of the Washington Consensus, have been urging a departure from fiscal orthodoxy in the wake of the pandemic. Both these institutions used to be wary of any increase in the public debt to GDP ratio beyond 100%. Today, they are urging the advanced economies to spend more by running up deficits even when the debt to GDP ratio is poised to rise to 125% by the end of 2021. The Survey argues that in India, the growth rate is higher than the interest rate most of the time. So the conventional restraints on fiscal policy need to be questioned, especially when there is a serious contraction of the sort the Indian economy faced in 2020-21. It says that, in the current situation, expansionary fiscal policy will boost growth and cause debt to GDP ratios to be lower, not higher. Given India’s growth potential, we do not have to worry about debt sustainability until 2030. These points are by no means novel; the conditions for debt sustainability are well known. However, the Survey’s line was not accepted in the past. Indian fiscal policy has adhered to orthodoxy even during a downturn, such as the one we faced in the years preceding the pandemic. An important consideration was the fear that the rating agencies would downgrade India if total public debt crossed, say, 10%-11% of GDP. That is a risk that cannot be wished away unless the rating agencies have decided to toe the IMF-World Bank line on fiscal deficits. Key concerns Another concern is that a large fiscal deficit can fuel a rise in inflation. It is more than likely that a change in the fiscal consolidation targets will require a change in the inflation target of 4% set for the Reserve Bank of India. The Budget makes no mention of such a possibility. Perhaps the Finance Minister did not want to administer too many surprises at one go. A third concern is that, with the tax to GDP ratio not rising as expected, the sale of public assets has become crucial to reduction in fiscal deficits in the years ahead. This is a high-risk strategy. For years now, revenues from disinvestment have fallen short of targets. The sale of Air India, which was begun in 2018, is still dragging on. We need to face up to an important reality: large-scale privatisation is not easily accomplished in India. Selling public assets cheap is politically contentious. There will be allegations of favouring certain industrial houses. Public sector unions are a vital political constituency. Privatisation of banks raises concerns about financial stability. Job losses from privatisation are bound to evoke a backlash. Privatisation means FDI Moreover, large-scale privatisation almost always involves substantial FDI. In South East Asia and Eastern Europe, privatisation of banks meant a large rise in foreign presence in the domestic economies. Atmanirbhar Bharat connotes greater self-reliance and stronger Indian companies. How does the government reconcile a rise in FDI with Atmanirbhar Bharat? If the nation’s political economy came in the way of our meeting the FRBM targets, it is also likely to pose an obstacle to large-scale privatisation. A departure from fiscal orthodoxy is welcome. But the government needs to think of ways to make it more sustainable. T.T. Ram Mohan is a professor at IIM Ahmedabad. E-mail: ttrammohan28@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/its-goodbye-to-fiscal-orthodoxy/article33735467.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Booting out partial democracy||On February 1, the Myanmar army seized power, turning a partial democracy into a full-fledged military rule, yet again. This creates a perception of déjà vu as one recalls 1962, 1988 and 1990, the milestone years when the generals took similar drastic actions to overthrow a democratic government or derail people’s expressed preferences. Between March 2016 and January 2021, the National League for Democracy (NLD) led by Aung San Suu Kyi shared power with the military. This was a bold experiment to govern an intensely complex nation in Southeast Asia. Myanmar thus became a car driven by two drivers. On Monday, one driver ejected the other to take charge fully, with implications that will become clearer only with time. Emergency or coup? To explain the military’s actions, its spokesman pointed out that there was “terrible fraud in the voter list” in the parliamentary elections held in November 2020, and that the Election Commission “failed to settle the matter.” Claiming that this development would “obstruct the path to democracy”, the army declared an emergency, transferring all powers to Commander-in-Chief Min Aung Hlaing. The decision seems questionable on legal and constitutional grounds. First, electoral issues need to be addressed and resolved by relevant authorities, not the military leadership. Second, Article 417 of the Constitution empowers the President to proclaim emergency, in consultation with the National Defence and Security Council. It does not seem that the Council met or presidential consent was obtained. In fact, President Win Myint and the de facto head of the government, Ms. Suu Kyi, have been detained. Therefore, the conclusion is inescapable: it is a coup d’état staged by the army in a fashion familiar to the people. But it is a coup with a difference: the party wielding half of the power decided to help itself with the other half too, regardless of the law or consequences. Deeper reflection raises a fundamental question: what troubled the NLD-military equation in the past five years, making it an uneasy relationship which collapsed completely this week? The fact that the generals swung into action hours before the newly elected Parliament was due to hold its first session shows that discussions to resolve differences may have continued until the last minute. As they failed, the break-up became inevitable.  In this context, three fault lines may be pinpointed. First, ideologically the two segments of the political elite have been at war with each other. The army has a sense of entitlement to power on the grounds that it secured independence, defended the country against secession, and ensured stability and development. It views itself as the guardian of the state. NLD leader Ms. Suu Kyi, the other protagonist, has always expressed admiration for the army (especially because it was established and nurtured by her father), but she has been a staunch advocate of democracy, a system in which the army should be completely apolitical. Specifically, the two sides have had modest to serious differences over ethnic reconciliation, constitutional reform, the Rohingya issue, and the China policy. Second, in political terms the fight is for power. The army has been used to exercising power for long, which yields it immense economic dividends too. Playing second fiddle to democratically elected leaders was a difficult role for it. Third, presidential ambitions and the future of Senior General Min Aung Hlaing’s career constitute a relevant issue. Back in 2016, and even now, argue well-informed sources, he nurtured the dream to be Myanmar’s President. Ms. Suu Kyi was opposed to it. Besides, she was perhaps unwilling even to extend his tenure. He is due to retire from the army in July. Presumably the coup guarantees an indefinite extension. The military leadership understands the people’s psyche well. The divide between the Burmans, the majority group, and the ethnic minorities remains wide. The latter are generally opposed to a strong Central government. As to the former, they are no doubt supportive of ‘Mother Suu’, but only up to a point. They are largely Buddhists and peace-loving. Hence, they might accept the grabbing of a half loaf of power from elected representatives, by the army. In areas where palpable discontent arises, the army possesses enough tools to manage situations. And Burmese jails are not short of space. Externally, calls for an early restoration of democracy were issued predictably. This is unlikely to impress the Commander-in-Chief. The diminished international halo of Ms. Suu Kyi is an open secret. Besides, he banks on the support of only one constituency: his fellow ranking generals. Policy of non-interference Many worry how India, the world’s largest democracy, should cope with the forcible overthrow of democracy in a neighbouring country. This is unnecessary. Our Mandarins know how to navigate the tricky path. Institutional memories and experiences are helpful. Whenever democracy suffers, India feels concerned, even anguished. But the government is committed to the policy of non-interference in another state’s internal affairs. It is also guided by the national interest. Therefore, in managing relations with Myanmar, India will astutely balance its principles, values, interests and geopolitical realities. The visit to Myanmar last October by Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla and Chief of Army Staff M.M. Naravane was an unmistakable sign that New Delhi fully understood where power lay in Naypyidaw. Those takeaways will be invaluable now. Rajiv Bhatia is Distinguished Fellow, Gateway House and a former Ambassador to Myanmar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/booting-out-partial-democracy/article33735478.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,||A normal budget for abnormal times||Budget 2021 comes in the backdrop of the optimism of  the economy turning the tide from an estimated 7.7% contraction in 2020-21. The Economic Survey projects India’s real GDP growth to be 11% in 2021-22, which is arrived by an implicit assumption of 4.4% inflation and a nominal GDP growth of 15.4%. This double digit growth projection is on a very low base and it is important to highlight the fact that even if these numbers are realised, this growth path would entail a real GDP growth of 2.4% over the absolute level of 2019-20; this means that the Indian economy would take two years to reach and surpass pre-COVID-19 levels. This echoes the intensity of the abnormal times for the economy — which requires non-standard policy responses, and which was the expectation from Budget 2021. Those who designed the Budget, in turn decided to maintain incrementalism and continue business as usual. The Finance Minister’s speech eloquently laid out the six pillars on which the vision of the Budget rested. As expected, the health sector was the first pillar with enhanced outlays, which have been spread over the next six years. While this strategy of spending over the medium term presents the so called ‘road map’, the yearly outlays get subsumed by the big numbers announced. The immediate outlays are of significance in the present circumstances, when the overall demand in the economy is tepid. The construction of the six pillars, which was expected to be on the current year’s enhanced expenditures, seems to be a bit misplaced, with very little increase in the overall expenditure of the government. The fiscal arithmetic provides evidence of this as the total expenditure for 2020-21 is stated as Rs. 34,50,305 crore in the revised estimates, with a capital expenditure at Rs. 4,39,163 crore. The Budget estimates for 2021-22 states the total expenditure at Rs. 34,83,236 crore. This means an additional spending of just Rs. 32,931 crore, which is less than even 1% in a year of income contraction for a vast majority of the population. No multiplier effects soon However, the big bet for growth and employment generation, capital expenditure, increases by 26% but still accounts for only 15% of the total expenditure. This increase in capital expenditure, which is expected to be channelised via the infrastructure push, in turn bears two risks at the moment. First, there is the risk of delay in completion, which leads to cost overruns. Second, as the life cycle of these projects is long, an inventory of funding needs to the ready in the pipeline. Thus, the immediate multiplier effects to lift the aggregate demand in the economy might not emanate as quickly as expected. Sector-specific targeted proposals, barring production-linked incentives for industry are few as agriculture and the micro and small industries segment — which shores up demand with their consumption multipliers — seem to have been accorded lower priority There are no radical reform proposals for the agriculture sector, with no announcements with regard to bringing urea under the nutrient-based subsidy regime or rationalising the Public Distribution System issue prices of foodgrains. In fact, the recent growth performance of the sector has led the Finance Minister not to have any increase in cash transfers under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Scheme (PM-KISAN) from the existing Rs. 6,000 per year. Manufacturing growth, which is expected to be a catalyst in pushing the economy toward the $5-trillion economy goal (by 2025), would depend entirely on how private investments pick up. While the textile sector is the focal point to push employment and industrialisation, a lack of concrete policies towards export promotion at a time when the exchange rate is appreciating and a pedalling with tariffs to increase protection is frequent, might undermine the competitiveness of manufacturing exports. The creation of a development finance institution addresses one the three issues that infrastructure provisioning faces in the economy. While the financing part can be addressed to some extent by this new entity, the other two — execution risk and regulatory issues — are still left wide open. This new institution can be seen as the first step toward cleaning up the financial sector as the amount set aside for the recapitalisation of public sector banks looks short of the requirement. Given the emphasis on start-ups and one-person companies, the stress on the financial system in the coming years is likely to increase as these firms are more prone to the cycles in the economy. Urban unemployment left out The growth push of the Budget subsumes the welfare implications, which is the hallmark of the ‘new welfarism’ model of the present government. Both employment and demand generation are left largely to the vagaries of growth cycles. While extending the social security benefits to gig economy workers is a welcome move, the lack of a concerted plan to tackle urban unemployment might prove costly, given the demographic profile and pace of urbanisation of the country. The Budget sets out some grand plans and does not provide the precise mechanisms to achieve those. However, it does attempt to spell out some institutional changes in major areas such as tax administration and provides a push to public sector research and development. The digital push to Census operations might be a long-term investment towards publishing vital data about the economy, quickly and in time. Resources and spending Importantly, the Budget is candid on the fiscal deficit numbers and sets out a slow fiscal glide path. However, the resource mobilisation for spending seems to be banking on disinvestment, privatisation and asset monetisation. The route for reducing fiscal deficit, from 9.5% to 6.8% of GDP, rests on three components: the benefit of a stronger denominator because of better nominal growth, total revenue might get some boost from better tax revenue and compared to last year, there is a renewed hope for better divestment revenues. All of these are hypothetical at the moment. The Budget reveals two interesting aspects of the political economy of policy formulation. First, it shows how important it is not to have ‘one nation one elections’, as all the States that are going for elections this year get enhanced outlays. Hence, States would be starved of this one-time bonanza if there is a simultaneous election. Second, the reaction of stock markets shows how important it is not to have disruptive unexpected ‘strikes’ on the economy. The stock market which was expecting some shocks reacted positively and looks relieved from the fear of ad hoc policy thrusts. But is this incrementalism enough to lift the economy? Perhaps it might just fall short. M. Suresh Babu is Professor of Economics at IIT Madras. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-normal-budget-for-abnormal-times/article33735469.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,||The U.S. and India: a tale of two sieges||The world’s oldest and largest democracies were punctuated by two dramatic sieges at the start of 2021, each of which provides an insightful glimpse into the troubled politics of two countries. On January 6, 2021, the U.S. Capitol building was partially taken over by a violent mob comprising supporters of former President Donald Trump. They attacked law enforcement officers, vandalised public property, and threatened lawmakers in Congress. One woman was killed at the site of the siege, and four others died during the course of the attack and its aftermath, including a police officer. Twenty days later, a rally planned on Republic Day in India led to violence after farmers protesting three new laws aimed at reforming agricultural markets broke off from the planned parade and entered Delhi, including the premises of the Red Fort by breaking the gates, only to be met by a police crackdown including arrests and lathi charges. There are both similarities and differences between the two episodes, each worth considering in turn. Similarities The common thread between the sieges on two major public buildings — the U.S. Capitol and the Red Fort — is that a discontented collective vented its anger about a recent political development through a mass rally. In America, that anger was directed at the very heart of democracy itself, the 2020 presidential election that saw Joe Biden emerge victorious. The context for the surge of anger at this outcome was the fact that Mr. Trump sought to deliberately undermine the credibility of the vote tallying process by attacking, for many months on Twitter, mail-in voting as fraudulent. Despite fact-checkers and mainstream U.S. media consistently emphasising that Mr. Trump’s claims were empirically false and misleading, it was only when Twitter suspended his account that the volley of fake news from the Oval Office finally ended. Subsequently, Mr. Trump faced the ignominy of being the first U.S. president in history to be impeached for a second time by the House of Representatives – this time for incitement of violence – although again it appears that Senate Republicans will not support the move to convict him and potentially deny him the right to hold public office again. In India, anger has been rising steadily since Parliament passed three laws reforming the way the mandi, or marketplace, system works. This effectively cuts out middlemen and traders and empowers private entities to directly contract with agricultural producers, yet it also potentially endangers the historically entrenched minimum support price system that can be the economic backbone of small-scale farmers. While farmers initially staged peaceful sit-ins in Delhi and its surrounding areas, braving the winter cold to demand that the government repeal the laws, the lack of forward movement on the negotiating table appears to have triggered the ugly Republic Day clashes. A second similarity across the two sieges is the emergence of disturbing images on social media, showing a darker side of the mass rallies – a propensity for targeted or planned violence. In the case of the Capitol building, one member of the invading mob was seen holding zip ties, implying a threat to the lives of lawmakers in the building, should they have been captured by the mob. Law enforcement discovered a truck filled with guns and bombs near the site of the attack. In Delhi, social media was flooded with images of the Nishan Sahib, a religious flag of the Sikhs, being hoisted at the Red Fort, setting off a storm over whether the protests were less spontaneous than politically motivated. Yet, equally disturbing has been the move by law enforcement to crack down on the media in the aftermath of the protests — several senior journalists have been slapped with sedition and other criminal charges. At the heart of both incidents is contested democracy. In the U.S., Mr. Trump’s clarion call for nativist populism and the dog whistles to white privilege reasserting its racist ethos into mainstream politics has found support with the 74 million-odd people who voted for him. Despite Mr. Biden’s convincing victory, the U.S. remains deeply divided over the vision of its future, a fact that will continue to haunt its politics for decades to come, impacting everything from economic protectionism to women’s reproductive rights. In India, contrarily, politics has tipped sharply over the past decade towards the saffron world view of the Bharatiya Janata Party, and its brute force majority in Parliament has empowered the government with the ability to refashion major policy paradigms as per this vision. Yet the farm laws protests shows that there is another India – the India of the poor, the lower castes and classes – which will not be silenced by majoritarian politics. Even if we grant that to an extent there might have been political motives behind the farm law protests, that still shows that pockets of resistance to the government’s laissez faire or neoliberal economic policy leanings will continue to make their voices heard. The same could be said of those who are excluded from the BJP’s homogenising view of Indian culture – the southern States with their distinctive political and ethnic histories are prominent examples of stand-out cases in this context. Undermining democracy In the widest arc of history, democracy has often been about the informal balance of power in societies — usually favouring a religious or racial majority — expressed through formal trappings of democratic practice, principally the institution of elections. As was seen during the rise of fascism in pre-World War Europe, democratic societies are inherently and perennially capable of tipping towards power structures that undermine democracy itself. The institutions of a free press and free and fair elections typically get degraded and devalued by society in the process. The U.S. and India have been beacons of democracy in the modern world, but the political forces unleashed in the two countries during the past decade or more could eventually transform them into cautionary tales. narayan@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-us-and-india-a-tale-of-two-sieges/article33735474.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,||On the alert, always||The sad incident of an Assistant Commandant of the elite and highly trained CoBRA (Commando Battalion for Resolute Action) unit, Nikhil P. Bhalerao, dying in an improvised explosive device (IED) blast in November 2020 has once again highlighted the need for us to enhance our intelligence system. The IED went off while an anti-Maoist operation was under way and also injured eight others. Induction of CRPF Following the deaths of 80 personnel of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) in Chhattisgarh due to land mine blasts in various incidents in 2008, the then Union Minister of Home Affairs, P. Chidambaram, ordered massive deployment of CRPF personnel in the left wing extremism (LWE)-affected States of Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Odisha, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. With the law and order situation showing improvement in the Kashmir Valley then, the CRPF battalions were pulled out of there and inducted into the LWE-affected States, with major deployment being concentrated in Chhattisgarh. These newly inducted battalions underwent 12 weeks of induction training in Chhattisgarh so that they would be familiar with the terrain, the modus operandi of the Maoists, and the precautionary measures to be taken. They were also put through intensive firing practice. Soon the Border Security Force and the Indo Tibetan Border Police joined the CRPF and the State police forces in combating the Maoists. Despite the training and precautionary measures adopted, security forces lost many personnel in 2009 and 2010, with 76 CRPF men killed in a terrible attack in Dantewada in April 2010. But the CRPF hit back with a vengeance and neutralised close to 200 Maoists between 2009 and 2011. The CRPF slowly gained the upper hand and is now largely on the offensive. It has forced the Maoists to be on the run or surrender, which has brought down incidents of violence in LWE-affected States. As many as 55 Maoists were killed in operations in 2019, and 32 last year. The number of Maoists killed in the last decade has risen to 569. With the morale of the Maoists at its lowest ebb, 359 of them surrendered before the security forces in September 2018. More needs to be done However, as lives are still lost, the intelligence set-up in the LWE-affected States needs to be geared up not only to avert attacks on security forces but also so that they can be on the offensive against the extremists. Extensive use of Belgian Malinois dogs could help in timely detection of IEDs. Drones, too, are being used as force multipliers though they have not been very effective in thwarting IED blasts. Efforts are on to upgrade technical intelligence. Much more needs to be done for LWE to be completely wiped out. CRPF personnel should stay in pucca buildings as temporary huts are not only prone to attacks but also take a toll on the men due to the vagaries of the weather, though there can be no denying that there has been considerable improvement in recent years. There is the issue of funds too. Lately, against a projected demand of Rs. 114 crore for construction of accommodation, a meagre Rs. 33 crore was allotted. The responsibility of providing suitable accommodation to the Central Armed Police Force (CAPFs) battalions devolves on the States where they are deployed, though the CRPF has now undertaken this task on its own to hasten the work. According to K. Govindan Nampoothiry, a Right to Information campaigner, the Ministry of Home Affairs has released Rs. 3,551.72 lakh to Chhattisgarh and another Rs. 2,857.89 lakh to Jharkhand for security-related expenditure for 2020-2021 among the LWE-affected States. Even after certain districts are declared free of LWE activities, CAPFs will have to be stationed for some years until the States rely completely on their own Commando outfits like the Greyhounds and the Jharkhand Jaguars to prevent Maoist elements from raising their heads again. M.P. Nathanael is Inspector General of Police (Retd), CRPF||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/on-the-alert-always/article33735475.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Poll pot||The largesse to the election-going States of Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Assam in the Budget presented by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday was unmistakable. The massive outlay of Rs. 65,000 crore for the development of the NH 66 corridor in Kerala, as well as the announcement of the second phase of the Kochi Metro and the development of the Kochi fishing harbour as a commercial hub are big ticket budget proposals by any standard. Ms. Sitharaman announced that national highway works worth Rs. 19,000 crore are in progress in Assam and projects of more than Rs. 34,000 crore covering over 1,300 km of national highways will be undertaken in the State within the next three years. The BJP has been harping on the “transformation” of Assam’s road network over the last five years to showcase its focus on infrastructure development. For West Bengal, there is a new “Economic Corridor” covering 675 km of national highway, with an expected investment of Rs. 25,000 crore. For an industry-starved State, which is still trying to wish away its anti-industry image, investment in infrastructure was aimed to give a message that the BJP has plans to bring in investment in the State. The party has started saying that the announcement was the beginning of “Sonar Bangla”. For Tamil Nadu, the proposed projects could cost up to one lakh crore rupees. This includes the Chennai Metro Rail (phase two) of 118.9 km for Rs. 63,246 crore and two expressways connecting Chennai. Besides infrastructure allocations, the Budget also seeks notable social sector interventions in these States. Assam and West Bengal get a special scheme, with a Rs. 1,000 crore outlay, for the welfare of tea workers, especially women and children. Plantation workers and descendants — or “tea tribes” and “ex-tea tribes” — comprise almost 20% of Assam’s total population, and are a decisive factor in many Assembly seats, in Assam and West Bengal. The Budget is an instrument of politics, but it should not be predicated entirely on immediate electoral calculations. The BJP’s single-minded pursuit of its ideological politics is often a source of tensions, but its developmental politics expressed in the Budget, particularly the significant outlays for infrastructure, has to be appreciated. The BJP is trying to retain power in Assam, and in West Bengal, it is within striking distance. In Tamil Nadu and Kerala, it is quite a distance away from being a serious contender for power. The allocations for these States are therefore a significant statement of intent by the party. The projects here will take a few years to complete, but have considerable transformative potential. The BJP appears serious about its southern foray, but its rivals might not allow it to take full credit for the allocation of State resources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/poll-pot/article33735462.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Setback in Myanmar||In one swift operation, Myanmar’s military establishment has wiped out a decade of the country’s democratisation process. By arresting President Win Myint, State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi and the rest of the ruling National League for Democracy (NLD) leadership, and declaring military rule under a state of emergency for at least a year, General Min Aung Hlaing has made it clear that it is the military that is in charge, and he is not particularly concerned about the opposition to or condemnation of the move. The immediate reason for the coup was that the newly elected National Assembly was due to meet in Naypyidaw on Monday, despite the Tatmadaw’s (Army’s) claims that the November general elections had several irregularities, and its contestation of the NLD’s landslide victory. Ms. Suu Kyi had refused to bow to Gen. Hlaing’s demand that the results, which also saw the military-backed Union Solidarity and Development Party with a reduced strength in Parliament, be set aside. Clearly, the Army, which still nominates a fourth of the parliamentary seats and retains the important Defence, Borders and Interior portfolios, felt it was better to dismiss the NLD government before it increased its clout. Gen. Hlaing is due to retire this year, and it is possible that the move was meant to extend his longevity in power. Backed by a silent Beijing, the junta leadership may also have gambled that it was better to take drastic action against the democratic leaders before the new U.S. administration finds its feet. The return to Army rule was also helped to some extent by Ms. Suu Kyi, who came to office in 2015, but has lost opportunities to put her country more firmly on the road to democracy. She has accepted a dual power system in the state. Daw Suu, as she is known, has also failed to bring democracy to her party, and been criticised for her autocratic style. Her refusal to rein in the Generals when the Tatmadaw unleashed a pogrom on the Rohingya between 2016-17, had lost the Nobel Peace laureate much international support. Regardless of the reasons for the coup, the step is a setback for the international community’s efforts to engage with Myanmar, after a strict sanctions regime. For India, which had cultivated a careful balance, between nudging along the democratic process by supporting Ms. Suu Kyi, and working with the military to ensure its strategic interests to the North East and deny China a monopoly on Myanmar’s infrastructure and resources, the developments are unwelcome. The government will need to craft its response taking into consideration the new geopolitical realities of the U.S. and China as well as its own standing as a South Asian power, and as a member of the UN Security Council. New Delhi’s immediate reaction, to merely express “deep concern” and counsel following the rule of law and democratic processes, is unlikely to suffice as a long-term strategy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/setback-in-myanmar/article33735463.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,||The Madras Veterinary College||The students in the final year class, the Veterinary College, Vepery, resenting to unpleasant and contemptuous language made use of by the Principal, Mr. D.A.D. Atchison, during the course of his professional instruction, resolved to step away from the hospital and college work. The students of all the other classes also, who could not bear to see their brethren taken to task in a manner revolting to their self-respect and dignity caught the opportunity to become one of them, as a result of which a general strike ensued which commenced early this morning. They however requested Mr. P. Sreenivasa Rao, G.M.V.C., a distinguished Veterinary Surgeon, to help them in their further proceedings, with which he did comply immediately by kindly approaching the Principal on their behalf and representing to him their greivances for redress. At the intervention of Mr. Sreenivasa Rao, the Principal with great courtesy disclosed to his students in a letter through their representative “that he never meant to either insult his students or to hurt their feelings in whatever he might have said to them even in the way of reproach and that he was sincerely sorry if they took him in that light.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-madras-veterinary-college/article33735470.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Hijackers blow up plane||The skyjacked Indian Airlines Fokker plane was blown up by the two hijackers at Lahore airport destroying most of the aircraft, the Associated Press of Pakistan, Lahore, told PTI to-night [February 2] when contacted on the telephone. This action came despite India’s demand that the Pakistan Government ensure the immediate and safe return of the hijacked plane together with the baggage, cargo and mail. APP said the two hijackers stood outside the aircraft with hand grenades threatening to blow up fire engines if an attempt was made to put out the fire. There were two other explosions following the first explosion. The hijackers were inside the plane as the first explosion occurred, but jumped out as the fire spread. Both hijackers were slightly injured and admitted to hospital. Their condition is stated to be “out of danger”. According to APP the fire engines were allowed to put out the blaze only after most of the plane had been destroyed. Only the tail and the left wing of the plane were intact, APP said. Radio Pakistan said that the two hijackers who had forced the plane to fly to Lahore on Saturday [January 30], blew up the plane at 20-05 local time (20-35 I.S.T.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/hijackers-blow-up-plane/article33735471.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Farm infrastructure is the need of the hour: Finance Secretary||A day after the Union Budget 2021-22 was presented, Finance Secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey spoke on the rationale behind some of the policy proposals. Excerpts:   Are the increases in custom duties on some products and the rationalisation to remove some exemptions a protectionist signal?  The general philosophy behind our customs duty structure is – we want the raw material to come at a minimum rate, intermediate products should be at an intermediate rate, the finished products could be at a slightly higher rate but within the range of our MFN rates. The proposal nowhere talks of increasing rates to 30%-40%... these are just internal adjustments. We had seen there are several items getting taxed at 7.5% but one or two items are being taxed differently, we have tried to bring them on par so that the tax rate is similar within the same chapter and category. We have had several old conditional exemptions — if you export this, you can import this duty-free or if you are importing something, you need to do specified things — in place for decades. We want a transparent system because this becomes very difficult to enforce [to check] if the conditions have been met or not, and also gives rise to a lot of discretion that can be misused. So if you want a system that is transparent, objective and free of discretion, then we need to review these conditional exemptions. Last year, we did 80 such notifications. This year, the remaining 400 have been identified and we will review them in the next six months and continue only those exemptions which are absolutely necessary. There’s been some criticism about the lack of a direct job creation push... It has to be seen in context. The government makes capital investment in infrastructure and creates an environment that attracts private and foreign investments. Ultimately, it does lead to job creation. For example, if we have a PLI scheme, mobile phones are being made here, jobs will be created. If they are sold in India, the entire sales network will create jobs. If the phones are used, their servicing will create jobs. Could the import duties on mobile phone components hurt the PLI scheme? I don’t think so. The PLI is on the basis of — you produce here and get benefits based on incremental production. What we have done is prescribed a very minimal duty when those components are being used in India. Those who make the same components in India will get that advantage. But if they are importing components and exporting the phones, they will get the duty drawback so exports wouldn’t be impacted. For domestic consumption, it will make a miniscule difference (in the final price) if a component had 2.5% import duty. But it will incentivise domestic manufacturing.  There are fears that the agriculture infrastructure cess could reduce States’ share of taxes.  Agriculture infrastructure is the need of the hour. We need to improve productivity and efficiency in the sector. For a sustained infrastructure development programme, we need earmarked resources and the certainty of these resources coming for the next few years. With this in mind, it was decided (to levy the Agriculture Infrastructure Development Cess or AIDC). To ensure it doesn’t pose an additional burden for consumers, the existing customs or excise duty on those small number of items where the cess has been imposed, has been readjusted to make way for AIDC. In the case of petrol, we have also adjusted the additional excise duty which comes purely to the Centre and could have been used for many other things. But we wanted that to be spent on farm infrastructure. The disinvestment policy has moved from the idea of having up to four public players in a strategic sector to a ‘bare minimum.’ We couldn’t put a number but have displayed our intent. Which is why we have said minimum, you can’t have a dozen (firms) as minimum. Whether it is one or two, it is a bare minimum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/farm-infrastructure-is-the-need-of-the-hour-finance-secretary/article33735451.ece
03 February 2021||New Delhi,||‘LIC IPO likely after October, BPCL, AI stake sale by Sept.’||The initial public offering (IPO) of India’s largest insurance company LIC is likely after October this year, a top official said on Tuesday laying out the government’s divestment calendar that includes completing the sale of flag carrier Air India and oil firm BPCL within the first half of the next fiscal. Targeting a fund raise of Rs. 1.75 lakh crore from the asset sale to finance projects aimed at reviving the pandemic-battered economy, the government is also looking to sell Shipping Corporation of India (SCI), IDBI Bank and two other public sector lenders in the fiscal year beginning April 1. In an interview with PTI , Department of Investment and Public Asset Management Secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey said the government had introduced the legislative amendments required for disinvestment of a stake in Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) and IDBI Bank through the Finance Bill, 2021 presented along with the Budget on Monday. The NDA government is targeting record capital expenditure next fiscal to pull the economy out of the trough. Additional resources required for the same are to be raised through divestment and monetisation.  Asked about the disinvestment status of BPCL and Air India Mr. Pandey said, “We are in the due diligence stage. Within the first half (by September 2021) of next fiscal we expect the closure of BPCL, Air India and Shipping Corp transactions.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/lic-ipo-likely-after-october-bpcl-ai-stake-sale-by-sept/article33735455.ece
03 February 2021||MUMBAI,||HDFC logs Rs. 2,926 crore third-quarter net profit||Housing Development Finance Corporation Ltd. (HDFC) on Tuesday reported third-quarter net profit of Rs. 2,926 crore. The mortgage lender had posted a profit of Rs. 8,372 crore in the year-earlier period, which included a fair value gain of Rs. 9,020 crore following the merger of GRUH Finance with Bandhan Bank. “The profit numbers for the quarter are not directly comparable with that of the previous year,” HDFC said in a filing. Net interest income (NII) rose 26% to Rs. 4,068 crore. “We continued to see strong demand for housing loans and the growth was much better than what we anticipated,” said CEO Keki Mistry. As per regulatory norms, gross non-performing loans as at December 31 stood at Rs. 8,012 crore, or 1.67% of the loan portfolio. As at December 31, loans worth Rs. 5,010 crore were being restructured under the RBI’s Resolution Framework for COVID-19 Related Stress. Cumulative COVID-19 provision as at December 31 stood at Rs. 959 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hdfc-logs-rs-2926-crore-third-quarter-net-profit/article33735444.ece
03 February 2021||Mumbai,||Sensex surges 2.46% on Budget momentum||Stock markets surged for the second consecutive day on Tuesday with the S&P BSE Sensex rising 1,197 points, or 2.46%, to 49,798. Intraday, the Sensex rose past the 50,000-mark to touch 50,154. On Monday, the Sensex jumped 2,315 points in response to the Union Budget. In two days, the index regained most of the losses it had sustained in volatile trading last week. The NSE Nifty 50 index also gained 367 points, or 2.57%, to 14,648. “The post-Budget move accelerated the uptrend and similar exuberance continued on Tuesday,” said Ruchit Jain, Angel Broking.  “The bulls have regained complete control and have recovered the recent losses within no time. “It is the usual characteristic of a strong bull market. The banking space on Tuesday continued to lead this uptrend. Nifty is just a few points away to reclaim new highs and it is all set to once again enter unchartered territory,” he said. “Going ahead, we expect this uptrend to continue, although the velocity of the upmove could not be the same as seen in the last two days,” he said. “However, one should continue to be with the trend and look for stock- specific trading opportunities as many potential moves are providing good opportunities with high returns to traders,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sensex-surges-246-on-budget-momentum/article33735457.ece
03 February 2021||New Delhi,||IOB, 2 others may exit PCA by March: Panda||The Finance Ministry expects the remaining three public sector banks (PSBs) to be out of the RBI’s prompt corrective action (PCA) framework in two months, as their financial health has improved. Indian Overseas Bank, Central Bank of India and UCO Bank are currently under this framework which puts several restrictions on them, including on lending, management compensation and directors’ fees. “These three banks are also now consistently for the last two quarters... in profit and are fulfilling, by and large, all the parameters of the RBI,” Financial Services Secretary Debasish Panda said. “We hope that before the close of this financial year (they should be out of PCA).” He also assured additional capital for these banks, if needed. For FY21, Rs. 20,000 crore had been allocated as capital for PSBs. With Rs. 5,500 crore going to Punjab & Sind Bank, the Centre is left with Rs. 14,500 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/iob-2-others-may-exit-pca-by-march-panda/article33735459.ece
03 February 2021||Chennai,||‘South has potential to be a cement hub’||Southern states have the potential to become a cement hub for future development across India and for exports as well, said industrialist and president of the South India Cement Manufacturers Association N. Srinivasan. Welcoming the Union Budget he said that southern states accounted for more than one-third of India’s limestone deposit. The cement industries in the south were sitting on an idle capacity which could be utilised for infrastructure projects in central, east and north eastern regions by offering a telescopic freight or a long lead discount, thus increasing railway traffic, Mr. Srinivasan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/south-has-potential-to-be-a-cement-hub/article33735445.ece
03 February 2021||New Delhi,||RBI picks firm to audit HDFC Bank’s IT infra||HDFC Bank on Tuesday said that the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had appointed an external IT firm for carrying out a special audit of its IT infrastructure in the aftermath of repeated service outages. “RBI has appointed an external professional IT firm for carrying out a special audit of the entire IT infrastructure of the bank under Section 30 (1-B) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949..., at the cost of the Bank under Section 30 (1-C) of the Act. The bank shall accordingly extend its cooperation to the external professional IT firm so appointed by RBI for conducting the special IT audit as above,” HDFC Bank said in a regulatory filing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-picks-firm-to-audit-hdfc-banks-it-infra/article33735452.ece
03 February 2021||new delhi,||Indian Oil to monetise pipeline assets||State-owned Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) is likely to sell stakes in one or two of its vast network of crude oil and petroleum product pipelines in the country under the asset-monetisation plan, but won’t give up control, its director (finance) Sandeep Kumar Gupta said on Tuesday. “InvIT could be one model which we may look at but we won’t sell 100%. We will remain the operator,” he said.  Mr. Gupta said IOC’s pipeline assets offer huge potential for unlocking value and a lot of investors are looking at investing in such assets. He, however, did not name the investors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indian-oil-to-monetise-pipeline-assets/article33735453.ece
03 February 2021||New Delhi,||Exports rise 5.37%, trade gap narrows||India’s exports grew 5.37% $27.24 billion in January 2021 from a year earlier, mainly driven by the pharmaceutical and engineering sectors, according to provisional data from the Commerce Ministry. The trade deficit narrowed to $14.75 billion from $15.3 billion in January 2020. It was $15.44 billion in December 2020. Imports rose 2% to $42 billion. Pharma and engineering exports grew 16.4% ($293 million), and about 19% ($1.16 billion), respectively, data showed. Sectors that saw healthy growth include oil meals (253%), iron ore (108.7%) and tobacco (26.2%).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/exports-rise-537-trade-gap-narrows/article33735456.ece
03 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Ocugen, Bharat Biotech in pact to take Covaxin to US||Ocugen and Bharat Biotech have entered into a definitive agreement to co-develop, supply and commercialise Covaxin for the U.S. market. Ocugen will have U.S. rights to the vaccine candidate. It will be responsible for clinical development, regulatory approval, including EUA and commercialisation for the U.S. market. Initial doses, for use in the U.S., will be supplied by the Indian vaccine maker.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ocugen-bharat-biotech-in-pact-to-take-covaxin-to-us/article33735442.ece
03 February 2021||Chennai,||CUMI net Q3 rises 63% to Rs. 65.7 cr. on higher sales||Carborundum Universal Ltd.’s (CUMI), a Murugappa Group company, reported standalone net profit for the third quarter ended December rose 63% to Rs. 65.7 crore on higher sales. Sales and income from operations grew 20% to Rs. 488.27 crore. Abrasives accounted for a revenue of Rs. 253 crore, said CUMI. The board declared an interim dividend of Rs. 1.50 per share.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cumi-net-q3-rises-63-to-rs-657-cr-on-higher-sales/article33735446.ece
03 February 2021||Chennai,||Rane Brake profit rises 26% to Rs. 13 cr.||Rane Brake Lining Ltd.’s (RBL) reported net profit for the third quarter ended December rose 26% to Rs. 13 crore driven by sales to original equipment and aftermarket customers. Total net revenue grew 2.3% to Rs. 134 crore, RBL said in a filing. “Favourable demand environment and stringent cost-control measures helped RBL post strong Q3 results,” said L. Ganesh, chairman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rane-brake-profit-rises-26-to-rs-13-cr/article33735447.ece
03 February 2021||Chennai,||TMB profit surges 96% on lower provisions||Tamilnad Mercantile Bank Ltd.’s (TMB) reported standalone net profit for the third quarter ended December rose 96% to Rs. 181 crore on lower provisioning. “We have been posting profit right from inception,” said K.V. Rama Moorthy, MD & CEO. “The profit was hugely driven by three factors viz. treasury income, growth in operating profit and less provisioning,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tmb-profit-surges-96-on-lower-provisions/article33735449.ece
03 February 2021||CHENNAI,||‘This win means a lot for the State’||Tamil Nadu’s triumph in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy ended a four-year wait for a domestic title — it previously won the Vijay Hazare Trophy in 2016-17. More to the point, for a side that claimed the inaugural T20 championship in 2006-07 and has since supplied the Indian Premier League with some fine cricketers, TN has struggled in the format. Dinesh Karthik, who led the team to both T20 titles, 14 years apart, said Sunday’s win was significant. “We seemed to have lost our way over the last few years, especially in T20 cricket, so this win means a lot for the State,” Karthik told The Hindu . Karthik, who was also the captain last season when TN lost by one run to Karnataka, said, “That defeat did hurt us, but we set the tone [then] and we are now reaping the reward for that effort.” In charge of a very young side, Karthik managed his resources well and enjoyed the challenge of getting the best out of his players, praising the likes of Sai Kishore, M. Ashwin and N. Jagadeesan. Serious talent “This team has some serious talent and quite a few of them will definitely play for IPL sides in the future. Someone like Sai Kishore is one of the most hard-working cricketers I have seen who is investing in his game and has the potential to play for the country,” said the 35-year-old wicketkeeper-batsman. “We played some very good cricket throughout the tournament and even when we were in tough situations, the youngsters really stood up to the challenge and delivered for the team.” On his personal goals, Karthik said, “Obviously my target is to be in the Indian team for the World T20 and tournaments like these are very important. At the same time, I am happy to make a contribution to the State team, keep pushing and guiding these young players.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/this-win-means-a-lot-for-the-state/article33735597.ece
03 February 2021||Chennai,||Archer: a threat to limb and psyche alike||Jofra Archer delivers balls of fire. And torments the batsmen with genuine speed and vicious bounce. Actually, he breathes fire too. Few pacemen hit the batsman’s helmet as consistently as the hostile Archer does. The ball climbs so quickly and so sharply that the man with the willow often does not have time to react. And the damage is done.  Archer also speaks his mind. When asked about crowds being allowed into the stadium for the second Test, he said in an interactive media session on Tuesday, “If it happens, I will believe it. The last eight months have been crazy. Many promises haven’t come off. Only if I see a fan walking through the gate, I will believe it.” He agreed that crowds added lustre to a game. “When kids come to see us play, it helps the next generation.” Impact player He is an impact player. In fact, the 25-year old Archer’s influence extends beyond 38 wickets in 11 Tests. He creates pressure with his speed and accuracy, opens up avenues for others. The fast bowler said the red SG ball posed its own challenges. “I have not seen a ball like that,” he said. He was unwilling to comment on the wicket here “since a lot could change between now and Friday.” On skipper Joe Root playing his 100th Test in Chennai, Archer said, “He is a great man-manager and great player. It is not surprising he has played 100 Tests. He will play many more.” England has a busy schedule and Archer said, “Managing your body will be crucial.” On those criticising England resting a few players to give them a break from the bubble, he said, “Anyone who criticises it has never seen a bubble. At the end of the day, humans are social people. They are enabling everyone to be fresh.” The aspect that impressed him most about Jasprit Bumrah was consistency. And who was the biggest threat in the Indian line-up? “Everyone from No. 1 to 6. Doesn’t matter who.” For the Indian batsmen, Archer will be a threat to limb and psyche.  Anyone who criticises it has never seen a bubble. At the end of the day, humans are social people. They (ECB) are enabling everyone to be fresh||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/archer-a-threat-to-limb-and-psyche-alike/article33735559.ece
03 February 2021||MELBOURNE,||Djokovic starts off in right earnest||Australian Open champion Novak Djokovic got his season off to a perfect start with a battling win over Denis Shapovalov in the ATP Cup on Tuesday, but Rafael Nadal pulled out injured and World No. 3 Dominic Thiem crashed to defeat. The Serbian World No. 1 was pushed hard before coming through 7-5, 7-5 against the hot shot Canadian on Rod Laver Arena Djokovic returned 30 minutes later alongside Filip Frajinovic to play the decisive doubles rubber. The pair beat Shapovalov and Milos Raonic 7-5, 7-6(4) as defending champion Serbia took the Group A tie against Canada 2-1. Blistering start On a cool day, big-serving Raonic got Canada off to a blistering start, crushing Dusan Lajovic 6-3, 6-4 in 79 minutes to give his team a 1-0 lead. Nadal was due to face Australia’s Alex de Minaur in an evening Group B clash, but withdrew shortly beforehand with a back niggle. Nadal, though, was in his team corner courtside, jumping up and down, and said he hoped to be fit by Thursday, when Spain meet Greece. While Djokovic tasted victory, US Open champion Thiem got his season off to a disappointing start slumping to a 6-2, 6-4 defeat to Italian World No.10 Matteo Berrettini.  The results: Group A: Serbia bt Canada 2-1 [Dusan Lajovic lost to Milos Raonic 3-6, 4-6; Novak Djokovic bt Denis Shapovalov 7-5, 7-5; Djokovic & Filip Krajinovic bt Raonic & Shapovalov 7-5, 7-6(4)]   Group B: Spain bt Australia 3-0 [Pablo Carreno Busta bt John Millman 6-2, 6-4; Roberto Bautista Agut bt Alex de Minaur 4-6, 6-4, 6-4; Carreno Busta & Marc Granollers bt John Peers & Luke Saville 6-4, 7-5]   Group C: Italy bt Austria 2-1 [Fabio Fognini lost to Denis Novak 3-6, 2-6; Matteo Berrettini bt Dominic Thiem 6-2, 6-4; Berrettini & Fognini bt Novak & Thiem 6-1, 6-4].   Group D: Russia bt Argentina 2-1 [Daniil Medvedev bt Diego Schwartzman 7-5, 6-3; Andrey Rublev bt Guide Pella 6-1, 6-2; Rublev & Asian Karatsev lost to Maximo Gonzalez & Horacio Zeballos 4-6, 6-7(4)] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/djokovic-starts-off-in-right-earnest/article33735600.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Joe Root on 99 is only slightly behind Sachin Tendulkar||Joe Root comes to India after having made nearly 45% of the runs scored by his men in the series win in Sri Lanka. Impressive as that is, what is more so is the manner of his making the runs, especially against spin bowling. He played the sweep shot to good effect — since the days of Graham Gooch and Mike Gatting, the sweep has been seen as the shot to rely on in the subcontinent — but it was his defence that stood out. The best players do not commit themselves early, play with bat close to the pad, and know that if the ball is turning, it is better to be beaten playing the line that protects their wicket than to chance an edge by reaching for the ball. Despite reports of an ‘English’ type wicket awaiting them in Chennai, it is likely that both teams will play two spinners. Underdog tag Root will be aware that his team begin as the underdogs, and he won’t mind that. In the last eight years, India have lost just one Test at home while winning 28 out of 34. The series that preceded that run was the one in which Root made his debut as England won a series in India after 28 years. Root the captain is only one win away from equalling the record of Michael Vaughan (26) as England’s most successful. Root the batsman has climbed to No. 4 on England’s aggregate list and should move up another rung by the end of the series. Having just turned 30, he is best-placed among current players to threaten Sachin Tendulkar’s aggregate record. Not that any of this is likely to be in his mind as he prepares for his 100th Test. At the same stage in his career, and roughly the same age, Tendulkar was ahead by just 102 runs (in 22 fewer innings, though). It is tempting to see the series as a Root v Kohli battle. The ICC ranks both batsmen in the top five, and on the surface they might appear two dissimilar characters. Yet they have more in common than is at once apparent. Both stand head and shoulders, and maybe waist too, above their colleagues as batsmen. Each has the right mix of grit and sheer cussedness at the crease that sees him making runs even when not at his best. This is what separates the top rung of players from the rest. On a normal day, however, they are capable of bringing tears to the eyes of the bowlers since they do not need a bad delivery to score from. Both are tough battlers on the field but can be charming and even a bit diffident sometimes off it. Root’s predecessor, Alastair Cook, who scored a century on debut in Nagpur in 2006-07, gave up the captaincy after England lost 4-0 here four years ago. In between he played a key role in England’s win here, with three centuries. There is something of Root’s approach to the game that recalls Cooks’ determined style. Successors tend to be influenced by the captains they take over from. Sometimes they are tactically or psychologically alike, and at other times they — often deliberately — cut the umbilical cord and highlight the contrasts. If teams reflect the character of their captain, as they often do, sometimes the reverse is equally true too. Captains tend to reflect the essence of the team. In Australia, Kohli spoke of being the “New India”. The impact of India’s victory there was felt in other areas too, with economic advisors and even the Finance Minister herself invoking the new India, or referring to players like Cheteshwar Pujara and Rishabh Pant to make a point about holding steady before charging ahead. Teams — and economies — need systems that can do both. Inspired teams England will hope that their team reflects the captain rather than the other way around. There are weaknesses in batting at the top of the order, and an unsettled spin attack that could make the difference. But, as India showed recently after losing players to injury, inspired teams often play above themselves. Ben Stokes, for example, can be inspirational. India have the problem of plenty as they settle on their eleven. England will see their policy of rotation being stretched. Root will be hoping for a more lasting gift than the one India gave Nathan Lyon in Brisbane on the occasion of the off spinner’s 100th Test. India will be happy to give him a signed T-shirt instead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/joe-root-on-99-is-only-slightly-behind-sachin-tendulkar/article33735554.ece
03 February 2021||Sydney,||New Zealand makes it to World Test Championship final||New Zealand, on Tuesday, became the first team to reach the final of the inaugural World Test Championship after Australia’s away series against South Africa was postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. New Zealand’s percentage points of 70 sealed it a spot in the final, and for all practical purposes, the series between India and England, starting in Chennai on Friday, will decide the opponent for Kane Williamson’s men. Australia postponed its tour of South Africa next month citing “unacceptable health and safety risk” in that country because of a fresh COVID-19 outbreak, a decision that virtually knocks the Aussies out of contention from the final later this year. CA’s interim chief executive Nick Hockley said travelling to South Africa was not possible given the current scenario.  We are extremely disappointed by the decision of CA. ... CSA has incurred significant costs related to the planning stages and the cancellation of the tour represents a serious financial loss Graeme Smith CSA’s director of cricket||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/new-zealand-makes-it-to-world-test-championship-final/article33735552.ece
03 February 2021||KOLKATA,||Dinda announces retirement||Ashoke Dinda, who served Bengal with pace and passion for one-and-a-half decades, announced his retirement from all forms of cricket on Tuesday. Dinda, 36, who also donned India colours in ODIs and T20Is, thanked everyone who backed him in his cricketing journey. “Today I am retiring from all formats of cricket. There have been several people, including my parents, who have helped me throughout my career and I would like to thank them. A thank you to my on-field guardian, Sourav Ganguly. He has a lot of contribution in my career,” said Dinda, accompanied by his wife Sreyasi Rudra, at a press conference at the Eden Gardens here. He was presented a silver plaque and a bouquet by the Cricket Association of Bengal (CAB) officials. Dinda, who made his First Class debut for Bengal in 2005, led the state team’s attack with distinction for several seasons and took 420 wickets, including 26 five-wicket hauls, in 116 First Class matches. He claimed 151 wickets apiece in List A and T20. Falling out Dinda fell out with the Bengal team management and moved to Goa earlier this season. He played three T20s for Goa in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy this month before deciding to hang up his boots. “I felt my body was not permitting me to continue anymore,” said Dinda. Hailing from East Medinipur district, Dinda stood out for his consistent pace. He excelled in his performances for Bengal and was drafted into the Indian Premier League side Kolkata Knight Riders in 2008. He went on to play for Delhi Daredevils, Pune Warriors, Rising Pune Supergiants and Royal Challengers Bangalore. Making his India debut in a T20I against Sri Lanka in 2009, Dinda took 17 wickets in nine matches. In 2010, he made his ODI debut against Zimbabwe and took 12 wickets in 13 matches.  A thank you to my on-field guardian, Sourav Ganguly. He has a lot of contribution in my career||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dinda-announces-retirement/article33735583.ece
03 February 2021||MELBOURNE,||Barty and Osaka begin with easy wins||Ashleigh Barty and Naomi Osaka made successful returns after long layoffs on Tuesday, fine-tuning their preparations ahead of the Australian Open in different WTA tournaments here. World No. 1 Barty showed little rust to comfortably beat Ana Bogdan 6-3, 6-3 in the Yarra Valley Classic, while Osaka made light work of France’s Alize Cornet 6-2, 6-2 in the second round of the Gippsland Trophy. Defending Australian Open champion Sofia Kenin’s long-awaited return to Melbourne Park was brief after her Italian opponent Camila Giorgi retired injured.  Ankita exits in doubles In doubles action at the Yarra Valley Classic, India’s Ankita Raina and her Dutch partner Rosalie Van Der Hoek were beaten 6-2, 7-6(2) by Japanese third seeds Shuko Aoyama and Ena Shibahara in a round of 16 match.  Important results: WTA Yarra Valley Classic: Second round: Ashleigh Barty bt Ana Bogdan 6-3, 6-3Petra Kvitova bt Venus Williams 7-6(6), 7-5; Garbine Muguruza bt Alison Van Uytvanck 6-2, 6-0; Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova bt Anastasija Sevastova 6-0, 6-3; Sofia Kenin bt Camila Giorgi 7-5, 0-0 retd.   Gippsland Trophy: Second round: Kaia Kanepi bt Aryna Sabalenka 6-1, 2-6, 6-1; Caroline Garcia bt Timea Babos 6-4, 6-4; Johanna Konta bt Bernarda Pera 6-2, 6-3; Katie Boulter bt Coco Gauff 3-6, 7-5, 6-2; Naomi Osaka bt Alize Cornet 6-2, 6-2.   ATP Murray River Open: First round: Gilles Simon bt Elias Ymer 6-4, 6-4; Nick Kyrgios bt Alexandre Muller 3-6, 6-4, 7-6(4); Jiri Vesely bt Frederico Silva 6-4, 6-4   Great Ocean Road Open: First round: Matthew Ebden bt Federico Del Bonis 6-3, 7-6(6); Thiago Monteiro bt Thomas Fancutt 6-4, 6-4; Robin Haase bt Kimmer Coppejans 6-4, 6-3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/barty-and-osaka-begin-with-easy-wins/article33735601.ece
03 February 2021||CHENNAI,||Pant among nominees||India wicketkeeper Rishabh Pant, England skipper Joe Root and Ireland's Paul Stirling have been nominated for the ICC men’s player of the month for January. In the women's section, Pakistan's Diana Baig, and South Africans Shabnim Ismail and Marizanne Kapp have been nominated. Pant led India to a historic series win against host Australia with an unbeaten 89 in the fourth and final Test at Brisbane. Root masterminded England’s 2-0 triumph in Sri Lanka with knocks of 228 and 186. Stirling scored three centuries — two against Afghanistan and one against UAE — in the five ODIs he played against the two teams. The ICC Voting Academy, comprising prominent members of the cricket family, including senior journalists, former players, broadcasters and some members of the ICC Hall of Fame, will pick the winners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pant-among-nominees/article33735557.ece
03 February 2021||Chennai,||First Test behind closed doors; TNCA hopeful of 50% crowd for second||It was a hectic day here when BCCI’s interim CEO Hemang Amin flew down to Chennai. Urgent meeting And he held an urgent meeting with the TNCA officials. On the agenda was allowing crowds for the second Test here; the first Test will be “a closed door” affair without a single spectator or the media. It remains unclear whether Amin had discussions with the England team on the issue. And there could still be a roadblock here. TNCA secretary R.S. Ramaswamy said here on Tuesday, “The BCCI told us that we could have 50% of the stadium full for the spectators for the second Test. “The media too would be allowed. We are not concerned about England because we report to the BCCI.” England tight-lipped Till the time of writing there has been no reaction from England about the spectators being allowed for the second Test. The first Test begins on February 5 and the second, Feb. 13. The problem is that the Test series was agreed between the BCCI and the ECB, to be a “closed door” affair. A source in the TNCA said, “Let us at least conduct the first Test behind ‘closed doors’ as part of that agreement. “Let the England team be convinced about the security arrangements in the stadium. “Then we feel they will be in a better frame of mind to agree to spectators for the second Test.” It does appear the last word has not yet been said on the subject.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/crowd-or-no-crowd-for-second-test-thats-the-question/article33735555.ece
03 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||HFC to promote HFL events||Hyderabad Football Club (HFC) will promote the Hyderabad Football League (HFL) Rookies Cup for amateur enthusiasts and also HFL Women’s Cup, exclusive for women of all age-groups. The matches will begin on February 5 and the finals will be played on Feb. 14. “This is an initiative as part of our efforts to promote interest in the game and make it more popular in the City which was once the cradle of talent in the country,” HFC co-owner Varun Tripuraneni said. The tournament, featuring about 120 boys and girls, will be held at Football Park (Jubilee Hills) and will allow individuals to be part of a team and play regularly. “This approach emphasises HFC’s commitment to build relationships and a footballing culture in the city,” he said. “We are happy to promote the HFL tournaments and are keen to build on the footballing culture in the City,” Varun added. Murad Jasani, MD, HFL, said HFC is the best thing to happen to Hyderabad football and has all the right ideas. The club is willing to invest time and money in developing football culture in the City. “We, at HFL, are very excited to be a part of this journey with HFC and hope this is just the beginning of many such initiatives by HFC.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hfc-to-promote-hfl-events/article33736089.ece
03 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Power to relax provisions of Sports Code will be with government: Ministry circular||The Sports Ministry will have the power to relax provisions of the National Sports Development Code (NSDC) while deciding on grant of recognition to federations and the management of the Indian Olympic Association (IOA), a circular issued by the ministry stated. The circular from L. Siddhartha Singh, Joint Secretary, stated that the govt. has decided to add the relaxation clause provision in the National Sports Code 2011 to assist promotion of sports. “Government shall have the power to relax any of the provisions of the National Sports Code of India, 2011 and other instructions issued with regard to recognition of National Sports Federations (NSFs)...” the circular read. The ministry’s power to relax the sports code will cover “renewal of recognition of NSFs on annual basis and governance and management of IOA and NSFs, as a special exemption where considered necessary.” The sports code has been mired in controversy with several NSFs and the IOA opposing its age and tenure cap regulations for office-bearers before finally coming around in the last couple of years.  The circular further states that the discretionary relaxation of norms would be done only “for the promotion of sports, sportspersons or to remove difficulties in giving true effect to that particular provision of the Sports Code...”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/power-to-relax-provisions-of-sports-code-will-be-with-government-ministry-circular/article33735837.ece
03 February 2021||Coimbatore,||Manchester Cup for Gopinath||The greens were quick and the winds relatively calm but R. Gopinath played to his strengths to emerge the gross winner of the 17th edition of The Manchester Cup 2021 at the par-72 Coimbatore Golf Club course in Chettipalayam recently. Sponsored by Cotton City Developers (P) Ltd, the tournament played over two days under the modified Stableford format, attracted 107 participants. It clearly showed that the golfers were keen on playing the course after a long break due to the pandemic. After Gopinath and J. Vignesh sealed the top two spots in the main event, it was followed by a tournament for the caddies from the local area. And, Ganesh Ram went home happy finishing on top. S.A. Sridhar, M.D. of Cotton City Developers, gave away the prizes. Golf Captain Ashwin Chandran was also present.  The results: Gross: 1. R. Gopinath 39; 2. J. Vignesh 36.   Nett: Handicap 0-15: 1. S. Pradeep Raj 45 pts; 2. Omkar Shankar 44; 16-24: 1. K. Balakrishna Shetty 48; 2. Aruna Kulandaivelu 47.   Caddies: 1. Ganesh Ram; 2. P. Thirumoorthi; 3. S. Suresh Kumar; 4. P. Saravanan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manchester-cup-for-gopinath/article33735585.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,||BFC ends winless streak||Bengaluru FC ended its win drought with a 2-0 victory over SC East Bengal by two first-half goals in an Indian Super League (ISL) match in Vasco on Tuesday. Remaining winless in the last eight outings, BFC realised the victory through contributions from Cleiton Silva and Debjit Majumder, who scored an own goal.   Chhetri inspires Bengaluru benefitted from showing a greater alacrity in the attacking-third. The inspiring presence of captain Sunil Chhetri did help the former champion. Despite operating in brief spurts, the 36-year-old Indian skipper essayed the crucial passes to create the two goals. A long goal-kick from Bengaluru custodian Gurpreet Singh Sandhu in the 12th minute reached the top of the East Bengal box, where Chhetri outjumped the opposition’s towering defender Scott Neville to nod down the floater for an unmarked Silva. The Brazilian midfielder received the header with his right foot and then powered a left-footed half-volley that gave Debjit, in the East Bengal goal, no chance to save. Bad finishing East Bengal had much greater ball possession but when it came to capitalising on that advantage in the striking zone, the red-and-golds were found wanting in their finishing. Just as East Bengal was plotting the equaliser, Bengaluru found the second goal, making the former’s task even more difficult. It was Chhetri again, releasing wing-back Rahul Bheke on the right to fire a probing cross for substitute Parag Shrivas. The young Bengaluru defender, who played as a winger, powered a nice volley that deflected off the post and hit the left leg of an unsuspecting Debjit to find the net. East Bengal failed to overcome its sluggishness in the second-half, allowing Bengaluru to easily protect its lead.  The result:   East Bengal 0 lost to BFC 2 (Cleiton Silva 12, Debjit Majumder 45-og).   Wednesday’s match: Kerala Blasters vs Mumbai City FC .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bfc-ends-winless-streak/article33735595.ece
03 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Nagal expects another clash with a top-10 player||The matches in the Grand Slams against Roger Federer and Dominic Thiem have increased the popularity of Sumit Nagal, and he revealed his gut feeling that it could be “another top-10 player” at the Australian Open. Talking to the media from Melbourne in an online interaction organised by Sony Television, the 23-year-old Nagal said he was discussing with his coach Sascha Nensel about facing a top player yet again. “I want to play a good match. My focus is to to get better, enjoy the experience and play the best tennis possible. I need to work mostly on everything,” said Sumit, ranked 139 in the world. Learning Sumit was candid in saying he was far from being a complete player, and was learning a lot from the best, “the way they do things on court”. Having featured in a memorable match against Federer, Sumit said: “He is too tough to match, the way he reads the game. He does not make the same mistake twice.” The contrast Pointing out the contrast between Federer and Thiem, one with 20 Grand Slam titles and the other with one, Sumit said that he wanted to play the way Thiem did. “He has a solid backhand, a good forehand, serves smart and has high intensity. I copy him a lot.”  Sumit said that he was excited, enjoyed the attention and was not feeling any pressure about being one of the very few Indians making it to Melbourne. “I feel proud to represent India,” said Sumit, conveying his gratitude to his parents, mentor Mahesh Bhupathi who backed him from 2008, and the Virat Kohli Foundation for stepping in at a crucial time in his career. Nagal said his goal of competing in the Olympics stayed, despite all the uncertainty surrounding the Games.  Federer is too tough to match, the way he reads the game. He does not make the same mistake twice||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nagal-expects-another-clash-with-a-top-10-player/article33735818.ece
03 February 2021||Los Angeles,||Davis, James power Lakers’ win||Anthony Davis scored 25 points and LeBron James added 21 as the Los Angeles Lakers overpowered the Atlanta Hawks on Monday to end its road trip with a hard-fought 107-99 victory. James pulled down seven rebounds and weighed in with nine assists as well as a clutch three-pointer that gave the Lakers a 101-97 lead with just over a minute remaining at State Farm Arena. Decisive blow It was the decisive blow in a game that had been halted midway through the fourth quarter after two female spectators heckled James from courtside. The women were ejected from the Arena. Davis, meanwhile, was satisfied after a victory that left the Lakers firmly on the tail of the Los Angeles Clippers and Utah Jazz, who occupy the top two spots in the Western Conference. “The last game of a road trip's always tough and we didn't want to buy into that ‘being tired, ready-to-go home’ mentality,” Davis said.  James, meanwhile, laughed off the incident that led to play being halted in the fourth quarter, revealing that the altercation began when he had exchanged words with a male spectator seated next to the women. Happy with fans “At the end of the day I'm happy fans are back,” James said. “I miss that interaction. I need that interaction. I don't feel like they deserved to be kicked out. “They might have had a couple of drinks maybe. It's fine. It kind of got blown out of proportion... fans in the stands, just feels better," James said. Trae Young led the Atlanta scorers with 25 points and 16 assists, while John Collins chipped in with 22 points. Clint Capela added 16 points and pulled down 13 rebounds. Elsewhere on Monday, the Milwaukee Bucks romped to a 134-106 win over Portland Trail Blazers.  The results: Heat 121 lost to Homets 129; Hawks 99 lost to Lakers 107; Cavaliers 100 bt Timberwolves 98; Bucks 134 bt Trail Blazers 106; Thunder 106 lost to Rockets 136; Bulls 110 bt Knicks 102; Pelicans 109 lost to Kings 118; Spurs 102 lost to Grizzlies 133; Mavericks 108 lost to Suns 109 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/davis-james-help-lakers-overpower-hawks/article33735598.ece
03 February 2021||HAMPI,||TVS Racing riders reign||TVS Racing’s R. Nataraj won the INRC title in the Group A upto 500cc category and teammate Samuel Jacob claimed the Super Sport Group B upto 260cc category in the final event of the season held here recently. The team’s other riders, Pinkesh Thakkar won the Group B Scooter Class while Aishwarya Pissay won the Group B Ladies Class. The team also won the Tuners Trophy in all classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tvs-racing-riders-reign/article33735604.ece
03 February 2021||Geneva,||UEFA extends deadlines to complete games||UEFA has set Champions League clubs an extended April 2 deadline on Tuesday to complete their round of 16 games, with Germany’s limit on travel from England a pending problem. Liverpool’s visit to Leipzig on February 16 for a first-leg game could be affected by federal restrictions on arrivals from England where an aggressive variant of COVID-19 is spreading. “Currently there is no special arrangement for professional athletes,” the German interior ministry said on Tuesday. UEFA requires clubs to “cooperate with their national association in order to obtain from the relevant authorities exemptions from existing travel restrictions, such as border closures and quarantine requirements.” The Champions League last 16 is scheduled to finish on March 17, and quarterfinal first legs are set for April 6-7. The scope for rescheduling games was detailed in updated competition rules published by UEFA on Tuesday for organising the knockout rounds of the Champions League and Europa League. The Europa League resumes on February 18 at the last-32 stage and the Benfica-Arsenal games also have potential travel issues. UEFA set a March 5 deadline to complete the round, six days before the last-16 stage starts. Few options There are already few options to reschedule postponed games in congested domestic and international programs. National teams worldwide will call up players for the March 22-31 international break, including World Cup qualifying games.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/uefa-extends-deadlines-to-complete-games/article33736182.ece
03 February 2021||Kochi,||Blasters lodge complaint over refereeing||Kerala Blasters has lodged a formal complaint to the All India Football Federation over the quality of refereeing in the Indian Super League. The club was not happy with several refereeing decisions in recent matches, including the last game against ATK Mohun Bagan. Blasters have now asked the AIFF to address the quality of refereeing and are also open to a discussion with the national body over the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/blasters-lodge-complaint-over-refereeing/article33735717.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Catching it all||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/practice-makes-perfect/article33735549.ece
03 February 2021||CHATTOGRAM,||Bangladesh-WI first Test from today||Bangladesh captain Mominul Haque believes the return of ace all-rounder Shakib Al Hasan gives his side the edge against a depleted West Indies in the opening match of the two-Test series which begins on Wednesday. Mominul called Shakib a “two-in-one” player. “Such a player is a gem for any team,” said Mominul. “He can perform both with bat and ball, but more importantly, his return will help us find a balanced team combination.” West Indies coach Phil Simmons said his side hoped to take advantage of the rustiness in Bangladesh's first Test in a year. The West Indies has played five in that time, though it has lost four. “I think the little bit of vulnerability could be early on in the Test,” Simmons said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bangladesh-wi-first-test-from-today/article33736022.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,||SRM IST girls take the honours||SRM IST girls’ team won the State-level volleyball tournament, organised by Friends Volleyball Club, Palacode, Dharmapuri, recently, with a 25-21, 25-23 win over PKR Arts & Science College (Gobichettipalayam) in the final league match.   Tiruvallur defeated Chennai 11-15, 15-10, 15-10 in the final of the 18th Senior State throwball open championships held in Dindigul recently.     Loyola College’s 3 Bulls, and Incredibles won the men’s and women’s titles at the 3-on-3 basketball tournament, conducted by Life is a Ball, a public charitable trust run by tennis players Somdev Devvarman and Vikram Menon, on Sunday. In all, 48 teams entered the men’s competition while the women’s category saw nine teams participate. All the finalists were given cash prizes and vouchers worth Rs. 20,000.  The results: Men: 3 Bulls 21 bt Frolicks 14. Women: Incredibles 9 bt F4 8 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/srm-ist-girls-take-the-honours/article33736025.ece
03 February 2021||KOLKATA,||Former IWLF secretary passes away||Former Indian Weightlifting Federation (IWLF) secretary and West Bengal State Weightlifting Association (WBSWA) president Gopal Khanra passed away on Tuesday. He was 102. Sharing the news, WBSWA expressed its condolences to the family of Khanra, who served as a sports administrator until 2007.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/former-iwlf-secretary-passes-away/article33735841.ece
03 February 2021||Mysuru,||KSFA Vice-President Puttaraju passes away||T. Puttaraju, 70, a former State footballer and the present vice-president of Karnataka State Football Association (KSFA), passed away here on Monday due to illness. Puttaraju was also the KSFA governing board member from Mysuru. The KSFA and Mysore District Football Association condoled his death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ksfa-vice-president-puttaraju-passes-away/article33735816.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,||The highest sadana||One's faith in the sastras forms the basis of spiritual sadana. Sadana is primarily a disciplined practice. It can be seen as tapas, or penance, that is, leading an austere way of life. This is possible when one cultivates viveka or the sense of discrimination about the permanent values which really matter, and vairagya, renunciation towards all that is worldly and material. Without the spirit of renunciation there can be no spiritual attainment, say the sastras. Brahma reiterates this to Narada in the Devi Bhagavata Purana, pointed out Sri K.Srinivasan in a discourse. Narada wishes to have a clear perception of the role of Shakti in creation. Brahma explains that the Supreme Formless Self is able to manifest the quality of Absolute Supremacy only when engaged in creation of the Jagat with the help of Maya Shakti. Creation of jagat along with the jivas of varying types is to enable each of them to undergo the effects of their papa and punya. Ishwara can exercise and establish His Supremacy only when there is jagat srishti. Ishwara along with the subtle power of Shakti confers the karma phala to every jiva without any mistake. The role of Shakti being far subtler, it cannot be explained in words and has to be realised when one engages in meditation. Meditation is a mental process and is significant in spiritual sadana. Sastras explain that many esoteric truths are not to be explained verbally. The Brighu Valli in the Taittiriya Upanishad illustrates how the guru insists that the disciple repeat the effort of meditation until he finally understands what he has been seeking. Meditation alone helps the spiritual aspirant to reach the state of realisation. Brahman has to be realised by each one in the inner self and cannot be explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/the-highest-sadana/article33735545.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 07:36 IST,||Sudoku — February 3, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-february-3-2021/article33736320.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,||A good crush||That empty glass bottle, which once played host to a bubbly beverage, has lived a full life. But it is not done yet. In its afterlife now, it is part of the DNA of various buildings that are coming up across Delhi — thanks to Glass2Sand, an initiative by 19-year-old Udit Singhal that gives purpose to discarded glass. “Started in 2018, it’s a zero-waste ecosystem that stops glass bottles from being dumped in landfills and crushes them into commercially valuable silica sand,” explains Udit, who in September 2020 was selected by the United Nations as one of 17 Young Leaders for the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). “Through the two-year honorary appointment, my work is to galvanise youth towards the SDGs by driving awareness, emphasising the need to facilitate engagement at a young age, and encouraging the community to embrace a better civic sense to create sustainable living spaces. So far, the “Young Leader” has been actively developing strategies to turn attention to the growing menace of glass waste and make #noglasstolandfills a movement. Indestructible for years The idea came to Udit when he saw empty bottles piling up at home. A 16-year-old then, he observed a looming crisis in Delhi and concluded that bulk of the glass waste, despite being recyclable and reusable, was not being segregated and was being dumped into already scarce landfill space “where it won’t decompose for a million years!” “I imported the innovative technology that crushes bottles into sand, from New Zealand. It is as large as a washing machine and consumes household electricity,” says Udit, who received a special grant from the New Zealand High Commissioner to India. It takes the machine a few seconds to complete the process. “The sand doesn’t harm the fingers when touched. It’s used in construction, foundry linings, roads and other applications. With bottles changing form to sand, any possibility of counterfeiting is also ‘crushed’,” adds the 19-year-old who is currently studying at University College London. So far, 14,000 glass bottles have already been stopped from entering landfills and crushed into 8,400 kilograms of high-grade silica sand, says Udit. Glass bottles are the only input for this process. “Bottle-collection is managed through a volunteer network that responded to Glass2Sand’s Internet and social media campaign. The volunteer network is growing in Delhi,” he says, adding that an awareness campaign, “Drink Responsibly, Dispose Responsibly” has also been launched. Glass2Sand recently tied up with tonic water company Sepoy&Co. Its clients have been requested to contact Glass2Sand for “correct” disposal as soon they have a lot of 50 bottles. In addition, it has also partnered with eight diplomatic missions and a number of institutions. All the bottles received have come from volunteers. “We pay Rs. 2 per kilo for bottles that come to our facility. So far, none of our volunteers have charged us for the bottles. They tell me that this is their commitment to this social cause,” says Udit, who now receives about 700 glass bottles every month. One kilogram of bottles (including ones that are chipped, broken, coloured and dirty) is equal to one kilogram of sand. While currently the project runs out of Udit’s garage, discussions are on with like-minded organisations to replicate it in other cities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-good-crush/article33735744.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Flowing with||Actor Nalneesh Neel says he could not have asked for a better début in Hollywood than playing Vitiligo (the character suffers from vitiligo and is named such) in the recent Netflix release The White Tiger . Directed by Ramin Bahrani, the film also stars Priyanka Chopra, Rajkummar Rao, Adarsh Gaurav and Mahesh Manjrekar. Nalneesh’s Vitiligo is the leader of a drivers gang that lives in the basement; he recalls playing the character as a “learning and humbling” experience. The 36-year-old actor who has acted in the Hindi films Fukrey Returns, Chhichhore, Gulabo Sitabo, Bhor, Raaes and Shuddh Desi Romance, auditioned thrice in 2018 for the role in The White Tiger. “I am from a little known village in Uttar Pradesh, and the farthest I have gone from home is Nepal. So, when I was asked to travel to London for make-up trials, I couldn’t believe all this was happening to me,” he says. Tough grind After he was picked for the role, he was assigned an English language tutor and a driving instructor as part of preparatory work. “I was asked if I can speak in English as it is an English movie. I was confident that I would pull it off and replied affirmatively,” he says. In the film, Vitiligo comes across as a rustic, raw character. “My character teaches the protagonist Balram Halwai (played by Adarsh Gaurav) to use his wit and escape from poverty. [Vitiligo] is a bit dark and has a unique attitude and style,” he adds. Now, Nalneesh makes it a point to converse in English although he may, at times, struggle to find the right words. “It is a matter of practice and I will keep trying. This opportunity means a lot to me. I was chosen by the casting directors after they watched me in Veerappan (2016 Hindi film directed by Ram Gopal Varma) where I played the role of the person who betrayed Veerappan.” Growing up, Nalneesh’s interest in cinema was sowed after his father brought home a black-and-white TV set, when it was still a rarity for many Indian communities to own a TV. “The locality would have one TV and it was common to visit others’ homes to watch programmes like Ramayan. So when my father brought home a TV, I used to sing and dance, and even enact fight sequences when guests came visiting. Those were my first performances. My parents used to point at the TV and say ‘Act like him’,” Nalneesh says. By the time he completed a Film Appreciation course at the Film and Television Institute of India, Pune, he had already set cinema as his goal, and so in 2010, he set foot in Mumbai. “I came to Mumbai with the Rs. 18,000 that my grandmother gave me. I am thankful to her. Though I struggled for work then, the experience has helped me learn quite a bit,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/flowing-with/article33735751.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,||An origin story||The legendary warrior queen Rudrama Devi of the Kakatiya dynasty was celebrated for her valour. But how many of us are aware of her formative years, her emotional journey and of her hardships as an eight-year-old girl who was brought up as a boy? Star Maa’s new period drama Rani Rudrama Devi depicts the emotional journey of a little girl before her transition into a fearless leader. Producers Alind Srivastava and Nissar Parvez, of Mumbai-based Peninsula Pictures, explain over phone that a team from the TV channel had approached them last year with the story pitch. The duo says that there were “so many emotions” to tell about her and the other characters who aid her journey. “We realised the story is not just about the warrior queen,” Alind remarks. Once the research team finalised the storyline (after drawing references from various books) the project got rolling in October 2020. A set was constructed at Naigaon, Mumbai. Right ingredients Peninsula Pictures has prior TV experience; two of their shows currently on air are Aladdin – Naam Toh Suna Hoga and Hero — Gayab Mode On , which is telecast on Sab TV, but the Telugu-language serial Rani Rudrama Devi marks their début in the vernacular space. The main challenge, however, in a period drama is the familiarity. While it can serve as an advantage, with audiences able to connect to the story easily, the familiarity also brings about scrutiny. “The moral of the story has to be absolute correct. It is the same story being told, but what matters is the way it is presented,” says Nissar. “Visual effects, colour palette, music and acting will make for a visual spectacle, but only a rich storyline will excite the audiences. The glamour, glitz and technical chutzpah of a historical drama is present but at the heart of Rani Rudrama Devi is the story of a girl. We want our presentation to make the viewers think, ‘Oh, I know the story, but never imagined it like this’,” Alind adds. Having previously watched the Anushka Shetty-starrer Rudhramadevi (2015), which was also based on the warrior queen, the duo feels that the movie cannot be compared to their TV series. “We didn’t emotionally connect with the film which we feel we have achieved in our series. Unlike the movie, we are trying to show how Rudrama became what she became. Also, the interpersonal equations between the characters is something to watch out for in our series,” says Alind.  Rani Rudrama Deviairs weekdays at 9pm on Star Maa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/an-origin-story/article33735755.ece
03 February 2021||February 03 2021 00:00 IST,||A pairing for Pondy Bazaar||Amidst the cheery bustle of Pondy Bazaar, Dilip Kapur strides into his latest store. On the left hang racks of Fabindia’s distinctive floral and geometric prints. On the right, are Kapur’s sustainably crafted, Hidesign’s East India Leather handbags. Fabindia and Hidesign recently launched their first joint location store at Pondy Bazaar, T Nagar. “This has been in discussion for a long time,” says Dilip. “Together, our story becomes much stronger. We can support each other much more.” He adds that the COVID-19 pandemic influenced the decision. “What we saw when the pandemic hit was that customers are much more comfortable going to a high street store than the mall.” Stating that Hidesign has traditionally not been prominent on high streets, he says “We have now changed our original plan of being airport-centric. We used to have 32 stores in airports, and have closed 12.” For Hidesign, this marks the 8th store Chennai and 81st in the country; for Fabindia this is the 12th in Chennai and 316th in the country.  The next joint store will open in Ahmedabad, followed by one in Agra. “We are most interested in the Tier-2 cities now,” explains Dilip, adding that sales are steadily improving in those cities. “In stores there, the numbers are already back to normal.” While the pandemic has undeniably been tough on business, this collaboration demonstrates how entreprenuers are finding innovative solutions. “I think we will come out stronger because we will be more disciplined,” says Dilip. “Decisions are now made bearing in mind potential risks. The flab is being cut. And that can be nothing but good for us in the long run.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/a-pairing-for-pondy-bazaar/article33735746.ece
03 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Entry barred for journalists too at Singhu main protest site||Entry to the main protest site at the Singhu border remained closed on Tuesday with the Delhi police barring entry to journalists as well. While one could cross the first two barricades, the first of which is nearly two kilometres away from the protest site, the police barred entry of all, a few metres away from the first stage at the Singhu border. The first barricade from where entry was disallowed was close to the place where clashes erupted on Friday between farmers and a group of people claiming to be locals. The group had demanded that the inter-State highway be cleared by the farmers. Access denied On Tuesday, despite two rounds of checking at the two initial barricades, the police barred entry to the main protest site for the media as well. Hardly any direct access to the main protest site and stage have been left open. One has to walk on foot, through the adjacent fields and enter the protest using non-motorable paths. Most smaller lanes leading to the main stage also remained closed and trenches have been dug in some of the inner lanes as well, with cement barricades in place. Police personnel, at those points, continued to maintain that entry or exit was strictly denied for media personnel as well. Kiosks removed Over the past two months, since the agitation began, small shops and kiosks selling a variety of things, including jackets, chargers and among other utilities had come up. However, that stretch has now been cleared with layers of barricades between the first stage and the main stage at the Singhu border. Between the first stage and the main stage, which are a few metres apart and what was a short walk earlier, concrete barricades, containers and walls have now been erected between the barricade. A few iron rods have also cropped up near the containers. With the normal route from one stage to another now being completely cut-off, volunteers waiting near the erstwhile access path, were seen redirecting people through an inner lane, to be able to reach the first stage from the main stage. Several people, reaching Delhi from Punjab and Haryana, were seen walking for a couple of kilometres, with luggages, before they could access some form of public transportation to the national capital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/entry-barred-for-journalists-too-at-singhu-main-protest-site/article33735769.ece
03 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Layers of barricades will not deter our spirits, say farmers||Farmers at the Singhu border, who have been protesting for nearly 70 days now, said that an increased deployment of security personnel and installation of new layers of barricades had not deterred their spirits. Agitating farmers maintained that there was a steady stream of essentials that were being supplied by their respective villages. A group of farmers from Punjab’s Mohali who have been running a langar facility at the protest site since the agitation began over two months ago, said that there was a schedule followed between 10 villages which ensured that supplies reached the border each day. Gurjan Singh, one of the farmers at the langar facility said, “We are a group of 10 villages with one team from each of the village. Each day a different village sends supplies. The ones who are staying back at the villages tend to the farms. We mostly are working on a rotation basis. There is immense unity among people and everyone is coming forth. We have no shortage of supply whatsoever and while there is police deployment on the Delhi side, our teams are making their way each day from the villages.” Prepared for long haul “We do not know for how long the protest will continue so we are also getting prepared for a longer haul,” said Mr. Singh. Protesting farmers also added that residents from nearby villages at the Singhu border have been helping them in terms of water, rooms for the elderly and washrooms apart from facilities set up by NGOs and other organisations. Maninder Singh, a farmer from Fatehgarh Sahib said, “The locals have been more than welcoming and helpful. They have even provided some rooms where the elderly can wait or sit. Some have even provided washrooms in the nearby factories. While authorities are trying to cut us off from the other side, we have a lot of support from the locals here.” Another farmer from Fatehgarh Sahib, another volunteer keeping a round-the-clock vigil, said, “It is all about messaging. While we have sticks with us, our intent is not to hurt anyone but to just make people aware that we are being vigilant. Every protester here has come on their own volition. Since Rakesh Tikait’s video message, a larger number of people have arrived. Reinforcements are reaching in adequate measures.”  While we have sticks with us, our intent is not to hurt anyone but to just make people aware that we are being vigilant. Every protester here has come on their own volition Farmer from Fatehgarh Sahib||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/layers-of-barricades-will-not-deter-our-spirits-say-farmers/article33735771.ece
03 February 2021||Ghaziabad,||Signs of new alliances emerge in U.P.||“I kept wailing the whole night,” said Abdul Wahid, remembering the night when the image of Rakesh Tikait crying in front of cameras was flashed across western Uttar Pradesh. Standing on the Meerut-Delhi Expressway at the Ghazipur protest site with his family, Mr. Wahid, who hails from Tajpura village in Saharanpur, said that night they decided to strengthen the hands of their brothers. “I could relate with the plight of Sikh farmers that day. We have been singled out, used, polarised many times but I liked the way Mr. Rakesh stood for them. It won my heart.” Mr. Wahid’s grandson Shahzad, who works as a painter in Chandigarh, rushed as well. “I work in Sikh homes, get my livelihood from them. I felt it was my duty to support them in the hour of need,” he said. Ghulam Mohammad Jola, 85, who had been with Mahendra Singh Tikait right from the foundation of the BKU, parted ways and formed Bhartiya Kisan Mazdoor Manch after the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots. In the riots, at least 62 people died and over 50,000 were displaced. Rendered apology During the mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar on January 29, Naresh Tikait apologised for two things. One for voting against RLD president Ajit Singh in the 2019 general elections and second for letting the Muslim brothers down during the Muzaffarnagar riots. “I have worked with Mahendra for 27 years. Mr. Rakesh and Mr. Naresh are like my sons but they chose the wrong path after 2013,” said an emotional Jola. “After Mr. Naresh apologised and Jayant touched my feet, we are hoping that the wounds of the riots would heal. Out of one lakh farmers present during the mahapanchayat, at the least 30,000 were Muslims,” he told The Hindu.  He said talks about the merger of his faction with the BKU have yet to start. “See, right now BKU is their family’s fiefdom. All the zonal heads are Jats. If they allow Muslim farmers a dignified space in the union, we would definitely consider it. Otherwise, we are happy the way we are,” said Mr. Jola. Having said that, he added social tensions have eased. “We have forgiven them. And it is not just the high caste Muslims, lower caste have also felt after the emotional outburst of Mr. Rakesh that they are farmers first and Muslims later,” asserted Mr. Jola. Senior advocate Mannan Baliyan said he also belonged to the Tikait’s khap (Naresh Tikait is the head of Baliyan khap). “ But after 2013, I was seen as a Muslim Jat and was not invited. After Mr. Naresh’s appeal in the last week, Muslim farmers in western U.P. have felt an emotional bond with Jats and at least 60% of Muslim farmers are seriously thinking of returning to the BKU fold.” Now, he said, it depends on how the BKU carries forward the movement. “If it turns out to be a ‘drama’, all the efforts would come to a naught,” he said. The coming together of Muslims and Jats could prove to be a shot in the arm for Rashtriya Lok Dal. If the alignment is complete, experts say, RLD could cross the electoral rubicon in more than a dozen Assembly seats in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/signs-of-new-alliances-emerge-in-up/article33735773.ece
03 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Farmers’ union legal team for probe into missing persons||The legal team associated with the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Tuesday said they have gathered information on 115 persons who have been arrested and 29 persons who are believed to be missing since the violence on Republic Day. The SKM’s legal team has demanded a judicial probe into the matter. The team said they met Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and gave him a presentation and a list of people who they believe are missing. Mr. Kejriwal said that the jails are under the Delhi government’s jurisdiction and he will do everything in his power to help the farmers, said the team members.  The team also said that the Chief Minister gave them a record of 115 people who are lodged in Tihar jail. It also urged Mr. Kejriwal to ensure that those arrested don’t face any problems, are provided good quality food and are allowed to meet their families. The CM was also requested to esure that a medical examination is conducted of all the accused. The team said that they are collecting information on the missing persons who may be illegally confined in jails. Money will be deposited in jail accounts of all those arrested and they will be provided clothes. Another legal team sitting behind the main stage at the Singhu border said they have a list of 170 persons out of which they have gathered that 124 have been arrested and another 46 are missing. “The Delhi police had shared a list of 120 persons who have been arrested. We have information on four more. The other people are still missing,” said an advocate. The Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee Manjinder Singh Sirsa has claimed that their legal team is coordinating with the SKM legal team and are providing help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/farmers-union-legal-team-for-probe-into-missing-persons/article33735767.ece
03 February 2021||LUCKNOW,||U.P. drops action against farmers||The Uttar Pradesh government has said it has dropped proceedings against 162 farmers from Sitapur who were issued notices of personal bonds and sureties of ‘exorbitant’ sums up to Rs. 10 lakh each to prevent them from allegedly participating in the ongoing farm protests. The government on Tuesday informed the Allahabad High Court that it had dropped the action against the farmers as “there is no further apprehension to breach of peace or disturbance of public tranquillity”. Unable to justify The government counsel, however, could not justify to the court the reason for issuing notice to the farmers owning tractors for filing the personal bonds. A Division Bench of Justices Ramesh Sinha and Rajeev Singh, while hearing a petition filed against the notices, hoped the District Magistrate of Sitapur and sub-ordinate SDMs would be “cautious” in passing orders of such nature. “Their orders, act and conduct should not be such which reflects arbitrariness and against the principles of natural justice,” the court said. U.P. Additional Advocate General V.K. Shahi informed the court that notices were issued to 162 persons for executing the bond of Rs. 10 lakh and two sureties of the like amount. Out of these, 43 had appeared in the matter. On the basis of fresh challan report, the proceedings against all the persons had been dropped, he told the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/up-drops-action-against-farmers/article33735761.ece
03 February 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi court grants bail to freelance scribe Punia||A Delhi court on Tuesday granted bail to freelance journalist Mandeep Punia who was arrested by the police from the Singhu border protest site where farmers have been agitating against the Centre’s farm laws. He was arrested allegedly ‘obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions’. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Satvir Singh Lamba while granting bail to Mr. Punia asked him not to indulge in similar offence and to join the investigations as and when required by the agency. The prosecution alleged that Mr. Punia had pushed a constable towards the protesting site, following which the police used “minimal force to control the situation”. The prosecution said that movement of any public person was restricted towards the protesting site and barricades were placed for security, because of scuffle incident between the protesters and locals. The court, however, pointed out that the alleged scuffle incident in the present case is of around 6.30 p.m. but the present FIR was registered at around 1.21 a.m. on the next day. “Moreover, the complainant, victims and witnesses are police personnel only. Hence, there is no possibility that accused/ applicant [Mr. Punia] can able to influence any of the police officers,” the court said. Mr. Punia has argued that he is a freelancer journalist and was carrying out his duties along with another journalists at the protest site. He contended that another journalist was also apprehended by the police, but was released at midnight. However, he was not released as he was not carrying any press ID card.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-court-grants-bail-to-freelance-scribe-punia/article33735764.ece
03 February 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Five still missing after R-Day violence: Punjab CM||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said on Tuesday that of the persons from the State reported missing since the Republic Day violence in the national capital, 70 are in Delhi jails, while 14 of the remaining missing 19 had been located. The Chief Minister said that as per information received, five persons from Punjab are still missing. “All efforts are being made to trace them.” He added that the 70-member lawyers’ team of Advocate General Atul Nanda, deputed to provide free legal aid to farmers, was reaching out to those in prison and those facing cases filed by the Delhi Police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/five-still-missing-after-r-day-violence-punjab-cm/article33735763.ece
03 February 2021||New Delhi,||Plea seeking protesters’ release rejected||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday dismissed a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking immediate release of all persons, not limited to farmers, illegally arrested and detained on or after January 26 from Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur areas by the Delhi police. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh declined to entertain the plea of Harman Preet Singh, a law graduate, who had collected the names of 15 persons who are missing since January 26. The court noted that the petition was silent on whether Mr. Singh has contacted any of the family members of the ‘missing’ persons. The petition said it has come to the knowledge of Mr. Singh through personal survey, newspaper and media reports and social activists that the persons were illegally detained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/plea-seeking-protesters-release-rejected/article33735765.ece
03 February 2021||New Delhi,||AICC may move HC on Internet suspension||The legal cell of the All India Congress Committee (AICC) will consider filing petitions in the High Court to challenge the suspension of Internet services in parts of Haryana and to provide legal aid to farmers who have been arrested, said a resolution released by the AICC legal cell chief Vivek Tankha on Tuesday. “Delegation of Chairmen, Legal Dept. from Punjab, Haryana and Delhi, will be visiting farmer leaders at the protest sites on Delhi borders to apprise them of legal services already undertaken by the department and to help agitating farmers and journalists on relief and redressal,” the resolution said. The AICC legal cell decided to form committee of lawyers in all districts of Punjab, Haryana, U.P. and Delhi. It will identify those under detention and help them with legal options.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aicc-may-move-hc-on-internet-suspension/article33735775.ece
03 February 2021||Indore,||Couple reunited amid dumping drama in Indore||Even as Indore civic body’s act of dumping homeless elderly people out of the city has caused widespread outrage, the incident has also led to the reunion of a woman with her husband who had gone missing. When Pushpa Salvi saw photos and videos on social media of some homeless people being taken out of the city last Friday, she recognised her husband Anil Salvi (50) among them, sitting on Nipania bypass road on Indore’s outskirts. The man, who is mentally disturbed, had left his home here last month. The woman, after being unable to find him, had lodged a missing person’s complaint with the police. Last week, she recognised her husband in the visuals on social media. “I had filed a missing person’s report at Chandan Nagar police station after I did not find him. On January 29, I got a call from someone that my husband was found in Nipania area following which I took a taxi to go there,” Ms. Salvi told reporters here on Tuesday. Ms. Salvi, aged around 48, said she did not know the way and the Indore Municipal Corporation employees guided the cab driver to the area. “My husband was lying with five-seven other elderly persons,” she said, alleging that IMC staff did not help in bringing her husband back home. Ms. Salvi said she first took him to a mental hospital where doctors gave him medicines, and later brought him home. A civic official expressed happiness that the family got back its missing member.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/couple-reunited-amid-dumping-drama-in-indore/article33735762.ece
