06 February 2021||NEW DELHI/ GHAZIABAD,||Farmers’ road blockade today to exclude Delhi, Uttarakhand, U.P.||The chakka jam (road blockade) planned by farm unions on Saturday will exclude Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand to ensure that the kind of violence that marred the Republic Day tractor parades is not repeated. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha leadership has issued strict guidelines to ensure a “completely peaceful and non-violent” agitation in the rest of the country, with a specific appeal not to engage in any conflict with the government authorities or other citizens. “There will be no chakka jam programme inside Delhi since all the protest sites are already in a chakka jam mode. All roads for entering Delhi will remain open except where farmers’ protest sites are already located,” the SKM statement on Friday said. Leaders of the Bharatiya Kisan Union-Tikait, which is leading the protest in U.P., and the Terai Kisan Sangathan, which includes a large number of protesting farmers from Uttarakhand, said the chakka jam had been called off in those two States. BKU leader Rakesh Tikait told reporters he had inputs that violence could be fomented in U.P. and the border areas of Uttarakhand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmers-road-blockade-to-exclude-delhi-uttarakhand-up/article33764504.ece
06 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Agriculture cess a threat to State finances, says Isaac||The proposed agriculture development cess in the Union Budget will be counterproductive on the finances of States, as the share from the divisible pool will decline from 42% to 32%, Minister for Finance T.M. Thomas Isaac has said. Delivering the inaugural address at a webinar on ‘Economic Survey 2020–2021 and Union Budget 2021- 2022,’ jointly organised by the Gulati Institute of Finance and Taxation (GIFT) and Departments of Economics, Government Women’s College and University College here on Friday, Dr. Isaac said that most of the proposals for revenue mobilisation in the Union Budget would negatively affect the State government’s finances. Duty on petrol Dr. Isaac said instead of raising the excise duty on petrol and diesel, the Centre had opted for a hike in additional excise and special excise duties of these products. These additional duties did not include in the divisible pool. The decrease in the divisible pool would affect the revenue of States, he said. “This affects the fiscal federalism badly and poses a severe threat to the Centre-State relations,” he said. Allocation for the poor had dropped and the proposals in no way answer the serious economic crisis facing the country. Pointing out that India is the worst performing country among emerging economies, he said the shrinkage in the global economy during 2020-21 was 4.5%, while in India it was 7.7%. This was the worst economic recession India ever had. Dr. Isaac said the Budget was clueless on the disturbing economic issues. It never gave a healing touch to the poor and this would further worsen the status of the poor and middle class. The Union Finance Minister should have adopted a counter cyclical approach, he said Even during the pandemic, the Centre’s expenditure increased on a minimum level. This approach may endanger the conditions of the poor in the near future, he said. M.A. Oommen, Honorary Professor, GIFT, said the Budget badly ignored the unorganised sector. It would take more than a decade for the poor to regain their economic level to the pre-COVID-19 period. The idea of ‘minimum government and maximum governance’ itself was contradictory, he said. Achieving ‘V’ shaped growth envisaged in the economic survey would not be possible as the 11% growth target was unrealistic. Achin Chakraborty, Director, Institute of Development Studies, Kolkata, gave a special address.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/agriculture-cess-a-threat-to-state-finances-says-isaac/article33764683.ece
06 February 2021||Ghaziabad,||‘You will open the eyes of the government’||Taking a dig at the BJP, Jayant Chaudhary said on Friday that those who took a long time before unfurling the National Flag were now teaching farmers nationalism. The Rashtriya Lok Dal vice president was speaking at a massive rally of farmers in Bhainswal village of Shamli. In a display of aggression and wit, Mr. Chaudhary said Prime Minister Narendra Modi failed to understand the temperament of farmers in the last seven years. “He should understand if you try to suppress the demands of farmers, they will resist with double force. The farmer should at least get the minimum support price by law,” he said. The RLD leader said the government had not said a single word to commiserate with those who died during the protest. “No BJP leader went to meet Navreet Singh, a farmer from Rampur who died during the protest in Delhi. Seventy and eighty-year-olds are being picked up and booked,” he said. He said notices were being sent to farmers in western U.P. for denigrating the National Flag. “No farmer could insult the National Flag. When his son’s body comes from the border draped in the Tricolour, he doesn’t cry. He takes pride in it,” he said. Mr. Chaudhary thanked the farmers for turning up in large numbers at panchayats. “You will open the eyes of the government,” he said, alleging that the ruling party had plans to disrupt peaceful protests by sending its members as locals to protest sites. “They did it at Singhu. At Ghazipur it was prevented after [his father and RLD chief] Ajit Singh’s timely intervention.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/you-will-open-the-eyes-of-the-government/article33764852.ece
06 February 2021||Vijayawada,||High Court stays use of ‘e-Watch’ till Feb. 9||The High Court on Friday stayed the enabling and use of State Election Commission’s ‘e-Watch’ mobile app till February 9, when the first phase of elections to gram panchayats are scheduled to be conducted. A Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Arup Kumar Goswami and Justice C. Praveen Kumar, agreed with the petitioners’ view that the SEC could have used ‘c-Vigil’, the existing app of the Election Commission of India, or the ‘Nighaa’ app developed by the Panchayat Raj Department, and posted the matter for further hearing on the above date. Government Pleader C. Sumon insisted that the citizens would not be able to make an effective use of ‘e-Watch’ as there was not much publicity for it. More importantly, he contended that it ‘e-Watch’ did not have the security certificate required under the AP Cyber Security Policy-2017 and various GOs issued in its pursuance. Besides, it was not clear as to who developed the app and whether it had security features required to protect personal information of the citizens. He also pointed out that the AP Technology Services (APTS) was the nodal agency for conducting a security audit and issuing the mandatory security certificate. He further brought to the court’s notice that the SEC Secretary had written to the MD of APTS on February 4, 2021, for a security audit of the app and the agency was in that process, and that it would normally take five days to ascertain its security worthiness. The court asked what purpose would be served by ‘e-Watch’ since the Model Code of Conduct had been in vogue since January 8 and the elections were due to begin in a few days’ time. It also questioned the SEC why it had not used the app developed by the PRD which was available from March 8, 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/andhra-pradesh-hc-stays-use-of-e-watch-app-till-february-9/article33764432.ece
06 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Unions oppose move to sell stake in Vizag steel plant||The proposed strategic sale of Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited (RINL), the corporate entity of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, appears to be heading towards a showdown between trade unions and the Union government. On Friday, hundreds of VSP employees, affiliated to various trade unions, organised a rally from Kurmannapalem to the Gandhi statue near the GVMC office, to stage a protest and demand the immediate rescinding of the proposal. The steel plant was set up after a sustained agitation in the early 1970s under the slogan ‘Visakha Ukku - Andhrula Hakku’, and 32 people lost their lives in the struggle. They would not let the strategic sale happen, said CITU State president Ch. Narasinga Rao. All trade unions such as CITU, AITUC, INTUC and even YSRC Party Trade Union have joined hands to stage the protest and they collectively took a decision to oppose the sale. Speaking at the protest camp, Mr. Narasinga Rao said the plan to privatise RINL was sown since day one of its inception. But somehow, the employees and the trade unions didn’t allow it to happen. “Today, there are over 30,000 direct and contract workers engaged with the steel plant and lakhs of others are associated with the plant in some way. Their families depend on the well-being of the plant and as long as it remains with the government,” said Bose Babu of the AITUC. The union leaders said the proposed joint venture with South Korean steel maker POSCO was only eyewash and the real intent was 100% sale, said G. Venkat Rao of the INTUC. According to Mr. Narasinga Rao, the Union government was already in talks with a number of private steel makers such as POSCO, Tata, Jindal and ArcelorMittal for the sale. The union members said the government now intended to sell the plant for peanuts. In the earlier disinvestment move, the valuation of 22,000 acres of land was pegged at Rs. 48 crore, when the actual land cost was over Rs. 2.20 lakh crore. The entire plant was then valued at Rs. 4,898 crore, when it should not be less than Rs. 3.2 lakh crore. TDP MLA Velagapudi Ramakrishna Rao also joined the protest and said they would also oppose the move. Visakhapatnam MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana said the YSRCP would not support the Centre’s move to privatise RINL and would raise the issue in Parliament. “If the Centre sticks to its proposal, we are ready to step down as MPs,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/unions-oppose-move-to-sell-vizag-steel-plant/article33764444.ece
06 February 2021||Mangaluru,||‘LPG towards Bengaluru should be transported only through pipeline’||With a third mishap involving a heavy truck carrying LPG (bullet tanker) at Shiradi Ghat on Mangaluru-Bengaluru National Highway in the last four days on Friday, the Dakshina Kannada district administration will ask the Central government to ensure LPG supply towards Bengaluru was carried only through the Mangaluru-Bengaluru LPG pipeline. The crew of the bullet tanker transporting LPG from Mangaluru towards Bengaluru noticed leakage of gas while the vehicle was moving near Kempu Hole on Shiradi Ghat in Sakleshpur police limits on Friday morning. Emergency response teams immediately reached the spot even as vehicular movement was allowed only after 2 p.m. It was thought that the 355 km Mangaluru-Yediyuru (off Bengaluru) LPG pipeline commissioned in 2016 by Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd., (HPCL), could eliminate movement of bullet tankers from NH 75. However, this did not happen and bullet tankers continue to ply on the busy highway creating panic among residents as well as other road users whenever they get involved in mishaps. Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra told The Hindu that the administration was urging the Central government to compel all oil marketing companies to transport LPG towards Bengaluru only through the pipeline and use road transport for onward transportation from Yediyur. He said the Mangalore LPG Import Facility (MLIF) near MRPL of HPCL pumps entire LPG required for HPCL and partial requirements of Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. Another oil marketing company (OMC), Bharat Petroelum Corporation does not use the pipeline at all and transports its entire requirement by road. Companies sourcing LPG from private player Total Gas that has its import facility Thokur on the banks of Phalguni (Gurupura) River too transports LPG by bullet tankers by road. Nearly 200 bullet tankers move towards Bengaluru every day, Dr. Rajendra added. When the pipeline was commissioned in 2016, an average of 175 bullet tankers were moving towards Bengaluru and the numbers have only increased despite the presence of the pipeline. Sources in OMCs said bullet tankers also move towards Shivamogga and Kurnool in Andhra Pradesh. An empty bullet tanker returning to Mangaluru overturned after hitting a container truck in Kalladka near Bantwal on February 3. On February 2, a LPG-laden bullet tanker moving from Mangaluru to Bengaluru overturned near Soorikumeru and traffic was hit till 2 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lpg-towards-bengaluru-should-be-transported-only-through-pipeline/article33765229.ece
06 February 2021||Hassan,||Probe officer in minor girl assault case suspended||The officer probing the rape of a minor girl, reported in Sringeri, has been suspended following allegations of irregularities in handling the sensitive case. Siddaramaiah, the police inspector, was accused of delay in registering the case as well as deliberately committing mistakes in the process. The IGP of Western Range has issued the suspension order. The case had come up for discussion in the Legislative Council on Thursday, where Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai had admitted to mistakes and stated that the officer concerned would be suspended. ‘Ignored directions’ Meanwhile, Chikkamagaluru Child Welfare Committee chairman G. Subramanya has also written to Chikkamagaluru Superintendent of Police Akshay M. Hakay appealing him not to continue Siddaramaiah as investigation officer in the case. Mr. Subramanaya told The Hindu that the police officer had ignored the directions of the CWC while handling the case and also wrongly shown him – Chairman of the CWC – as the complainant in the case. He did mistakes in handling the case deliberately to help the accused. “He does not understand the seriousness of the case and repeatedly ignored the directions of the CWC. He delayed bringing the issue to our notice, which was mandatory as the victim was a minor,” Mr. Subramanya added. The minor girl was allegedly raped by more than 30 people over the last five months. So far,the police had taken eight people into custody. Leaders of the Congress staged a protest in Sringeri on Friday seeking immediate arrest of all the accused in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/probe-officer-in-minor-girl-assault-case-suspended/article33764648.ece
06 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Sub-Registrar can’t act like a postman: HC||A Sub-Registrar, though not required in law to enquire into validity of documents, cannot act mechanically and like a classical “postman” while registering documents but should exercise all “due diligence” as per the law, the Karnataka High Court has said. As per the Karnataka Registration Rules, 1965, Sub-Registrar should satisfy themselves about the rights of executants of documents or witnesses to appear for the registration process, the court said. Justice B. Krishna Bhat made these observations while rejecting a petition filed by Bhuvaneshwar, Sub-Registrar of Jamkhandi in Bagalkot district, questioning registration of a criminal case against him. The criminal proceedings were initiated against him for fraudulent registration of a sale deed of a property in the absence of the real owner of the property. “A Sub-Registrar is only expected to go through the contents of the documents before registering the same and no more. But that, however, cannot be understood as saying, without of course giving leave to common sense, that a Sub-Registrar should register a document blindfolded when on the face of it, it is disclosed that the executant/presenter of the document for registration is neither the owner nor the power of attorney holder of the owner and the one shown as the owner is a mere witness,” the court observed. The petitioner had not only allowed registration of a sale deed by one Vijayalakshmi Mendigeri, who was not the real owner of the property, based on a “consent letter” purportedly given by the real owner but had also allowed entry of name and signature of real owner of the property as one of the witnesses for registration. In the complaint given to the police, Chidanand Ajjappa Mali, the real owner of the property and cousin of Vijayalakshmi, had said that his signatures were forged on the letter as well as on the registered sale deed, and the Sub-Registrar had colluded with the other accused persons. The court found that the petitioner had allowed registration in the absence of general or specific power of attorney of the real owner of the property and also allowed his name and signature to be included in the column of witnesses. The High Court said that investigation was required to ascertain the allegation of collusion of the petitioner with other accused persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sub-registrar-cant-act-like-a-postman-hc/article33764650.ece
06 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||CM calls for more serious steps to control pandemic||Even when the State has managed to reduce the COVID-19 active caseload by 5% in the past one week, the fact that the number of new cases reported daily is not reducing is an indication that more serious interventions are needed to bring down disease transmission, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. Addressing the media here on Friday, Mr. Vijayan pointed out that from an active caseload of 72,392 cases on January 28, the State has managed to bring down the active cases to 68,857 as of Thursday. Testing had been increased significantly for the past two days. Kerala managed to exercise tighter controls on disease transmission throughout the pandemic. The relaxations allowed by the government did not mean that COVID-19 had ended. Within families He said disease transmission was now taking place within families and that unless an infected individual maintained strict room quarantine protocols, the entire family could become infected. As COVID transmission happened faster in closed spaces, special care should be taken inside homes, offices, and shops and there should be no relaxation on masking at all times. Kerala was fast completing the COVID-19 vaccination of all registered health-care workers and the category would be fully covered by next week. Then vaccination of front-line workers, including field health workers, anganwadi workers, and police and revenue officials would commence and the process would be completed within a few weeks. In the third phase, the vaccination would reach the public, when persons above 50 years with co-morbidities would be administered the vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-calls-for-more-serious-steps-to-control-pandemic/article33764687.ece
06 February 2021||CHENNAI,||T.N. CM announces Rs. 12,110 crore crop loan waiver||Ahead of the Assembly poll this summer, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Friday announced that the State government would waive the crop loans outstanding in cooperative banks to the tune of Rs. 12,110 crore. The move will benefit over 16.43 lakh farmers across the State. In a suo motu statement in the Assembly, Mr. Palaniswami said the decision was taken “considering the prevailing situation”. He also recalled the representations received from the farming community seeking a crop loan waiver. Referring to the DMK’s promise ahead of the 2019 Parliamentary polls that they would waive crop loans if they won the elections, Mr. Palaniswami said they forgot their promise even though 38 DMK [alliance] candidates were elected to the Lok Sabha. “They forgot the promises made to the people soon after they won the polls. This has been their practice every election,” he said. “The AIADMK government is the only one that fulfils the promises made to the people,” Mr. Palaniswami said. Relief extended He recalled that in 2016, then Chief Minister Jayalalithaa had waived off farm loans to the tune of Rs. 5,318.73 crore to benefit over 12.02 lakh farmers. The AIADMK government had also extended relief of about Rs. 2,247 crore to farmers who suffered losses due to drought in 2017. He said his government had disbursed relief of about Rs. 1,717 crore to over 16.43 lakh farmers, whose crops were affected by heavy rain in 2019-20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-cm-announces-rs-12110-crore-crop-loan-waiver/article33764556.ece
06 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Munawar Faruqui gets ad-interim bail||The Supreme Court on Friday granted ad-interim bail to comedian Munawar Faruqui in a case registered against him by the Madhya Pradesh police for hurting religious sentiments. In a brief hearing, a three-judge Bench, led by Justice Rohinton Fali Nariman, also stayed a production warrant issued by the Uttar Pradesh government against Mr. Faruqui in a separate case based on the same facts. “The petitioner is released on ad-interim bail on conditions to the satisfaction of the trial court. In the meantime, there shall be stay of the production warrants as well,” the court ordered. Justice Nariman said the allegations against Mr. Faruqui were vague. He noted that the police had not complied with the lawful procedure prescribed under Section 41 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) before arresting the comedian. Justice Nariman pointed out that the SC, in a scathing judgment in Arnesh Kumar versus State of Bihar in 2014, had warned the States and their police from depriving personal liberty without following due process of law. Arrest was not a tool for harassment, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/munawar-faruqui-gets-ad-interim-bail/article33764514.ece
06 February 2021||Ghaziabad,||You will open eyes of government, Jayant tells farmers at massive U.P. rally||Taking a dig at the BJP, Jayant Chaudhary said on Friday that those who took a long time before unfurling the National Flag were now teaching farmers nationalism. The Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) vice president was speaking at a massive rally of farmers in Bhainswal village of Shamli. In a display of aggression and wit, Mr. Chaudhary said Prime Minister Narendra Modi failed to understand the temperament of farmers in the last seven years. “He should understand if you try to suppress the demands of farmers, they will resist with double force. The farmer should at least get the minimum support price by law,” he said. The RLD leader said the government had not said a single word to commiserate with those who died during the protest. “No BJP leader went to meet Navreet Singh, a farmer from Rampur who died during the protest in Delhi. Seventy and eighty-year-olds are being picked up and booked,” he said.  He said notices were being sent to farmers in western U.P. for denigrating the National Flag. “No farmer could insult the National Flag. When his son’s body comes from the border draped in the Tricolour, he doesn’t cry. He takes pride in it,” he said. Mr. Chaudhary thanked the farmers for turning up in large numbers at panchayats. “You will open the eyes of the government,” he said, alleging that the ruling party had plans to disrupt peaceful protests by sending its members as locals to protest sites. “They did it at Singhu. At Ghazipur it was prevented after [his father and RLD chief] Ajit Singh’s timely intervention.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/you-will-open-eyes-of-government-jayant-tells-farmers-at-massive-up-rally/article33765138.ece
06 February 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||With public library movement, Jamtara turns a new page||A library movement developed in a short span of time in Jharkhand’s Jamtara district is receiving a steady flow of students and helping them turn a new page. The district’s love for books assumes huge significance as it has the dubious distinction of being the “phishing capital of India”. Many youth, mostly drop-outs in the 15-35 age group, have been turning to cybercrime to earn a few quick bucks. Police personnel from 22 out of 28 Indian States have visited the tiny district in search of cyber fraudsters in the past few years. It is said that the majority of online fraud calls received by people across the country emanate from the district. Netflix’s 2020 crime drama, Jamtara , was based on this. “Now we have taken initiative to change the identity of Jamtara, where educator and social reformer Pandit Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar had once worked, through a community library movement,” Faiz Aq Ahmed Mumtaz, Deputy Commissioner of Jamtara, told The Hindu . Govt. buildings used Mr. Mumtaz said the district now has 45 functional public libraries. Unused government buildings have been renovated and converted into public libraries. “Studies of students preparing for Class X and Class XII exams were disrupted during COVID-19. But the community library proved to be a boon for such students. The State government is conducting classes for mathematics and science at these campuses,” he added. Instead of learning tricks in phishing, students can now follow books like Discovery of India , Indian Economy and India After Gandhi in their own village. “Every Sunday, teachers are reaching out to students and clarifying their doubts in various subjects, so that students do not face trouble in the upcoming examination. Two teachers have been given charge of each library,” Mr. Mumtaz said. As many as 93 cyber criminals are languishing in Jamtara’s jails, while 156 online fraudsters were arrested in 74 different cases in 2020. Of the 74 cases, 17 cases were based on victim complaints, while 57 cases were registered following intelligence inputs in Jamtara. The Jamtara DC said public libraries will be made functional in 100 more panchayats by next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jamtara-turns-a-new-page-with-public-library-movement/article33764499.ece
06 February 2021||Bengaluru,||86th Kannada sahitya sammelana postponed||The 86th Kannada Sahitya Sammelana that was scheduled to be held from February 26 to 28 in Haveri has been postponed, as the government norms do not yet allow such a large convention to be held in the light of the pandemic. “We at Kannada Sahitya Parishat and the State government had hoped that regulations on public gatherings would be relaxed by February first week, prompting us to schedule the sammelana. However, that has not happened. Large public gatherings are still considered risky and banned. So, we have postponed the sammelana,” said Manu Baligar, KSP president. Kannada and Culture Minister Arvind Limbavali, who chaired a meeting on Friday, tweeted: “Preparations were yet to be completed. Since thousands of people gather at the sammelana, it would be tough to follow COVID-19 norms. Since we expect more relaxations in the new guidelines set to be published by the Centre by February-end, we have decided to hold another meeting on March 9 and take a call.”  “Large public gatherings are still considered risky and banned. So, we have postponed the event,” said Manu Baligar, KSP president.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/86th-kannada-sahitya-sammelana-postponed/article33764649.ece
06 February 2021||IDUKKI,||Power generation stopped at Moolamattam after blast||Power generation was stopped after a blast at the Moolamattam power house of the Idukki hydroelectric project around 6.30 p.m. on Friday. The blast was in Generator 4. The blast occurred at the auxiliary system of the transformer when power generation was on, Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) sources said. When lighting was noticed close to the generator, personnel at the spot ran away. No one was injured in the incident. All the six generators of the power plant had been functioning after recent repairs. The KSEB had increased generation to meet the increasing demand in the summer season. The power generation on Thursday was 12.38 million units. After stopping power generation, the KSEB imposed load shedding in various parts of the State. The KSEB in a statement said efforts were on to resume power generation at Moolamattam. The blasts in the power house have raised concerns over the safety of those manning power generation there. Lack of timely upgrade of generators had been cited as reasons for the blasts. A major explosion occurred at the underground power plant on April 28, 2015 after the circuit-breaker of Generator 3 broke down. In another explosion on June 20, 2011 two engineers lost their lives. Last year also blasts were reported in generators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/power-generation-stopped-at-moolamattam-after-blast/article33764775.ece
06 February 2021||KHAMMAM,||Newly-married girl killed by husband||A 22-year-old newly married woman was brutally murdered by her husband on a hillock at Kothalankapalli village in Penuballi mandal two days ago. The accused identified as Nagaseshu Reddy, 30, a private employee, allegedly administered a soft drink laced with sleeping pills to his wife Navya Reddy before strangulating her to death at a secluded place near Kothalankapalli on Wednesday, police said. Police suspect that he had an "illicit relationship" with a woman of his native Yerrupalem mandal. He allegedly committed the gruesome murder to get rid of his wife, police sources added. It is suspected that he married Navya, a B.Tech second-year student, in December last by "concealing" his "love affair.". Nagaseshu Reddy allegedly tried to mislead the parents and the police by projecting the murder as a suicide. He enacted a "drama" soon after strangulating his wife to death by sending a text message to the father of the deceased by using the latter’s mobile phone. He tried to make his father-in-law believe that his daughter committed suicide worried over her backlog exams in the engineering course. In a bid to cover-up the heinous crime, he filed a missing complaint with the Penuballi police on Thursday, sources said. However, the police acting on CCTV camera footage clinched a breakthrough in the case by recovering the body of Navya abutting a hillock at Kothalankapalli on Friday morning. The local police arrested Nagaseshu Reddy on Friday afternoon and booked him on charges of murder. Meanwhile, a young woman, who is believed to be a relative of the accused, was found dead along the railway tracks near Pegallapadu village in Yerrupalem mandal late on Friday afternoon. The Government railway police recovered the body and initiated a detailed investigation to ascertain her identity and exact cause of her death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/newly-married-girl-killed-by-husband/article33765194.ece
06 February 2021||Chennai,||Man sets fire to woman and her mother, immolates self in Chennai||A 29-year-old man set himself, a 26-year-old woman he had been pursuing and her mother ablaze, killing all of them in the process. The incident took place in the early hours of Friday at the woman’s house, located in Anandanayagi Nagar, Korukkupet, the police said. The man was identified as Bhoopalan, a B. Tech graduate. He was reportedly in love with the deceased, Rajitha, for seven years. Rajitha recently got a job at Chennai Corporation on compassionate grounds after her father died. After she joined work, she is said to have distanced herself from him and got engaged to another man. However, Bhoopalan kept compelling her to marry him. The police said that at 4 a.m., Bhoopalan came to Rajitha’s house and locked it. He set himself, Rajitha and her mother Venkattama, 46, ablaze. All three were burnt to death. Neighbours who heard the cries, rushed to the house and found three charred bodies. Police personnel from the R.K. Nagar station reached the spot and conducted an investigation. The bodies were sent to a government hospital for post-mortem examination.  (Those in distress may contact the State’s health helpline 104 or Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050 for counselling)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/man-sets-fire-to-woman-and-her-mother-immolates-self-in-chennai/article33764554.ece
06 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Pfizer India withdraws vaccine application||Pfizer India has withdrawn its application with India’s Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) to allow its vaccine to be made available in India, a company spokesperson said on Friday. On Wednesday, an expert committee of the DCGI declined to approve the vaccine on the ground that there were reports of “palsy, anaphylaxis and other Severe Adverse Events” after the vaccine’s approvals in some other countries and that it still wasn’t clear if this was connected to vaccination. Moreover, Pfizer India hadn’t spelt out a plan to generate safety and immunogenicity data in the Indian population, the committee noted. “Pfizer will continue to engage with the authority and resubmit its approval request with additional information as it becomes available in the near future,” a statement from the company said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pfizer-india-withdraws-vaccine-application/article33764500.ece
06 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. ready to give UPSC aspirants another chance||The Union government on Friday informed the Supreme Court that it is “agreeable” to giving UPSC aspirants, who have exhausted their chance in the last October 4 preliminary exam but are not age-barred, another crack at the exam this year. The government said the leeway was an “ex-gratia, one-time, restricted relaxation” to those who appeared in the Civil Services Exam - 2020 as their “last permissible attempt”. Appearing before a Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar in a virtual court hearing, Additional Solicitor General S.V. Raju read out from a note, which said that the candidates given the leeway should not be age-barred. Caveat The note said the candidates whose number of attempts had not exhausted cannot avail themselves of this one-time relaxation. “This relaxation for the candidates, and to the extent as prescribed, shall be a one-time relaxation only and shall apply only for appearing in CSE-2021 and shall not be treated as a precedent,” it said. “The relaxation shall not create any vested right whatsoever or any other purported right on ground of parity or otherwise, in favour of any other set/class of candidates at any time in the future,” the note said. The Bench asked the government to circulate the note.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-ready-to-give-upsc-aspirants-another-chance/article33764501.ece
06 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Pfizer India withdraws vaccine application||Pfizer India has withdrawn its application with India’s Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) to allow its vaccine to be made available in India, a company spokesperson said on Friday. On Wednesday, an expert committee of the DCGI declined to approve the vaccine on the ground that there were reports of “palsy, anaphylaxis and other Severe Adverse Events” after the vaccine’s approvals in some other countries and that it still wasn’t clear if this was connected to vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pfizer-india-withdraws-vaccine-application/article33764853.ece
06 February 2021||Kalaburagi,||Girl falls off train, dies||A 17-year-old PU student who was trying to get off a running train at Wadi Junction railway station died after falling off the train on Friday. The deceased is Kirana Ekanath, a first-year PU student. She was travelling from Sedam to Wadi on the Link Express train. When the train reached the junction and started moving towards Yadgir, she suddenly tried to get off it, which caused her to lose balance and fall to her death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/girl-falls-off-train-dies/article33764651.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Dynamic duo||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dynamic-duo/article33764653.ece
06 February 2021||HUBBALLI,||Teen stabbed in Kalaghatagi||Tension prevailed for a while at Kalaghatagi town in Dharwad district on Friday after a teenage student was stabbed during a scuffle. Manjunath Lamani, 15, student of Janata English Medium School, was shifted to KIMS Hospital in Hubballi. While the reason for the scuffle was not known immediately, the incident led to clash between two groups further escalating the tension. Police Inspector Prabhu Surin said boys suspected to be involved had been detained and were being questioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/teen-stabbed-in-kalaghatagi/article33764654.ece
06 February 2021||Hyderabad,||More Boeing parts to be made in Hyderabad||Aerospace major Boeing on Friday announced the addition of a new production line at its joint venture, Tata Boeing Aerospace, in Hyderabad to manufacture vertical fin structures for the 737 family of planes.   The production line for vertical fin – a complex structural part of the aircraft – will utilise cutting-edge robotics and automation, a joint statement released from Boeing and Tata said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/more-boeing-parts-to-be-made-in-city/article33765153.ece
06 February 2021||Srinagar,||J&K restores 4G mobile Internet||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Friday restored high-speed mobile Internet, which was cut since August 5, 2019, when the Centre ended its special status. “Keeping in view the advice of a special committee and upon careful review of the overall security situation, the Home department hereby revokes the restrictions on mobile data services and fixed line Internet. Prepaid SIM card holders will also be provided services only after verification as per the norms applicable,” said Shaleen Kabra, Principal Secretary, Jammu and Kashmir Home Department. The Jammu and Kashmir government on January 22 this year extended a ban on high speed mobile data services across the Union Territory. “4G Mubarak! For the first time since Aug 2019 all of J&K will have 4G mobile data. Better late than never,” former CM Omar Abdullah tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jk-restores-4g-mobile-internet/article33764502.ece
06 February 2021||New Delhi,||No flaws in farm laws, Tomar tells RS||Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar told the Rajya Sabha on Friday that the government’s offer to amend the three farm laws did not mean they had any shortcomings, and sought to know what was “black” about them.  ‘11 rounds of talks held’ Speaking in the Rajya Sabha on the January 29 motion of thanks to the President’s address, he said he had held 11 rounds of talks with the farmers but had never used any objectionable word for them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-flaws-in-farm-laws-tomar-tells-rs/article33764505.ece
06 February 2021||CHITTOOR,||Seven nursing students taken ill after vaccination||Seven girls, studying B.Sc (Nursing) and attached to the SVRR Government Hospital at Tirupati, showed symptoms of dizziness after taking COVID vaccine at the session centre there on Friday evening. According to hospital superintendent T. Bharati, 47 nursing students were given the jab in the evening. “One first year student complained of reeling sensation and fell unconscious. When we were checking the blood pressure and pulse, six other students who were already given the vaccine and had returned to their hostel too had complained of dizziness and were rushed to the casualty ward,” she said. While two girls were admitted to the casualty ward, others were shifted to the general ward on Friday night. “They are now kept under observation till Saturday morning. All are safe,” Dr. Bharati said. Meanwhile, a senior medical officer at casualty termed the sudden illness after the jab as “cataleptic attack,” which had nothing to with the jab, but a condition due to nervousness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/7-nursing-students-taken-ill-after-covid-jab/article33764435.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Poll preparation||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/poll-preparation/article33765349.ece
06 February 2021||GUNTUR,||Unanimous polls put on hold in Guntur, Chittoor dists.||Taking a serious note of the trend of unanimous elections in the district, the State Election Commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar has put on hold the results of unanimous elections in Guntur and Chittoor districts. In Guntur, at the end of the first phase of elections in the Tenali revenue division, there was a single candidate in 67 gram panchayats. Mr. Ramesh Kumar directed the Election Observer Kantilal Dande to inspect some villages, and Mr. Dande, accompanied by election personnel, reviewed the situation in Ponnur and Kakumanu villages. Second phase The second phase of nominations in the Gurazala division will begin on Saturday. Superintendent of Police, Guntur Rural, Vishal Gunni visited some areas in Gurazala and Tummalacheruvu and reviewed the situation. He also held talks with village elders and asked them to maintain peace.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/unanimous-polls-put-on-hold-in-guntur-chittoor/article33764509.ece
06 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||TDP withdraws panchayat poll manifesto after SEC’s directive||TDP senior leader and former MLA Dhulipalla Narendra Kumar has said that the TDP was withdrawing its panchayat election manifesto, ‘Palle Pragathiki Pancha Sutralu’, in accordance with the instructions of the State Election Commission (SEC). He, however, asserted that it was the right of a political party to declare its ‘people-friendly policies during the elections’. Many political parties had released their manifestos in Karnataka, Sikkim and other States. Legal options The TDP would explore all legal and other options available for it to protect this right. There should be a wider debate on this, he said. Addressing a press conference on Friday, Mr. Narendra Kumar said the YSRCP was afraid of the pro-people manifesto released by the TDP. The YSRCP leaders had no idea about such policies as they were busy with ‘anti-people activities’. It was still beyond anybody’s guess why the YSRCP had complained to the SEC against the manifesto. Just because the YCP had no manifesto, it should not mean other parties should also not release it, he said, adding, “Only out of sheer fear of a positive feedback for the TDP manifesto, the ruling party had made the complaint.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tdp-withdraws-panchayat-poll-manifesto-after-secs-directive/article33764511.ece
06 February 2021||New Delhi,||NIA to probe blast near Israel embassy||The Ministry of Home Affairs has said the probe into the January 29 explosion near the Israel Embassy in Delhi was handed over to the National Investigation Agency due to the “gravity of offence and its international implication”. The order does not mention any country. An improvised explosion device was set off at a pavement near the embassy damaging few cars. No one was injured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nia-to-probe-blast-near-israel-embassy/article33764855.ece
06 February 2021||New Delhi,||NIA to probe blast near Israel embassy||The Ministry of Home Affairs has said the probe into the January 29 explosion near the Israel Embassy in Delhi was handed over to the National Investigation Agency due to the “gravity of offence and its international implication”. The order does not mention any country. An improvised explosion device was set off at a pavement near the embassy damaging a few cars. No one was injured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nia-to-probe-blast-near-israel-embassy/article33765137.ece
06 February 2021||Tenkasi,||Tiff with AIADMK to end: Dhinakaran||Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran has hinted that his party’s stand-off with the ruling AIADMK would soon come to an “auspicious end” with the change to be triggered by the return of his aunt V. N. Sasikala to Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tiff-with-aiadmk-to-end-dhinakaran/article33765121.ece
06 February 2021||Kovilpatti,||Will scrap Rs. 2,885 crore tenders: Stalin||Accusing the AIADMK government of awarding contracts to the tune of Rs. 2,885 crore towards the end of its tenure, DMK president M.K. Stalin on Friday warned that when voted to power, his government would cancel these tenders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/will-scrap-rs-2885-crore-tenders-stalin/article33765122.ece
06 February 2021||Mumbai,||Mumbai nearby||The Congress on Friday appointed senior leader Nana Patole as the president of the party’s Maharashtra unit, a day after he quit as Assembly Speaker. He will take over from Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat, who steered the party in tumultuous times of the 2019 general and Assembly polls. Mr. Patole has been given a jumbo team of six working presidents, 10 vice-presidents, and a parliamentary board of 37 members. Mr. Patole said, “I am thankful for the responsibility bestowed upon me. The big team also means I no longer will face any difficulty on the organisational front. My sole aim would be to focus on making the Congress the number one party in the State.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mumbai-nearby/article33765240.ece
06 February 2021||New Delhi,||Cong. slams Internet shutdowns||Congress leader Anand Sharma on Friday described India as the “Internet shutdown” capital of the world. He attacked the government in the Rajya Sabha over the recent spate of Net bans to black out coverage of the farmers’ agitation in the border areas of Delhi. The country has seen seven Internet shutdowns in the New Year, five of which were at the farmers’ protest site in Delhi-NCR. “India is the largest democracy of the world. But today we have become the Internet shutdown capital of the world,” Mr. Sharma said during the debate on the Motion of Thanks to the President’s address. The constitutionality of the farm laws was questionable since agriculture figured only in the State List, giving the States the sole power to legislate on the subject, he said. He questioned the delay by the Supreme Court in disposing off the petitions in this regard. “When constitutional matters demand urgent hearing and decisions, delays and kicking the bucket down the road create tension, distrust and conflict. Parliament should take notice of this,” he said. Petitions regarding the Citizenship (Amendment) Act were also pending before the court. Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut slammed the government for branding farmers as anti-nationals and Khalistanis. He also criticised the heavy fortification of Delhi’s borders. “If you would have built such barricades at the international borders, as those put up at Delhi borders, China would not have dared to come into Indian territory,” he said. Satish Chandra Misra of the BSP wanted to know what was stopping the Centre from repealing the farm laws if it was ready to put their operation in abeyance for 18 months. Shiromani Akali Dal leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa said Prime Minister Narendra Modi should intervene and listen to the demands of the farmers. He had written to the Prime Minister when the ordinances were brought in, but did not get any reply, he added. Making a spirited intervention, Congress leader Pratap Singh Bajwa demanded the setting up of a committee headed by a Supreme Court judge to conduct an impartial probe into the incidents on January 26 that led to violence. He exhorted the Prime Minister to use the opportunity to become a statesman. “This is your second tenure as Prime Minister. Now is the time to become a statesman, to become a second Sardar Patel. Why don’t you come with us to meet the farmers and tell them that your government is repealing the laws,” he said. ‘Lies about MSP’ Mallikarjun Kharge of the Congress called the President’s address a “sarkari” speech. “It seems they have not read their own data. They lie regarding MSP. Modi ji never stops saying that the Congress did not increase MSP, [the] reality is, in the Congress time, the MSP increased by 219%. They only increased a little over 140%. The average growth rate of MSP in UPA-I was 11.10 % and in UPA-II 12.48 %. In Modi government’s time, it is only 5.53 %. Do not compare in rupees, compare in percentage terms,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-is-internet-shutdown-capital-cong/article33764455.ece
06 February 2021||BENGALURU,||‘Aero components sector to double to Rs. 60,000 cr. by 2024’||The aero components sector in the country is set to double from Rs. 30,000 crore today to Rs. 60,000 crore by 2024, according to Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. On the last day of Aero India here on Friday, Mr. Singh said the government’s endeavour to bring down defence imports by at least $2 billion by 2022 would remain. “We have signed 128 Memorandums of Understanding (MoU), 19 Transfer of Technology (ToT), four handing overs, 18 product launches and 32 major announcements, totalling a grand figure of 201 feats. Further, of the 45 Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) participating in Aero India, 21 have bagged orders worth Rs. 203 crore. This is a major achievement,” he stated. President Ramnath Kovind visited the show on the last day, witnessed an air display and addressed the gathering. Talking of domestic defence manufacturing, Mr. Singh said that between 2016 and 2019, 138 proposals worth over $37 billion for domestic manufacturing had been approved. “India has a great potential to emerge as a global and regional Maintainance, Repair and Overhaul (MRO) hub, given the cost competitiveness of its manpower resources, the availability of abundant, specialist capabilities and geographical advantages,” he observed. “The aerospace sector has an important role to play, if we have to reach our targets of domestic defence production of $25 billion and exports of $5 billion by 2025”, he noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aero-components-sector-to-double-to-rs-60000-cr-by-2024/article33764469.ece
06 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Stalemate over shifting of KRMB office to Andhra Pradesh continues||The stalemate over shifting of the office of Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) to Andhra Pradesh continues further with Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, the two members States, sticking to their stand for and against taking the office to Visakhapatnam and the river board yet to take a decision. Although the issue did not figure in the three-member committee meeting of the board held here on Friday to take a decision on allocating water to meet irrigation and drinking needs of the two States till March-end, the matter has come back to limelight following the remarks of Engineer-in-Chief of AP C. Narayana Reddy reiterating that there were no second thoughts on moving the board office to Visakhapatnam as decided by the government already. Speaking after the three-member committee meeting, he said: “The office of KRMB is bound to be shifted to Visakhapatnam and there’s no scope for any change in the decision.” When pointed out about Telangana’s opposition to shifting the board office outside the basin (Krishna Basin), Mr. Reddy shot back as to where was the Godavari (GRMB) office now. “GRMB office is not in the Godavari Basin now and we have no objection to it”, he said. The AP ENC said locating the KRMB, which is to be located in AP as per the provisions of AP Reorganisation Act, was an internal matter of the AP government and they had taken the decision to locate in Visakhapatnam, which he said was the best and largest city in AP. “The office could be located in Delhi too as it’s only an administrative arrangement and no stakeholder should have any objection to it,” he felt. Water allocation Meanwhile, a decision on the allocation water to the two States for needs till March-end could not be taken at the meeting following the insistence of Telangana that water should be drawn below 810 feet level Srisailam and below 520 ft in Nagarjunasagar before March-end. Telangana and AP have already submitted their indents seeking 82.9 tmc ft and 108.5 tmc ft water, respectively. However, officials of AP were told to give fresh indent below 95 tmc ft keeping in mind the restrictions on water drawal level so that a decision could be taken. The proposal of Telangana for carry over of water not utilised in an allotted year to the next water year and the AP’s proposal for not taking into account the water drawn during the flood period were also discussed at the meeting. AP objected to carrying over proposal stating that it was not possible as the storage capacity of common reservoirs was fixed. It was agreed to look into water losses under Nagarjunsagar Left Canal by handing over the task to a sub-committee. Nagarjunsagar Chief Engineer V. Narsimha represented Telangana at the meeting chaired by Member-Secretary of the board D.M. Raipure.  Clear stand  Telangana member asked the board to add two-thirds of water supply (10 tmc ft) in the account of AP and one-thirds (5 tmc ft) in Telangana’s account  It was brought to board’s notice that water losses in Nagarjunasagar Left Canal are in the range of of 34% to 44% as against 27% estimated by AP  AP agrees to deduct 18 tmc ft water claimed to have been diverted from Pattiseema to Krishna Delta during flood period from the total diversion  On drawal of water to K-C Canal, AP wanted measuring flow in day and night but Telangana insisted on day-time count as in practice for other systems||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stalemate-over-shifting-of-krmb-office-continues/article33765189.ece
06 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Cong. closes ranks over slur on CM||The Congress on Friday sought to keep a lid on the political controversy surrounding State working president K. Sudhakaran’s "casteist remark" about Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The Lok Sabha MP had ignited a row by stating that Mr. Vijayan was the first Chief Minister from a toddy tapper's family to hire a helicopter for travel. The CPI(M) had portrayed his remark as a bid to shame toddy tappers as a socially inferior class unsuited for high political office. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala and Congress legislator Shanimol Usman who had initially disagreed with Mr. Sudhakaran retreated from their position rather hastily. Mr. Chennithala had earlier averred that Mr. Sudhakaran's comments were avoidable, while Ms. Usman had demanded a public apology from the leader. The issue threatened to inflame into an intraparty feud in the Congress with Mr. Sudhakaran expressing his displeasure publicly. Mr. Sudhkaran slammed Ms. Usman as a mere cat’s paw of his detractors. He saw a plot to deny him his due in the Congress. Mr. Chennithala said he was not fully seized of the facts when he made the observation. Mr. Sudhakaran had merely pointed out that Mr. Vijayan's public persona as a working-class leader conflicted with his fiscal profligacy as Chief Minister. In a Facebook post, Ms. Usman apologised to Mr. Sudhakaran for her remark. She said the mistake was her own and not prompted by any Congress leader. Ms. Usman had come under fierce criticism in social media from Congress workers for "lashing out" at Mr. Sudhakaran. Support for Sudhakaran The controversy also appeared to have bestowed Mr. Sudhakaran with a knight in shining armour image among Congress workers. Soon, Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president Mullappally Ramachandran and All India Congress Committee general secretary K. C. Venugopal backed Mr. Sudhakaran. Mr. Sudhakaran also found support from an unlikely quarter. BJP State president K. Surendran said there was nothing defamatory in Mr. Sudhakaran's statement.  Another tirade Mr. Sudhakaran unleashed another tirade of criticism against Mr. Vijayan. He said Mr. Ramachandran's father, a freedom fighter; the Thamarassery bishop; and N.K. Premachandran, MP; were among the targets of Mr. Vijayan's ‘vitriolic outbursts,’ he said. The CPI(M) had no moral right to take umbrage at his remarks about Mr. Vijayan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-closes-ranks-over-slur-on-cm/article33764441.ece
06 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. draws flak for ‘adversarial’ stance||A group of retired senior civil servants have criticised the Centre's attitude to the ongoing farm protests as “adversarial and confrontationist”. In an open letter on Friday, they expressed concern about the effort to blame farmers for the events of Republic Day, as well as the barricading of the protest sites, denial of essential services and sedition charges that have followed. The Constitutional Conduct Group, which issued the letter, says it has no affiliation with any political party, but believes in impartiality, neutrality and commitment to the Constitution of India. The 75 signatories include a number of former ambassadors, secretaries to the Government of India, and chief secretaries to State governments, with members from the IAS, IFS and IPS cadres. “The approach of the Government of India (GoI) towards the farmers’ protest has been an adversarial and confrontationist one from the very beginning, treating the apolitical farmers like an irresponsible opposition to be derided, demonised and defeated,” said the letter. “The repeated, albeit unsuccessful, attempts to polarise the agitation along regional, communal and other lines are also reprehensible. Such an approach can never lead to a solution,” it added. Several questions The letter raised several questions regarding the events of January 26, asking for the Centre’s response to the farmers’ claim that Delhi Police erected barricades on the agreed route, forcing them into deviations. It also asked why the police failed to prevent the hoisting of flags at Red Fort and whether action has been taken against those in the Delhi Police, and Home and Defence Ministries for dereliction of duty. It asked why the media did not cover the majority of farmers who held a peaceful parade. The letter also asked why the police had not immediately intervened when “a few hooligans” attacked protesting farmers at the Singhu border site last week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-draws-flak-for-adversarial-stance/article33764459.ece
06 February 2021||New Delhi,||NIA to probe blast near Israel embassy||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has said the probe into the January 29 explosion near the Israel Embassy in Delhi was handed over to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) due to the “gravity of offence and its international implication.” The order does not mention any country. An Improvised Explosion Device (IED) was set off at a pavement near the embassy damaging few cars. No one was injured. Earlier, the Special Cell of the Delhi Police was investigating the case. A handwritten note found near the explosion site and addressed to ambassador Ron Malka mentioned revenge, said the officer. The note had eight spelling mistakes in it. The letter, in English, written by someone who identified himself as Sarallah India Hezbollah said the explosion was a trailer to avenge the killing of Iranian military commander Qasim Soleimani and others. In an order, the MHA said, “owing to the impact of the explosion, windows of three cars which were parked on the opposite side of the road were found shattered and several components of IED were found scattered nearby.” The case was handed to the NIA on February 2. It said the Central government was of the opinion that a scheduled offence under the NIA Act, 2008 had been committed and having regard to the gravity of offence and its international implication, it was required to be investigated by the NIA. The First Information Report (FIR) filed by the Special Cell of the Delhi Police mentioned that the IED blast created a crater on the pavement near a palm tree. The site of explosion was near 5, A.P.J. Abdul Kalam Road, close to the Israel Embassy. It said an “envelope folded inside a closed poly pack was also found at the spot.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-to-probe-blast-near-israel-embassy/article33764474.ece
06 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Boeing 737 fin structures to be made in Hyderabad||Aerospace major Boeing on Friday announced the addition of a new production line at its joint venture, Tata Boeing Aerospace, in Hyderabad to manufacture vertical fin structures for the 737 family of planes. The production line for vertical fin – a complex structural part of the aircraft – will utilise cutting-edge robotics and automation, a joint statement from Boeing and Tata said. The expansion, which marks a significant milestone for the over five-year-old joint venture between Boeing and Tata Advanced Systems, will create additional employment opportunities and enable skill development as well. Spread over 14,000 square metres, the Tata Boeing Aerospace state-of-the-art facility at Adibatla, near here, has been producing aero-structures for Boeing’s AH-64 Apache helicopter, including fuselages, secondary structures, and vertical spar boxes for customers worldwide. Boeing India president Salil Gupte said Tata Boeing Aerospace is an example of Boeing’s commitment towards co-development of integrated systems in aerospace and defence in India, for the world and a reflection of the country’s Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative. Skilled talent, robust infrastructure, ease of doing business and a highly responsive government administration make Telangana an ideal destination, he said. Managing Director and CEO of Tata Advanced Systems Sukaran Singh said “the expansion of our aerostructure manufacturing capabilities with the new production line to deliver complex vertical fins for the 737s is another landmark in our collaboration with Boeing. The production line is another testament for TASL’s commitment towards making India self-reliant in defence manufacturing.” Telangana Minister for Industries and IT K.T.Rama Rao said supported by a robust ecosystem, including a large pool of skilled and industry-ready workforce, Telangana is an established hotbed for India’s defence and aerospace industry. Congratulating Boeing and Tata, he said the setting up of the new production line is a noteworthy step in the growth of India’s aerospace and defence manufacturing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/boeing-737-fin-structures-to-be-made-in-hyderabad/article33765157.ece
06 February 2021||Kolkata,||Mamata rolls out a populist Budget ahead of Bengal poll||With an eye on the coming Assembly polls, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday presented a populist budget for 2021-22, making major allocations for infrastructure and introducing several schemes aimed at the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe population. Borrowing a quote from Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, she said, “Keep faith in me, I shall give unconditional and selfless service with utmost dedication”. The major announcements include 46,000-km new rural roads with an allocation of Rs. 500 crore and the construction of 20 lakh pucca houses for the SC/ST population in the next five years with an allocation of Rs. 1,500 crore. Along with the announcement of a West Bengal Highway and Bridge Corporation, the Chief Minister announced a number of flyovers for Kolkata. She said the government shall connect all rural roads with the State Highways. The other major announcements include the continuation of free rations after June 2021 as well as the Swasthasathi Scheme, a comprehensive health coverage for the entire 10-crore population of the State. The government’s new initiative also includes 500 new schools in Alchiki language and 100 new English-medium schools for the SC/ ST population.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mamata-rolls-out-a-populist-budget-ahead-of-bengal-poll/article33764723.ece
06 February 2021||Hyderabad,||Kakatiya-era Rama temple has rare door carvings||A 13th century Sri Pattabhi Sita Rama Swamy temple founded by Rani Rudrama Devi of Kakatiya dynasty has been revered as Sri Santhana Venugopala Swamy temple by people of Brahmana Kothapalli village in Nellikuduru mandal of Mahabubabad district. Historians credit this as at least 300 years older to Sri Sita Ramachandra Swamy temple at Bhadrachalam. What is surprising is the lack of ‘Sthala Purana’ which should have given it the continuity of legacy as Pattabhi Sita Rama, said D. Kanna Babu, former Superintending Archaeologist, Temple Survey Project (Southern Region) ASI, Chennai. There is enough recorded evidence about the glory of this temple since Kakatiya rule, he added. It also has a shrine for Lord Siva, and it is quite interesting to note that being an ardent devotee of Lord Siva, Rudrama Devi constructed a temple dedicated to Sri Rama, Mr. Babu said. “It proves her devotion to Lord Rama, the unique administrator. Perhaps she might have taken inspiration from him while sojourning the kingdom,” he noted. Narrating the architectural significance of the shrine, he says that it stands on a well-built jagati platform - now covered under modern flooring. Dancing Anjaneya image There is a common pillared mukha mandapa hall and entry is through a highly carved doorway at the east. The doorway is very distinctive and rarest of its kind for it has the dancing image of Anjaneya with folded hands and flanked by two dancing vanaras playing musical instruments on its decorated lintel. “In addition, two shrine models are carved on either side. There is a common vestibule positioned before the central shrine while the rest two have only sanctums,” Mr. Babu said. After the vestibule, there are three sanctum sanctorums. The central cella enshrines Sri Santhana Venugopala Swamy in standing position by holding flute in his hand with Rukmini and Satyabhama on either side. Again dancing Aanjaneya depicted on sanctum’s doorway indicates that the presiding deity is Sri Rama. The southern shrine enshrines the seated image of Sri Pattabhi Ramachandra Swamy with Goddess Sita on his lap the third shrine sanctified with the Goddess. “It seems in passage of time the original theme of the sanctified gods positioned by its founder Rudrama Devi has been changed by the local devotees as per their worshipping traditions,” Mr. Babu observed. The pillars of the temple are of decorative variety and carry plain capitals as well as brackets akin to the Kakatiya temples at Hanamkonda and Warangal. The stepped pyramidal superstructures head these triple shrines in brick and lime. Inscription He further elucidated that while studying the architectural features of mukha mandapa , he found an inscription of Kakatiya period on pillar in Telugu script and deciphered it. Which reveals that Pochi ravutu - a charioteer of Rudrama Devi, gifted some land for the service of Ramanatha Devara. “The inscription clearly proves that the trikuta shrine was constructed during the reign of Rudrama Devi and named Sri Sri Ramachandra. It seems she has erected this shrine of Sri Pattabhi Sita Ramachandra Swamy after her victorious expeditions and extension of Kakatiya kingdom,” Mr.Babu said. There is an ancient Siva temple located just behind the trikuta complex and it is also one more attraction of the same place. “This is surely a very rare shrine in both the Telugu States and deserves promotion of tourists,” Mr. Babu added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kakatiya-era-rama-temple-has-rare-door-carvings/article33764446.ece
06 February 2021||Ghaziabad,||‘A battle to save farmers’ dignity’||Taking a dig at the BJP, Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) vice-president Jayant Chaudhary on Friday said that those who took a long time before unfurling the National Flag, were teaching farmers nationalism. Mr. Chaudhary was speaking at a massive rally of farmers at Bhainswal village of Shamli. He described the ongoing protest against the farm laws as a battle for the “dignity, survival and future” of farmers. “The farmer should at least get the minimum support price by law. As long as this battle doesn’t reach a solution, I don’t think the farmer will return home,” he said. Mr. Chaudhary said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had failed to understand the temperament of farmers. “He should understand if you try to suppress the demands of farmers, they will resist with double force.” The RLD leader also appealed to farmers not to watch films of Kangana Ranaut as she had described them as anti-nationals. Stating that the government had not said a single word to commiserate with those who died during the protest, Mr. Chaudhary said, “No BJP leader went to meet the family of Navreet Singh who died during the protest in Delhi. Seventy and eighty-year-olds are being picked up and booked. A young journalist is not being allowed to do his work.” He said notices were being sent to farmers in western Uttar Pradesh for disrespecting the National Flag. “No farmer could insult the tricolour. When his son’s body comes from the border draped in the tricolour, he doesn’t cry. He takes pride in it,” Mr Chaudhary said, referring to the fact that many youth from farming families are in the armed forces.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-battle-to-save-farmers-dignity/article33765054.ece
06 February 2021||Kolkata,||Ahead of Bengal poll, Mamata rolls out a populist Budget||With an eye on the coming Assembly polls, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday presented a populist budget for 2021-22, making major allocations for infrastructure and introducing several schemes aimed at the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe population. Borrowing a quote from Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, she said, “Keep faith in me, I shall give unconditional and selfless service with utmost dedication”. The major announcements include 46,000-km new rural roads with an allocation of Rs. 500 crore and the construction of 20 lakh pucca houses for the SC/ST population in the next five years with an allocation of Rs. 1,500 crore. Along with the announcement of a West Bengal Highway and Bridge Corporation, the Chief Minister announced a number of flyovers for Kolkata. She said the government shall connect all rural roads with the State Highways. The other major announcements include the continuation of free rations after June 2021 as well as the Swasthasathi Scheme, a comprehensive health coverage for the entire 10-crore population of the State. The government’s new initiative also includes 500 new schools in Alchiki language and 100 new English-medium schools for the SC/ ST population.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mamata-rolls-out-a-populist-budget-ahead-of-bengal-poll/article33764472.ece
06 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Registered unrecognised parties double in last 10 years||The contribution reports of only 78 (3.39%) of the total 2,301 registered unrecognised political parties are available in the public domain for 2018-19, while the reports of only 82 such parties (3.56%) for 2017-18 are uploaded on the respective State Chief Electoral Officers’ websites, according to the Association For Democratic Reforms (ADR). The number of these parties increased two-fold in the last 10 years, from 1,112 in 2010 to 2,301 in 2019. The figure spiked disproportionately during the year of parliamentary election. “Between 2018 and 2019, it increased by over 9.8%, while between 2013 and 2014, it increased by 18%,” said an ADR report. There are 2,360 political parties registered with the Election Commission of India and 2,301 or 97.50% of them are unrecognised. “Either newly registered parties or those which have not secured enough percentage of votes in Assembly or General Elections to become a State party or those which have never contested in elections since being registered are considered unrecognised parties,” it said. Such parties don’t enjoy all the benefits extended to the recognised parties. The reports analysed by the ADR declared 6,860 donations worth Rs. 65.45 crore during 2018-19 and 6,138 donations of Rs. 24.6 crore for 2017-18. The Apna Desh Party of Uttar Pradesh declared the highest donations for both financial years, involving Rs. 65.63 crore. In 2017-18, only 39 registered such parties had submitted contribution reports before the due date and in 2018-19, only 38 did so. “Of the 138 parties analysed for the two-year period, the contribution reports for 2017- 18 are not available for 56 parties. In the case of 2018-19, the reports are not available on the CEO website for 60 parties at the time of making this report,” said the ADR. State-wise, 653 parties or 28.38% belong to Uttar Pradesh, followed by 291 parties or 12.65% from Delhi and 184 or 8% from Tamil Nadu. Himachal Pradesh had the maximum share of submission in 2017-18, with five of the 6 registered unrecognised parties furnishing the contribution reports. In 2018-19, of the 132 parties from Bihar, reports of only 21, and that of only 20 of the 653 parties of Uttar Pradesh are available. “The contribution reports of none of the registered unrecognised political parties of 25 States/UTs including Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh etc. are available on the respective State CEO websites for 2018-19... for 2017-18, contribution reports of parties of 21 states/UTs are not available,” said the ADR, terming it a violation of the ECI guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/registered-unrecognised-parties-double-in-last-10-years/article33764476.ece
06 February 2021||Bengaluru,||China unlikely to collude with Pak. to target India: IAF chief||China would lose moral authority if it colluded with Pakistan to target India, said Chief of the Air Staff Air Chief Marshal (ACM) R.K.S. Bhadauria on Friday. He noted that he did not see China getting into a collusive kind of arrangement in a conflict situation to start with. “To my mind if they [China] start a collusive plan they would lose the moral authority there itself. As a combat power, if you need another country to even threaten some country, you have given away your weakness. We need to be prepared. There are situations where it can happen. But to say that we will start with a collusive threat, I don’t see it, especially with China,” ACM Bhadauria said in an interview to The Hindu at the ongoing Aero India. The collusive threat would be in the background, he stated, in electronics, support, their (Pakistan’s) knowledge of tactics on the western side and whatever they learnt from the U.S. Asked about the current stand-off with China in eastern Ladakh, he called it “stalemate status quo”. The situation in summer would depend on how talks went. “We should lay a lot of emphasis on the talks. The last round [of talks] was quite okay,” he said. In case an agreement was not reached and the current deployments continued, then as winter ended an element of higher level of alertness would be required. “It really depends on the ground realities.” ACM Bhadauria said the fall in the fighter squadron strength of the Air Force had been arrested. The order for 83 Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) being awarded to the Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) early this week at Aero India and aircraft deliveries beginning early 2024 would ensure that the numbers would keep going up. The first LCA MK-1A squadron would be made in 2024 and operationalised in a year after that. While the phasing out of the MiG-21s had caused a dip in squadron strength, last year the IAF constituted the first Rafale squadron and has so far inducted 11 jets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/china-unlikely-to-collude-with-pak-to-target-india-air-chief/article33764478.ece
06 February 2021||Srinagar,||Militant sympathiser deported by Qatar held at Delhi airport||A “wanted militant sympathiser”, who was in touch with a Jaish-e-Muhammad (JeM) militant, was arrested at the Indira Gandhi International Airport in New Delhi after his deportation from Qatar, the Jammu and Kashmir police said on Friday. “Muneeb Ahmad Sofi, a resident of Bijbehara’s Kanelwan, was an overground worker [OGW] of JeM,” Inspector General of Police (IGP) Vijay Kumar said. Sofi, according to the police, was in contact with JeM’s Waleed Bhai, a resident of Pakistan, for purchase of arms and ammunition. Bhai was killed in an encounter last year. The police said the role of Sofi surfaced during an investigation of a case registered under FIR No. 58/2020 under sections of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. “An accused arrested in the case disclosed that he, along with other OGWs, were collecting money for JeM from various districts in Kashmir and handing over the collected amount to Sofi. A look-out notice was published against him and a non-bailable warrant issued under Section 25 of the Police Act,” the police said. Sofi is being brought to Kulgam for investigation, the police said. Mobile Internet cut Meanwhile, mobile Internet service was snapped in all four districts of south Kashmir on Friday in the wake of Pakistan observing the day as Kashmir Solidarity Day. A senior police officer said the service was stopped “as a precautionary measure”. “There were inputs of violence and terror attacks here as Pakistan was observing Kashmir Solidarity Day,” the officer added. Residents said mobile Internet was stopped on Thursday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/militant-sympathiser-deported-by-qatar-held-at-delhi-airport/article33764479.ece
06 February 2021||Bengaluru,||CJ tells lawyers not to boycott courts||Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka of the High Court of Karnataka has appealed to advocates not to boycott court proceedings irrespective of genuineness of the cause, not to indulge in such “illegalities,” and to cooperate with the courts for disposal of maximum number of cases. The appeal in writing has been made taking note of the reports sent by the courts in districts on resolutions passed by the Bar associations in Mandya and Davangere districts calling upon members of the Bar to abstain from court proceedings for various reasons. Narrating how the normal court proceedings were affected owing to COVID-19 pandemic impacting both litigants and advocates and how the High Court took steps to restore normal functioning, the Chief Justice said: “It is distressing to note that even under these circumstances, members of some Bar associations resorted to acts of abstaining from or boycotting court proceedings for various reasons.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cj-tells-lawyers-not-to-boycott-courts/article33764656.ece
06 February 2021||Bengaluru,||‘I am safe in my seat as long as I have Modi and Shah’s confidence’||Amid constant speculation about the longevity of his tenure, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa asserted on Friday that he would remain in his position as long as he enjoys the confidence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah. Chiding Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah for making repeated statements on his term ending prematurely, the Chief Minister said in his reply to the debate on the Governor’s address, “You have been saying for six months now that I will be asked to step down. But I am ready to face a 100 more challenges as long as I have the blessings of Mr. Modi, Mr. Shah, and the people of Karnataka.” He was responding to Mr. Siddaramaiah referring to the cases he is facing in the Supreme Court in which he has been granted “stay of arrest”. The Chief Minister went on to say that “anyone on the street can apply for RTI” and take people to court. He said that several leaders in the Congress too were facing charges and were out on bail. “Who is not on bail?” asked Mr. Yediyurappa, adding that several Congress leaders at the national level too were in the same boat. “Even you as Chief Minister and your Ministers faced allegations. But you created the Anti-Corruption Bureau and got away,” he said. Responding to these statements, Mr. Siddaramaiah shot back, “Aren’t your own MLAs and MLCs saying you will be asked to resign soon? I am only reflecting what I have been hearing. You changed portfolios of Ministers four times in five days. Is that the sign of a confident Chief Minister?” The Chief Minister reiterated that the BJP would win over 150 seats in the next election while the Congress would be reduced to being the “permanent Opposition”. Responding to the allegation levelled by Mr. Siddaramaiah that the administration had come to a standstill, the Chief Minister reeled out statistics on spending and revenue collection achieved in various departments.  Revenue collection He said even though COVID-19 had slowed down pace, both projects and revenue generation had now picked up steam. He said that out of the total estimated revenue collection of Rs. 1,79,920 crore, the government had achieved Rs. 1,19,750 crore. Out of this, about Rs. 80,860 crore (about 67.5%) had been spent, he said. “I assure that by the end of this financial year we will spend 80 to 85% of the budgeted expenditure on various projects,” said Mr. Yediyurappa. The Congress staged a walkout, dissatisfied with the reply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/i-am-safe-in-my-seat-as-long-as-i-have-modi-and-shahs-confidence/article33764434.ece
06 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||ED accuses Bineesh Kodiyeri of laundering drug trade profits||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has charged Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of former Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, with money laundering under Section 3 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002. The agency had filed the chargesheet in the case on December 15 in its special court in Bengaluru. The particulars emerged in the public domain on Friday. ‘Non-functional’ outlet The arrest of one Muhammad Anoop on drug charges by the Narcotic Control Bureau (NCB) in Bengaluru in April had led to the ED’s arrest of Bineesh in August. The ED alleged that Anoop was Bineesh’s ‘benamidar.’ It said Bineesh had used a ‘non-functional’ restaurant opened in the name of Anoop in Bengaluru to launder profits from the narcotics trade. Anoop deposited the proceeds from drug trafficking in the restaurant’s account. Bineesh withdrew it using Anoop’s debit card. They injected drug money into the economy by making it appear as proceeds from legitimate restaurant business. The ED said Bineesh had stayed for two months in Anoop’s apartment in Bengaluru. The NCB had seized drugs from the flat. The NCB also said that Bineesh consumed cocaine and cited two persons as witnesses. Fund source untraced The ED found a massive infusion of funds into Bineesh’s accounts since 2012. It said Bineesh could not explain the source. His IT returns did not reflect the fund inflow. The ED ‘debunked’ Bineesh’s claim that he had mortgaged family property to raise money. The ED told the court that Dubai authorities had accused Bineesh of bank fraud. The agency has sought details. Bineesh figured as accused in 10 cases in Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-accuses-bineesh-of-laundering-drug-money/article33764760.ece
06 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||900% rise in rejection of crop insurance claims||The number of farmers’ crop insurance claims that were rejected by insurance companies under the Centre’s flagship Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) multiplied 10 times in just two years, according to data provided by Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar in response to a question in the Rajya Sabha on Friday. In 2017-18, the number of rejected claims was 92,869. In the next year, 2018-19, the figure more than doubled to 2.04 lakh. By 2019-20, it was 9.28 lakh, a whopping 900% increase. The question came from Manas Ranjan Bhunia, Trinamool Congress MP, who asked whether farmers were denied crop insurance claims by insurance companies, the details of cases reported from different States in those particular years, and the steps the government was taking in this regard. In response, Mr. Tomar pointed out that under the PMFBY, there was actually no need to file crop loss claims in case of widespread natural calamities such as drought or flood, as claims were calculated on the basis of shortfall in yield of the whole unit. At the end of the season, prevented sowing and midseason adversity claims were settled on the basis of an area approach for which yield data and crop damage reports were provided by the State governments concerned. However, there was a different process when it came to risks impacting smaller areas such as losses due to localised risks of hailstorms, landslips, inundation, cloud burst, or natural fire. Such losses were calculated on the basis of crop loss assessment at individual insured farm levels. Farmers informed such crop losses to the insurance company concerned, the State government or financial institutions, and their claims were assessed by a joint committee with representatives from the State government and the insurance company. “Therefore, companies can reject some of these claims on various grounds like late intimation of claims, denial of claims to non-insured farmers or non-insured crops, non-occurrence of the risk etc,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/whopping-900-increase-in-rejection-of-crop-insurance-claims/article33764458.ece
06 February 2021||New Delhi,||5.2 mn vaccine doses given so far||India has reported 22 deaths so far following vaccination, though none of these are attributable to the vaccine itself, the Health Ministry said in a briefing on Friday. A 77-year-old man from Agra, Uttar Pradesh, died in the past 24 hours seven days following vaccination. The death was reportedly due to “cardiogenic/septicemic shock with pre-existing diabetes.” Three committees of experts — a district, state and national-level committee — ascertain the role of vaccination in mortality. The national committee, as has been stated, is expected to analyse such deaths in the coming days. As of Friday, nearly 5.2 million vaccinations have been administered over 10.4 million sessions. This suggests that around 50% of the intended target has been achieved. There were 3.3 lakh vaccinations administered on Friday and India has been the fastest, when compared to the United States, United Kingdom and Israel to reach 5 million inoculations, the Health Ministry spokesperson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/52-mn-vaccine-doses-given-so-far/article33764467.ece
06 February 2021||Press Trust of IndiaThiruvananthapuram,||KCBC slams Chandy’s son over speech at MYL venue||The Kerala Catholic Bishops’ Council (KCBC) on Friday hit out at Chandy Oommen, son of former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy, for allegedly justifying the conversion of Hagia Sophia in Turkey into a mosque. Mr. Oommen, a Youth Congress leader, in a recent speech at a venue of the Muslim Youth League (MYL) said thousands of churches were converted into dance bars and no one had any issue. The KCBC, in a statement, said it was not right to ‘‘cultivate communalism’’ for garnering votes in election. ‘‘Young leaders should understand history while functioning as a political leader. His speech has pained the Christian community.’’ The KCBC said such communal statements will hurt society, especially before the Assembly elections. Clarification issued However, Mr. Oommen, in a statement, said a part of his speech was cherry-picked to create a controversy. On Friday evening, he issued a clarification, saying the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) were spreading false news. ‘‘Those spreading false news are trying to mislead the Christian community,’’ he said, adding that it was a dangerous trend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kcbc-slams-chandys-son-over-speech-at-myl-venue/article33765197.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Farmers’ road blockade to exclude Delhi, U.P.||Prevailing conditions in the two States are not conducive for the protest, said BKU-Tikait spokesperson Dharmendra Malik. “Now, members of BKU will give a memorandum to district officials in these two States. In the rest of the country, the call for the chakka jam remains as it is,” he said, adding that there were also concerns about a harmful impact on ongoing agricultural work by sugarcane farmers. Mr. Malik said the move should be seen only as a preventive measure and not a sign of the weakening of movement. “It has been decided to keep one lakh farmers of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand on standby,” Mr. Tikait said, in a statement. The decision was taken after consultations with Balbir Singh Rajewal, who heads another faction of the BKU in Punjab. “There is a fear expressed by those at Ghazipur that the BJP and RSS may cause some problems in the guise of farmers in those two States. That is their assessment,” said Darshan Pal Singh, president of the Krantikari Kisan Union. “ Chakka jam will remain peaceful and non-violent. Protesters are asked not to indulge in any conflict with the government official or ordinary citizens,” said the SKM guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-road-blockade-to-exclude-delhi-up/article33764429.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||No flaws in farm laws, Tomar tells Rajya Sabha||“We brought the Trade Act, a provision was made that areas outside APMC will be trade area, can be a farmer's home also. It will not attract any tax. Within APMC, States levy tax. The Centre’s act abolishes the tax outside APMC and State forces you to pay tax. I want to ask Punjab farmers, we have freed the tax system, so you should revolt against someone who is taxing you or who is abolishing the tax system. I want to request the farmers, we are committed to farmers, we have respected them, called them and spoke to them 11 times. I have never used any objectionable word against them. I only asked them the objectionable part of the law. We assured them that APMC will not be abolished. That we are ready for amendment should not mean that there are shortcomings in the laws,” Mr. Tomar said. He said farmers were being misled that the law will take away their land, adding that there is not a single provision in the contract farming law that says this.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-flaws-in-farm-laws-tomar-tells-rajya-sabha/article33764430.ece
06 February 2021||KOCHI,||Church plea: HC issues notice to Kerala govt.||The Kerala High Court on Friday issued notice to the State government on a petition filed by the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church challenging the Kerala Right to Burial of Corpse in Christian (Malankara Orthodox-Jacobite) Cemeteries Act, 2020. The court, however, declined to stay the implementation of the Act that ensures the right of families belonging to a parish to burial in the cemetery where their ancestors are laid to rest. The petition was filed by Baselios Mar Toma Paulose II, Catholicos of the East and Malankara Metropolitan, and Biju Oommen, secretary, managing committee, Malankara Syrian Christian Association. ‘Discriminatory’ The petitioners said the new enactment was highly discriminatory and arbitrary. The right to bury and do burial services was an integral part of the religious and spiritual services of the Church. The State could not enact any law in violation of Article 26 of the Constitution which guaranteed the management of own affairs in matters of religion. They alleged that the enactment of the law was a conscious attempt to revise the judgment of the Supreme Court in the K.S. Varghese case. In fact, the power to review a judgment rested wholly with the court. The Orthodox Church and its parish churches were discriminated against in the matter of burial by permitting the deceased members of an independent Church, namely Jacobite Syrian Christian Church, to be buried in their cemetery. The petitioners said the right to burial followed in the Church and under its parish churches was not opposed to public order, morality or health. Therefore, the law was violative of Article 26 of the Constitution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-issues-notice-to-govt-on-church-plea/article33764776.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Pfizer India withdraws vaccine application||Moreover, Pfizer India hadn’t spelt out a plan to generate safety and immunogenicity data in the Indian population, the committee noted. “Pfizer will continue to engage with the authority and resubmit its approval request with additional information as it becomes available in the near future,” a statement said. “Pfizer remains committed to making its vaccine available for use by the Government in India and to pursuing the requisite pathway for emergency use authorisation that enables the availability of this vaccine for any future deployment,” a company statement said. The Pfizer-BioNTech m-RNA vacccine employs a novel technology — in the form of small piece of genetic material from the coronavirus called a messenger ribonucleic acid — to make a vaccine for the coronavirus. Interim Phase-3 efficacy trials in Americans showed that those inoculated were 95% more likely to be protected than those who didn’t take the vaccine. After being approved in the United States, the United Kingdom and the European Union, Pfizer also applied for the vaccine to be made available in India under ‘emergency use listing’ conditions. This is the clause under which Covishield and Covaxin have been approved in India. While the latter has been administered to over 4.5 million Indians, Pfizer India had been given an opportunity at least thrice, since late December, to appear before the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of the DCGI to furnish evidence enough for an approval. However Pfizer hadn’t appeared multiple times, Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said early last month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pfizer-india-withdraws-vaccine-application/article33764449.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Govt. ready to give UPSC aspirants another chance||“The relaxation shall not create any vested right whatsoever or any other purported right on ground of parity or otherwise, in favour of any other set/class of candidates at any time in the future,” the note said. The Bench asked the government to circulate the note. “We do not have copy of this note... You have made a very involved statement. There are some conditions in it too,” Justice Khanwilkar told Mr. Raju. “The condition is only age-related,” Mr. Raju responded. Senior advocate Shyam Divan, for some aspirants, sought time to read the note and see if a consensus could be arrived at on the issue. “They [aspirants’ side] must examine it [note],” Justice Khanwilkar said. The court then scheduled the case for Monday. The government’s stand on Friday marks a virtual U-turn from its earlier position. On January 22, the government refused to give the aspirants, including “last-attempters”, another crack at the exams. An affidavit filed by it in the court month ago argued that any additional attempt or relaxation in age for some candidates would amount to extending differential treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-ready-to-give-upsc-aspirants-another-chance/article33764450.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Munawar Faruqui gets ad-interim bail||Arrest was not a tool for harassment, it said. “Tell us, Mr. Kirpal, did the police follow Section 41 before they arrested him?” Justice Nariman asked advocate Saurabh Kirpal, who appeared for Mr. Faruqui. “No, My Lord... not at all,” Mr. Kirpal replied. “Then that is all is needed for granting bail,” Justice Nariman said, before issuing notice to the M.P. police to explain their actions. “The procedure under Section 41 was not followed despite the Supreme Court having adumbrated the necessity of it in the Arnesh Kumar judgment of 2014,” Justice Nariman observed, before granting the bail. On January 28, the Madhya Pradesh High Court refused bail, forcing the comedian to appeal to the top court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/munawar-faruqui-gets-ad-interim-bail/article33764451.ece
06 February 2021||New Delhi,||Farm laws: thaw likely in Lok Sabha next week||The Lok Sabha is expected to function from next week as floor leaders of the Opposition parties will meet on Monday afternoon to decide their future course of action. As the Lower House witnessed disruptions for the fourth day in a row on Friday, Speaker Om Birla convened a meeting of the floor leaders to ascertain their views on running the Lok Sabha next week. Leaders of the Congress, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Trinamool Congress and Biju Janata Dal were among those who attended the Speaker’s meet. Though Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi was not part of the meeting, he expressed confidence that the Lok Sabha would run smoothly from Monday. The government’s confidence is based on the calculation that members from the other parties are keen on speaking on the motion thanking the President’s address to a joint sitting of Parliament, and that there may be cracks in the Opposition unity. Keen to air views The first signs could be seen on Friday as the Trinamool members did not join their colleagues from the Congress, DMK and the Left parties, who rushed to the Well holding placards and raising slogans against the government over the new farm laws. Sources told The Hindu that Monday could see a breakthrough as many Congress MPs, especially from Punjab, are keen to put across their views on the farm laws strongly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farm-laws-thaw-likely-in-lok-sabha-next-week/article33764457.ece
06 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Let States take a call on the laws, Swamy tells PM||The three agricultural reform laws should only be implemented in the States which wish to do so, Rajya Sabha member Subramanian Swamy said in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday. Noting that the protest by farmers demanding a repeal of the three laws had now crossed 70 days, Mr. Swamy suggested a compromise solution. “Those who want this Act to be implemented should not [be] denied its benefits because a few States, principally Punjab, do not want its implementation whether for good reasons or bad,” Mr. Swamy said, adding that he himself was in favour of the reforms. He suggested that rules be framed for the Acts, and that three specific rules be included. The first rule “should restrict the implementation of the Act to those States which in writing inform its willingness to implement the Act and thus those who do not inform its willingness to implement may be given the freedom not to benefit from the salutary aspects of these Agricultural Reforms Acts”, the letter said. “The second rule should state that every State would be eligible for a Minimum Support Price in perpetuity. The third rule should limit the buying of the foodgrains by only those who have no other major business or commercial interests other than in agricultural trade.” These measures, Mr. Swamy said, would take care of the concerns of the protesting farm unions. He added that the agitation should end once these rules are added to the Acts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/let-states-take-a-call-on-the-laws-swamy/article33764460.ece
06 February 2021||New Delhi,||Regulatory code for OTT content soon||Twenty-one MPs cutting across party lines have sought an answer from the government about the content on over-the-top (OTT) platforms such as Netflix and Amazon Prime, asking whether the Centre was aware that such platforms were full of content with “sex, violence, abuse, vulgarity and disrespect to religious sentiments”. Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar recently said his Ministry would soon come up with a regulatory code on the content on these platforms. The guidelines are expected to be made public in a week’s time. “We are in the final stages of working on the guidelines and it will be soon out,” he told The Hindu . Sources in the I&B Ministry said the government had urged the platforms to come up with the guidelines themselves. The Ministry in its reply on Friday said there are currently 40 OTT platforms operating in India. The government, as a first step towards regulation, amended the “allocation of Business Rules” in November last year, bringing all online platforms under the mandate of the I&B Ministry. All the platforms were told to register with the Ministry. “The Government has received several grievances/complaints regarding content of programmes on OTT platforms,” the Ministry said in its reply. Self regulation The Ministry said they had several rounds of consultations with the Internet and Mobile Association of India (IAMAI) impressing upon them the need for an appropriate self-regulatory mechanism for content over OTT platforms. “In August 2020, the IAMAI had informed the Ministry that a self-regulatory mechanism had been developed for the OTT platforms. On examination it was felt that the mechanism proposed by IAMAI did not give adequate cognizance to content prohibited under law and there were issues of conflict of interest, which were communicated to IAMAI in September, 2020,” the Ministry noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/regulatory-code-for-ott-content-soon/article33764462.ece
06 February 2021||GUWAHATI,||Election-bound Assam recruits 29,701 teachers||The Assam government on Friday handed out appointment letters to 29,701 teachers. Education Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma claimed that the recruitment drive, timed ahead of the Assembly elections, was the largest ever. Of the new recruits, 16,484 had been serving in non-provincialised schools for years. Some of them barely have two years of service left. The remaining 13,217 are fresh recruits who had cleared the Teachers’ Eligibility Test. “Our primary responsibility is ensuring education and health to the people. Some of you will attain the age of retirement soon. The situation created by the previous governments made you waste the prime time of your lives,” Dr. Sarma said at the job distribution programme at the Sarusajai Stadium in Guwahati. Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal, who attended the programme, said he had made an announcement on August 15, 2020, that the State government would give 50,000 jobs. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given us the goal of Atmanirbhar Bharat. If we want to achieve it, we shall have to first build Atmanirbhar Assam. The teachers will have an important role to play in it. They shall have to ensure a skilled future generation which can compete all over the world,” he said. A section of teachers appointed under various schemes earlier protested outside the stadium while the appointment letters were being distributed. Holding placards, they demanded justice and pending pay for more than a year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/election-bound-assam-recruits-29701-teachers/article33764470.ece
06 February 2021||New Delhi,||Sonu Sood allowed to withdraw plea in SC||The Supreme Court on Friday allowed actor Sonu Sood to withdraw his petition and pursue an application filed before the civic authorities for regularisation of an alleged illegal construction at his residential building in Mumbai’s Juhu area. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad A. Bobde commended Mr. Sood’s lawyer, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, that this was “one of the rare occasions when a litigation is resolved by an absolutely correct legal advice given”. The Bench, while giving liberty to Mr. Sood to withdraw his petition against the Bombay High Court’s dismissal of his plea to quash or grant interim relief, said the municipal authorities would decide his case in accordance with law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sonu-sood-allowed-to-withdraw-plea-in-sc/article33764480.ece
06 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||INCOIS gliders to check changes in ocean eco-system||Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS) has successfully tested the first deep sea long range ‘Slocum’ gliders under the recently launched Deep Ocean Mission to monitor the seas round the year and for an accurate assessment of impact of climate change on coastal waters. The first two such Slocum gliders were deployed off the Chennai coast for the trial runs. The gliders are named after Joshua Slocum, said to be the first man to sail across the world. These gliders are pre-programmed to move to specific locations and depths to move both horizontally and vertically. Data transmission “Modern bio-geo chemical sensors are attached to these gliders to measure the sea temperatures, pressure, salinity, chlorophyll and other such parameters in a controlled manner. Data can be transmitted in real time and more exhaustive information stored can be obtained after a few months on retrieval,” explained INCOIS director T. Srinivasa Kumar, in an exclusive interaction. The Centre has given its nod to the five-year Rs. 4,000 crore Deep Ocean Mission to assess climate change, sea warming, impact on coastal regions and the marine ecosystem. “We will be working with our sister organisations like the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, Pune, National Institute of Ocean Technology, Chennai, Nation Centre for Coastal Research, Chennai, National Centre for Earth System Sciences, Thiruvananthapuram, and others for ocean exploration to harness its vast resources,” he explained. “We are planning to have eight such gliders in two years, and each can be run for six months. Initially, we want to take them 1,000 km off the Chennai coast with the help of Ocean Research Vehicle ‘Sagar Nidi’ and launch. We are also planning to pick them up before the monsoon,” chipped in head of Ocean Observations and Data Management Group E. Pattabhi Rama Rao. While the trial runs had just five dives up to 15 metres deep, these gliders are also capable of going underwater up to 1,000 metres deep and move about eight centimetres per second. Gliders along with tide gauges fitted with GPS sensors will give a rounded data to understand the oceanic ecosystem better because the movements of the sea along with the atmospheric systems control the monsoons, cyclonic storms, wave surges besides tsunamis, pointed out Mr. Srinivasa Kumar. Oceans are carbon sinks and data being collected could help us understand the ‘coupling’ of atmospheric and ocean systems for a more accurate climate forecasting, he averred. This apart, INCOIS is also sourcing data from about 300 Argo floats placed every 300 km around the coastline reading the surface and undercurrents along with temperature and salinity. These are placed 2,000 metres deep and keep floating to the surface every 10 days with data transmitted every five days. The plan is to launch 50 such floats every year as they have a life span of four years, added Mr. Rama Rao.  We are planning to have eight such gliders in two years, and each can be run for six months. E. Pattabhi Rama Rao, Head of Ocean Observations and Data Management Group, INCOIS||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/incois-gliders-to-track-changes-in-ocean-eco-system/article33765163.ece
06 February 2021||KOCHI,||Hindu Aikya Vedi leader held over halal boycott call||The North Paravur police on Friday arrested Hindu Aikya Vedi general secretary R.V. Babu on charges of posting videos on social media platforms promoting hatred between different groups. Babu was produced at court, which granted him interim bail. The police had taken a suo motu case invoking Section 153A (promoting disharmony, enmity or feelings of hatred between different groups on the grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hindu-aikya-vedi-leader-held-over-halal-boycott-call/article33765196.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Sea of protesters||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sea-of-protesters/article33764464.ece
06 February 2021||Hyderabad,||KCR calls for party executive meet on Feb 7||Amid rumours that leadership change is likely in Telangana with Municipal Administration Minister, K. T. Rama Rao likely to be elevated, TRS president and Chief Minister, K. Chandrashekhar Rao has called for a party executive committee meeting on February 7. Apart from the executive committee members , all the ministers, MPs of both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha, MLAs, MLCs, chairpersons of various Corporations, Zilla Parishad chairpersons, Municipal Mayors and DCCB chairpersons have been invited to the meeting. The meeting is likely to discuss the election of the party president and the preparations for the annual party meeting on April 27. Some MLAs are likely to express their views on the rumours of TRS working president, K.T. Rama Rao's elevation at the meeting and seek some clarity on the issue.   “We will try to speak to our party president on KTR’s rumoured elevation and also support an expeditious decision if KCR has really decided on it,” an MLA from north Telangana s said. Some MLAs are confused on what line to take while speaking about the BJP, particularly with senior leaders not keen to attack the Central government. What baffles them is the sudden silence of the party on its opposition to the new farm laws. Harsh critic The Chief Minister, himself a harsh critic of the Central government and the BJP policies on farmers, has not spoken a word so far against it ever since his visit to New Delhi, feel some party legislators. The spiralling success of the BJP in the State, evident at the Dubbaka bypoll and also GHMC municipal elections, is likely to be debated at the meeting with the Chief Minister presenting the outcome of the surveys done to assess the strength of the party at various levels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kcr-calls-for-party-executive-meet-tomorrow/article33765151.ece
06 February 2021||Hyderabad,||Syllabus relief for EAMCET aspirants in Telangana||Syllabus for the Engineering, Agriculture and Medical Common Entrance Test (EAMCET) in Telangana will be reduced by 30% from the second year with no relief from the first-year syllabus. Total first-year syllabus will be considered as students have already attended the first-year classes before the lockdown. There will be no change in the weightage given to Intermediate marks in the EAMCET to allot the final rank. TSCHE Chairman T. Papi Reddy said EAMCET is likely to be held in the third week of June as the government wants to give three to four weeks of preparation time after the Intermediate exams. The schedule will be announced depending on the availability of slots with the service provider. The decision was taken at the meeting convened by Special Chief Secretary, Chitra Ramchandran here on Friday. The decision on reduction of syllabus was to give relief to students who could not attend regular classes this year due to the pandemic. The EAMCET syllabus will be notified by the TSCHE once the Board of Intermediate Education prepares the document on the reduced syllabus. Students can also expect some relief in the EAMCET paper pattern this time and an expert committee will be asked to recommend question paper pattern to reduce pressure on the aspirants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/syllabus-relief-for-eamcet-aspirants/article33765152.ece
06 February 2021||Thrissur,||Police file case against Kerala BJP leaders||The police have registered a case against 1,000-odd people, including Bharatiya Janata Party president J.P. Nadda and State and district leaders, who gathered at the Thekkinkadu maidan here for a public meeting on Thursday. The case was registered under the Epidemic Diseases Act for violating the COVID-19 protocols. According to the police, the public meeting was organised without maintaining the COVID-19 guidelines. Meanwhile, the BJP leaders alleged that the police action was biased and politically motivated. Condemning the action, BJP district president K.K. Aneesh Kumar said the workers entered the venue after using sanitiser and masks. “We had taken maximum effort to ensure safe distance between the participants. If the police act against gatherings with more than 200 people, they should register a case first against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. More than 1,000 people have attended programmes, including a function at the Alappuzha bypass inaugurated by him. The COVID guidelines are not maintained at the adalats conducted by the government,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-file-case-against-kerala-bjp-leaders/article33764438.ece
06 February 2021||KOCHI,||Protest held at Sanskrit university||The main campus of the Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit at Kalady, near here, witnessed protests by activists of the Youth Congress (YC) and Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morch (BJYM) on Friday against the appointment of R. Ninitha, wife of M.B. Rajesh, former MP of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)], as assistant professor in the department of Malayalam. Slogans They shouted slogans against Vice Chancellor Dharmarajan P.K. alleging irregularities and nepotism in her appointment. They alleged that the university authorities had ignored merit while appointing CPI(M) cadres in various vacancies. The YC and BJYM activists tried to enter the administrative block. The police prevented them from proceeding further from the main gate. The appointment of Ms. Ninitha ran into trouble after one of the subject experts took to social media on Thursday saying “it was his first experience where the rank list had gone topsy-turvy.” The candidates who had won the first two ranks were bypassed to choose Ms. Ninitha, he said. She was ranked first on the list of the candidates under the Muslim category. Allegations denied The Vice Chancellor had denied the allegations while saying that the selection process was very transparent and in adherence to the rules and regulations prescribed by the University Grants Commission. The Save University Campaign Committee had petitioned Governor Arif Mohammed Khan, who is also the Chancellor of the university, against the appointment of Ms. Ninitha.  The activists of the Youth Congress and Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morch tried to enter the administrative block on the campus||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/protest-held-at-sanskrit-university/article33764448.ece
06 February 2021||Mumbai,||Still standing with farmers: Mia Khalifa||Former adult star Mia Khalifa on Friday said she was “still standing with the farmers” after her comments, criticising the treatment being meted to protesting farmers, drew sharp reactions. She had earlier criticised the Internet shutdown at the protest sites.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/still-standing-with-farmers-mia-khalifa/article33764452.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||‘No blanket nod given for surveillance’||The Centre on Friday denied granting blanket permission to any agency for interception or monitoring of any messages or information under its surveillance programmes such as the Centralised Monitoring System, the Network Traffic Analysis, and the National Intelligence Grid “There is no blanket permission to any agency for interception or monitoring or decryption; and permission from the competent authority (Union Home Secretary) is required, as per due process of law and rules in each case,” read an affidavit filed by the Ministry of Home Affairs before the Delhi High Court. The affidavit came in response to a petition seeking to constitute a permanent, independent oversight body for reviewing lawful interception and monitoring orders or warrants under the provisions of the Indian Telegraph Act and the Information Technology Act. The Ministry, however, said “the existing safeguards of oversight by a high-level committee chaired by Cabinet Secretary at the Central level and chaired by Chief Secretary at the State level, are adequate and provide effective supervision”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-blanket-nod-given-for-surveillance/article33764453.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||A show of strength for Sachin Pilot||A massive Kisan Mahapanchayat held here on Friday to demand rollback of the farm laws turned out to be a show of strength for Congress leader Sachin Pilot. The presence of Mr. Pilot not only enthused his supporters, but also lent legitimacy to the protest. Mr. Pilot’s camp has been facing alienation in the State’s politics since July 2020, when the young leader was sacked as the Deputy CM and Pradesh Congress president following a showdown with the top leadership. The farmers’ rally in the eastern Rajasthan town gave an opportunity to Mr. Pilot to exhibit his political support. The Dausa Lok Sabha constituency — represented by Mr. Pilot’s father and Union minister, the late Rajesh Pilot, five times between 1984 and 1999 — has emerged as a new turf of farmers’ protest against the controversial laws. Friday’s Mahapanchayat was the second major event in the region this week where the farmers gave vent to their anger. Thousands of farmers, agricultural labourers, daily wage earners, milkmen and cattle rearers gathered at the Rajesh Pilot Stadium here to attend the half-day Mahapanchayat held under the aegis of the Samyukta Kisan Sangathan. ‘ Main Bhi Kisan ’ (I too am a farmer) printed on a large banner put up at the stage reflected the indomitable spirit of farmers facing the agrarian crisis. The Congress MLAs of the region, who were instrumental in mobilising the cultivators from far-off villages for coming to the district headquarters, flayed the “obstinate stance” of the BJP-led government at the Centre and took exception to the attempts being made to defame farmers on the pretext of violence in Delhi on Republic Day. Prominent among the politicians who addressed the Mahapanchayat were Dausa MLA Murari Lal Meena, Bandikui MLA Gajraj Khatana, Deoli-Uniara MLA Harish Meena, Todabhim MLA Prithviraj Meena, Masuda MLA Rakesh Pareek, Neem Ka Thana MLA Suresh Modi and Chaksu MLA Ved Prakash Solanki. Two farmers carrying a wooden plough and the national tricolour were the centre of attraction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-show-of-strength-for-sachin-pilot/article33764456.ece
06 February 2021||Lucknow,||HC pulls up U.P. govt. on illegal challans||The Allahabad High Court has pulled up the Uttar Pradesh government for the “arbitrary and illegal” challans issued by police and the illegal detention of people in the State over apprehensions of breach of peace. The court was hearing a writ petition filed by a resident of Varanasi Shiv Kumar Verma and another who had prayed that the administration provide them compensation in lieu of their illegal detention from October 12, 2020 to October 21, 2020 in relation with a case lodged against them at Rohaniya police station in Varanasi under Sections 151, 107 and 116 of the CrPC. In response, the State’s Additional Advocate General and the Home Secretary jointly stated before the court that the State government would develop a mechanism and issue appropriate guidelines as to ensure that such instances are not repeated. The State government would also consider granting monetary compensation to the petitioners for breach of their fundamental rights under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. The case pertains to a dispute between the petitioners and their family members over the partition of ancestral property. In apprehension of breach of public peace, the police had arrested the petitioners under Section 151 of CrPC on October 8, 2020. A challan report of the same date was submitted by a sub-inspector of Rohaniya police station to the Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM) Varanasi under Section 151/107/116 CrPC, which was in printed form but with merely the name of the petitioners and others, name of the village and “land dispute” given as details. The court stated that the police authorities had arbitrarily and illegally submitted challan reports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-pulls-up-up-govt-on-illegal-challans/article33764465.ece
06 February 2021||Chandigarh,||Mobile internet curbs to stay in Haryana||Mobile internet services will remain suspended in Haryana’s Sonipat and Jhajjar districts till Saturday evening, an official statement said. The services were suspended in some districts of the State “to prevent disturbance of peace and public order”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mobile-internet-curbs-to-stay-in-haryana/article33764856.ece
06 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Ink incident: Police summon advocate||The Halasurugate police, on Friday, issued a notice to advocate Meera Raghavendra a day after she smeared paint on Kannada writer and rationalist K.S. Bhagavan at the City Civil Court Complex in Bengaluru. “She has to appear before the police for questioning within three days,” said a police officer. The notice was issued after Prof. Bhagavan lodged a complaint with the police. Meera has been booked for assault and criminal intimidation. She had filed a private complaint against the award-winning writer for hurting religious sentiments, for which the court had issued summons. On Thursday, Prof. Bhagavan appeared in court to obtain bail and was walking out of the premises with the gun men when Meera confronted him and threw ink on his face. He has also approached the Advocates’ Association seeking disciplinary action against the lawyer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ink-incident-police-summon-advocate/article33764657.ece
06 February 2021||Andipatti,TAMIL NADU||Posters hailing Sasikala come up||Posters hailing and welcoming V. K. Sasikala, close aide of late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, were found in Andipatti town, for the second time recently, on Friday. At a time when the AIADMK high commandis sacking functionariessupporting Ms. Sasikala, the posters that have come up again have shocked ruling partymen here. The posters hailed Ms. Sasikala as the future of Tamil Nadu and appealed to her to lead the party towards a victory in the ensuing election. Apart from Jayalalithaa’s photo, the posters have pictures of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam. The posters have been printed in the name of Velmurugan of Andipatti taluk (Marikundu AIADMK Union). Last week, the AIADMK coordinator and co-coordinator (the Deputy CM and CM) had sacked a functionary in Tirunelveli and this was followed by the similar removal of an office-bearer in Tiruchi. Senior party functionaries too had warned of dire consequences against those violating party discipline. When the functionaries were told to behave themselves and follow the rules of the party, the fresh posters in Andipatti have become a talking point. A senior office-bearer of AIADMK in the district said that the party had information about the “people” behind such acts which were being done to create confusion and infuse bad blood. “We are solidly behind the CM and Deputy CM,” he said. AMMK functionaries in the district, who have been eagerly waiting to receive their leader Ms. Sasikala,who is to reach Chennai on February 8, said that there would be a lot of changes happening in the coming days. “Kindly wait and watch,” a senior party member said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-posters-hailing-sasikala-come-up-in-andipatti/article33764604.ece
06 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A virtual multimedia treat awaits visitors at Jayalalithaa’s mausoleum||Work on the museum and knowledge park at the mausoleum of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, on the Marina beach, will be completed by this month-end. The state-of-the-art facilities would appear to be an extension of the wings of phoenix on the northern and southern sides of the memorial, which is modelled on the mythological bird. Both the facilities, each built on an area of 8,550 sq.ft., will have interactive digital content on the life and achievements of the former Chief Minister. A visit to the project site on Friday revealed that the work was progressing quickly and final touches were being provided to the buildings which were predominantly in white. Eight digital experiences await visitors at both the facilities. While the knowledge park would have interactive digital content on Jayalalithaa’s achievements, the museum would showcase a chronicle of events through murals, audio visual presentations and virtual reality technology. Besides short motion graphic videos on her achievements that can be accessed through touchscreen application, interactive digital walls would be installed to allow visitors to access 2D animation videos on different schemes during her period and about various aspects of her life, including as a film actor and her school life, said officials of the Public Works Department, which is executing the project. “We are providing an installation wherein people could virtually chat with Jayalalithaa. They would have to choose from 10 questions for which her animation image would answer. As a tribute to her, the facility would have a 3D image of her and the hall would be filled with fragrance of flowers on a touch of the interactive application,” said an official. Selfie point Visitors could take a selfie with Jayalalithaa through augmented reality technology and ride a bicycle and experience a virtual three minute-journey about some of the schemes, particularly for students, during her regime. There would be an interactive “play and win” facility where visitors could answer questions on her, the officials added. An additional fund of Rs. 12.5 crore was provided to complete the project. The digital installations would be done with the technical support of a city-based firm Fusion VR. Two life-size wax statues of the former AIADMK supremo would be installed. The museum would have an auditorium with seating capacity of nearly 100 people. On the mausoleum being closed to the public, which has evoked political reactions, sources said this was done to complete the other projects without hassle. The facilities are likely to be inaugurated on February 24 to mark the birth anniversary of the former Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-virtual-multimedia-treat-awaits-visitors-at-jaya-mausoleum/article33764591.ece
06 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Highest quantum of farm loan waiver||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s announcement of waiving outstanding crop loans of Rs. 12,110 crore is the highest quantum of loan waiver ever in Tamil Nadu. It is different from the earlier schemes for another reason. The earlier two schemes, unveiled by M. Karunanidhi in May 2006 and Jayalalithaa in 2016, were formulated at the beginning of the terms of the DMK and AIADMK regimes, whereas the recent one is at the fag end of the term of the current government. In 2006, the DMK government decided to write off all types of loans — short term, medium term and long term — for all categories of farmers, regardless of the size of landholdings. At the time, the amount was Rs. 7,000 crore. It was for the first time that a State government waived farm loans due to cooperative banks by agriculturists. Ten years later, the AIADMK government, while returning to power for the second consecutive time, wrote off loans of around 12.02 lakh small and marginal farmers, owning land up to 5 acres, to the tune of about Rs. 5,320 crore. It left out big farmer-loanees, numbering around three lakh, who had an outstanding amount of nearly Rs. 1,980 crore. But this time, the State government did not make any distinction among farmers, but has chosen to cover only short-term crop loans, unlike in the previous occasion, when medium-term and long-term agricultural loans too were covered under the waivers. On the efficacy of the 2016 scheme, a 2018 paper, authored by Deepa S. Raj and Edwin Prabu A. and published in No.1 & 2, Vol. 39, of the Reserve Bank of India Occasional Papers , stated that the scheme was “effectively implemented.” However, the co-operative institutions faced funding constraints in 2016-17 due to two reasons: the impact of the loan waiver and the cash withdrawal limits placed during demonetisation that had affected their lending. But next year, the constraint eased, consequent to the receipt of reimbursement from the State government. “Hence, the waiver seems to have affected the ability of lending institutions to extend loans, rather than their willingness to do so,” the authors pointed out.  Rural indebtedness Though the scheme helped reduce rural indebtedness of small and marginal farmers to a limited extent, the overall indebtedness of farmers to formal as well as the informal sector continued to remain high, the researchers concluded. The main report of the 15th Finance Commission, formulated in October 2020, preferred income support schemes to the idea of farm loan waivers, as they “are relatively more inclusive and do not have the moral hazard problem that is inherent in farm loan waivers.” Asked whether the waiver would not create a moral hazard, Kovai K. Selvaraj, AIADMK spokesperson, replied that the government’s move was made as “a large number of farmers” had been affected due to the two cyclones, last year, and unseasonal rain last month. The State government had also approached the Centre for assistance to farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/highest-quantum-of-farm-loan-waiver/article33764577.ece
06 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Giving false details for appraisal will result in rejection: Javadekar||Any false or misleading information provided by a project proponent will lead to rejection and cancellation of the prior environmental clearance granted, Union Minister for Environment, Forest and Climate Change Prakash Javadekar informed Parliament. Replying to queries raised by DMK MPs Thamizhachi Thangapandian and Dr. Kalanidhi Veeraswamy on the proposed expansion of Kattupalli port and its impact on the coastal region around Chennai, Mr. Javadekar said impact assessment and mitigation measures were mandated as per the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and Environment Management Plan studies. Public hearing as part of the mandatory public consultation had not been held for the project so far, he noted. Action against firm The MPs also sought to know if the government will take action against the company engaged in the expansion work for providing false or misleading information relating to the project. Mr. Javadekar said: “As per EIA Notification, 2006, as amended, deliberate concealment or submission of false/misleading information which is material to the appraisal or decision shall be liable for rejection, and cancellation of prior environmental clearance granted on that basis”. He said the construction of port and harbour projects in highly eroded stretches of the coast was prohibited. The proposal was for the expansion of an existing port project. The Environmental and CRZ clearance had been accorded by the Ministry after due diligence in a letter dated July 3, 2009, he said, adding that Pulicat lake was located approximately 13 km north of the project site. He also said based on the terms of reference for the project, the EIA mandates a number of studies, including a comprehensive study on all existing developments like Ennore port and L&T shipyard, impact of construction of berths and breakwaters on the littoral drift, shoreline change management plan covering the area from Ennore Creek to Pulicat lake have to be done.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/giving-false-details-for-appraisal-will-result-in-rejection-javadekar/article33765096.ece
06 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CMRS begins inspection of Metro’s phase I extension||With just over a week left for the planned inauguration of Metro Rail’s phase I extension line connecting Washermenpet and Wimco Nagar, the Commissioner of Metro Rail Safety (CMRS) began the three-day inspection of the 9-km line on Friday. A team headed by Abhai Kumar Rai began the inspection at Washermenpet Metro. Although the station has been functional for over two years, the officials checked the control room and then headed to the two underground stations of Tondiarpet and Sir Theyagaraya College, sources said. “On Saturday and Sunday, the team will visit Wimco Nagar, Tiruvottiyur, Kaladipet, Tollgate and New Washermenpet,” an official said. In the tunnel between Washermenpet and Sir Theyagaraya College, the officials checked the various systems and inspected various passenger amenities at the underground stations . “In the first half day of the inspection, the officials were quite happy with the functioning of systems and the construction,” a source present in the inspection said. “In Tondairpet Metro, there were a few issues such as the incomplete integration of some systems. A wall will have to be pulled down as it does not match specifications and will be a barrier when trains run. Also, the automatic fare collection gates need to be commissioned too,” a source said. The team will issue a series of suggestions for modifications or flaws that have to be rectified and give a certificate later next week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cmrs-begins-inspection-of-metros-phase-i-extension/article33765103.ece
06 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Colleges reluctant to have all students on campus||Though the Higher Education Department has given permission for colleges to reopen, institutions are hesitant to go the whole hog and bring all students in. In many colleges, students predominantly depend on suburban trains. However, time restrictions to issue tickets to students has been a hindrance, colleges say. At DRBCCC Hindu College in Pattabhiram, nearly 50% of the students commute by train, said N. Rajendra Naidu, director. “Already the students and teachers have been complaining about the low attendance during the first hour of college. The Railways does not issue tickets to our students before 9 a.m. and after 4 p.m. Our second shift classes continue beyond 6 p.m. Due to the restrictions, we have to permit students to leave by 3.30 p.m. It is difficult for our administration as well,” he said. “Parents tell me that they are unable to send their children. They cannot afford two-wheelers or private transport,” Mr. Naidu said. Loyola College principal A. Thomas said though no parent had approached him with complaints so far, the college had not asked first year students to come to the campus on Monday. “Since we have been ordered to strictly follow the SOP, we have asked the final year Arts students alone to come. Online classes will continue till further orders. It will be very difficult to call all the students as we have more than 2,000 of them in the senior classes,” he said. Mr. Thomas said the students and the parents were comfortable with the arrangement. “Parents are a little apprehensive to send their wards. We have around 7,000 plus students. We will be able to control in the classrooms but outside, despite the information boards, we don’t know how far the physical distancing norms would be followed,” he said. D.G. Vaishnav College Principal Santhosh Baboo said students were in the midst of semester exams. Students with laboratory work were asked to come to college for 10 days. The batch would take the practical test at the end of the class. Similarly, students from the Commerce stream were asked to come for Accounts classes in batches. Financial burden College managements are struggling with the financial burden of having shut the institutions for nearly a year. A. Kanagaraj, chairman of Jaya group of institutions that runs several colleges, said it had approached the government for relief from having to pay penalty on road tax. “Each college runs 20 to 100 buses. For the past 10 months, the buses have not been running. We have told the government not to penalise us for not paying the road tax. We have time till March end to complete the process of getting a fitness certificate. But we have to pay double the road tax as penalty. If the government could waive the tax, we can run buses and students will not be inconvenienced. Ours is a service sector and the buses are not run for commercial benefits,” he added. Southern railway sources have however said as of now the Railway Board had not permitted relaxations for allowing students, except girls, to commute in the workmen special. Any further steps allowing students to commute in the workmen special could be taken only based on the directions of the Railway Board, officials said.  (With inputs from R. Srikanth)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/colleges-reluctant-to-have-all-students-on-campus/article33764618.ece
06 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Deaths due to COVID-19 on the decline||Fresh COVID-19 cases are on the decline in Tamil Nadu, and so are deaths due to the infection. The last seven-day average deaths is down to five a day, while the case fatality rate (CFR) for the last week has reduced to under 1%. As of February 4, the State registered 12,375 deaths. A majority of them — 10,275 persons, accounting for 82% — had co-morbidities. About 63% of the deceased were aged over 60. With a dip in fresh infections in the State, deaths due to COVID-19 too have declined. According to the Health Department, as many as 20 districts have not reported a single COVID-19 death in the last 10 days. There were no COVID-19 deaths in Chennai on two days in the last two weeks. “Basically, the clinical protocols arrived at by specialists and doctors in Tamil Nadu, including for those with co-morbidities, encouraging early admission, follow up of patients with X-rays and CT scans, and critical monitoring of COVID-19 blood profiles have helped. Rapid ramping of oxygen beds and oxygen supplies, and analysing deaths were some of the initiatives. An assured supply of medicines by the TNMSC was a very important foundation,” Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said. Newer challenges emerging are many not taking the initial symptoms seriously due to the success in reducing fatalities, he said, adding: “Constant IEC (Information Education and Communication) activities are being done on the need to continue to wear masks. People need to access medical facilities in case of symptoms and not delay. One of the ways forward is fatality mitigation by effective clinical management. This includes risk stratification based on age and the presence of co-morbidities, monitoring and follow-up of all cases, including among those under home isolation, bed and critical-care capacity strengthening, protocol-based standardised clinical management and facility-level death audits. Experience in handling a large numbers of patients has helped doctors chalk out the right line of management. The Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital that once recorded deaths in double digits is now registering one death a day or even no deaths due to COVID-19 on some days, according to its dean E. Theranirajan. “We have a standard protocol in place, and our doctors are well-aware of the clinical presentation of COVID-19. The clinical parameters are assessed and closely monitored, and the line of management is decided based on this. Our experience in dealing with a large numbers of patients, the conduct of daily death audits and taking of appropriate interventions have helped reduce deaths,” he said. R. Jayanthi, dean of the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, said the decline in deaths was proportionate to the decline in cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/deaths-due-to-covid-19-on-the-decline/article33764576.ece
06 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fiscal indicators deteriorated drastically: Finance Commission||Tamil Nadu’s fiscal indicators have deteriorated drastically from 2012-13 to 2018-19 and most borrowings in the recent years have gone to fund its revenue deficit instead of capital expenditure, the 15th Finance Commission report tabled in Parliament recently said. Tamil Nadu moved from a “revenue surplus” to a “revenue deficit” State after 2012-13, it noted. A revenue deficit is the difference between the government’s revenue receipts and revenue expenditure and reflects that the government’s earnings are not adequate to meet its day-to-day operational expenses. Tamil Nadu’s Debt-Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) ratio has increased to 22.6% in 2018-19, from 17.2% in 2012-13, the Commission said. The State implemented its Fiscal Responsibility Budget Management (FRBM) Act and has adhered to the limits set in recent years. However, it needs to continue on the credible debt path and careful calibration of expenditure for generating future streams of income, the report added. As per the report, Tamil Nadu’s revenue deficit-fiscal deficit ratio has approached 50% in the recent years, implying that most borrowings were being used to finance its revenue deficit. Capital expenditure-GSDP ratio has fallen between 2011 and 2019 (except for 2016-17 when the State joined the UDAY scheme), it noted. Capital expenditure goes into infrastructure projects like roads. Low growth Tamil Nadu experienced low growth in major sources of revenue (VAT, Stamp Duty and Registration and State Excise) during 2014-16, the report said. However, consequent to some measures taken in 2017-18 and 2018-19 (like increase in VAT on petroleum products, hike in excise duty and levy of special fee on liquor), the State achieved 13% growth in its Own Tax Revenue and 15% growth in Own Revenue Receipts in 2018-19, it noted. The Commission noted that the State needed to revert to its pre-2014 Revenue Deficit-Fiscal Deficit Ratio and invest its borrowings fully into capital expenditure and also need to improve its Own Tax Revenue-GDP ratio further.  Focus on aquaculture The Commission also said promotion of aquaculture could become an important revenue generator for the State. Despite a coastline of around 1,076 km, the State’s aquaculture sector is smaller when compared to the neighbouring State of Andhra Pradesh, it noted. On the positive side, the report noted that the State had been a front-runner in many metrics in Sustainable Development Goals, like poverty reduction, good health and well-being and quality education among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fiscal-indicators-deteriorated-drastically-finance-commission/article33764578.ece
06 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No case in four districts, State records 489||On a day when Tamil Nadu reported 489 fresh cases of COVID-19, four districts — Kallakurichi, Krishnagiri, Perambalur and Sivagangai — saw no new case. A total of 24 districts recorded under 10 cases each. The fresh cases took the State’s tally to 8,40,849. A total of 506 persons were discharged on Friday, taking the total number of persons discharged so far to 8,24,024. The active cases stood at 4,446. Four more persons succumbed to the infection — two in Chennai and one each in Coimbatore and Thanjavur. The toll stood at 12,379. Fatalities in State Three of the deceased were in their 60s. This included a 63-year-old man from Chennai who had no co-morbidities. He was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on February 2 and died the next day due to COVID-19 pneumonia and respiratory failure. In Chennai, 158 persons tested positive for COVID-19, while there were 54 cases in Coimbatore and 45 in Chengalpattu. There were 35 cases in Tiruvallur, 23 in Erode and 20 each in Thanjavur and Tiruchi. Dharmapuri, Karur, Pudukottai, Ramanathapuram, Tenkasi and Thoothukudi reported one case each. Those testing positive included three returnees — one from Karnataka and two from West Bengal. In the last 24 hours, 52,656 samples were tested in the State, taking the total figure to tested. Vaccination update Another 11,396 persons were vaccinated against COVID-19 on Friday, taking the total figure to 1,57,046. Of these, 8,894 persons were healthcare workers and 2,502 frontline staff. Covishield was administered to 8,785 healthcare workers and 2,501 frontline workers, and Covaxin to 109 healthcare workers and one frontline staff. The two vaccines were administered in 565 sessions, with the day’s capacity being 69,650. In 20 days, 1,50,228 healthcare workers were vaccinated, while 6,818 frontline staff were inoculated in three days. In Chennai, a total of 1,103 persons were vaccinated — 1,010 healthcare and 93 frontline workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-case-in-four-districts-state-records-489/article33764582.ece
06 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM announces seven schools for children of policemen||The State government will expand the police hospital in Chennai and also set up residential schools in seven locations for children of police personnel on the lines of the one in Chennai, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami told the Assembly on Friday. Replying to a discussion on the motion of thanks to the Governor for his address to the House, Mr. Palaniswami said police residential schools would be set up in Coimbatore, Cuddalore, Madurai, Salem, Tiruchi, Tirunelveli and Vellore to offer quality education to the children of police personnel. The Chief Minister listed the major achievements of the AIADMK government under his leadership and recalled the success of major schemes. Of the 644 suo motu announcements made in the House during the AIADMK regime, government orders had been issued in the case of 607. Of these, 198 proposals had been implemented completely. With regard to 409 announcements, work was in various stages of implementation. Preliminary work was on with regard to over 31 proposals and six of them were under the consideration of the Centre, he said. Of the 568 announcements made during the birth centenary of the late AIADMK founder and former Chief Minister M.G. Ramachandran in 32 districts, relevant government orders had been issued for 566 announcements. A total of 289 proposals had been implemented completely and work in over 277 others were under way, he said. Preliminary work was on with regard to two announcements. Mr. Palaniswami said he had inaugurated development work to the tune of Rs. 42,144 crore and unveiled the foundation stone for projects worth Rs. 36,912 crore. ‘Popular support’ “Wherever I go, people turn up in large numbers and appreciate the work of the government. They want this government to continue,” Mr. Palaniswami said while taking a dig at the DMK. The Opposition benches remained empty on Friday too as the members have decided to boycott the ongoing sitting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-announces-seven-schools-for-children-of-policemen/article33764615.ece
06 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Increase in punishment for crimes against women, children||The Assembly on Friday passed eight Bills that were tabled during the first sitting of the ongoing session. Following the announcement made by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami in the Assembly on September 16 last year, Law Minister C.Ve. Shanmugam introduced a Bill that sought to amend certain provisions of the Indian Penal Code to enhance the punishment for crimes against women and children, especially those registered under sections 304-B, 354-B, 354-D, 372 and 373 of the IPC. The Bill aims at increasing the minimum punishment for dowry-related deaths (Section 304-B) to 10 years’ imprisonment (presently the minimum is seven years) and for disrobing a woman (Section 354-B), a minimum of five years and a maximum of 10 years’ imprisonment (presently, they are three and five years respectively). The legislation was also for increasing the maximum punishment for stalking (Section 354-D) to seven years’ imprisonment in case of a second or subsequent conviction, which is at five years, presently. The Bill also sought to increase the punishment for offences under Sections 372 (Selling minor for purposes of prostitution, etc.) and 373 (Buying minor for purposes of prostitution, etc.) to seven years’ imprisonment, with life sentence as the maximum punishment. Currently, the maximum punishment for crimes under Sections 372 and 373 is up to 10 years’ imprisonment. Another Bill introduced by Minister for Higher Education and Agriculture K.P. Anbalagan sought to amend the Annamalai University Act, 2013, and the Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University Chennai Act, 1987, to effect the handing over of the three medical institutions to the Health and Family Welfare Department, so as to treat them as government institutions. The institutions are: Rajah Muthiah Medical College and Hospital, Rajah Muthiah Dental College and Hospital, and Rani Meyyammai College of Nursing, attached to Annamalai University in Chidambaram. The Bill is in line with the announcement made by Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam in his Budget speech. Minister for Commercial Taxes K.C. Veeramani tabled a Bill to amend the Tamil Nadu Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017, in light of repealing the provision of the Tamil Nadu Sugar Factories Control Act, 1949, under Section 14. All Bills tabled during the first sitting of the ongoing session were passed in the House on Friday. Later, Assembly Speaker P. Dhanapal adjourned the House sine die .  The legislation was also for increasing the maximum punishment for stalking to seven years’ imprisonment in case of a second or subsequent conviction||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/increase-in-punishment-for-crimes-against-women-children/article33764579.ece
06 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Persons with disabilities left in the lurch||For 35-year-old S. Kumar alias Maan Kumar, a differently abled person living in Perumbakkam, life has been hard post COVID-19. He used to run a mobile tea shop in the locality that helped feed his family and educate his children. But now he has no with no source of income. “I have to crawl to go from one place to another. After the pandemic all small businesses, like mine, have been impacted. It is really hard to make ends meet,” he said. T.M.N. Deepak, State president, December 3 movement, a disability rights organisation, said there were over 400 people like Mr. Kumar in Perumbakkam alone, who were in dire need of help. Despite his setbacks, Mr. Kumar has not stopped helping others. As part of the December 3 Movement, he has been speaking to local administration and different government departments to provide employment opportunities for differently abled peoplein the Perumbakkam tenements. Sujatha Kandan, who is part of the Samudyathai Maatrum Matruthiranaligal Anaithu Vagai Nala Sangam in Peurmbakkam, said it would be helpful if the government provided jobs in different departments. “We are also seeking help from NGOs to start small business units. It would be helpful if an Amma Unavagam is started inside. Apart from food, it will also provide employment to many,” she said. It is not just persons with disabilities — other residents in the tenements have also been left unemployed ever since they were shifted to Perumbakkam, says a study jointly conducted by the Housing for Land Rights Network (HLRN) and the Information and Resource Centre for the Deprived Urban Communities. The study pointed out that a total of 629 persons among the respondents had lost their jobs after relocation. “Many of us who got resettled are daily wage earners, especially domestic aides. It is hard to travel and reach our workplace on time. Hence we lost our jobs,” a resident said. “Regarding employment, all other government departments should coordinate with the TNSCB to help provide jobs for residents,” a Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/persons-with-disabilities-left-in-the-lurch/article33765099.ece
06 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cancel tender for smart carts on Marina: Arappor Iyakkam||Arappor Iyakkam has filed a complaint with the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption demanding the cancellation of a tender for the supply and installation of smart carts on Marina Beach. In a press meet on Friday, Arappor Iyakkam convener Jayaram Venkatesan said they had complained about corruption involving the officials of the Greater Chennai Corporation and a firm called A Quad Enterprises in awarding the tender for the Marina Beach smart cart initiative. “The award of tender through blatant misuse of power by officials has incurred heavy loss to the exchequer. The Corporation floated a tender for the supply and installation of 900 smart vending carts with a value of Rs. 16.47 crore. The tender publishing date was October 10, 2020, and the scheduled bid opening date was November 10, 2020. The firm A Quad Enterprises did not have the required pre-qualifications. Therefore, a series of amendments were made to the criteria to try and make the firm eligible. A corrigendum was brought about on November 6, 2020 relaxing many conditions. While only firms under The Companies Act were allowed earlier, proprietorship firms were also allowed as per the corrigendum. Five years of operations were reduced to three years. Previous experience which was about relevant supply of materials was relaxed to include any fabrication experience as well,” Mr. Venkatesan said. “They put in a clause in the corrigendum giving themselves permission to reopen the tender while in the first place no corrigendum is allowed after the opening of the tender. After this, the tender was reopened within a few hours around 5.44 p.m. and A Quad Enterprises was alone declared qualified and the tender was awarded to them,” he said. “The only way the Corporation could have proceeded after opening of the tender on November 19, 2020 and finding that all three of the bidders were disqualified is to float a fresh tender with relaxed conditions which could have yielded many more bidders,” Mr. Venkatesan said. A senior official of the Corporation said the civic body was supposed to go for a re-tender after Air Systems, A Quad Enterprises and Varsa were disqualified. “The High Court Bench had intervened and wanted to reopen the tender, owing to the urgent need for supply of carts for vendors. One of the contractors, Air Systems, had obtained a stay order after failing to submit an earnest money deposit. As it is the second call for tender, the Bench intervened and directed to give 450 carts for Air Systems and 450 for A Quad. After withdrawing from the bid, expressing an inability to supply the 450 carts within three months, Air Systems has approached the Supreme Court presenting misleading information after one and a half months,” the official said. “Only after Air Systems had withdrawn, the contract was awarded to A Quad by the High Court Bench. A fresh work order was issued, including a period of three months to supply the carts ,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cancel-tender-for-smart-carts-on-marina-arappor-iyakkam/article33765104.ece
06 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Staff of Stanley hospital get the jab||The vice-principal of the Government Stanley Hospital along with many senior doctors, staff nurses and paramedical staff received their first dose of the vaccine at the hospital on Friday. State Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan was present along with the Dean, heads of all departments, Resident Medical Officer, Deputy Medical Superintendent, nursing superintendents and other health officials. The Health Secretary supervised the beneficiary registration point, entry of beneficiaries in the COWIN portal, the vaccination room and observation room and interacted with the beneficiaries. The Health Secretary spoke to the medical officers, nursing staff, medical and nursing students and paramedical workers highlighting the need for vaccination and encouraged all to come forward and get vaccinated. At Government Stanley Hospital around 100 beneficiaries are vaccinated every day and a total of 1,500 healthcare workers have received COVID-19 vaccination till date. Dr. P. Balaji, the Dean, said that the vaccination drive for the remaining health care workers would be completed within a fortnight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/staff-of-stanley-hospital-get-the-jab/article33765106.ece
06 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Religion not a competitive business to spew venom against each other: HC||Religion is not a competitive business. Therefore, spewing venom against other religious faiths and developing hatred against followers of a particular religion defies its purpose, which is to help a human being evolve towards higher truths, the Madras High Court observed on Friday. The court made the observation while quashing two chargesheets and eight First Information Reports registered against evangelist Mohan C. Lazarus. The evangelist was accused of having made certain statements about Hindu gods and temples in a closed-door meeting at Avadi in Chennai in March, 2016. Truncated videos of the meet surfaced on social media in 2018 and created a furore. “We as a society have fallen and are falling into the hands of misconceptions and extremities in the name of securing and practising our respective religious beliefs. These extremities have always been known to incite hatred, violence, bloodshed and bitterness across history,” wrote Justice N. Anand Venkatesh. “The ideal of secularism was not built into our Constitution for no reason. While secularism in the West is usually taken to be emphasising the separation of the state and religion, Indian secularism stresses on equal tolerance of all religions. The concept of secularism has its origins in Europe but the meaning ascribed to it in India has a significant variation,” he added. “Indian secularism is sui generis [unique] in nature… It is not one that is anti-religious but one that gives to all its citizens equal freedom of conscience and religion. The failure to practice tolerance would only lead to alienation from fellow citizens and have a cascading effect on maintaining peace, order and brotherhood which cannot be put to jeopardy at any cost.” The judge appreciated senior counsel Isaac Mohanlal, representing the evangelist, for not justifying the “reckless statements which do not augur well with the stature of a pastor.” Justice Venkatesh decided to condone the act of the petitioner after he filed an affidavit expressing regret and promised not to repeat such acts in the future. “To err is human, to forgive divine. After all, the petitioner has erred in making certain statements without understanding its consequences… This court is confident that the petitioner has learnt his lesson from this incident and the criminal proceedings must, therefore, end here without going after the blood of the petitioner,” he observed. Giving a piece of advice to people who propagate different religious faiths, the judge said: “This court holds a strong view that as persons capable of influencing large sections of the society that is driven by its religious sentiments, one needs to be extremely cautious and conscientious in exercising their rights, be it one of expression, religion or any other right. “It cannot be at the cost of injuring the sentiments and rights of other fellow citizens who also form a constituent part of the rich culture and value system that our nation embodies. This court would not hesitate to say that it is, in fact, the fundamental duty cast upon every citizen to preserve the rich heritage of our composite culture. “Such heritage and culture cannot at any circumstance be seen as one independent of the religious, cultural and civilizational sentiments that have been rooted, ingrained and etched in the history, soul and spirit of this nation… If this is not followed, it will spell danger to the secular fabric of this country. It may even lead to eroding one of the basic structures of our Constitution.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/religion-not-a-competitive-business-to-spew-venom-against-each-other-hc/article33765120.ece
06 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Explain reasons for attempt to capture Rivaldo: HC tells PCCF||The Madras High Court on Friday called for a report from the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (PCCF), explaining the need to capture 40-year-old male elephant Rivaldo from the Sigur region that was part of a buffer zone of Mudumalai Tiger Reserve in the Nilgiris district. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy insisted on the report after Special Government Pleader S.V. Vijay Prashanth claimed that the pachyderm was being captured for the purpose of healing because it had suffered injuries and its trunk holes had shrunk. The SGP displayed a photograph of the elephant’s trunk holes having shrunk in size and told the court that the forest department officials were taking efforts to capture the elephant without tranquilising it as it could kill the animal. On the other hand, advocate R. Srinivas, representing public interest litigant T. Murugavel of Chennai, contended that there was no need to capture the elephant as it was very friendly and had been surviving for long amid human habitations. He said the animal had suffered injuries to its trunk about a decade ago, from when the locals had begun feeding it with fruits, coconuts and sugar cane. It became a practice over the years and the animal continued to be fed by humans for pleasure, “profit” and sensationalism. The local resort owners encouraged this habit to entertain their guests despite knowing well that feeding wildlife was a prohibited activity under the Wildlife (Protection) Act of 1972. The forest department officials took no effort to curb such a practice, the petitioner alleged. However, after the recent death of an elephant in the district after some object on fire was thrown at the animal when it attempted to enter a resort, the officials decided to capture Rivaldo to avoid recurrence of a similar incident, he claimed. The litigant also feared that the forest department might lock Rivaldo in a kraal, a closed enclosure, for months to tame it. This might endanger its life, as some elephants die due to the curbs on their mobility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/explain-reasons-for-attempt-to-capture-rivaldo-hc-tells-pccf/article33764643.ece
06 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC finds 3 priests guilty of contempt||The Madras High Court has found Rev. S. Immanuel Devakadatcham, Rt. Rev. Dr. J. George Stephen and Rev. Y.L. Babu Rao guilty of contempt and sentenced them to three months of simple imprisonment, besides issuing a direction to pay fine of Rs. 1,500 each, failing which they must undergo 15 more days of imprisonment. After pronouncing orders, Justices N. Kirubakaran and P. Velmurugan, however, suspended the sentence till the priests could file appeals before the Supreme Court. The judges directed the contemnors to execute own bonds for a sum of Rs. 1 lakh each before the High Court Registry as a pre-condition for suspending the sentence. The orders were passed on a contempt of court petition moved by former Odisha Governor M.M. Rajendran and two others for having removed their names from the list of members of St. George’s Cathedral Church and not printing their names in the pew sheets of the church despite an order passed by the court on January 11, 2018. Authoring the verdict, Justice Velmurugan pointed out that Mr. Rajendran and others were suspended from primary membership of the church for a year on June 28, 2013, forcing them to file a civil suit in the High Court in 2015. However, the three contemnors, passed an order dated January 10, 2018. Suspecting that the second suspension order would not have been passed just a day before the court order, the judges wondered why the second suspension was not brought to the notice of the court on January 10 as well as January 11, 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-finds-3-priests-guilty-of-contempt/article33765109.ece
06 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘CM enacting drama on Rajiv case convicts’||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has been consistently enacting a drama over the release of the seven convicts in the former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, DMK president M.K. Stalin charged on Friday. He alleged that the AIADMK took up the issue only for electoral gains. Mr. Stalin also offered to direct the DMK MPs to go and meet President Ram Nath Kovind on the matter, along with the Chief Minister “if he was ready.” ‘Decision an injustice’ MDMK general secretary Vaiko said the Governor’s decision was an injustice. “It is highly condemnable that the BJP government at the Centre, the Tamil Nadu Governor and the AIADMK government have staged a fake drama,” Mr. Vaiko said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-enacting-drama-on-rajiv-case-convicts/article33765110.ece
06 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM opens cancer centre at Tirunelveli hospital||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thurdsay unveiled various infrastructure projects through video conference. He opened the new regional cancer centre set up at the Government Medical College Hospital in Tirunelveli at a cost of Rs. 24.35 crore and also the new buildings constructed at a cost of Rs. 31.78 crore. The Chief Minister launched work on the radiology oncology block in the Mohan Kumaramangalam Government Medical College Hospital in Salem, where a linear accelerator would be installed at a cost of Rs. 3.7 crore. Mr. Palaniswami launched a scheme for the distribution of financial assistance and gold for thali to beneficiaries under five marriage assistance schemes. During 2020-21, 95,739 persons were set to receive financial assistance and gold for making thali to the tune of Rs. 726.31 crore, an official release said. TNIC building The Chief Minister unveiled the new building in Saidapet, built at a cost of Rs. 27.79 crore, to house the Tamil Nadu Information Commission. He also inaugurated new buildings for the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department. Mr. Palaniswami unveiled the foundation stone for the perimeter wall in Nagoor dargah, which was recently damaged in heavy rain. Ministers D. Jayakumar, V. Saroja, M.C. Sampath, O.S. Manian, C. Vijayabaskar, Nilofer Kafeel, V.M. Rajalakshmi, Sevvoor S. Ramachandran and S. Valarm- athi, and Chief Secretary Rajeev Ranjan were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-opens-cancer-centre-at-tirunelveli-hospital/article33765117.ece
06 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. to drop cases against some jallikattu protesters||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Friday announced that the government would drop some of the cases registered against persons who had staged protests demanding permission for jallikattu in January 2017. However, the Chief Minister clarified that it would not apply to cases involving serious offences such as attacks on police personnel, torching vehicles, attacking police stations and so on. “The jallikattu protests were based on sentiments only to defend the rights of Tamil Nadu. Many of those who took part in the protests and were booked, staged protests only to express their sentiments,” he said. Holding that many cases were registered against the protesters for maintaining law and order, Mr. Palaniswami said a few untoward incidents took place. “Considering the fact that even those who only wanted to express their sentiments have been affected, cases against them, except for those involving the attack on policemen and torching incidents, will be dropped by my government after due consultations with legal experts,” he said. The protests, lasting several days, had turned violent on the last day. The Tamil Nadu government under then Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam eventually passed a legislation in the Assembly to facilitate conduct of jallikattu.. The government also constituted a Commission of Inquiry to probe into the causes and circumstances leading to the law and order disturbances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-to-drop-cases-against-some-jallikattu-protesters/article33764614.ece
06 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Govt. hopeful of release of Rajiv case convicts’||Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar on Friday expressed hope that President Ram Nath Kovind will take a “favourable decision” on the matter of release of seven convicts in the former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. Speaking to presspersons, Mr. Jayakumar, regarded the Cabinet’s spokesperson, said: “We are confident that he will keep in mind the sentiments of the State government and take a good decision.” Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam said that based on legal advice, follow-up action would be taken for the release of the seven convicts. In a tweet, he said, “The Amma [former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa] government remains steadfast in getting the seven persons released.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/government-hopeful-of-release-of-rajiv-gandhi-case-convicts/article33764620.ece
06 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Judge condemns ‘hate speech’ by BJP cadre||Justice N. Anand Venkatesh of the Madras High Court on Friday took strong exception to a recent “hate speech” made by BJP State executive committee member R. Kalyanaraman and questioned how he could refer to some old court order passed in his case and insinuate as if the judge had endorsed his views on Prophet Mohamed. Hearing During the hearing of a plea by evangelist Mohan C. Lazarus to quash several cases booked against him for speaking against Hindu Gods and Hindu temples, the judge referred to Kalyanaraman’s recent public speech video on circulation in the social media and expressed strong condemnation for the speaker having dragged the judge’s name. The public speech was made at Mettupalayam in Coimbatore district on January 30. Then, he had made insulting remarks against the Prophet and Islam. Subsequently, the police booked a case and arrested him on charges of promoting enmity between different groups on the ground of religion besides indulging in acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/judge-condemns-hate-speech-by-bjp-cadre-in-mettupalayam/article33764626.ece
06 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai Beach-Egmore line doubling to begin soon||The Southern Railway has been granted funds for initiating the doubling of the railway track between Chennai Beach and Egmore. In her Budget speech on February 1, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced allocation of Rs. 5 crore for the project. Southern Railway General Manager John Thomas, during a virtual press meet on Friday, said the Railway Board had given the go-ahead for the doubling work. Completion in 2022 The project, expected to be completed by 2022, would help in segregating suburban and long-distance train operations. Mr. Thomas, who drew attention to the Centre’s push for railway infrastructure work, said between Chennai and Kanyakumari via Shornur, there would be two tracks for smooth operations of trains once all the doubling work is completed. The Southern Railway would be executing some important doubling of track projects in the State, including the Madurai-Maniyachi-Thoothukudi, Maniyachi-Nagercoil and Omalur-Mettur dam patch doubling work. While there was no mention of the allocation for the extension of the Mass Rapid Transit System (MRTS) from Velachery to St. Thomas Mount in the Budget, Mr. Thomas said the elevated track work had been completed till Adambakkam with the available funds. The Southern Railway would soon be implementing train collision and avoidance system (TCAS) at a cost of Rs. 544 crore. Under this, even if a train jumped signal, accident would be averted. A train management system (TMS) for optimum utilisation of services in Chennai division would be commissioned at a cost of around Rs. 36 crore, Mr. Thomas added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/doubling-of-tracks-between-chennai-beach-and-egmore-stations-to-begin/article33765101.ece
06 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ragpicker bludgeoned to death||The police have arrested two ragpickers in Nolambur for allegedly bludgeoning another ragpicker to death and burning his body on Thursday. A tea vendor alerted the police after witnessing the duo burning the body near Mangal Eri Park in Nolambur at 11 p.m. on Thursday. A team led by Nolambur crime inspector Reena rushed to the spot. The duo tried fleeing but were apprehended. They put out the fire and the partially burnt body was recovered. Police said the suspects, Vishnu, 33, from Nepal, and Baskar, 44, were inebriated. Interrogation revealed that they were consuming liquor with Sivakumar alias Eli, 27, and bludgeoned him to death after a drunken brawl, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ragpicker-bludgeoned-to-death/article33765092.ece
06 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK MLAs thank CM||Soon after the Chief Minister’s announcement, several AIADMK legislators made a beeline towards his seat to express their gratitude. The legislators touched his feet as a mark of respect in the middle of the makeshift hall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-mlas-thank-cm/article33765115.ece
06 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bill on new university tabled||The university to be set up in Villupuram following the bifurcation of Thiruvalluvar University in Vellore will be named after former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa. It will “start functioning from this academic year itself”, according to a Bill tabled in the Assembly by Higher Education Minister K.P. Anbalagan on Friday. The proposed Dr. J. Jayalalithaa University will have jurisdiction over Villupuram, Kallakurichi and Cuddalore districts except for those areas specified under the provisions of the Annamalai University Act, 2013. The headquarters of the university would be located either within the Villupuram Municipality limits or within a 25-km radius around those limits. “No college within the university area shall be affiliated to any university other than Dr. J. Jayalalithaa University,” the Bill said. The Governor would be the Chancellor of the university. The colleges in the university area would be disaffiliated from the Thiruvalluvar University and employees of the Thiruvalluvar University Centre at Villupuram would transferred to the proposed university. The first Vice-Chancellor would be appointed by the government within three months from the date of gazette notification. The Vice-Chancellor would constitute bodies such as the Syndicate and Academic Council of the university.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bill-on-new-university-tabled/article33764616.ece
06 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TWAD contractors to stop water supply from Feb. 12||The Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board (TWAD) Contractors’ Welfare Association plans to halt water distribution from February 12. They have been demanding settlement of bills. Association members said a minimum of Rs. 270 crore needed to be paid. They plan to organise a ‘waiting agitation’ at the TWAD Board head office in Chepauk on February 8 and 9, said association State president T.L. Ramesh. “We plan to halt water supply across the State from February 12 if the TWAD Board does not settle our dues by February 10,” he said. Water distribution and infrastructure has been outsourced to about 1,500 contractors across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/contractors-to-stop-water-supply-from-february-12/article33765097.ece
06 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Air Cargo facility in Coimbatore goes digital||AAI Cargo Logistics and Allied Services, a 100% subsidiary of the Airports Authority of India (AAI), has implemented an Integrated Cargo Management System (ICMS 1.1 version) at the air cargo facility in Coimbatore. The aim is to modernise and computerise operations of its cargo business solutions, and go paperless. With the introduction of the ICMS 1.1, launched from February 1, import, export and bonded trucking transactions are processed online. The new system encompasses various activities and solutions, such as e-freight compliance and a web-based feedback system and includes a mobile application. The ICMS facilitates exchange of data with the system of the Customs for final clearance of export and import cargo. Each stage of the export and import cargo handling processes is instantly done through the system. According to a senior cargo official, agents and shippers can generate terminal charges receipts from their offices by logging on to the portal. Airlines can also endorse carting orders for export of cargo through this online facility. The recent directive of GST norms of raising invoices with QR codes and IRN numbers is also implemented along with digital signatures. The official said that trade and stakeholders will benefit with a reduction in time and cost. Pre-deposit account holders can also get the statement of accounts and the balance amounts are reflected in each invoice. Such an initiative for cargo handling processes is a facility that is comparable to the ones offered by private players, the official said. Coimbatore International Airport handles cargo from nearly eight districts that are bound for export and domestic markets. Gold, engineering goods and spare parts and garment samples are some of the goods that are exported or imported by air here. On an average, 800 tonnes of cargo were handled in a month for domestic markets before COVID-19. Now, it is about 600 tonnes. Several applications available in the ICMS platform are used widely here for export and import cargo. The volume of export cargo handled will increase as international flight connectivity improves, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/air-cargo-facility-in-coimbatore-goes-digital/article33764586.ece
06 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. draws flak for reducing carriageway on Cross Cut Road||The Coimbatore Corporation, in its enthusiasm to improve the Cross Cut Road for both pedestrians and motorists, took up a tactical design project only to be rapped on the knuckles by the State Highways Department.  On January 30, the Corporation in association with the German agency, GIZ, painted road edges in fluorescent colours, placed pots to delineate bicycling track, and set up temporary seating arrangements to help pedestrians relax, on a 900m stretch of the 1.10km road. The Corporation had planned to place the structures for 15 days to observe vehicle and pedestrian movement and take feedback from road users, and shopkeepers so that it could consider taking up project for permanent facelift. But on February 4, the Corporation had its knuckles rapped by the State Highways Department, which objected to the reduction in carriage way. Sources in the civic body said the Department engineers had objected to the reduction in carriage way saying the Corporation ought to have informed the Department and taken its concurrence before embarking on such a project. The engineers also ordered removal of some of the temporary structures saying it could not be allowed. The Corporation sources said in placing pots to delineate the bicycling track, the Corporation had reduced the carriage way by at least a metre on the 7.50 m wide road to draw the Department’s anger. After the objection, officials in the Coimbatore Smart City Limited met with the Highways Department engineers to explain the project and the latter asked the officials to return with a written request for approval. Consumer activist K. Kathirmathiyon said the road being the property of the Highways Department, it was imperative that the Corporation took the approval.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-draws-flak-for-reducing-carriageway-on-cross-cut-road/article33765130.ece
06 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man dies after alleged abduction||A suspected ganja peddler, who was abducted from Rathinapuri by a gang impersonating as police officers, died on Thursday owing to injuries. The police said that on January 25, R. Manikandan (23) was forcibly taken away from his house at Mettupalayam by a gang of four men who claimed to be from Thudiyalur police station. Two days later, he was found admitted to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital with severe injuries, including on the head and in the abdomen. He declined to lodge a complaint with the Mettupalayam police, who inquired him. As his condition worsened, he was admitted to a private hospital, where he died on Thursday. Preliminary investigations revealed that he had allegedly threatened a man named Suresh, one of the four members who took him away. The Mettupalayam police registered a case under Sections 302 (Punishment for murder), 448 (Punishment for house-trespass) and 364 (Kidnapping or abducting in order to murder) of the Indian Penal Code. Efforts are on to arrest the suspects. Two from Odisha held Two men from Balasore district in Odisha, who were allegedly involved in a murder case in their State and were hiding in Tiruppur district, were arrested at Vellakoil on Thursday. Police said Bijay Kumar (20) and Manas Malik (26) had come to Vellakoil 15 days ago and were working in a spinning mill. Officers from Khantapada police station in Odisha arrived at Vellakoil on Thursday based on a tip-off. Following this, the Vellakoil police traced the two and handed them over to the Khantapada police.  Three booked for abetment to suicide The Kuniamuthur police on Friday registered a case against three persons on charges of abetting the suicide of a conservancy worker at a Corporation maternity hospital in R.S. Puram. Police said that Solomon, Revathi and Latha, staff members at the hospital, were booked under Section 306 (Abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code. P. Rangasamy (38) ended his life on Wednesday after recording a video in which he alleged that the three persons had accused him of misbehaving with women. The accused were booked based on a complaint lodged by Rangasamy’s daughter, according to the police. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050). Outfits demand release of dentist Various outfits including Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam, Dravidar Viduthalai Kazhagam and Social Democratic Party of India have demanded the release of D. Dinesh (32), a dentist who was arrested in Coimbatore on Thursday by Anti-Terrorist Squad police from Kerala for his suspected links with Maoists. A statement on Friday said that he was detained under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) and alleged that UAPA was being used against those critical of the Central government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-dies-after-alleged-abduction/article33765124.ece
06 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||CM commissions water supply scheme||The long wait for Kavundampalayam, Vadavalli and Veerakeralam residents for water on a par with old city residents is over. Each of the residents in the 26,659 houses in these three areas will get 135 litres of water a day as Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami commissioned the scheme, which the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board had started in September 2016. After the Chief Minister commissioned the scheme from Chennai, Coimbatore Corporation Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian, City Engineer A. Lakshmanan, TWAD Board Consultant S. Sampathkumar, Chief Engineer Raveendran, Superintending Engineer Raghupathi and others inspected the functioning of the scheme at the pumping station in Kavundampalayam, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-commissions-water-supply-scheme/article33765128.ece
06 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||One death, 54 cases in Coimbatore||Coimbatore district reported one COVID-19 death and 54 new cases on Friday, and the overall tally rose to 54,688 cases. A 62-year-old man died during treatment, taking the district’s toll to 673, the Health Department said. The district has 458 active cases. A total of 41 patients were discharged from various treatment centres in the district on Friday. Tiruppur district reported 13 fresh cases and the overall tally stood at 17,996. No deaths were reported in the district. As many as 17,584 patients have recovered and 191 were active cases. On Friday, 29 patients from the district were discharged from various treatment centres. Five persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the Nilgiris on Friday. The total number of confirmed cases in the district stood at 8,233. Fifty-three persons were under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-death-54-cases-in-coimbatore/article33765135.ece
06 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Injured wild boar dies||A female wild boar that was roaming with an injury in its mouth died at Narasipuram within the Pooluvapatti forest range on Friday, officials from the Forest Department said. Estimated to be around two years old, the boar was found on Friday morning by a forest team that took it to a veterinary hospital in Narasipuram. Investigations revealed that it was roaming within the area for the past two days with a damaged lower jaw, the officials said. The boar died without responding to treatment in the afternoon. Forest officials ruled out the possibility of a country-made bomb or avittukai exploding as the veterinarians observed that the injury was caused likely by a speeding vehicle. These explosives, generally used to kill crop-raiding boars, would have either caused grievous injuries or death had the boar bit into one, the officials said. Further details would be available upon completion of autopsy and a four-member team led by a Forester would monitor the locality, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/injured-wild-boar-dies/article33764625.ece
06 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||MLA executes sureties for anticipatory bail||The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s Singanallur MLA N. Karthik on Friday executed before the Judicial Magistrate Court VII two sureties for the anticipatory bail the Principal District Judge and Sessions Judge Court had granted him in May 2020. Case registered A case had been registered against him on charges of tarnishing the image of a company, which the MLA had alleged was a benami of Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani. Mr. Karthik said the bail was granted via video conferencing during the COVID-19 lockdown, with the condition that he should execute the sureties within 15 days of the court resuming regular work. As per the order, he executed the two sureties of Rs. 50,000 each and would sign the register daily at 10.30 a.m. at the Kuniamuthur Police Station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mla-executes-sureties-for-anticipatory-bail/article33765123.ece
06 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Re-lay Thadagam Road’||The Communist Party of India (CPI) has sought the re-laying of Thadagam Road here. In a memorandum submitted to the officials of the State Highways Department, the CPI Coimbatore city west zone committee said the road from Venkitapuram to Edayarpalayam was dug for the underground drainage works and to take underground some of the utility lines. However, the road has not been re-laid properly and had pits in several places. At least one or two accidents happened on the stretch every day and there were fatal accidents too. With the diversion of vehicles through Thadagam Road to facilitate flyover works on Mettupalayam road, more number of vehicles were using the stretch now. Hence, the Highways Department should re-lay the road immediately, the CPI said. An official of the Highways Department said that patch works have been done on the stretch and plans were on to take up maintenance work on Thadagam Road again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/re-lay-thadagam-road/article33765132.ece
06 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||DMK leader detained for staging protest||Coimbatore City Police on Friday detained DMK leader Nanjil Sampath and Coimbatore east district in-charge Marudhamalai Senathipathi after they led a protest highlighting the lack of basic amenities in Kurichi and condemning Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani. According to sources, as the police attempted to detain Mr. Sampath, the protesting cadre squatted in front of the vehicle carrying him and shouted slogans against the State Government. Mr. Sampath told journalists that the detention would not dissuade him from highlighting the misdeeds of the AIADMK government. The Chief Minister waiving of agricultural loan availed of at primary agricultural cooperative societies was in line with what DMK president M.K. Stalin had demanded for long, he said in response to a question. Mr. Senathipathi said the police had denied permission for peaceful protest and when the party went ahead with the protest to question Minister Velumani’s failure, the police had arrested them. The protest led to traffic coming to a halt in Kurichi for over an hour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-leader-detained-for-staging-protest/article33765131.ece
06 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||AEPC welcomes RBI’s decisions||The Apparel Export Promotion Council (AEPC) has welcomed the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) announcements on Friday. “The RBI’s decisions will enhance export competitiveness,” the Council chairman A. Sakthivel said in a press release. The decision to retain repo rate at 4 %, bank rate at 4.25 % and reverse repo at 3.35 %, and steps taken to maintain the inflation at the tolerance band of 4 per cent will help investors, Mr. Sakthivel said. “The improvement in capacity utilisation in the manufacturing sector and flow of financial resources to the commercial sector will strengthen the efforts of the industry to bring back normalcy in manufacturing and exports,” Mr. Sakthivel added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aepc-welcomes-rbis-decisions/article33765126.ece
06 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Collector’s intervention sought||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) has sought the intervention of the District Collector to ensure peace in the district. In a memorandum to the Collector, the party said that Coimbatore was seeing threat to peace for the last few days because of some of the meetings held in the district. Inflammatory speeches threaten communal harmony of the district. If there are problems, it will disturb the peace and hit the economy of the district. The Collector should ensure communal peace, the Party said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collectors-intervention-sought/article33765133.ece
06 February 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Central team inspects crop damage||An inter-ministerial Central team on Friday inspected the crops damaged by unseasonal rain in the district. The team, comprising Paul Pandian, Fisheries Development Commissioner, Shubham Garg, Assistant Director, Central Electricity Authority, and Rananjay Singh, Regional Officer, Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, inspected Erumbur village in Bhuvanagiri block, where they inspected damaged paddy crops. The team also visited Periyanesallur in Veppur and inspected the damage to the maize crop. Collector Chandra Sekhar Sakhamuri elaborated on the loss estimated for agricultural crops damaged due to unseasonal rain in January. The crops ready for harvest were damaged, resulting in heavy loss to farmers, he said. The team members also heard in detail from the farmers and officials about the extent of damage caused to crops in the district. The team later left for Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-team-inspects-crop-damage/article33765278.ece
06 February 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Meeting on sensitive booths held||A review meeting on the sensitive booths in the district was held here under the aegis of Collector S.P. Karthika at the Collectorate on Friday. Ms. Karthika, who is also the district election officer reviewed the details on the sensitive booths as the district with its five Assembly constituencies is poised to go into polls, this Summer. The five constituencies of Dharmapuri, Palacodde, Paapireddypatti, Pennagaram, and Harur will vote in the elections. The Collector held consultations with the police administration and also the revenue department and sought information on the nature of the sensitive booths in the district. Ms. Karthika said that the sensitive booths shall be inspected and verified and adequate security arrangements be made. Superintendent of Police Pravesh Kumar and Sub-Collector Prathap were among the officials present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meeting-on-sensitive-booths-held/article33764635.ece
06 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Cattle killings by leopards a cause for concern||With leopards killing cattle in fringe villages located at Talavadi along the border with Karnataka continuing, bushes in defunct quarries that serve as hideouts for the animals are yet to be cleared by the Department of Mines of Geology. Soosaipuram, Doddagajanur, Mettalvadi and Bhimraj Nagar are the fringe villages located near the Talavadi and Jerahalli forest ranges of Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) where 10 defunct quarries were located. Since these quarries were non-operational for over two years, bushes had come up in large numbers that were used by leopards as a hideout that hunt their prey during night hours in the villages. Leopards had killed over 10 livestock even as the panic-struck farmers were demanding necessary steps to prevent the attacks. The Forest Department had in the last 15 months placed cages and set up automatic cameras to monitor and trap the leopards. But, the leopards continue to kill cows and goats. Tension in village On Thursday, a calf was killed at Doddagajanur causing further tension among the villagers, who wanted effective steps to be taken. The department had in December 2020, requested the Collector to direct the Department of Mines and Geology to remove the bushes in the quarries and also erect electric fences around them so that wild animals could not enter it. However, bushes were yet to be cleared as the quarries with boulders and pits continue to serve as hideouts for the leopards. The Forest Department is in the process of requesting the district administration to clear the bushes so that leopards could not hide in the area. Following the cattle kill, a cage that was placed at another spot, was relocated to a spot near Jerahalli and personnel continue to monitor the movement of wild animals in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cattle-killings-by-leopards-a-cause-for-concern/article33764628.ece
06 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Protest against proposal to disinvest public sector undertakings||Condemning the Central government’s proposal to disinvest public sector undertakings, members of Erode Urban District Congress Minority Department, staged a demonstration at Surampatti Four Road Junction here on Friday. Led by E.P. Ravi, president, Erode Urban District Congress Committee, in the presence of department’s president J. Suresh and vice-president K.N. Basha, members said that the Centre in its Union Budget presented recently announced that Life Insurance Corporation of India and two public sector banks will be privatised. “The government is rushing to hand over the national assets to private companies”, they said and wanted the proposals to be stopped. Members said that fuel prices are on the rise everyday and the imposition of farm cess on petrol and diesel will affect all the people in the country. LPG price hike The price of LPG gas had doubled in the BJP-rule and further hike is affecting the common people, they said and also condemned the policy to scrap vehicles older than 15 years for commercial vehicles and 20 years for private vehicles. They said that announcements in the budget are made only for the rich and corporate companies and will have tremendous impact on common people. They raised slogans condemning the policies of the Centre and wanted the disinvestment proposal to be withdrawn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protest-against-proposal-to-disinvest-public-sector-undertakings/article33764630.ece
06 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Medical students demand fee reduction||With the State government reducing fee structure for three medical colleges, students of Government Erode Medical College and Hospital staged a protest demanding the reduction in fees here on Friday. Students said that IRT Perundurai Medical College and Hospital was converted as a government medical college in 2019. But instead of the government fee of Rs. 13,160, they continue to pay Rs. 3.85 lakh in the last two years. They said that the government had last week reduced fees for Rajah Muthiah Medical College, Rajah Muthiah Dental College and Rani Meyyammai College of Nursing, after their continuous protest. “But despite many representations and protests, government fees are yet to be fixed for us and we continue to pay a very high fee”, they added. Students said that apart from the fee, they have to pay Rs. 26,110 as other college fees, Rs. 56,000 as hostel fee, Rs. 48,000 as food expenses, advance of Rs. 25,000, Rs. 7,473 as university fee and spend Rs. 20,000 on books and accessories. “Thus, we have to pay Rs. 5,42,583 annually to the college,” they said. While the students in the 11 government medical colleges in the State pay Rs. 13,160 as fee they have to spend over Rs. 5 lakh every year on education. “This is unfair to the student community”, they said and wanted the government fee to be collected as they are students of the government medical college.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medical-students-demand-fee-reduction/article33764633.ece
06 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Awareness created on need to protect chameleons||To dispel superstition about chameleons among the children and people, a puppet show, “Let the chameleons live”, was conducted at Thurusanampalayam hamlet in Bargur Hills in Anthiyur block here recently. Organised by Coimbatore-based Arulagam Nature Conservation Society, on International Wetlands Day, the programme was inaugurated by forester Vijayakumar in the presence of V.P. Gunasekaran, president, Tamil Nadu Tribal People Association. Society member Anburaj explained to the people that there is a superstitious belief among people in the region that sighting a chameleon will bring bad luck and hence, children after sighting it, kill chameleons by pelting stones and then cover it with leaves. “It is a blind belief and a myth and chameleons are distinctive creatures belonging to the lizard family that should be protected”, he said. Artist Anandaraj and a student Rubeen performed the puppet show explaining the importance of the species.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/awareness-created-on-need-to-protect-chameleons/article33764629.ece
06 February 2021||Karaikudi,TAMIL NADU||University online directorate inaugurated||Alagappa University Vice-Chancellor N. Rajendran has inaugurated the Alagappa University Online Directorate (AUOLD) here on Friday. After the University Grants Commission (UGC) had accorded permission to start online programmes, the university had established the Directorate. In his address, the V-C said that the online programmes provide ‘anytime, anywhere education experience’, and they have been designed with an objective of giving a boost to the careers of learners and helping them use their full potential for elevation. The online programmes would be on a par with distance learning programmes. He also added that industry oriented teaching would be done by experts from business houses. Lectures by eminent faculty would be the highlight of the online programme, Dr. Rajendran said. The online programmes include three UG - BA (Tamil), B. Com. and BBA and 10 PG which include M.A. (Tamil), M.A. (English), M.A. (Journalism and Mass Communication), M.Com., MBA (General), MBA (Financial Management), MBA (Logistics Management, MBA (Tourism), MBA (Human Resource Management) respectively. In his welcome address, Online Programmes Director S. Thanushkodi said that it would be beneficial for students and working professionals. All the programmes would adhere to the ‘four quadrant stringent criteria’. University Registrar (in-charge) B. Vaseeharan, Syndicate members R. Swaminathan, T. R. Gurumoorthy, B. Sankaranarayanan and S. Karuppuchamy were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/university-online-directorate-inaugurated/article33764613.ece
06 February 2021||Kovilpatti,TAMIL NADU||DMK will cancel Rs. 2,885 crore tenders if voted to power: Stalin||Accusing the AIADMK government of awarding contracts to the tune of Rs. 2,885 crore towards the end of its tenure, DMK president M.K. Stalin on Friday warned that when voted to power, his government would cancel these tenders. “After three months, when the DMK comes to power, these tenders will be cancelled. The tenders for the contracts [for the various projects] will be awarded afresh in a transparent manner,” he said at the Ungal Thoguthiyil Stalin (“Stalin in your constituency”) political outreach programme in Kovilpatti. Launching a full-scale attack on Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, Mr. Stalin said the former was heading “the most corrupt criminal Cabinet”. According to him, Mr. Palaniswami and his Ministerial colleagues would land in the Puzhal Central Prison in Chennai after three months “for having indulged in worst corruption in the history of Tamil Nadu.” “The place you deserve is not Fort St. George… but Puzhal Central Prison where you will be after three months for the corruption you are all involved. This is a governance being given by and for the corrupt and not for the people,” he alleged. While the case against the Chief Minister pertaining to alleged irregularities in awarding of tenders was handed over to the CBI by the Madras High Court [stayed by Supreme Court], the judiciary was examining a plea for CBI probe into alleged accumulation of disproportionate assets against Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam, he said. Slams Ministers The DMK leader charged other Ministers, including S.P. Velumani, Thangamani, C. Vijayabaskar and D. Jayakumar, with indulging in corruption. According to him, Mr. Palaniswami or his Cabinet colleagues had not “refuted” corruption charges levelled against them in a DMK memorandum submitted to the Governor. ‘Works not taken up’ Targeting Information Minister Kadambur C. Raju in his Kovilpatti constituency, he charged him with failing to implement development works, including laying of roads and executing drinking water schemes. “As the Assembly election is approaching fast, the Minister is hurriedly laying foundation stones for new roads and schemes only to be completed with the worst quality,” Mr. Stalin charged. Some of the participants at the meeting aired their grievances, including seeking action against those responsible for police firing at anti-Sterlite protesters. Mr. Stalin asserted that the grievances being registered through the DMK cadr at the venue with acknowledgement carrying the registration number would be resolved within 100 days of the party coming to power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-will-cancel-rs-2885-crore-tenders-if-voted-to-power-stalin/article33764592.ece
06 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Aavin to commission LPG plant soon||A Liquified Petroleum Gas (LPG) plant will be commissioned soon at the Aavin Dairy plant here to run the boilers as a measure to reduce emissions. This will replace the current usage of furnace oil which pollutes the environment with harmful carbon emissions. R. Janani Soundarya, General Manager of the plant, says the LPG plant project was taken as an eco-friendly initiative that would meet future requirements. “When the Aavin plant was started in January 1967, there were no residences near the plant. But, over the years, residences and offices have mushroomed around the plant owing to urbanisation. So, we are shifting towards LPG to minimise emissions from the plant,” she said. The Madurai Aavin procures up to 3.3 lakh litres of raw milk from various societies every day. Milk packets, curd, buttermilk, flavoured milk, condensed milk, ghee, butter and other milk products are processed at the plant and sold to the public. The LPG plant is being constructed at a cost of Rs. 27 lakh on the Aavin campus. Officials said a trial run for the LPG plant will likely to take place on Monday and the plant will become fully functional by the month-end. The officials said Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) had sent notices to the unit several times urging to reduce carbon and nitrogen emissions from the unit. S. Krishnan, Deputy General Manager (Production in charge), said using furnace oil for the boilers emitted harmful gases such as carbon, carbon dioxide, sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxide. The extent of the carbon emissions is evident from the layer of carbon residue that settles on the floor of the boiler room. A thick cloud of black smoke billows out of a large chimney of the unit. The sulphur dioxide often corrodes the chimney, said Mr. Krishnan. On the other hand, the usage of LPG would drastically reduce the emissions, he said. Other projects Apart from the LPG plant, a huge project is under way to ensure ‘zero liquid discharge’ from the plant. Every day, around 4.5 lakh litres of effluents are being discharged into a channel that carry them to the Vaigai. Mr. Krishnan said a couple of years back, the TNPCB had asked the plant to shift from the current practice. Following that, a Government Order was passed ordering the plant to work to ensure that there is zero liquid discharge from the unit. The main components for the zero liquid discharge project includes a digester, a R.O. plant and an evaporator. “All these components will become functional from April, which will ensure that there is no liquid discharge from the plant,” Mr. Krishnan said. The biogas generated from the digester would be used to pasteurise milk at the unit, he added.  At the plant  The LPG plant is being constructed at a cost of Rs. 27 lakh Work is under way to ensure zero liquid discharge||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aavin-to-commission-lpg-plant-soon/article33765217.ece
06 February 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Let indigenous cows, goat graze in mountains, forests’||The government must take steps to ensure that indigenous cows that usually graze in herds (‘ kidai maadu ’) and goats ( kidai aadu ) are allowed to graze in mountains, forests and pasture fields, said P. Kabilan, researcher at Thozhuvam, a non-governmental organisation that aims to protect indigenous cows and bulls. He told reporters here on Friday along with rearers of indigenous cows and goats that a welfare board should be started for the benefit of herders. A special 10% quota must be reserved at veterinary colleges for herders. The dung of ‘ kidai maadu’ and ‘ kidai aadu’ are rich manure that is highly useful for agriculture. “Every day tonnes of dung generated across south Tamil Nadu is procured by farmers from Kerala. But there is less patronage for the dung by organic farmers of Tamil Nadu. So, the government must take steps to procure the dung from farmers and sell it at fertilizer stores, he said. Underground subways have to be constructed at national highways to ensure free movement of ‘kidai maadu’ and ‘ kidai aadu.’  The government must make clear rules regarding the poromboke grazing lands. In 2001, the government issued an order stating that these lands must be utilised only for grazing of cattle. The Animal Husbandry Department must take steps to ensure that this is being strictly followed, said Mr. Kabilan. One of the judgements of the Madras High Court stated that all waterbodies can be utilised by the farmers, herders and public of the particular region. But, at some places, there are difficulties in ensuring that cattle being allowed to drink water at these waterbodies. So, the government must take steps to address this problem, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/let-indigenous-cows-goat-graze-in-mountains-forests/article33765224.ece
06 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Children set up food stall to raise fund for a cause||Seven school children set up a food stall here on Friday as part of the fund-raising event titled ‘Care for Children.’ Around Rs. 10,180 raised from the event will be used to support children studying at Aakaash, a special school run by M.S. Chellamuthu Trust and Research Foundation. The fund raising event was sponsored by Ahana Hospitals. Vishra Vikram, a Class 7 student, and her friends Thea Selwyn, Immanuel Jude Samuel, B. Nausikaa, C.R.V. Sheetal, R. Pavithra Rajalakshmi, and Dita Deepan prepared food and sold them. The children had prepared and sold a range of food items, including vegetable samosas, cutlets, carrot halwa, chocolate cup cake and fresh lime juice. Vishra Vikram said conversation with her grandmother R. Rajakumari, who is the Executive Director of M.S. Chellamuthu Trust and Research Foundation, sparked the idea of starting the fund raising event. “The special children are often stigmatised in the society and hence they need support and care. So, my friends and I planned the event. It was a memorable experience,” she said. More number of such fund raising events will be conducted in the future for different causes, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/children-set-up-food-stall-to-raise-fund-for-a-cause/article33765215.ece
06 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Identify dropouts and bring them back to school’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday sought response from the State government in a public interest litigation petition that sought direction to the State to identify school dropouts and take steps to bring them back to the schools. A comprehensive door-to-door survey must be conducted to prepare a database of such children, the petitioner said. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi ordered the notice to the State in the petition filed by M. Muthuselvam of Madurai. The judges sought a report from the School Education Department on the steps that can be initiated to prevent dropouts and adjourned the hearing till March 5. The petitioner said steps must be initiated immediately to identify school dropouts. The COVID-19 pandemic also contributed to the number of students dropping out of schools. Many government school students took up odd jobs during the pandemic to support their families, he said. Besides, there were other challenges too. Children who had no access to online education, reverse migration, child labour, child marriages, an apprehension among parents to send their children to school in view of the COVID-19 pandemic and a psychological impact on children would contribute to dropping out of schools, he said. Therefore, the State government must identify such children, conduct a door-to-door survey by involving teachers and coordinators with the help of school managements to prepare data on school going children. Appropriate steps must be taken to prevent the children from dropping out of school and bring them back to schools, the petitioner said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/identify-dropouts-and-bring-them-back-to-school/article33765220.ece
06 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Abhor untouchability, says SP||Untouchability is a social evil practised through the generationst. But educated persons must set right the wrongs of the forebears, Superintendent of Police Sujit Kumar said. He was addressing students at a meeting organised in connection with Communal Harmony Week at Government Higher Secondary School at M. Chathirapatti near here on Friday. The Communal Harmony Week is observed between January 24 and 30 to mark the values of Mahatma Gandhi. Stating that the Father of the Nation had fought against untouchability, he said the practice of discrimination among people was prevalent largely in the older generations. “Even now, this evil of untouchability is practised. However, there are legislations to deal with those who commit the crime. But it is the duty of educated people to set right the past wrongs,” the SP said. Stating that every man is born equal in the society, to stop discrimination among the people on the lines of caste needs not law but awareness, he added. All students in every class were friends and there is no difference among them. “Students should not only desist from practising untouchability, but also create awareness among their family and friends about this evil,” he added. Additional Superintendent of Police S. Vanitha, Deputy Superintendent of Police, M. Vijayakumar, Sub-Inspector of Police, Social Justice and Human Rights, K. Krishnapandi, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/abhor-untouchability-says-sp/article33765223.ece
06 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC: COVID-19 lockdown a ‘force majeure’ event||Taking into consideration restrictions imposed by the State during COVID-19 lockdown, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has held that the lockdown period is a ‘force majeure’ event. Bringing relief to a shopkeeper, the court said that he was entitled to the benefit of complete waiver of lease/rental amount from March 24 to September 6, 2020. The court was hearing the petition filed by R. Narayanan of Nagercoil. He had successfully bid for a shop constructed by Nagercoil Corporation at the Vadasery Christopher Bus Stand. Accepting his offer to pay a sum of Rs. 1.15 lakh towards monthly fee, the authorities issued licence in his favour in 2019. He had paid a sum of Rs. 13.80 lakh towards the refundable deposit and a sum of Rs. 10 lakh towards the security deposit. The Corporation had collected one year license fee from him in advance. Following the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, the bus stand and all shops in its premises were closed. Therefore, he sought a waiver from March 24 to September 6. Justice G. R. Swaminathan observed that there was no ‘force majeure’ clause in the agreement between the parties. The court would be justified in treating the ‘lockdown’ as a ‘force majeure’ event which would relieve the licensee from performing his obligation to the corresponding extent. The government had itself recognised the lockdown as a ‘force majeure’ event and issued a government order directing a waiver for a period of two months from April 1 to May 31, 2020 in September based on a letter that was sent in June. The court observed this was how the bureaucracy functioned that it did not deem it necessary to go beyond the terms of request. The judge said that a constitutional court cannot have a blinkered vision and it must take into account the position that prevails on the date when the lis is adjudicated. The reason for the granting of waiver for two months would hold good for the entire lockdown period as the bus stand remained closed from March 24 to September 6, the judge said. The judge took into account the fact that for two more months, thereafter, the licensees were allowed to open their shops only for a short duration of time everyday with the bus stand not fully operational and the lockdown not lifted completely, and observed that the petitioner was entitled to call upon the authorities to revisit the quantum of license fee for the period. The local body must keep the bus stand and the shop open and in good repair. The licensee must pay the license fee without default. If the local body had directed the licensee to close down the shop, it cannot demand a fee from the licensee for the period when the shop was shut down. Of course, the licensee must be free of any wrongdoing. If the licensee is made to suffer for no fault of his by direction to close down the shop then the question of payment of fee will not arise, the judge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-covid-19-lockdown-a-force-majeure-event/article33764589.ece
06 February 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||briefly||Bharatiya Kisan Sangh national secretary Perumal has hailed the announcement of Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami to waive farm loans to the tune of Rs. 12,443 crore. In a statement, he said farmers had lost heavily in the harsh northeast monsoon across many districts in Tamil Nadu. “Our collective representations to the government have brought a big relief,” he said. The CM has announced the waiver in the Legislative Assembly on Friday, which has been widely welcomed by farmers and leaders of farmers’ associations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article33765221.ece
06 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Diploma course in Urdu||The National Council for Promotion of Urdu Language, under the Ministry of Human Resource Development, is offering a one year Urdu language diploma course for beginners. The correspondence course offered through English or Hindi medium will be conducted by Madurai-based Gausiya Foundation. Contact classes will be conducted during weekends and study materials provided free of cost. The Ministry of Human Resource Development will provide the certificate after successful completion of the course. Interested candidates can collect the application forms from Gausiya Foundation office at 1/A, Anna Nagar main road, near Aravind Eye Hospital. The fee for the entire course is Rs. 200 and the last date for submission of filled in application is February 15. Interested persons can call 98940 37055, according to a press release from A. G. Mohamed Ashraf Gani Sayani, president, Gausiya Foundation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/diploma-course-in-urdu/article33764612.ece
06 February 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Central team assesses crop damage||An inter-ministerial Central team on its visit to Tamil Nadu to assess damage caused to standing crops in delta region by unseasonal rainfall last month inspected affected places in Mayiladuthurai and Nagapattinam districts on Friday and interacted with farmers. The team comprising Rananjay Singh, Regional Officer, Ministry of Road Transport and Highways; Shubham Garg, Assistant Director, Central Electricity Authority, Ministry of Power; and Paul Pandian, Fisheries Development Commissioner, Fisheries Department, was apprised by officials of Mayiladuthurai district. They said paddy on 15,546 hectares and groundnut on 493 hectares had suffered damage. The team, accompanied by Director of Agriculture Department V. Dakshinamoorthy, subsequently inspected crop damage in Nagapattinam district. Collector Praveen P. Nair received them and explained the extent of damage caused to the standing crops on 19,749 hectares in the district. The central team interacted with farmers in Thirupoondi North, Palaiyur village in Nagapattinaum union and Vellapallam village in Thalainayar union. The district administration has compiled the list of locations where the crop damage was high and forwarded a report to the Centre through the State’s Revenue Department.  Paddy on 15,546 ha, groundnut on 493 ha have suffered damage in Mayiladuthurai district Official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-team-assesses-crop-damage-in-two-districts/article33764561.ece
06 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Taiwan ready to invest in Puducherry: Narayanasamy||A delegation representing the Taiwanese government on Friday held discussions with Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, Minister for Industries M.O.H.F. Shahjahan and senior officials at the Assembly to explore possibilities of setting up industrial units in Puducherry. Shortly after holding discussions with the delegation at the Assembly, Mr. Narayanasamy told the media that the delegation had expressed a desire to invest in the industrial development of Union Territory, after the briefing by the government. Taiwan has expertise in manufacturing electronics, especially in chip-making and semi-conductors. It also has experience in exporting processed fish and manufacturing electronic vehicles. The government briefed the delegation about the present industrial climate, availability of land and other features of the Union Territory, the Chief Minister said. “The delegation agreed to get back to the government with a proposal for investment. We have informed them about ready availability of land in the Karaikal region,” he said. Fruitful and meaningful Ben Wang, Director-General of the Taipei Economic and Cultural Centre in Chennai, who led the delegation, said the talks were very “fruitful” and “meaningful.” “India is still a favourable investment destination for Taiwanese business community despite the violence at the Winstron Corporation in Karnataka. We have come to know about the good industrial climate in Puducherry. It has got quality labour and close proximity to Chennai,” he said. Mr. Wang said he had extended an invitation to the Chief Minister to visit his country post-pandemic to pave the way for further bilateral cooperation. The delegation later visited several industrial units in Puducherry. Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar, Labour Commissioner-cum-Special Secretary E. Vallavan and Director of Industries Priyadarshini were also present during the interaction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/taiwan-ready-to-invest-in-puducherry-narayanasamy/article33765227.ece
06 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||SDPA leaders observe fast to seek recall of L-G||As part of its ongoing agitation seeking the recall of Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi, leaders belonging to the Secular Democratic Progressive Alliance (SDPA) held a day-long fast here on Friday. Leaders belonging to the Congress, the Communist Party of India, the Communist Party of India (Marxist), Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi, the Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) and from 15-odd organisations that form part of the SDPA, started the fast around 8.30 a.m. at Anna Thidal. Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy joined the fast around 12 p.m. Addressing the gathering, he said the Lt. Governor continued to create obstacles despite objections from an elected government. Whether on the issue of implementing the Motor Vehicles Act or on transfer of officials, the Lt. Governor continued to overrule the Cabinet, he said. Reiterating his charge against BJP national president J.P. Nadda that he tried to spread “lies” during his recent visit, the Chief Minister said, “Fascist organisations thrive on spreading lies. He should get a proper briefing on the issue of closure of ration shops and textile mills.” Ministers M.O.H.F Shahjahan, M. Kandasamy, Government whip R.K.R. Anantharaman, PCC chief A.V. Subramanian, secretary of CPI A.M. Saleem and secretary of CPI(M) R. Rajangam attended the fast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sdpa-leaders-observe-fast-to-seek-recall-of-l-g/article33765280.ece
06 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Speaker seeks help in getting Central funds to relocate Legislative Assembly||Assembly Speaker V.P. Sivakolundhu has submitted a memorandum to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, seeking his assistance in getting Central funding for relocating the Legislative Assembly to an alternative site. In the memorandum, Mr. Sivakolundhu pointed out that the Assembly was functioning from a heritage building constructed during the French rule as a medical college and hospital. The Puducherry Government had proposed to identify a suitable site and construct a new Assembly along with a Secretariat, for which an estimated Rs. 200 crore would be required. The Legislative Assembly Secretariat had prepared a detailed project report for implementing a national e-Vidhan Application (NeVA), which would shortly be placed before the State-Level Project Monitoring Committee. The memorandum urged the Speaker to instruct those concerned in the Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs to release funds expeditiously before the end of this financial year. Mr. Sivakolundhu also drew attention to the fact that the Puducherry Assembly was not having a Secretariat as stipulated in Article 187 of the Constitution. “I request you to initiate action to bring necessary constitutional amendments to confer such right to the Puducherry Legislative Assembly,” the memorandum said. He also appealed to Mr. Birla to “bestow your personal interest” in granting the long-standing demand for full Statehood for Puducherry to uphold the spirit of democracy and heed the voice of the people. “To give more importance for the People’s Representative, the Union Territory of Puducherry must be conferred with full Statehood status. A resolution in this regard has recently been passed by the Puducherry Legislative Assembly and submitted to the Union Home Ministry,” the memorandum pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/speaker-seeks-help-in-getting-central-funds-to-relocate-legislative-assembly/article33765285.ece
06 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||BJP hints at projecting newly-inducted Namassivayam as CM candidate||The BJP on Friday hinted at projecting newly-inducted former Minister A. Namassivayam as the party’s Chief Ministerial face in the coming Assembly polls. He had recently quit from the Congress. “The person, who was projected by the Congress for the Chief Minister’s post during the last polls, will be projected by us this time. Unlike the Congress, we will keep our word,” nominated legislator and BJP Puducherry president V. Saminathan said while addressing the party State executive committee meeting at AFT grounds. Mr. Namassivayam, who was recently inducted into the BJP, was projected as the CM candidate by the Congress, during the 2016 elections. Participating in the first executive committee meeting after his induction, the former Minister said the party would not hesitate to oppose Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi if her decisions affected the public. “We will oppose whether it’s Bedi or Narayanasamy, if we are convinced that the decisions taken by them are causing inconvenience to the public,” Mr. Namassivayam said. Urging party workers to face the public with confidence, he said voters would see through the designs of the Chief Minister in launching an agitation ahead of the Assembly elections. “The Chief Minister held an agitation in front of the Raj Nivas ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The Congress candidate won by over 2 lakh votes and the party is under the impression that they could repeat the performance in the Assembly polls. But voters are clever,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-to-project-namassivayam-as-cm-candidate/article33764622.ece
06 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Collective envisages strategy to protect fragile ecosystems||A collective of environmental protection advocates has framed a ‘Green Protocol for Wetlands’ that envisages a four-pronged strategy to protect the fragile ecosystems. Apart from involving baseline mapping, wetland health cards, enlisting ‘Wetland Mitras’ and integrated management plans developed by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, the protocol has conceived a set of SOPs under various categories. These fall broadly into strategies for wetland rehabilitation, community participation, storm water drain management, buffer zone sustainability, and evolving an action plan for protecting the waterbodies. The protocol was recently launched as part of World Wetlands Day celebrations and to mark the 50th anniversary of the Ramsar Convention at the Pondicherry University, in partnership with the Department of Forests and Wildlife, Department of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Department of School Education, and the Association for Promoting Sustainability in Campuses and Communities. Vice-Chancellor of Pondicherry University Gurmeet Singh and Deputy Conservator of Forests and Wildlife Vanjulavalli Sridhar jointly launched the ‘Green Protocol for Wetlands’. Among those present were Ramakichenin Balagandhi, Director of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, S. Balakrishnan, head, Directorate of Studies  , Educational Innovations and Rural Reconstruction, B. Chitra, Registrar, K.V. Devi Prasad, dean, School of Life Sciences, and M. Nandhivarman, coordinator, Office of Green Campus, Pondicherry University. Rudra Goud, Director, Department of School Education, said the Department was organising a drawing competition across over 400 public schools, reaching over 4,500 participants, on the theme of ‘wetlands and water’ as a sensitisation effort. Besides, to catalyse the ‘Wetlands Mitras’ (or) ‘wetlands friends’, a wetland conservation network is planned. Photography contest Meanwhile, AuroVanam, an eco-resource centre under the Svarnim Puducherry initiative of Sri Aurobindo Society, hosted a photography competition on the occasion of the World Wetlands Day at INTACH. The event, themed “Wetlands and Water”, encouraged students and teachers to capture photographs of fresh waterbodies of the Puducherry bioregion and the biodiversity around them. Out of around 129 entries received from junior and senior students and also from teachers, the best five from each category were shortlisted for an exhibition as part of the ongoing Puducherry Heritage Festival and the Water Festival 2021. The exhibition was opened by Kalamegam, environmental engineer with the Department of Science, Technology & Environment, in the presence of Shalini Aravindan, Aurovanam coordinator, INTACH officials and Sunaina Mandeen, festival coordinator. The exhibition will be on till 1 p.m. on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collective-envisages-strategy-to-protect-fragile-ecosystems/article33765287.ece
06 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Jump in new cases as 50 test positive in U.T.||The Union Territory saw a jump in new COVID-19 cases, with 50 persons testing positive in the last 24 hours on Friday while two more deaths raised the toll to 654. Both deaths occurred in the capital where a 35-year-old woman and a 67-year-old man succumbed to coronavirus-triggered complications at the IGMCRI. With this, the cumulative toll in the capital stood at 534, followed by Karaikal (65), Yanam (45) and Mahe (10). After averaging about 20 to 25 new cases per day for over a month, the number of persons who tested positive virtually doubled in the last 24 hours. Puducherry logged 29 of the new cases, Mahe 14 and Karaikal seven. Yanam did not report any new cases. Active cases cross 300 The test positivity rate was 2.37%, case fatality rate 1.67% and recovery rate 97.53%. The active cases also crossed 300 for the first time in a long while. After 27 patients recovered and got discharged in the last 24 hours, the number of active cases in the Union Territory stood at 314. Of this, 128 were in hospitals and 186 in home isolation. The Health Department has to date carried out an estimated 5.86 lakh tests, with about 5.42 lakh samples returning negative results. Cuddalore district reported four fresh cases of COVID-19 on Friday, taking the district’s tally to 24,978. While 24,629 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 43. In Villupuram district, two persons tested positive, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 15,199. No positive case was reported in Kallakurichi district on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jump-in-new-cases-as-50-persons-test-positive/article33765283.ece
06 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Man who offered to kill PM arrested||Sathyanandam, 43, a resident of Manaveli, was on Friday arrested for offering to kill Prime Minister Narendra Modi for Rs. 5 crore. He had reportedly posted a Facebook message in Tamil saying “'he was ready to kill Mr. Modi but who will come forward to provide Rs. 5 crore”. Based on a complaint filed by a car driver who happened to see the post, the police arrested him and remanded him to judicial custody. Further investigations are on, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested/article33764624.ece
06 February 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Central team inspects damaged crops||A Central inter-ministerial committee, that has come to Tamil Nadu, extensively inspected damaged crops in Ramanathapuram district on Friday. Presenting the damages, officials from the district administration said that the district’s normal annual average rainfall for January was 48.50 mm. However, the unseasonal rains accounted for 248.74 mm. Many low-lying areas were inundated due to the widespread rains last month, they said and added that though efforts were made, draining water from the fields was not possible for various reasons. As a result, the crops, which included paddy, chilly and small grains had been completely destroyed. The officials said that the survey in the district put the loss at 87,596 hectares, which included 79,210 ha of paddy, 1,297 ha of oil seeds, 4,059 ha of small grains, among others. Farmers at Mandapam, Kuyavankudi, Kazhugu Oorani, Karkaathakudi village in Tiruvadanai and other pockets have been affected. The Central government officials included Asutosh Agnihotri, Joint Secretary Ministry of Home Affairs, Dr. Manokaran, Director Oil Seeds, Ministry of Agriculture, Mahesh Kumar, Deputy Director Ministry of Agriculture and Chinna Samy from the Ministry of Rural Development. TN Disaster Management Commissioner D. Jaganathan, District Revenue Officer A. Sivakami, Sub-Collector N. O. Sugaputra, Joint Director (Agriculture) S. S. Sheik Abdullah and others accompanied them. At many villages, the officials interacted with farmers regarding the rain last month and the losses they had incurred. The farmers also submitted petitions seeking compensation and infrastructural facilities which would protect their crops in the future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crops-on-over-80000-hectares-damaged-in-unseasonal-rains/article33764602.ece
06 February 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Traffic to be diverted for rail overbridge work||The State Highways (Projects) Department has announced traffic diversion in Sankari-Mecheri State Highway to construct a railway overbridge to remove a railway level crossing there. K. Vatsala Vidhayanthi, Divisionl Engineer of the wing, said in a press release issued here that a railway overbridge would be constructed by the department from Kuttapatti to JSW Steel Plant on the highway to get rid of a railway level crossing in the area. According to officials, the bridge would be 1,106 metres in length and 12-metre wide. To prevent traffic congestion in the area due to construction works, traffic diversion has been proposed, the release said. Vehicles moving towards Mecheri have been diverted through Kuttapatti Pirivu Road, Erwadi, Pottaneri, and M.Kallipatti. Vehicles moving towards Nangavalli from Mecheri have been diverted via Kaveri Engineering College, M.Kallipatti, Pottaneri and Kuttapatti Pirivu Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traffic-to-be-diverted-for-rail-overbridge-work/article33764640.ece
06 February 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Forest Dept. constructs check dams to prevent human-animal conflicts||The Forest Department has constructed new check dams and created grazing patches at various parts of its limits to reduce and prevent incidents of human-animal conflicts. Incidents of human-animal conflicts and animals straying out of forests have been reported in forest ranges in Attur, Karumandurai and a few other areas earlier and incidents of elephants straying out from other forest ranges have been reported at Mettur. With summer season approaching, to reduce human-animal conflicts, the forest department has constructed new water bodies and set up grazing patches for animals. According to forest officials, a grazing field of 10 hectares have been set up at Kanjeri reserve forest, and check dams have been constructed at Pellapaddi and Paithur reserve forest ranges. The department has also constructed water bodies at Oppushan reserve forest, Pachamalai and Manjuvadi. There are about 400 check dams across forest ranges in the district. District Forest Officer R. Murugan said that the new facilities are expected to prevent straying of animals out of forest limits. Mr. Murugan said that they have also proposed measures to prevent and deter entry of elephants from other forest ranges into Mettur. He added that measures are on to create fire lines along with village forest committees to prevent fires during the summer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-dept-constructs-check-dams-to-prevent-human-animal-conflicts/article33764637.ece
06 February 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘Movement to tap toddy and sell it’||S. Nallasamy, coordinator of Tamil Nadu Toddy Movement, said here on Friday that they would conduct tapping of toddy and sell it at Vikravandi in Villupuram district as a sign of protest. He told presspersons that as part of their protests demanding permission to tap toddy from palm trees here they would be sending thousands of post cards to Chief Minister demanding ‘Freedom for toddy’ and lifting ban on toddy tapping in the State. Mr. Nallsamy said that palm trees are located in 108 countries but nowhere else there is a ban on toddy tapping like in Tamil Nadu. He added that toddy tapping and its consumption is food-gathering right provided by Constitution. The State government should announce lifting ban on toddy before the election code of conduct comes into force, if it wishes to retain power. He added that a toddy freedom conference would be held in Erode on March 13 and it would become a deciding factor in coming elections in State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/movement-to-tap-toddy-and-sell-it/article33764639.ece
06 February 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Man held for non-payment of GST||Officials from GST Commissionerate here on Thursday arrested a person for conducting GST tax evasion to the tune of Rs. 7.75 crore. A.S. Meenalochani, GST Commissioner, said in a release that they arrested and remanded a taxpayer here for not paying GST of Rs. 7.75 crore into government account even after repeated notices. According to officials, the accused was arrested as part of GST tax evasion drive conducted by the Commissionerate here. The accused used the GST collected for own expenditure instead of paying it to government. The accused has not paid the amount for about a year. Ms. Meenalochani said that the GST collected by tax payers shall not be retained by them beyond three months and they would be punished under CGST Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-non-payment-of-gst/article33764638.ece
06 February 2021||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||Tiff with AIADMK to end: TTV Dhinakaran||Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran has hinted that his party’s stand-off with the ruling AIADMK would soon come to an “auspicious end” with the change to be triggered by the return of his aunt V. N. Sasikala to Tamil Nadu. During an informal chat with reporters at Paimpozhil near here on Friday after offering prayers in Sri Thirumalaikumarasamy Temple, Mr. Dhinakaran claimed that Ms. Sasikala would certainly contest in the Assembly polls and would decide the chief ministerial candidate. “Since everything will come to an auspicious end, the DMK will not come to power in Tamil Nadu. DMK president M.K. Stalin’s efforts will never see the dawn,” said Mr. Dhinakaran without elaborating anything about the amicable solution to be reached and how Ms. Sasikala, a convict in a criminal case, could contest the polls. While welcoming Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s announcement in the Assembly on waiving loans given through the cooperative societies, he said it was the people who should decide if it was an action taken by the State government with an eye on the ensuing Assembly elections. The RK Nagar MLA said the AMMK, which would “salvage” the AIADMK in democratic manner, would revive Jayalalithaa’s rule in Tamil Nadu. On the petition submitted by the AIADMK to the Director General of Police against Ms. Sasikala using the AIADMK flag, Mr. Dhinakaran said ruling party could only approach the court in this connection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiff-with-aiadmk-to-end-ttv-dhinakaran/article33764611.ece
06 February 2021||THANJAVUR/TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Farmers in delta region cheer CM’s announcement||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s announcement on waiving crop loans sanctioned by cooperative institutions has come as a big relief for farmers in the delta region who are facing a crisis situation due to the crop damage caused by the unseasonal rain in January, as well as because of the pandemic. “The bursting of crackers and distribution of sweets in some places in the delta reflected the happiness of the farmers,” said G. Sethuraman, president, Tamizhaga Vivasayigal Nalasangam, Tiruvarur district, thanking the Chief Minister for fulfilling the expectations of farmers. “It is a boon for farmers who were facing heavy losses,” said R. Subramanian, deputy secretary, Cauvery Delta Farmers’ Welfare Association. The demand for the waiver was highlighted by farmers persistently, as several of them had become ineligible to draw fresh crop loans through cooperative institutions, said Sundara Vimalanathan, general secretary, Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers’ Protection Association, and P.S. Masilamani, State deputy secretary, Thamizhaga Vivasayigal Sangam. R. Sabapathy of Periyakottai, a progressive farmer, said the waiver of outstanding loans would make several farmers eligible to avail fresh crop loans. Farmers’ representatives have also demanded that loans sanctioned by commercial banks also be written off. “We know that waiver of crop loans taken from banks does not come under the purview of the State government. But the government can take over the responsibility of repaying bank loans or extending grants to individual farmer,” a farmer leader said. Farmers’ representatives also insisted that the benefit of the waiver be extended to all farmers. Claiming that notices for distraint proceedings for defaulting of crop loans were being issued in Perambalur district, R. Raja Chidambaram, State secretary, Tamizhaga Vivasayigal Sangam, urged the government to ensure that such actions were shelved. N. Veerasekaran, State spokesperson, Bharathiya Kisan Sangh, said: “But this is a temporary relief; ensuring remunerative prices for produce only can bring a permanent solution.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-in-delta-region-cheer-cms-announcement/article33764574.ece
06 February 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Stand-off among fishermen likely to be sorted out||Tharuvaikulam fishermen have urged Collector K. Senthil Raj to allow mechanised boats operating from this hamlet to go for fishing between 5 a.m. and 9 p.m. They assured him that they would not violate any norm at the grievance day meeting held here on Friday. With the Collector taking steps to resolve the issue between two groups of fishermen, the problem is likely to be sorted out soon. After three mechanised boats from Tharuvaikulam, which were operating from Thoothukudi Fishing Harbour, were not given subsidised fuel, denied permission for fishing and faced hostile condition at the fishing harbour due to enmity among the fishermen, owners of these boats sought permission to shift their boats to Tharuvaikulam. Even as they were denied permission to go for fishing, they were also not given permission to shift their boats to Tharuvaikulam triggering tension among fishermen belonging to two castes. Against this backdrop, the boats were shifted to Tharuvaikulam. Since Tharuvaikulam is the base for mechanised boats involved in multi-day deep sea fishing, the three boats, which should go for fishing at 5 a.m. and return to the base before 9 p.m. as per norms, have not been allowed to go for fishing. Seeking permission for allowing these boats to go for fishing between 5 a.m. and 9 p.m. as was being given to mechanised boats operating from Vembar and Veerapandianpattinam in the district, former president of Tharuvaikulam village panchayat Maharajan said only 10% of the 125-odd multi-day stay fishing boats operating from Tharuvaikulam were enjoying good fishing while others were entangled in debt trap due to poor catches. “If the boats operating from Tharuvaikulam are given permission for using trawl net in high seas between 5 a.m .and 9 p.m. as was being allowed in Vembar and Veerapandianpattinam, the fishermen will strictly follow regulations and cooperate with the officials,” Mr. Maharajan promised. Dr. Senthil Raj, who was chairing the meet, said he would look into the issue. Fish trader Gayaz of Manappad on the over-sized mechanised boats with high-power engines said officials attached to the Department of Fisheries were not following norms in construction of boats and registering the same. “Since officials turn a blind eye towards this violation, it is continuing to pose serious threat to country boats. So, mechanized boats constructed in violation of the norms should not be allowed to go for fishing,” Mr. Gayaz said. Fisherman Alangaaram of Punnaikaayal urged the district administration to construct a wall to save the coastal hamlet situated close to the Tamirabharani estuary from the flood. Fisherman Jayaseelan of Periyathaazhai elaborated the problems faced by country boat fishermen from Kanniyakumari mechanised boat fishermen who were doing stay fishing in violation of the law. Dr. Senthil Raj informed that environmental clearance had been obtained for construction of groynes at Periyathaazhai (Rs. 25 crore) and Aalanthalai (Rs. 50 crore) while the groyne at Keezha Vaipaar would be extended at a cost of Rs. 16 crore.  Environmental clearance has been obtained for construction of groynes at Periyathaazhai and Aalanthalai K. Senthil Raj Thoothukudi Collector||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermen-grievances-meet-held/article33764606.ece
06 February 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Garbage yard-turned Miyawaki forest is now home to apiary project||The Thoothukudi Corporation’s garbage yard near Tharuvaikulam, which was hitherto emanating unbearable stench and thick fumes, is all set to give income to a group of transgender thanks to the apiary venture initiated by Commissioner V. P. Jayaseelan. When he started solid waste management programme to convert degradable waste into manure at this yard, situated about 6 km from here on the East Coast Road, he took steps to grow trees of various species under ‘Miyawaki’ method in a dense fashion on the 20 acres to control pollution and to provide green cover in an area that was home to thorny acacia trees. Nourished by biodegradable waste dumped in the yard, bio manure prepared there and the recent rains, the trees planted are healthy now and some of them have started flowering. “During one of my recent visits, I saw the trees started flowering and hence decided to create apiary for ensuring the livelihood for transgenders,” he said. After selecting 10 transgenders for this venture, the Commissioner made arrangements for training them and five corporation officials in apiary by Tamil Nadu Agriculture University’s Killkulam Agriculture College and Research Institute. The equipment required for this project were meanwhile purchased and installed. “Our target is to install 200 boxes in 10 acres. To begin with, we’ve installed 20 boxes in two places in the yard,” he said. Following successful completion of training, the transgender and the corporation officials are getting trained to market the honey to be shortly harvested from this venture. “Since quality honey in the open market is being sold for Rs. 600 a kilogram and even above, this venture is likely to provide the target group a decent income,” said Dr. Jayaseelan who visited the apiary on Friday. The venture is likely to harvest its first batch of honey within a couple of week as the beehives are filling-up fast with honey, the Commissioner said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/garbage-yard-turned-miyawaki-forest-is-now-home-to-apiary-project/article33764608.ece
06 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Karaikal-Peralam railway line project gets an impetus||With the Central government making a sizeable allocation of Rs. 88.9 crore to the 23.5-km Karaikal - Thirunallar-Peralam railway line, the rail link will be restored after a gap of over 30 years. The Southern Railway Construction Organisation plans to take up construction of minor bridges on the stretch from next month. Bushes are being cleared between Thirunallar and Karaikal, said railway sources. The stretch will have a major bridge across the Vanjiaaru near Karaikal and 77 minor bridges. New station buildings will come up at Thirunallar, Koilpathu, Pathakudi and Ambagarathur, for which the Railway Board has sanctioned Rs. 177. 89 crore in 2019 itself. However, the project could not gather pace owing to fund constraints. The allocation of Rs. 88.9 crore for the 2021-22 fiscal was substantial and would give an impetus to the project for which contractors had been identified and works awarded. The revival of the rail link is expected to prove beneficial to the railways in the long run as it will cut short the time taken for freight trains carrying coal and other goods leaving Karaikal Port. Instead of taking a circuitous route via Nagore, Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur, these trains can take the Peralam-Mayiladuthurai route. Most importantly, Thirunallar with the temple for Lord Saneeswarar, which attracts devotees from various parts of the country, will have rail connectivity. Once the project is completed, Peralam station, which is situated between Mayiladuthurai Junction and Tiruvarur Junction, would also become a junction. Land aquisition A metre gauge line existed between Karaikal and Peralam which was closed for rail traffic in the mid-1980s and the track was subsequently dismantled. As a railway line had already existed on the stretch, only three hectares of land near Peralam need to be acquired, for which Tiruvarur district authorities have been notified. The Karaikal district administration, which comes under the Puducherry government, has also been notified to issue earth quarrying permit for the contractors. The Karaikal-Peralam stretch will have three manned level crossings and 23 subways - eight of which in Tiruvarur district. The entire project is scheduled for completion by by March 2024.  For freight, people  It will provide a shortcut for freight trains leaving Karaikal port  Saneeswarar Temple in Thirunallar will get rail link again||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/karaikal-peralam-railway-line-project-gets-an-impetus/article33764567.ece
06 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Go for elevated corridor in place of service lanes, say traders||Property owners and traders who face displacement due to land acquisition for the proposed service lanes along the city-stretch of the Tiruchi-Thanjavur National Highway have mooted the construction of an elevated corridor as an alternative so as to protect the livelihood of a large number of people who would be affected by the project. The Tiruchi-Thanjai NH67 Salai Virivakka Panikalal Bathikapaduvor Kootammaippu (Federation of Persons Affected by Widening of Tiruchi-Thanjavur Highway) has put forth the suggestion through a resolution adopted at its emergency consultative meeting held on Thursday. Ve. Govindarajalu, general secretary, Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peramaippu, participated in the meeting and expressed solidarity with the federation members. Permanent solution Condemning “the attempts made to demolish,” shops, commercial establishments, houses, educational institutions, hospitals and places of worship on both sides of the 14.5 km stretch between Palpannai and Thuvakudi for building service lanes, the federation said construction of an elevated corridor would offer a permanent solution without affecting anyone. The federation, in another resolution, threatened that its members would boycott the Assembly elections if their demand was not considered favourably. And that they would also take up other forms of agitations if the issue was not resolved amicably. The volume of traffic on the city stretch of the Thanjavur highway would come down substantially once the semi-ring road, coming up between Asoor on Thanjavur highway and Thindukarai on Karur highway, was completed, the federation observed and urged the authorities to take steps to expedite the ring road project. ‘Technology available’ Speaking to The Hindu , S. Raghunathan, secretary of the federation, observed that the service land was sought essentially for catering to local traffic. “We are not opposed to meeting this requirement. But this can be done without acquiring lands, where a business eco-system exists and cannot be damaged. Given the technology available, why not go for an elevated corridor?” he wondered. He suggested the elevated corridor (to cater to the highway traffic) could be built from Palpannai to Tiruverumbur, a distance of about eight km. Government lands are available along the next six km. The corridor can be linked to the Tiruchi-Chennai Bypass Road near Palpannai, he added. While an elevated corridor would be the best alternative, the government may also consider another alternative of laying a bypass road between Thuvakudi and Tiruchi-Chennai highway. “The cost of any of these two alternatives will work out cheaper than constructing service lanes after acquiring lands and shifting utilities,” he contended. P. Prem Anand, treasurer of the federation, said the entire trade and business on both sides of the road would be affected due to land acquisition and questioned the rationale behind taking up such a project within the Corporation limits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/go-for-elevated-corridor-in-place-of-service-lanes-say-traders/article33764599.ece
06 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Concern over clogging of drain||Garbage gets accumulated near the campus of a private college near Chathram Bus Stand here. Students find fault with the corporation for ignoring the situation. A drainage channel, flowing near the Tiruchi Fort Railway Station, passes in front of a shopping complex and ends near the compound of a private college. Since the flow is towards the college, heaps of non-biodegradable waste, including plastic bottles and bags, have washed up to the compound. Mosquitoes, flies and bad odour deter students, college authorities say. A representative of the college said accumulation of waste was common but civic body workers had been clearing it at least twice a year. It was not done recently following the pandemic and closure of the college. The civic body broke the compound wall behind which the drainage channel lies during heavy rains in January to access the accumulated waste and it led to flooding of the campus. Officials said they would reconstruct it but the work was yet to begin, they added. While students were returning to college after the government permitted its reopening, the sorry sight put them off. ‘We see this waste when we look out of our classroom. We keep windows closed most of the time due to the stench,’ a student said. Garbage from nearby shopping complex, open dumping by residents and commercial establishments has led to clogging of the drain. A corporation official said they would clear the garbage and construct the wall soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/concern-over-clogging-of-drain/article33764595.ece
06 February 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||New barrage to sport same colour as Grand Anicut||Even as the construction of the southern arm of the new barrage across the Kollidam at Mukkombu is nearing completion, the Public Works Department has begun preliminary steps to finalise the colour of the barrage. Sample painting was carried out a few days ago. Five colours were short-listed including snow white. Of them, thrust was given on snow white. Sources said that the new barrage was likely to sport the same colour of the Grand Anicut, an iconic irrigation structure in the State. Sample painting test had brought out good results. It would be finalised within a few days. A team had arrived for painting. It would be started once the final approval was given. Out of two arms - southern and northern - focus has shifted to the southern arm of the barrage. More than 85% of southern arm has been completed. Except a pier, all 45 piers had been erected. Out of 45 slabs, 32 were completed. It had been decided to complete at least the southern arm of the barrage within this month and the work was progressing on target. More than 400 workers were engaged for construction. All other works would be completed within April.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-barrage-to-sport-same-colour-as-grand-anicut/article33764557.ece
06 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||New office complex coming up||The Tiruchi Collectorate campus will soon feature a new integrated office complex housing the Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department. An area measuring about 14,000 square feet has been cleared behind the new Collectorate complex for the purpose. A sum of Rs. 7.85 crore has been allotted under the Scheme component of Pooled Assigned Revenue under the Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department for the construction of the building and the work has begun this week. The building will house offices of the Project Officer of Mahalir Thittam, Assistant Director( panchayats) and Assistant Director (Audit) on the ground floor, and offices of the Project Director of District Rural Development Agency (DRDA) and Executive Engineer (Rural Department) on the first floor. The total built-up area would be 27,986 square feet, of which the ground floor would take up 14,246 square feet and the first floor 13,740. The contract period is 18 months, and the project is scheduled for completion by June 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-office-complex-coming-up-in-tiruchi-collectorate/article33764563.ece
06 February 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Railway workshop overhauls LHB power car||The Golden Rock Railway Workshop here has overhauled a LHB power car in Southern Railway. Both diesel generator sets of the power car were overhauled and full attention was given to electrical equipment, mechanical rolling components and air conditioning system. Load testing was done and complete renewal of flooring in the luggage portion was carried out. Full renewal of upholsteries and polyurethane painting of coach exterior was done. Principal Chief Mechanical Engineer, Southern Railway, T. Venkatasubramanian, flagged off the first overhauled LHB power car, 300th and 301st wagons for railways on Thursday. A press release said it had bagged orders for overhauling all 134 LHB power cars in the Southern Railway in the next few years. It would be a boon to the Diesel Periodical Overhauling shop which was losing its major workload due to electrification of railway network. The workshop has introduced a rotary fixture for drilling holes in three sides of the centre sill of a wagon which reduced production time as well as use of cranes for turning two other sides of centre sill. Infrastructure was kept in a state of preparedness to undertake overhauling of electric locomotives and was awaiting arrival of first locomotive shortly. He saw efforts taken in production and overhauling processes. He inaugurated an IoT based energy management system covering several work stations for improvised micro level monitoring of energy centres. Several gadgets and fixtures were introduced in bogie overhauling, air springs and air brake testing areas. Chief Workshop Manager Shyamadhar Ram was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railway-workshop-overhauls-lhb-power-car/article33764559.ece
06 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||61 more test positive in central region||The central region on Friday recorded 61 cases for COVID-19. It recorded one death in Thanjavur, according to the bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. A 68-year-old man who had been suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome died at a private hospital. Tiruchi and Thanjavur districts reported 20 fresh cases. Thanjavur reported a sharp increase as only three cases were reported in the district on Thursday. Contact tracing is on and source of the infection will be identified, officials here said. Meanwhile, two patients who had been undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital were discharged. The remaining six districts in the region reported less than 10 fresh cases. Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur recorded eight cases each. In Ariyalur, three patients tested positive. One patient each tested positive in Karur and Pudukottai. Among the patients who tested positive in Karur were residents from Chinna Dharapuram and Ganapathipalayam. Perambalur district reported no fresh case for the second consecutive day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/61-more-test-positive-in-central-region/article33764565.ece
06 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Skeletal remains found in lorry driver’s cabin||Skeletal remains of a man were found on Friday inside the driver’s cabin of a lorry that was in disuse for long and parked along Thanjavur Road near Palpannai roundabout. Police sources said the site got flooded owing to heavy rains last month and the place had turned slushy. The lorry was parked for long and the locals informed the police about the presence of skeletal remains inside it. Gandhi Market police found the skeletal remains of a man in a lying position near the driver’s seat. The remains were sent to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/skeletal-remains-found-in-lorry-drivers-cabin/article33764596.ece
06 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||New VC assumes office||For the first time in nearly two decades, a new Vice-Chancellor has been appointed for Bharathidasan University within a month of retirement of the incumbent VC, much to the appreciation of the academic community. After the tenure of the incumbent VC P. Manisankar came to an end last month, the Governor and Chancellor issued an order extending his service until the new VC takes over. Expressing relief over the prompt appointment of the new VC by the office of the Governor and Chancellor, senior professors said the momentum of administration can now be carried forward without any disruption. “There have been instances of appointment of new VCs to the university after a gap of months. The lengthy gap causes a near paralysis in administration as new appointments or the ongoing expenditure aspects come to a grinding halt. Even for conduct of meetings, the VC Committees used to go to Chennai and there were apprehensions that the meeting agendas were discussed only peripherally with no outcome,” a senior professor said. Unlike in the past, the process for appointment of the new VC was taken early on this time around, even during the COVID-19 lockdown period. Significantly, the new VC assumed charge within a day of receiving the appointment order. On Friday, M. Selvam, retired Professor and Head of the Department of International Business and Commerce, Alagappa University, and accreditation ambassador under UGC’s Paramarsh Scheme, took over charge as the new VC of Bharathidasan University. Prof. Selvam was instrumental in organising the visit of NAAC (National Assessment and Accreditation Committee) Peer team to Bharathidasan University for re-accreditation. “It was under Prof. Selvam's guidance that Bharathidasan University secured re-accreditation with A+ Grade in the third assessment cycle,” the outgoing VC Prof. Manisankar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-vc-assumes-office/article33764593.ece
06 February 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Loan waiver with eye on Assembly poll: Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Friday said Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami “hurriedly” announced the waiver of farm loans obtained from cooperative societies as the DMK had already promised to waive the amount on returning to power. “It is an announcement made by the Chief Minister with an eye on the forthcoming Assembly election,” he said at a meeting organised in Pattaandivilai, near Nattaaththi, in the Srivaikundam Assembly constituency on Friday evening.  According to him, the ruling AIADMK had understood that its government would come to an end in three months, and it was doing everything possible to revive the sagging electoral prospects, but in vain. Similarly, the Chief Minister, like the “flash of light before death”, had made an announcement in the Assembly about the waiver. “The Chief Minister, who refused to do it (loan waiver) when the farmers were appealing to him and even when the court told him, has made the announcement now,” the DMK president said.  ‘Will cancel tenders’ Accusing the AIADMK government of awarding contracts to the tune of Rs. 2,885 crore towards the end of its tenure, Mr. Stalin also warned that when voted to power, his government would cancel these tenders. “After three months, when the DMK comes to power, these tenders will be cancelled. The tenders for the contracts [for the various projects] will be awarded afresh in a transparent manner,” he said at an Ungal Thoguthiyil Stalin political outreach programme in Kovilpatti. He said Mr. Palaniswami was heading “the most corrupt criminal Cabinet”. According to him, Mr. Palaniswami and his Ministerial colleagues would land in the Puzhal Central Prison in Chennai after three months “for having indulged in worst corruption in the history of Tamil Nadu”. The DMK leader charged other Ministers, including S.P. Velumani, Thangamani, C. Vijayabaskar and D. Jayakumar, with indulging in corruption. Targeting Information Minister Kadambur C. Raju in his Kovilpatti constituency, he charged him with failing to implement development works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/loan-waiver-with-eye-on-assembly-poll-stalin/article33764584.ece
06 February 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘Consulting all stakeholders before implementation of laws not practical’||It is not practical for the Central government to consult all the stakeholders before implementation of any laws and it is not required by the Constitution, said Vanathi Srinivasan, national president of BJP Mahila Morcha, in Tiruppur on Friday. “People have confidence in the government that they elected to power and the government brings laws for the people,” she said in response to the criticism that the Central government enacted the three farm laws without proper consultation. Prior to the introduction of the three legislations in the Parliament, the BJP had sought the opinions and needs of farmers from across the country, she claimed. Noting that Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar had conducted several rounds of talks with the farm unions regarding the ongoing protests, Ms. Srinivasan said that the Central government was ready to redress the grievances of “true farmers”. On Governor Banwarilal Purohit declining to take a call regarding the early release of Rajiv Gandhi assassination case convict A.G. Perarivalan, she said that the BJP cannot take a “partisan stand” regarding the Governor and the President of India as they were “important authorities as per the Constitution.” Regarding the return of expelled All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam leader V.K. Sasikala who recently completed her prison sentence, she said that the AIADMK was leading the National Democratic Alliance in the State and that they have to decide, declining to comment further. Denying criticisms of privatisation following the Union Budget, Ms. Srinivasan said that the Central government would not hand over anything completely to the private firms.  Central government ready to redress the grievances of “true farmers”. Vanathi Srinivasan national president, BJP Mahila Morcha||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/consulting-all-stakeholders-before-implementation-of-laws-not-practical/article33765136.ece
06 February 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Plantation drive on Sunday||Isha Foundation will organise a sapling plantation drive at Palladam in Tiruppur district on Sunday as part of its ‘Cauvery Calling’ agroforestry initiative. A release said that the event will be held at Ichipatti village near Palladam. Those who wish to participate shall contact 94425 90016 for registration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plantation-drive-on-sunday/article33765127.ece
06 February 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Operations continue to capture two wild elephants in the Nilgiris||The Forest Department will construct a temporary kraal (elephant enclosure) in Mavanallah in the buffer zone of the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) to contain the elephant, Rivaldo, and train it to become a captive elephant. Forest officials said as there were plans to bring the two elephants - Rivaldo and Shankar - to Theppakadu and there was only one kraal, it had been decided to build a temporary kraal in Mavanallah, which was the 40-year-old Rivaldo’s habitat. “We will build the kraal in the coming days, and we expect that Rivaldo will need to be tamed for a month as he is already a very docile animal. After he is trained, we can bring him to the Theppakadu Elephant Camp where he can be kept as a captive elephant,” said K.K. Kaushal, Field Director, MTR. Rivaldo was tracked down after he gave the slip to the forest staff on Thursday. However, efforts to capture him would be made only after the kraal was built, Mr. Kaushal said. Though Rivaldo had no ailment, his general health condition suggested that he could not be left to continue as a wild elephant. Meanwhile, pressure is mounting on the department to capture Shankar, another elephant in Gudalur that has been blamed for the killing of three persons in Gudalur last year. Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Coimbatore Circle, I. Anwardeen, said three kumki elephants, including an elephant known as Srinivas, had been brought to Gudalur to assist in capturing Shankar. “It has been known that Srinivas used to have a strong bond with Shankar. All three elephants are being kept away from the capture site to safeguard against Shankar being spooked, which could lead to his fleeing to neighbouring Kerala,” said Mr. Anwardeen. Veterinarians and the team assigned to capture the elephant had already reached the spot near Cherambadi in Pandalur where the elephant had been spotted. Mr. Anwardeen said co-operation of the local police had been sought in ensuring that people in the surrounding areas did not unnecessarily venture out of their homes. The district administration had also promised that steps would be taken to close Tasmac shops till the operation was over.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/operations-continue-to-capture-two-wild-elephants-in-the-nilgiris/article33764645.ece
06 February 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||CM inaugurates Naruvi Hospitals in Vellore||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami inaugurated Naruvi Hospitals, a multi-specialty hospital in Vellore on Friday. The CM unveiled the plaque of the new Rs. 600-crore hospital through video-conferencing from the Secretariat. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar, Commercial Taxes Minister K.C. Veeramani, Chairman of Naruvi Hospitals G.V. Sampath were present during the inauguration. The 500-bedded hospital has a technical collaboration with ‘Henry Ford Health System’, a U.S.-based healthcare provider. Mr. Sampath, said that the hospital has 19 specialties and 10 super-specialties to start with. Stating the reason for choosing Tamil Nadu to start the hospital, he said that the State has among the best infrastructure in the country, good governance and peaceful ambience with well-maintained law and order. MGR University Chancellor and former MP A.C. Shanmugam described the hospital as Vellore’s pride. He said that the facility had provided job opportunities for over 1,000 doctors and other support staff in phases. He said that with the outbreak of COVID-19 last year, the State drew attention for the rapid spread of the virus. “But today, ours is the first State to contain the spread at the earliest, thanks to the State government’s multi-level management to contain the spread of the pandemic,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-inaugurates-naruvi-hospitals/article33764587.ece
06 February 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Six new cases reported in Vellore||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 20,784 with six new cases reported on Friday. While a total of 20,346 have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 90. The district’s death toll is 348. In Ranipet district, three cases were reported positive, taking the total to 16,143. In Tirupattur district, five cases were reported on Friday. The total number of positive cases stood at 7,592. In Tiruvannamalai district, three new cases were reported, taking the total number of cases in the district to 19,390. Out of this, 19,062 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 45.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-new-cases-reported-in-vellore/article33765281.ece
06 February 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Rajasthan withdraws ban on sale of crackers||Rajasthan has withdrawn its decision to ban sale of crackers after the issue was taken up by the fireworks industry with Rajasthan government through Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. In a statement, the party district secretary, Sreeraja Chokkar, said that he along with Virudhunagar MP, B. Manickam Tagore, took up the issue of ban on crackers in Rajasthan with Congress MP Rahul Gandhi, during his recent visit to Coimbatore. After Mr. Gandhi took up the issue of livelihood of lakhs of fireworks workers and entrepreneurs, Rajasthan Chief Minister, Ashok Gehlot, ordered withdrawal of the ban order. Mr. Sreeraja thanked Mr. Gandhi and Rajasthan CM for heeding to the plea of fireworks manufacturers and workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ban-lifted/article33764600.ece
06 February 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Rajasthan lifts ban on sale of crackers||Rajasthan has withdrawn its decision to ban the sale of crackers after the issue was taken up by the fireworks industry with the government through Congress leader Rahul Gandhi.  In a statement, party district secretary Sreeraja Chokkar said that he, along with Virudhunagar MP B. Manickam Tagore, took up the issue of the ban on crackers in Rajasthan with Congress MP Rahul Gandhi, during his recent visit to Coimbatore. After Mr. Gandhi took up the issue of livelihood of lakhs of workers and entrepreneurs, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot ordered withdrawal of the ban order. Mr. Sreeraja thanked Mr. Gandhi and Mr. Gehlot for heeding to the plea of fireworks manufacturers and workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rajasthan-lifts-cracker-ban/article33765118.ece
06 February 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Free bicycles for students||Collector R. Kannan informed that 19,443 students studying in eleventh standard (Plus one) in government and government aided schools in the district would get free cycles valued at Rs. 7.66 crore here on Friday. In a press release, he said that for the benefit of the school students, the government has been giving free uniforms, bus passes, bags, books and among others. To ensure that the students reached the schools from their dwellings without any difficulty, the government had provided cycles. The district has 8,576 boys and 10,867 girl students studying in plus one. They would get the free cycles for the 2020-21 in phases now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/19443-students-to-get-free-cycles-in-virudunagar/article33764572.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||CPI stages protest against farm laws||The CPI cadres staged a protest demonstration demanding the dropping of cases filed against farmers protesting in various parts of the country and in Tamil Nadu against the three farm laws and demanding its repeal, here on Friday. The protesters also said the farm laws have turned the country into one massive protest site attracting international attention and concern. They demanded that the police drop cases “foisted” on farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-stages-protest-against-farm-laws/article33764634.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: 23 new cases in Erode district||Erode district reported 23 new cases on Friday, taking the district’s tally to 14,472. While 21 persons were discharged, 178 continue to be under treatment. Nine positive cases were reported in Salem. According to health officials, eight cases were indigenous and one patient has returned from Namakkal. In Namakkal, two indigenous cases were reported, lowest in recent times. No new cases were recorded in Krishnagiri and four persons were discharged. This has taken the total number of current cases to 31 and the total number of infections in the district to 8,087. Dharmapuri recorded one new case and three were discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-23-new-cases-in-erode-district/article33764631.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Sexual assault: man gets 10-yr. jail||A special court for Protection of Children from Sexual Offences cases on Friday sentenced a man to 10 years imprisonment for sexually assaulting a 13-year-old girl. Police said that in 2018, Appadurai (65), a daily wager, lured the girl with false promises and sexually assaulted her. Based on a complaint from her parents, Omalur All Women Police arrested Appadurai. The court also imposed a fine of Rs. 5,000 on Appadurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sexual-assault-man-gets-10-yr-jail/article33764647.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||coimbatore Today||Dr.NGP Arts and Science College: Awareness programme on Leprosy, Veeriyampalayam, 10 a.m.  The Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry: Dr.R.K. Shanmugam Chetty Memorial Meeting on ‘Analysis of Union Budget 2021’, Chamber Towers, Avanashi Road, 6 p.m.  KPR College of Arts and Science: Faculty development programme, Veena Hall, 2.30 p.m.  Jansons Institute of Technology: E-graphie 2k21,technical contest on engineering graphics, 9 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-today/article33765125.ece
06 February 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Lawyers protest against police officer||Lawyers held a rasta roko protest in Belagavi on Friday over a police officer allegedly insulting a lawyer. Members of the District Bar Association stopped vehicular movement in front of the district court and the Deputy Commissioner’s office for some time. They alleged that Sunil Patil, Circle Inspector, had used unparliamentary language against a lawyer, Chetan Eerannanavar, when the advocate went to Mal Maruti police station to file a case a few days ago. They held a meeting in the Bar association hall and sought the police officer’s transfer. They demanded that M.G. Hiremath, Deputy Commissioner, meet them at the protest site. They also complained to the DC that disharmony between the police and lawyers could affect the delivery of justice. Eventually, the protest was withdrawn after Police Commissioner K. Thiyagarajan communicated to the DC that the police officer in uestion had expressed regret over his actions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lawyers-protest-against-police-officer/article33764659.ece
06 February 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||NH-367 to see protest||Farmers and labour organisations in north Karnataka will join the nationwide rasta roko against the new farm laws by blocking national highways across the region on Saturday. They plan to organise rasta roko protests at Hire Bagewadi, Honaga, and Kittur in Belagavi district, the organisers said. In Bagalkot, the protests will be on NH-367 on the Belagavi-Bagalkot road. In Vijayapura, the protests will be held at Solapur road junction. Members of Karnataka Pradesh Raitha Sangha and Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha will also join the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nh-367-to-see-protest/article33764660.ece
06 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||4.5 lakh watched the aero show virtually||Curtains came down on the 13th Aero India, the aerospace and defence business exhibition, at Yelahanka Air Force base here on Friday. The show, which saw reduced number of foreign participation, had its focus on indigenisation amidst the pandemic. The show had about 600 exhibitors, including 78 exhibitors. According to the organisers, the show was watched by over 4.5 lakh virtually and about 20,000 physically. The Defence Minister announced that about 200 agreements, including about 128 memorandums of understanding and 19 technology transfers, were witnessed during the show while 45 MSME companies bagged projects worth Rs. 203 crore during the three-day event. The event, coming in the backdrop of the new defence procurement procedures, witnessed the armed forces’ wish list for indigenisation of parts, technologies and processes, which can be done by the MSME sector and companies as well. The air show, part of Aero India, was depleted by the absence of foreign aerobatics teams and companies, but the aircraft from the Indian Air Force managed to put up a good show. This included the world’s first ever integrated flight of fighter jets and helicopters when the Surya Kirans and Sarangs flew together. After years of Rafael’s display from the company, the newly inducted Rafaels of IAF made their debut.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/45-lakh-watched-the-aero-show-virtually/article33765069.ece
06 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||78% of gold medallists are women||Among the medical students ready to graduate from Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) on Sunday, the women have outdone the men. About 78% of the 111 students who will bag gold medals at the 23rd annual convocation of RGUHS on Sunday are women. The three students to top the university are all women. They have bagged three gold medals each. At the convocation, 33,629 students will be awarded their degrees and diplomas. Thirty students will receive their PhDs while 115 will be awarded super-speciality degrees. A total of 5,834 will get their post-graduate degrees and 351 post-graduate diplomas. Also getting their degrees and diplomas are 79 students for fellowship courses, nine for certificate courses and 27,221 for under-graduate courses. S. Sachidananda, Vice-Chancellor of the university, said that each gold medal has 22-carat gold and weighs five grams. Although many students were finding it difficult to complete their respective course as they were not able to get hands-on experience during their internships and struggled to comprehend their online classes, the pass percentage for the 2019-20 academic year is 82.29 %.  Many students who are graduating on Sunday said that as a direct consequence of the lockdown caused by the pandemic, they got very little hands-on experience during their internships. Mala M. who is from Rajarajeshwari Dental College and Hospital, Bengaluru, bagged three gold medals. She said that her internship was affected as all dental clinics were closed for a few months as a safeguard against COVID-19. “Although I missed hands-on experience for six months, I was able to cope as I had training prior to the pandemic,” she said. Pros and cons Vaishnavi Kamath K. from A.J. Institute of Dental Sciences, Mangalore, who also bagged three gold medals, said that there were both pros and cons of the pandemic to be considered. “While we got less clinical experience last year as the dental clinics were closed, at the same time we had more time to prepare for the PG National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test,” she said. The third student who bagged three gold medals is Safiya (Pharma D) from Farooqia College of Pharmacy, Mysuru. Neurosurgeon Alangar Satya Ranjan Das Hegde will be conferred with an honorary doctorate at the convocation. President Ram Nath Kovind will be chief guest and will deliver the convocation address. Safety guidelines Keeping in mind COVID-19 safety guidelines, only gold medallists have been invited for the convocation ceremony, which will be streamed live on YouTube.   Although I missed hands-on experience for six months, I was able to cope as I had training prior to the pandemic. Mala M.  student, Rajarajeshwari Dental College and Hospital, Bengaluru||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/78-of-gold-medallists-are-women/article33764681.ece
06 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Civic body to restart process of recruiting 4,000 pourakarmikas||Civic officials hope to restart this month the recruitment process of 4,000 pourakarmikas which has been pending for nearly three years. This follows a round of discussions with various unions and the BBMP. While there are over 18,500 pourakarmikas, they are still under contract though the civic body has been disbursing their salaries directly to their accounts since January 2018. BBMP’s Special Commissioner (Solid Waste Management) D. Randeep said that after objections were raised by the unions, who demanded that all the 18,500 pourakarmikas be made permanent, the civic body had written to the government regarding the same. “However, the government directed the BBMP to first initiate the recruitment of the 4,000 pourakarmikas,” he said Maithreyi Krishnan from the BBMP Pourakarmikara Sangha said the association had for long been demanding that all the pourakarmikas currently working for the BBMP, along with the drivers and cleaners of the compactors and auto-tippers, be made permanent workers. “Most of them have put in at least two decades of service. Recruiting just 4,000 undermines them and disregards their service to the city,” she said. Narayana, state president of the Karnataka State Corporations, Municipality, Town Municipality Pourakarmika Union, told The Hindu that during the meeting with senior BBMP officials, the union had urged the civic body to increase the age limit from 45 years to 55 years. The other demands include relaxation in the education requirement and fluency in spoken Kannada, even if it is not their native language. “We hope the recruitment process that has been pending for nearly three years sees some progress,” he said. On the relaxations that have been demanded by the unions, the civic body will seek the government’s permission, following which the recruitment process will be re-initiated. “This should hopefully be done by February. Meanwhile, we will start the backend processes for the recruitment and ensure it is in place over the next 15 days,” said Mr. Randeep.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/civic-body-to-restart-process-of-recruiting-4000-pourakarmikas/article33765073.ece
06 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Facing backlash, BSY asks OBC panel to submit report on Panchamasali demand||Hours after his statement on reservation in the Assembly led to outrage among leaders of the agitating Panchamasali (Lingayat) community, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa took to damage-control mode. He directed the Karnataka Backward Classes Commission to carry out a detailed study on the demand for inclusion of Panchamasalis in 2-A category of the other backward classes (OBC) list and submit a report. Clarifying that he had only said that issue could be taken up after convincing the central leadership, he reminded the community that it was the BJP government that gave them reservation under Category 3B. “Decisions on such a critical matter cannot be taken in a hurry. This needs to be discussed with experts before any decision is taken,” he said in a statement issued on Friday night. Earlier in the day, in the Assembly, Mr. Yediyurappa faced embarrassment when his bete noire and BJP member Basanagouda Patil Yatnal demanded his statement in the House on the ongoing agitations by the Panchamasalis seeking inclusion under 2-A category. A visibly irked Chief Minister said he cannot make an announcement without consulting the Prime Minister and other central leaders. “We are not a regional party and I do not have the powers to take unilateral decisions,” he had said. Mr. Yatnal countered it by saying the State government had powers to make a recommendation and the Chief Minister should not evade the issue by naming the Prime Minister.  Seer expresses outrage Later in the day, Lingayat Panchamasali Peetha head Jaya Mrityunjana Swami, who is presently leading a padayatra to Bengaluru, expressed outrage over the Chief Minister’s stand. “After I announced that I would return the budgetary allocation to the math, the Chief Minister called me and assured me that the community would be given reservation under category 2A. He said he would take a report from the Karnataka Permanent Backward Classes Commission and take it further. But his statement in the Assembly has deeply pained us,” the seer said. The seer demanded that the Chief Minister must resign, as he had failed to keep his word and hence had lost the support of the Panchamasali community. “There are many capable leaders among Lingayats. Let one of them be made Chief Minister,” the seer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/facing-backlash-bsy-asks-obc-panel-to-submit-report-on-panchamasali-demand/article33764672.ece
06 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Probe by SIT ordered into Rs. 400-crore scams in BDA||Investigations have unearthed scams of about Rs. 400 crore since January till now in the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) and a probe by a special investigation team (SIT) has been instituted. The government is also working on amending the BDA Act to overhaul the system, announced Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Friday. “Criminal cases have been booked against officials involved in these scams,” said the Chief Minister, calling it “daylight robbery”. He added that 300 acres of BDA properties, estimated to cost between Rs. 300 crore and Rs. 350 crore, had been recovered after unearthing the scams which involved “hiding” plots from the government’s purview. Since the present BDA Act does not allow for transferring out the officials who have been employed in the authority for decades, allowing them to indulge in fraudulent deals, the Chief Minister said an amendment to the Act was called for. “Change in the law will allow us to transfer them out of Bengaluru to other development authorities in the State,” said Mr. Yediyurappa. e-auction He said that as many as 1,572 corner sites were identified and sold through e-auction in 2020–21 by the BDA, bringing a total revenue of Rs. 1,422 crore to the government, the highest ever. This was over and above what was estimated to be accrued, he added. The Chief Minister said he had plans to “change the very picture of Bengaluru” by improving infrastructure and qualify of life.  Criminal cases have been booked against officials involved in these scams B.S. Yediyurappa,Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/probe-by-sit-ordered-into-rs-400-crore-scams-in-bda/article33764669.ece
06 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Karnataka signs 33 MoUs||Karnataka has signed 33 memorandums of understanding with defence and aerospace companies during Aero India 2021. One MoU is for setting up of a mega cluster Abhyuday Bharat at a cost of Rs. 1,000 crore to provide plug-and-play options for SMEs and design resources, testing facilities and vendor development under one roof. Another is for designing and manufacturing 2-seater aircraft for civil naval application. Centre of excellence The State has entered into an understanding with GE to explore the option of developing a Centre of Excellence for Aerospace Robotics, Intelligent Sensor and Engineering Technology, which will be in line with Karnataka’s new industrial policy that recognises aerospace and defence industry as a sector to focus on. A number of MoUs are for setting up of facilities for manufacturing aerospace components, precision components, innovative engineering solutions, space application, microwave devices, radar and artificial intelligence products. A couple of memorandums of understanding have been signed for setting up maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) facilities for aircraft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-signs-33-mous/article33765061.ece
06 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Hike grants for startups in defence sector’||Stating that future economic growth will be driven by startups, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday urged the Defence Ministry officials to increase the grant provided to them to aid innovation in the sector. “The grant has to be increased,” he said, addressing ‘Start Up Manthan’ organised as part of Aero India 2021 at Yelahanka Air Force base here. Startups working in defence and aerospace sector for the armed forces receive a grant of Rs. 1.5 crore for the projects. The Minister also said that defence procurement procedure 2020 has allowed procurement from micro, small and medium enterprises upto Rs. 100 crore. Earlier, Defence Secretary Vijaykumar said that institutional framework will be in place for procurement of products developed by startups. “Several products are ready. Officials have to start taking steps to acquire them,” he said, adding that startups can help overcome the limitations at present due to proprietary standards placed by vendors and original equipment manufacturers. “We should look at developing standards so that weapons work on our platforms and not on foreign platforms. Defence ministry officials will also work towards it,” he added. More than 1,000 startups are working to address the requirements of the Indian armed forces, he said. “COVID-19 was an opportunity and funding for startups here doubled over 2019,” the Defence Secretary said. Startups that have pitched innovative ideas for a competition run by Innovation for Defence Excellence (IDEX) were given certificates. As many as 12 in service personnel from triservices were recognized for their ideas under “IDEX for fauji” competition besides winners of Defence India Start Up Challenge and open challenge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hike-grants-for-startups-in-defence-sector/article33765063.ece
06 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC lets litigant challenge Health Minister’s order||The Karnataka High Court on Friday allowed a petitioner to amend a petition to question the legality of the Health Minister’s decision to cancel a tender to procure hi-tech ambulance services after the State government failed to share details of a discussion in a ‘public forum’ and ‘expert opinion’, which were cited by the Minister to cancel the tender. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justie Sachin Shankar passed the order while hearing a PIL petition filed by the Bharat Punarothana Trust, Bengaluru. “It appears that officials have not brought to the notice of the Minister the fact that the High Court has been monitoring the progress of procuring hi-tech ambulance services,” the bench observed while posing a query to the government whether the tender could have been cancelled without informing the court, which has been monitoring the procurement process. Though Minister K. Sudhakar had cited discussion in a ‘public forum’ and ‘expert opinion’ in his note in the file, the bench pointed out that the government has not produced any material on the discussion in a public forum or expert opinion, but has only claimed that the Minister had gathered oral views from doctors of various hospitals on the requirement for more ambulances. When the government counsel contended that expert committees are reviewing the process, the bench pointed out from the government records that earlier health minister, who had raised objection, had later approved the tender only after taking the views of a high-power expert committee. It was contended on behalf of the government that the Health Minister is a doctor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-lets-litigant-challenge-health-ministers-order/article33765077.ece
06 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Council Chairman election on Tuesday||A new Chairman of the Karnataka Legislative Council will be elected on February 9. A notification for the election was issued on Friday. Submission and scrutiny of nominations will be held on Monday and election on Tuesday. The State Cabinet and later the Business Advisory Committee of the Council decided to extend the Council session till Wednesday. Deputy Chairman M.K. Pranesh announced that the Council session would be held till Wednesday. The post of the Council Chairman fell vacant after K. Prathapchandra Shetty resigned from the post, before a motion to remove him was taken up for debate, on Thursday evening.  Horatti to file papers The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Janata Dal (Secular) came together recently to elect Mr. Pranesh as Deputy Chairman and as part of this deal the Chairman’s post will go to the regional party. Senior JD(S) member Basavaraj Horatti, also a former Chairman, said he would be the coalition’s candidate for the Chairman’s post and he would submit his nomination on Monday. Sources said the Congress was unlikely to field a candidate for the Chairman’s post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/council-chairman-election-on-tuesday/article33764668.ece
06 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Smart City: ‘Negligence led to non-inclusion of Mysuru’||Urban Development Minister B.A. Basavaraj informed the Legislative Assembly on Friday that there was no proposal before the State government on inclusion of Mysuru under the Smart City projects of the Centre. In his reply to L. Nagendra of the BJP during Question Hour, the Minister said the Centre had already included seven cities from the State under the project — Bengaluru, Belagavi, Davangere, Hubballi–Dharwad, Mangaluru, Shivamogga, and Tumakuru. In all, 100 cities have been included in the Smart Cities list in the country. Mr. Nagendra said Mysuru had not been included owing to “negligence of officials”. The department should initiate action against officials who had demonstrated laxity in the inclusion of Mysuru in the project. When Mr. Nagendra persisted with the demand, the Minister said he would make efforts and submit a memorandum to the Centre for inclusion of Mysuru in the project list. G. Somashekara Reddy of the BJP expressed disappointment over not a single city from the Kalyana Karnataka region being included in the Smart City project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/smart-city-negligence-led-to-non-inclusion-of-mysuru/article33764674.ece
06 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Gruhalaxmi crop loan scheme discontinued||The State government has discontinued the Gruhalaxmi crop loan scheme announced in the 2019-20 Budget, presented by then Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy, on the grounds that it has “no demand” from the farming community. Under this scheme, farmers in distress were eligible to get loansat lowerinterest rates on the mortgage of gold, silver or platinum ornaments. Under this scheme, farmers could obtain loans at 3% interest. During the Question Hour in the Legislative Assembly on Friday, Cooperation Minister S.T. Somashekar told Bandeppa Kashempur (JD-S) that only 1,015 farmers in the State had availed of loans from DCC banks. Not a single farmer borrowed loans in most of the DCC banks by mortgaging ornaments. Moreover, the scheme was introduced for just one year, the Minister said. Irked over the reply, Mr. Kashempur, former Co-operation Minister, said the scheme was not introduced for one year. A total of 238 and346 beneficiaries obtained loans in Kolar and Chikkmagaluru districts, respectively, the JD(S) member said and demanded its continuation in the interest of farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gruhalaxmi-crop-loan-scheme-discontinued/article33764675.ece
06 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC initiates contempt proceedings against 72-year-old litigant||The Karnataka High Court has suo motu initiated a criminal contempt of court proceedings against a 72-year-old litigant for making baseless and scandalous allegations against several judges of the High Court and the Supreme Court, and members of the Bar in his pending petition, and for writing a letter to the court “threatening to kill two judges and two advocates”. A Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum, ordered issue of notice to the accused, S.V. Srinivasa Rao, proprietor of SVS Consultants and a resident of J.P. Nagar in the city. The Bench also directed the Registrar-General of the court to send a copy of the letter, dated January 29, to the police officer in-charge of security of the High Court as the letter states that Mr. Rao has “decided to kill two erring judges amongst the highly corrupt 28 judges of this court and the apex court along with two corrupt advocates”. The proceedings were initiated based on an order passed by another Division Bench in November 2020 for making in writing scandalous allegations for the second time in his memo submitted in a writ petition filed by him in 2017 against a public sector bank. Earlier, in September 2020, he had made similar allegations against the judges and the advocates during the proceedings of the same writ petition but had withdrawn then after the court viewed it seriously. Interestingly, he had made similar scandalous allegations against the judges and an advocate representing a bank during 2008-09 and faced criminal contempt proceedings. He had collapsed in the court hall during the contempt proceedings in July 2010 and was sent to a hospital under the supervision of court’s medical officer. Subsequently, the court on August 6, 2010 had dropped proceedings against him as he submitted unconditional apology and assured the court he would not indulge in making such allegations in future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-initiates-contempt-proceedings-against-72-year-old-litigant/article33764679.ece
06 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Integrated display followed 2 months of rigorous practice||The first-ever integrated flying display of Surya Kiran and Sarang aerobatic team took more than two months to rigorously practise before it was unveiled for public viewing during this Aero India, which concluded on Friday. The combined air performance of BAe Hawk Mk 132 trainer jets and HAL produced Advanced Light Helicopter Dhruv is the first of its kind in the world, as Sarang is the only military helicopter team. Surya Kirans are among the only four teams in the world that fly with nine aircraft. On Friday, the team members shared their experiences with the media ahead of the last flying display of the 13 the Aero India. “It took more than two months and meticulous planning to bring both together. Practice was mainly in Bidar (where Surya Kirans are based) and later on in Bengaluru,” said Wg. Cmdr. D.A. Nagendra, who heads the technical team supporting the trainer jets. He is from Gubbi in Tumakuru district. “The task has been challenging since we have to keep all 11 aircraft (including two standby) in good condition,” he said. The teams have stuck to their traditional and tested manoeuvres, and have not tried new ones. While four Sarangs performed their moves between 300 and 800 ft., Surya Kirans were performing between 500 ft (sometimes even less) and 7,000 ft. Some of the display like the scintillating synchro crossing of Surya Kirans were performed at a height of about 300 ft. “What matters in the aerobatic flying is the timing. Messages are also passed on radio calls. Seven to eight formations and a few processes in air are displayed,” said Wg. Cmdr. M. Nautiyal of the Surya Kirans. The Commanding Officer of Sarang Girish Kumar, a native of Bagalkot, said that they were happy with the formations and displays, given the limitations. While the helicopters flew at a speed of about 200 kmph, the trainer jets were flying between 700 kmph and 1,000 kmph. Each trainer jet was burning about 30 kg of fuel every minute. In all, 13 flying officers, three technical officers and about 120 ground staff of Sarang, and 14 flying officers, three technical officers and 70 ground staff of Surya Kirans made this first-ever integrated display.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/integrated-display-followed-2-months-of-rigorous-practice/article33765062.ece
06 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||RGUHS to set up labs at 17 medical colleges||The Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) has decided to establish molecular biology laboratories at all 17 government-run medical colleges in Karnataka. At a press conference on Friday, S. Sachidananda, V-C, said that they would establish the labs as part of the university’s silver jubilee celebrations. “When COVID-19 cases were reported initially, there was a dire shortage of labs for testing. To avoid such a situation, we will set up labs at all government medical colleges,” he said. It has also decided to upgrade three Primary Health Centres (PHCs) at Chickballapur into model PHCs. However, this has drawn flak from a section of syndicate members. They alleged that the upgrade was being done to appease Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar who was elected from Chickballapur Assembly constituency. Many members pointed out that several other proposals were received by universities in the past to upgrade PHCs in other Assembly constituencies, which were rejected. “The university is developing infrastructure with money collected from students. The funds should instead be used to implement student welfare schemes,” an official of the university said on condition of anonymity. Dr. Sachidananda acknowledged that all the PHCs were from Dr. Sudhakar’s Assembly constituency but termed this a ‘mere coincidence’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rguhs-to-set-up-labs-at-17-medical-colleges/article33764680.ece
06 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HAL hands over choppers to Navy, CG||HAL on Friday handed over three Advanced Light Helicopters (ALH) Mk III to the Indian Navy and two to the Indian Coast Guard as part of a 16-ALH contract. A release said that the remaining helicopters are under various stages of production and flight trials, and would be handed over in due course. The contract involved integration of 19 systems into Mk III. Meanwhile, HAL received initial operation clearance for the Light Utility Helicopter (LUH) from CEMILAC on Friday. The PSU is in the phase of integration and flight testing of mission role equipment. The LUH is a 3-ton-class new-generation single-engine helicopter designed and developed indigenously. HAL has been recognised by Rolls Royce as authorised maintenance centre for Adour Mk871 engines for its global customers. The two companies will extend their collaboration to the area of supply chain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hal-hands-over-choppers-to-navy-cg/article33765064.ece
06 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Airbus partners with startup||Airbus will partner with a city-based startup for analysis of satellite data. OneAtlas, the Airbus geo spatial digital platform, has tied up with HyperVerge, a startup accelerated by Airbus BizLab India, to implement and integrate new Artificial Intelligence-based analysis of satellite data. HyperVerge is the 10th Indian startup to partner an Airbus entity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/airbus-partners-with-startup/article33765065.ece
06 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Tenant held for murder of landlady||The V.V. Puram police, on Friday, arrested a caterer for allegedly murdering his landlady, a 61-year-old retired deputy tahsildar to avoid paying rent. The accused, Aleem Pasha, carried her body in a goods auto and set it on fire on the outskirts of the city on Wednesday, said a police officer. Pasha was a tenant in a three-storeyed house in Parvathipuram that belonged to the victim, Rajeshwari. His relatives, Jeeran Pasha and Ashrafunnisa, who helped him run his catering business lived with him. According to the police, Rajeshwari had rented out units in the house to many people including Pasha. “Due to the lockdown, he lost his income as a caterer and had not paid rent for nine months. After a while, Rajeshwari demanded that he pay up or vacate. However, Pasha refused to leave or pay the dues,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tenant-held-for-murder-of-landlady/article33765074.ece
06 February 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Suggestions for draft budget||Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has commenced preparations for the draft budget 2021-22. Special Commissioner (Finance), BBMP, in a release, has appealed to citizens to offer their suggestions for the draft budget. Where to submit The civic body has said that citizens may submit their suggestions in the box kept at the BBMP headquarters on or before February 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/suggestions-for-draft-budget/article33765076.ece
06 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Trains cancelled||To facilitate work for the commissioning of the newly-built Baiyappanahalli terminal, South Western Railways has announced the cancellation, partial cancellation and diversion of several trains on February 6 and 8. A release from SWR stated that train No. 06251 from KSR Bengaluru to Jolarpettai MEMU and train No. 06267 Banaswadi-KSR Bengaluru MEMU special will be cancelled on February 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/trains-cancelled/article33765084.ece
06 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Assembly adjourned sine die||The Legislative Assembly, which met for seven days, was adjourned sine die on Friday.  14 Bills passed Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri informed the House that 14 Bills were passed during the session. A debate on ‘one nation, one poll’ would be conducted during the Budget session in March for two days, he said, and appealed to members to come prepared for the dissuasion. Seminar A seminar on declining values of the parliamentary system would be held on February 24 at the Banquet Hall of the Vidhana Soudha. Experts, eminent parliamentarians, journalists, and legislators would be invited for the seminar, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/assembly-adjourned-sine-die/article33764676.ece
06 February 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Rs. 100 cr. for Shivamogga railway line||The Ministry of Railways has earmarked Rs. 100 crore for Shivamogga-Shikaripur-Ranebennur railway line in the budget, said Shivamogga Lok Sabha member B.Y.Raghavendra. In a press release issued here on Friday, Mr. Raghavendra said the railway line had been a long pending demand of the local people. The process to acquire land for the project was on. He had appealed to the Railway Minister in this regard and consulted him on this project ahead of the budget, he said. The Ministry had also provided funds for a coaching depot at Kote Gangur near Shivamogga.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-100-cr-for-shivamogga-railway-line/article33764794.ece
06 February 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||DC gets vaccinated||Deputy Commissioner R. Girish, on Friday, got vaccinated for COVID-19 at Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences in Hassan. He received the Covaxin dosage in the presence of senior staff members of the institute. He told presspersons on the occasion, “In the first phase, health workers and frontline workers engaged in COVID-19 combat were being vaccinated. So far, there has been no instance of side-effect due to Covaxin vaccine. More than 7,000 people have been vaccinated in the district.” In the second phase, the staff members of the Forest Department, Panchayat Development Officers, policemen and Revenue Department staff would get the vaccine. The public would get it in the third phase, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dc-gets-vaccinated/article33764795.ece
06 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Support for ‘rasta roko’ call today||In the wake of the call for nationwide road blockade given by farmers seeking repeal of the three new farm laws, farmers’ organisations in Dharwad district plan to stage a rasta roko expressing solidarity with the agitation in New Delhi. The road blockade will be staged under the banner of Samyukta Horata Samiti on the national highway bypass near Dharwad on Saturday. Laxman Jadagannavar, district committee member of Raitha Krishi Karmikara Sanghatane (RKKS), said on Friday that various organisations of farmers as well as progressive and Dalit groups would participate in the agitation and block the NH-4 Bypass Road near Yarikoppa from noon to 3 p.m. Mr. Jadagannavar said that the BJP government has been apathetic towards the rightful demands of farmers and was bent on enforcing farm laws detrimental to the farm sector and posing a serious threat to food security. As it has been found that the laws were “framed at the behest of capitalists”, the farmers are up in arms against the government, he said. However, instead addressing the issue, the BJP and its fringe elements have been bent on defaming the protesting farmers, he said. Village roads Farmers’ leader and former Union Minister Babagouda Patil said that all the village roads in Dharwad taluk would be blocked in response to the call given by the farmers’ organisations in New Delhi. KPCC media analyst P.H. Neeralkeri, who has been leading an indefinite dharna under the banner Raita Hitarakshana Samiti in Dharwad for the last few days, said that rasta roko would be staged at Mummigatti by blocking NH-4. Meanwhile, in a joint press statement, various farmers’ organisations sought the repeal of the three farm laws, withdrawal of cases against the agitating farmers, removal of the concrete structures and barricades installed by the Delhi police and clearance of the road for free vehicular movement, and immediate steps to resume water and power supply in the border areas of Delhi, where the farmers have camped.  The Centre is bent on enforcing farm laws detrimental to the farm sector Laxman Jadagannavar, district committee member of Raitha Krishi Karmikara Sanghatane||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/support-for-rasta-roko-call-today/article33764661.ece
06 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Swami Vivekananda Adventure Park established in Hubballi||South Western Railway (SWR) has developed an adventure park at one of its railway colonies in Hubballi and named it after Swami Vivekananda. SWR general manager Ajay Kumar Singh inaugurated the Swami Vivekananda Adventure Park at Vinoba Nagar on Gadag Road and said that a team from the Hubballi division had come up with the novel concept and implemented it in a very short span of time. “Adventure sports help in maintaining physical fitness and mental ability, inculcate firm determination, and boosts self-confidence and courage. We need muscles of iron and nerves of steel,” he said. The park has activities such as suspension gate bridge, watchtower, rope net climbing, zigzag logger, swings, rope ladder, climbing wall, tree house, monkey bridge, self trolley, tyre obstacles, tunnels, and more. A team of Bharat Scouts and Guides implemented the project based on a concept developed by the Additional Divisional Railway Manager of Hubballi Division, Jogendra Yadvendum. A team of Railway Protection Force and Bharat Scouts and Guides held a demonstration on adventure sports on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/swami-vivekananda-adventure-park-established-in-hubballi/article33764664.ece
06 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||ZP member passes away||Dharwad Zilla Panchayat member and Congress leader Sureshgouda Patil, 45, passed away at a private hospital in Pune on Friday. Thousands of people lined up at his residence in Adargunchi village in Hubballi taluk to pay their last respects. Senior leaders from various political parties paid tributes. Patil, who had contested unsuccessfully in the Assembly elections earlier, is survived by his wife, two daughters, and a son.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/zp-member-passes-away/article33764665.ece
06 February 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Narrow escape for family||A family of four had a narrow escape at Gullabowdi locality on Friday after a blaze engulfed their house due to a short circuit. The incident was reported from the house of Siddanna, a driver. His wife, Sangeeta, and two children were at the house when the incident took place. One of the family members noticed the smoke and they managed to get out of the house in time. Currency notes worthone lakh and some clothes and other items were destroyed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/narrow-escape-for-family/article33764662.ece
06 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Temple receives donation from ‘beggar’||A 65-year-old woman, who was presumed to be eking out a living by begging in front of Sri Guru Narasimha Temple at Saligrama town in Udupi district, surprised everyone on Thursday when she donated Rs. 1 lakh towards ‘Anna Daana’ at the temple for February 9, prior to setting out on a Sabarimala pilgrimage. Ashwathamma, a native of Kanchugod village, off the fishing town of Gangolli in Kundapura taluk, was seen almost every day near the Guru Narasimha and Anjaneya temples in Saligrama. Fondly called “Ajji” by devotees, Ms. Ashwathamma spends her nights in an enclosure meant to keep the temple’s boat next to the kalyani. Having lost her husband and daughter, she occasionally visits her grandchildren at Kanchugod, according to the temple authorities. Newly elected temple managing committee member K. Ananta Padmanabha Aithal, who was committee president in the previous term, told The Hindu that Ms. Ashwathamma wanted to host Anna Daana on February 9 when she was to wear the “irumudi”. However, the management told her that the contribution would be kept as a deposit and the proceeds would be used for a one-day Anna Daana at the temple every year. The elderly woman also claims to have contributed around Rs. 7.5 lakh to Polali Rajarajeshwari Temple, near Mangaluru, and the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple, among others, Mr. Aithal said. Following this, the temple management has arranged for her a night’s stay inside the temple complex where two security guards too would be present to ensure her safety, he added. On Thursday, Ms. Ashwathamma handed over the amount to temple manager Nagaraja Hande and chief priest Janardhana Adiga in front of the presiding deity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/temple-in-udupi-receives-donation-from-beggar/article33765059.ece
06 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Five held in 13 cases of theft||A police team from Dakshina Kannadaarrested five persons allegedly involved in 13 instances of theft, including four at places of worship, in Dakshina Kannada and Kasaragod districts. The police gave the names of the accused as Amaruddin, Mohammed Yunus, Haneef, Farooq, and Mohammed Safan. A special team led by Circle Inspector T.D. Nagaraj and comprising Police Sub-Inspector Avinash, Kalaimar, Prasanna, Sanjeev, Vinod Reddy, Eeraiah, and personnel from the district Crime Investigation Bureau and other police stations, was formed to trace the accused involved in the series of thefts reported in the district. The 13 cases of theft that the accused are said to be involved in include one of a hundi at a temple in Narikombu village and at Chandika Parameshwari Temple, both in Bantwal; at churches in Amtur and Perla villages of Bantwal; at a school and a college in Bantwal Rural and Bantwal Town police station limits, and at three bars. They were allegedly involved in the theft of a motorcycle each in Mangaluru Rural and Manjeshwar police station limits of Kasaragod district of Kerala. Thieves mug woman Two motorcycle-borne men threw chilli powder on a woman waiting for a bus at Kisan Nagar in Harekala village and went away with her ‘rold gold’ chain on Friday morning. The Konaje police said the incident happened around 8 a.m. when the victim, Shanta, was waiting for a bus to Puttur. The thieves went past the woman and returned to throw the chilli powder. The chain was worth Rs. 600, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/five-held-in-13-cases-of-theft/article33765234.ece
06 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Three-day Koraga sports and cultural fest begins||The district-level sports and cultural meet of Koragas is part of an effort to bring this backward tribe to the mainstream, said Udupi Zilla Panchayat president Dinakar Babu here on Friday. Inaugurating the three-day sports and cultural meet at MGMCollege grounds, Mr. Babu said the Koragas and other backward tribes should be united in their effort to achieve success. Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said the State government has been working for the welfare of Koragas. He also said youngsters of the tribe should not only participate in sports and cultural activities, but also be involved in building a good society. The sporting and culturally talented tribes spotted in this three-day event will be groomed and sent to State and national events, he said. President of Udupi City Municipal Council Sumita Nayak said more Koraga tribes were showing the gumption to fight against the odds and coming up in society. Koraga tribes should not only strive to retain their sporting talent but also fight to save their unique cultural practices, he said. On the first day, cricket matches were held.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-day-koraga-sports-and-cultural-fest-begins/article33765233.ece
06 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||38 new COVID-19 cases in DK and Udupi||With 17 new COVID-19 cases and 16 patients discharged, the number of active COVID-19 cases in Dakshina Kannada on Friday stood at 304. Fines totalling Rs. 31.43 lakh have been collected so far from 30,235 cases of people not wearing masks, said a bulletin from the district administration. In Udupi, 21 new cases were reported and 10 patients were discharged on Friday. The number of active cases in the district stood at 48. Fines totalling Rs. 23.12 lakh have been collected so far from 21,535 cases of people not wearing masks and violating the social distancing norms. Vaccination As many as 1,768 of the 4,367 health workers registered received the COVID-19 vaccine jab at the 82 vaccination sessions in Dakshina Kannada on the day, while 1,133 of the 5,669 health workers received the jab during 30 vaccination sessions in Udupi on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/38-new-covid-19-cases-in-dk-and-udupi/article33765235.ece
06 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||New managing panel||Sri Guru Narasimha Temple, which is the family temple for Kota Brahmins, has a new managing committee. While community members in 14 villages around Kota elect four members at the rate of one vote per household, those in the rest of Udupi district elect one, Dakshina Kannada one, Bengaluru City Corporation one, rest of Karnataka one, and rest of India one, taking the total to nine members. K. Ananta Padmanabha Aithal, G. Chandrashe-khar Mayya, Parashuram Bhat, Lakshminarayana Thunga (Kota), Seetharama Karantha (Udupi district), P. Sadashiva Aithal (Dakshina Kannada), A.V. Sridhara Karantha (Bengaluru), K.S. Ganesh Murty Navada (Karnataka), and M. Sridhar Rao (other States) have been elected on a five-year term.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-managing-panel/article33765237.ece
06 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Sero surveillance launched||In continuation of COVID-19 related activities, the CSIR-Central Food Technological Research Institute (CFTRI), Mysuru, is carrying out Phase 2 Pan-CSIR study on sero surveillance on the contagion. It is being conducted in collaboration with CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB), New Delhi. The study aims at covering the large population size across CSIR laboratories to assess the sustained immune status of an individual and the extent of herd immunity achieved. “The outcome of the study shall help in formulating the COVID-19 vaccine guidelines across the country. This sero-surveillance is being conducted over a period of four days from February 4, at the Institute, and is open to all the CFTRI students, staff, and their family members,” a release said here on Friday. Sridevi Annapurna Singh, Director, CSIR-CFTRI, inaugurated the programme on Thursday. The project leader, Prakash M Halami; members, Muthukumar S.P., Ravindra P.V., and Gopinath M.; CFTRI’s doctor Avilash S. Rani,; and a group of volunteers were present. The CSIR-CFTRI had recently completed 1.20 lakh swab tests at its COVID-19 testing centre. The CSIR-CFTRI came forward to support the Mysuru district administration in the fight against the pandemic by setting up the COVID-19 testing centre and carrying out RT-PCR tests since testing was key for containing the spread of the disease. This was the third testing centre set up in Mysuru for carrying out RT-PCR tests after the one at the Microbiology Department (on the premises of K R Hospital) in Mysore Medical College and Research Institute (MMCRI) and another at the JSS Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sero-surveillance-launched/article33764797.ece
06 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Leopard spotted near KRS||The sighting of a leopard near the South Gate of Krishnaraja Sagar dam site in Srirangapatna taluk of Mandya district on Thursday night has led to a scare with the forest authorities placing a cage at the spot to snare the big cat. The feline has been caught on CCTV camera moving near the South Gate and the officials of the Cauvery Neeravari Nigama Limited (CNNL) alerted the forest authorities. Vasudev, assistant executive engineer, CNNL, told The Hindu that the leopard was first sighted at the North Gate of the dam last month and a cage was immediately placed there to capture it. However, it did not fall into the trap. Sources said the forest personnel had launched combing operations in the dam vicinity. The entire dam site and the garden area had been combed on Friday but there was no sign of it. The animal is learnt to be moving in the area since many days. The leopard is believed to have strayed into the dam site from a nearby hilly area. It may be mentioned here that a leopard was spotted inside the staff quarters of the Chamarajanagar Institute of Medical Sciences in Chamarajanagar last month. The animal, however, continues to remain elusive though a cage has been kept in the vicinity to trap it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/leopard-spotted-near-krs/article33764799.ece
06 February 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||‘Geospatial technology crucial in country’s development’||The Vice-Chancellor, University of Mysore, G. Hemantha Kumar, inaugurated a virtual conference on ‘’Geospatial Technology for Sustainable Development’’ on Friday and underlined its importance in the development of the country. The webinar was hosted by the Department of Studies in Geography, University of Mysore, and the objective was to create awareness about geospatial technology and sustainable development and spread the idea to researchers, academicians and commoners. He said in the era of information technology with rapid advancement in computing, decision-making is informed and more scientific and hence the use of geospatial technology has assumed significance. He said it was identified as one of the three important emerging fields along with nanotechnology and biotechnology because of providing unbiased, reliable, repetitive and synoptic nature of data as well as tools for integration of information for analysis. This, he said, was important in monitoring and management of natural resources. Prof. Hemantha Kumar said it being a rapidly expanding field, geospatial technology could be applied to any profession ranging from public health to real estate. Listing other important applications of geospatial technology, he said monitoring air quality, resource assessment of renewable sources, monitoring and modelling climatic conditions, weather forecasting agriculture, and biodiversity monitoring were some of the areas where geospatial technology could be utilised. Documenting the growth of the field in India, Prof. Hemantha Kumar said geospatial technology has grown in the last few decades and India’s geospatial industry was witnessing a significant growth rate higher than the world average. “As India’s economic development unfolds, geospatial capabilities will be integral in it and will register high growth rate.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/geospatial-technology-crucial-in-countrys-development/article33764800.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Women conductors appeal for reduced work hours||Crew of Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) buses, who have been spending more than 12 hours at work every day due to the cost-cutting measures introduced during the COVID-19 pandemic, appealed to the State government on Friday to reduce their work hours to eight. Bus crew, especially women conductors, cited lack of infrastructure, such as restrooms and affordable catering services. In an appeal made through a video message to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi, who is also Transport Minister, a female conductor said, “There is no eight-hour duty. During rest hours, we cannot go home. There is no restroom for women. We cannot take rest inside the bus. I leave my two-and-a-half-year-old child at home for 12 hours. Please reduce the work day to eight hours.” After the outbreak of the pandemic, finances of the Corporation were badly hit owing to poor ridership. To ‘better utilise’ human resources and the fleet, the management decided to replace the shift system with a 12-hour work day with 2 to 3 hours rest in between. Another conductor said, “At present, we report to depots at 6 a.m. and leave at 9 p.m. We spend 12 to 14 hours on the bus. We don’t receive salaries on time and have problems paying rent, school fees and power bills. Please make sure that we receive salaries on time.” The BMTC has around 1,500 women conductors. A BMTC official said the corporation is going through a tough time. Prior to the outbreak of the pandemic, more than 35 lakh people used to avail its services every day. Now, the number is less than 20 lakh. Earlier, more than 70,000 trips were operated per day, but now the number is down to less than 50,000. “Considering these factors, we introduced a general shift in a phased manner as per provisions of the Motor Transport Workers Act. This has been done in the interest of both the organisation and employees. Once everything gets back to normal, we will go back to the old system,” said the official. He added that ridership and revenue generation have remained low. “We are managing to pay 50% of the salary as most of the revenue generated goes towards fuel and maintenance of the fleet,” he said. The BMTC currently operates around 5,200 out of 6,400 buses. Most of the AC buses are off the road due to poor ridership.  During rest hours, we cannot go home. There is no restroom for women. We cannot take rest inside the bus. I leave my two-and-a-half-year-old child at home for 12 hours. Please reduce the work day to eight hours A conductor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/women-conductors-appeal-for-reduced-work-hours/article33765083.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Housing preferences change, bigger homes in demand||After a long slump, as the real estate sector is witnessing a rejuvenation of sorts in business, a change in preferences of buyers as well as a change in their profile, influenced by the pandemic, is becoming evident. Representatives from the sector say while more and more younger people are opting to buy rather than rent, many are looking at upgrading, while first-time buyers too are looking at bigger spaces than they would during the pre-COVID-19 era. Kishore Jain, president, Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (CREDAI), Bengaluru told The Hindu that pre-COVID-19, millennials looked at accommodation as a “bed and breakfast option”. “Post-COVID-19, the house has become the whole world to them. They are working from home, they want a gym and entertainment at home. It has all converged into one now. What we are seeing is an attachment and detachment model arise, where they want to have their space while being part of a community. So gated communities, villas and row houses are doing well as they are independent, yet community homes. Larger homes are also being preferred, which offer scope for children’s study and home office. The new normal is dictating a great demand for larger spaces, and people don’t mind going to the peripheral areas to find these as commuting is not a necessity now,” he explained. ‘Affordability is an issue’ What does this mean for the compact apartments segment? “The new preference is villas, but affordability is still an issue. They do cost upwards of a crore, and not everyone can afford them. We expect this demand to last as long as COVID-19 lasts,” he said. According to property consultants, “bigger is better” is the catch-phrase now on the Indian housing market as the average apartment sizes in the top cities have risen by 10% since 2019. Bengaluru’s average apartment size increased by 3% from 1,280 sq.ft. in 2019 to 1,320 sq.ft. in 2020. The average apartment size is the highest in Hyderabad, according to ANAROCK Property Consultants. Its chairman Anuj Puri said, “The two main reasons for apartment sizes reducing in previous years were affordability and millennials’ preference for low-maintenance homes. Keen to generate more buyer interest with smaller price tags, developers whittled down their flat sizes. 2020 saw an almost immediate reversal of buyer preferences. With the accent suddenly being on accommodating the WFH and learn-from-home culture, flat sizes began increasing for the first time in four years.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/housing-preferences-change-bigger-homes-in-demand/article33765079.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Farmers set to block highways||Farmers’ unions have announced that they will block major State and national highways on Saturday from noon to 3 p.m. in solidarity with a similar ‘chakka jam’ protest in Delhi announced by Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella organisation of farmers leading the protest against farm laws at the borders of Delhi. G.C. Bayyareddy, State convenor, All India Kisan Sangharsh Co-ordination Committee, said farmers’ unions will block highways in all major districts, including Bengaluru, Mysuru and Hubballi-Dharwad. “It will be a peaceful protest,” he said. A contingent of farmers, led by Karnataka Rajya Raita Sangha leader Kodihalli Chandrashekhar, has reached Delhi to participate in the ‘chakka jam’ protest there. The protests on Bengaluru-Mysuru Road in Mandya and on Ballari Road near Yelahanka are likely to affect vehicular movement in the city. Those travelling to Kempegowda International Airport may face problems. Kuraburu Shantakumar of KRRS said that farmers will block the road near Yelahanka at the appointed time, even as Badagalpura Nagendra said they would block the Bengaluru-Mysuru Road. Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant said that while farmers can protest peacefully, they will not be allowed to impede movement of vehicles. B.R. Ravikante Gowda, Joint Commissioner (Traffic), said even if traffic is thrown out of gear on the international airport road, the police will divert motorists through the alternate routes put in place for Aero India 2021.  It will be a peaceful protest G.C. Bayyareddy, State convenor, All India Kisan Sangharsh Co-ordination Committee||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-set-to-block-highways/article33765075.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||430 new cases, three deaths||The State on Friday reported 430 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 9,41,500. With three deaths, the toll rose to 12,230. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 470 persons were discharged on Friday, taking the total recoveries to 9,23,377. Of the remaining 5,874 active patients, 144 are being monitored in ICUs. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.58%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 0.69%. Bengaluru Urban reported 217 cases taking its tally to 3,99,997. With two deaths coming from Bengaluru, the toll in the district rose to 4,401. Active cases in Bengaluru reduced to 3,833. As many as 74,119 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 69,555 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 1,73,68,124. COVID-19 vaccination A total of 3,58,768 healthcare workers of the targeted 7,42,702 have been vaccinated in the State so far taking the overall coverage to 48%. On Friday, the 21st day after vaccination began on January 16, the State achieved a coverage of 34% with 30,387 of the day’s targeted 88,485 persons coming forward to take the jab. While Dakshina Kannada recorded the highest coverage (66%), Bidar recorded the lowest (11%). Only four districts – Dakshina Kannada, Chikkamagaluru, Kodagu and Kolar – recorded coverage of 50% and above.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/430-new-cases-three-deaths/article33765078.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||For the love of cinema||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/for-the-love-of-cinema/article33765087.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Drug case: Aditya Alva, 4 other accused secure bail||The special court on Friday granted bail to Aditya Alva and four other accused in the high-profile drug case involving some persons of the Kannada film industry and party organisers. Alva, who was on the run for several months, was arrested by the Central Crime Branch police at a resort on the outskirts of Chennai in Tamil Nadu in January this year. Four other accused The four others who obtained bail were socialite and event manager Viren Khanna, second division clerk at the Regional Transport Office (RTO) Ravi Shankar, businessman Rahul Thonse and drug peddler Aditya Agarwal. Earlier this week, the court had granted bail to three persons: Niyaz Mohamed, Vaibhav Jain and Vinay Kumar. With this, many of the accused in the case are out on bail. ‘Chargesheet soon’ “The Central Crime Branch have almost completed the investigation and will file the chargesheet soon,” a police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/drug-case-aditya-alva-4-other-accused-secure-bail/article33765080.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Illustrious General||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/illustrious-general/article33764678.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Engagements||Mangaluru  Mangalore University: Inauguration of schemes, MLA U.T. Khader inaugurates Vatsalya Nidhi, Bank of Baroda Regional Manager Sunil K. Pai inaugurates public toilet, MLA D. Vedavyasa Kamath inaugurates free meal facility for poor students and NSS activities for 2021-22, Vice-Chancellor P. Subrahmanya Yadapadithaya presides, Indoor Stadium, Mangala Gangothri, 3 p.m.  SCDCC Bank: Installation of common software, inauguration of ATM ofKankanady branch and other initiatives, Karnataka State Apex Bank president and MLA Belli Prakash, NABARD chief GM Neeraj Kumar Varma, bank president M.N. Rajendra Kumar and others attend, bank head office, K.S. Rao Road, 10.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/engagements/article33765232.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||AERO INDIA 2021||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/aero-india-2021/article33765071.ece
06 February 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Kuttanad farmers gear up for harvest||Farmers in Kuttanad are gearing up for the harvest of the ‘puncha’ crop (first crop). According to the Agriculture Department officials, the harvest will begin later this month. Farmers have undertaken paddy farming in more than 29,000 hectares in the district this season, a major portion of which is in Kuttanad. “Preparations for the paddy harvest have begun in the district. A meeting to be attended by District Collector A. Alexander is scheduled for February 12. Representatives of farmers, combine harvester machine agents and others will attend the meeting. Steps will be taken to bring combine harvesters from neighbouring States,” said an official of the Agriculture Department. The beginning Sources said that the Mukkodi North and Mukkodi South paddy fields in Edathua would be the first to go under the harvester on February 20. In view of the initial delay in the procurement of paddy in the recently concluded second crop season (additional crop season), the Kerala State Civil Supplies Corporation (Supplyco) has initiated measures to procure the harvested paddy in a time-bound manner this season. “We have already started the procurement from the district. Recently, we procured paddy cultivated in the second crop season from a few fields in the Ambalappuzha and Alappuzha municipal area, where harvest took place much later owing to the delay in sowing, after including it on the ‘puncha’ crop list. Several mills have already registered, and all measures are in place for the smooth procurement of paddy in the puncha season,” said an official with Supplyco. Procurement issues In the second crop season, mills initially kept away from procurement after they failed to reach an agreement with the government over compensation for the procured paddy, which got destroyed in the 2018 floods. Following this, the government decided to rope in cooperative societies to procure paddy directly from farmers. However, lack of storage, among other facilities, for cooperative societies in the district, resulted in a delay in the procurement. The impasse ended after an agreement was reached between Supplyco and mill owners. Many challenges Meanwhile, farmers in Kuttanad and Upper Kuttanad are sceptical about the yield as they have faced numerous challenges in the puncha season. In the beginning, seeds provided by the government to farmers in Nedumudi, Thakazhi and Veeyapuram failed to germinate. An increase in water level coupled with bund breaches following unseasonal rain destroyed paddy in around 600 hectares in Kuttanad and Upper Kuttanad. Besides, pest attack and wild rice menace have also been reported from several fields.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kuttanad-farmers-gear-up-for-harvest/article33764763.ece
06 February 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Case against youths for staging road accident for video||The quest to become popular by making a troll video has landed six youths in trouble. According to the police, the youths purposely created a motorbike accident a couple of weeks ago at Thrikkunnappuzha, to make the troll video. The Thrikkunnappuzha police said they had registered cases against two members of the gang for deliberately rear-ending a motorcycle, on which two persons were travelling, for creating the video. The police said Sujeesh Sukhu, 22, of Mahadevikadu and Akash Sajikumar 20, of Karthikappally were booked under Sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) of the Indian Penal Code and 183(1) (whoever drives a motor vehicle in contravention of the speed limits referred to in section 112) and 184 (driving dangerously) of the Motor Vehicles Act. Officials said the youths hit the road on four motorcycles. One motorbike hit another two-wheeler ridden by Althaf, a native of Pallana. Althaf and the elderly pillion rider, however, did not fall from the two-wheeler. After the accident, the youths apologised to them. “The episode, including the accident and the apology, was recorded. They later posted the video, including its making, on social media. Local people who watched the video alerted the Motor Vehicles Department,” said an official.   Motorbikes seized The Motor Vehicles Department seized the motorcycles and initiated steps to suspend their licences for six months. One member of the team was recently booked by the Haripad police after his motorbike hit a 38-year-old woman near Nangiarkulangara Junction on January 27. Jyothish who rode the bike did not stop after the incident. The woman later died in a hospital from the injuries sustained in the accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/case-against-youths-for-staging-road-accident-for-video/article33764764.ece
06 February 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Tribal youth trampled to death by wild elephant||A tribal youth, Subramanian, 38, was trampled to death by a wild elephant at Societykudy in Edamalakkudy, inside the Munnar forest division, on Friday. The victim, reported to be mentally challenged, was living with his relatives at Sheddukudy after the death of his parents a few years ago. On Friday morning, he accidentally came in front of a herd of wild elephants on his way to Societykudy. The elephants did not move from the scene of attack till afternoon. The police and the Forest Department officials reached the spot in the evening. The body was shifted for post-mortem examination. Local people said there had been an increase in wild elephant intrusion in Societykudy for the past three months and they had caused damage to property. Damaged The grama panchayat building, Akshaya Centre, a hostel building and six houses were destroyed by wild elephants nearly a month ago. Though the grama panchayat office is situated at Societykudy, the camp office of Edamalakkudy is in Munnar, nearly 35 km away. Though a road connects Societykudy with Pettimudy, a plantation area in Munnar, it was washed away in landslips in August last. The road was repaired prior to the local body elections in December.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tribal-youth-trampled-to-death-by-wild-elephant/article33764761.ece
06 February 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Panchayat seeks repeal of Centre’s draft notification||The Mananthavady block panchayat board has urged the Central government to withdraw the draft notification of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change that envisages a buffer zone around the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary. According to the draft notification issued on January 28, the eco-sensitive zone will be to an extent of 0 to 3.4 km around the boundary of the sanctuary. “The sanctuary has a total area of around 344.53 sq.km., of which 118.59 sq.km. is declared as buffer zone. The draft notification will make people’s life more miserable, as they are already reeling under the collapse of the agriculture sector,” the resolution passed by the board said. The notification stipulates that the villages of Thirunelly and Thrissilery in Thirunelly grama panchayat, which are already part of the buffer zone of the Aralam Wildlife Sanctuary, should be included in the buffer zone of the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary as well, the resolution said. The loss of income due to the pandemic and the rising cost of living following the fuel price hike have considerably impacted the population here. Wildlife should be contained within the forest boundaries after a demarcation of forest and human settlements, and human settlements and farm land should be excluded from the Eco Sensitive Zone (ESZ), the resolution said. Meanwhile, the UDF district committee has called for a 12-hour hartal (6 a.m. to 6 p.m.) in the district on Monday demanding repeal of the the draft notification. Essential services have been exempted from the hartal, UDF convener N.D. Appachan said in a release here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panchayat-seeks-repeal-of-centres-draft-notification/article33764704.ece
06 February 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||New police chief assumes charge in Wayanad||Aravind Sukumar, a 2016 batch IPS officer, took charge as the new police chief of Wayanad district on Friday. Mr. Aravind, who previously served as the Superintendent of Police, Information and Communication Technology , assumed office as the 44th police chief of the district. He was given a warm welcome by police personnel. Mr. Aravind, who was born and brought up in Delhi, is a medical graduate. His predecessor, G. Poonguzhali, will take charge as the new Superintendent of Police Thrissur (Rural).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-police-chief-assumes-charge-in-wayanad/article33764706.ece
06 February 2021||Kannur,KERALA||Varsity to take action against teacher||Controller of Examinations P.J. Vincent has said action will be taken against the teacher concerned in an incident in which answer sheets of a BCom second year examination held under the distance education department of Kannur University were found by the roadside. Kerala Students Union workers staged a protest before the university on Friday. About 100 answer sheets of the examination held on December 23 were found by the wayside at Chuliyat in Malappattam on Thursday. The results of the examination had not yet been published. The examination controller said the university was not at fault for the incident and the teacher responsible would be removed from examination duties. The corrected answer sheets were signed by M.C. Rajesh, Assistant Professor, ITM College, Mayyil. Mr. Rajesh, in his clarification, said the answer sheets had fallen off while he was riding his bike and he had lodged a complaint with the police. The examination board convened an emergency meeting and decided to investigate the incident and seek an explanation from the teacher who conducted the evaluation. A three-member committee headed by Pro Vice Chancellor A. Sabu had been constituted. P. Mohammed Shammas, president of the KSU district committee, said the university should take the issue seriously and order a thorough investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/varsity-to-take-action-against-teacher/article33764778.ece
06 February 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Woman held on charge of murdering mother-in-law||The police on Friday arrested Elsie, 54, daughter-in-law of Mariakutty, 82, who was found dead inside her house at Karikottakari, near Iritty, on Wednesday. The incident took place when Elsie’s husband Matthew, had gone for tapping rubber. The police said Mariakutty had suffered injuries to the head and fractures in one hand. During the interrogation, Elsie allegedly admitted to her crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-held-on-charge-of-murdering-mother-in-law/article33764701.ece
06 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Health Director told to conduct inquiry||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court has directed the Director, Health Services, to authorise a senior medical officer to conduct an inquiry into the allegation by the convicts who were assaulted by some officers of the Central Prison, Thiruvananthapuram, that the medical officer of the prison did not take note of the injures suffered by them during a medical examination. The Bench comprising justice K. Vinod Chandran and Justice M.R. Anitha ordered that the inquiry report be placed on record within three weeks. The court issued the directives when a petition filed by parents of Tittu Jerome, a convict in the Kevin murder case, alleging assault on their ward and other inmates of the jail came up for hearing. The directives were given as the Director General of Police, Prisons, had expressed helplessness to conduct an inquiry into the allegation against the doctor. The DGP, in his affidavit, stated that the officers involved in the alleged incident had been suspended and disciplinary proceedings were pending against them. The affidavit also pointed out the punishment awarded to these convicts for allegedly bringing in alcohol illegally into the prison. Court calls for records The court directed the Superintendent of Prison to place before the court records of the inquiry conducted into the alleged smuggling of alcohol into the prison along with the logbook maintained by the medical officers. The court flayed the DGP for expressing “anguish" over the court's observations against the medical officer and the statement that due to the court observations, he was constrained to request for the jail medical officer's transfer from the prison. The court said ‘‘the DGP will do well to remember that the observations are of a constitutional court and it is not for the officers to show resentment about such observations in an affidavit.” Unfortunately, not only was his choice of words unbecoming but had also not chosen to deal with the specific issues pointed out by the court. The tenor of the concluding paragraph seems to be that the service of the particular medical officer “is imperative in the Central Prison,” which, the court felt, was "quite uncharitable for the innuendo implied on the State medical force.” The court also pointed out that if any mischief was committed by a prisoner, the punishment had been prescribed in the Kerala Prisons and Correctional Services (Management) Act and rule and there was also specific procedures for conducting inquiries for awarding the punishment. Therefore, the punishment could not be third-degree measures, putting the life and limb to peril. The court posted the case on February 8 for further hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/health-director-told-to-conduct-inquiry/article33764789.ece
06 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||No green clearance required for NH-66 widening, says NGT panel||A committee appointed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has submitted a report stating that the proposed widening of the nearly 194-km stretch from Edappally here to Ramanattukara in Kozhikode on NH 66 to a 45-metre wide stretch does not require environmental clearance. The Southern Bench of the tribunal comprising justice K. Ramakrishnan and expert member Saibal Dasgupta had asked the two-member committee to find out whether there was any violation of environmental laws by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) in carrying out the project. They were also told to check whether prior environmental clearance was required. The directive was given following a petition alleging that the stretch was widened without carrying out an environmental impact study. The committee comprising J. Balachander, General Manager (T) and Project Director, NHAI, Kochi regional office, and S. Prabhu, Scientist-C, Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Bengaluru regional office, pointed out that the project does not require environmental clearance even though all the stretches of the highway are considered as one project. It has been divided into five stretches. Quoting an order by the Supreme Court that ruled that environmental clearance was not required in the case of NH 45-A Villuppuram-Nagapattinam highway, the committee said that the additional right of way was less than 40 metres (38 metres). The right of way in bypasses was also less than 60 metres (45 metres) in the case related to the widening of the NH-66 stretch from Edappally to Ramanattukara. There is no violation of environmental laws as the work has not yet started, said the report. However, the committee recommended that the project authority should obtain all relevant and applicable statutory clearances prior to start of the work. Necessary dust suppression methods have to be adopted in the construction phase, besides implementing best traffic management measures to avoid traffic snarls. The NHAI informed that the alignment of the five stretches attracted the provisions of the Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) notification. CRZ maps will be prepared by the National Centre for Earth Science Studies (NCESS), Thiruvananthapuram. There is no protected or reserve forest area on the alignment stretch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-green-clearance-required-for-nh-66-widening-says-ngt-panel/article33765206.ece
06 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Of unfulfilled promises, lost lives||Thirteen years and 34 lives lost without ever receiving the promised benefits is how the balance sheet of the Moolampilly rehabilitation package looks like as yet another anniversary of the forceful eviction for the rail-road connectivity of the Vallarpadam International Container Transshipment Terminal (ICTT) is observed on Saturday. It was on February 6, 2008, that ten families, including schoolgoing children, were thrown out of their homes at Moolampilly, an island in Kadamakkudy village, scarring the collective psyche of Kerala society. For them, and 306 similarly evicted families spread over seven villages — Kadamakkudy, Mulavukad, Edappally North, Edappally South, Cheranalloor, Kadungalloor, and Eloor — life took a turn for the worse and normalcy still remains a far cry for the majority of them 13 long years down the line. The eviction was followed by a day-night sit-in at Menaka Junction when a protest march taken out by the evictees to the District Collector’s official residence under the aegis of the Moolampilly Coordination Committee was stopped by the police. They sat there for 45 days that pressured the State government into notifying the rehabilitation package on March 19, 2008. Tilted to a side The evictees who lost their homes and land measuring under five cents were allotted five cents, and six cents to the rest. Out of the 60 houses constructed on rehabilitation plots so far, many have developed cracks or have even tilted to a side since five out of the seven rehabilitation sites were reclaimed land. “Most of the families who received rehabilitation plots in Thuthiyoor haven’t constructed houses since the ones already built have developed cracks. While the authorities have admitted to the problems of the reclaimed rehabilitation plots, nothing has been done so far. No one should ever give their land for development lest they suffer our fate,” said 82-year-old Sreedevi, who was evicted from her home at Manjummal in Eloor village. She complained of being denied the monthly rent of Rs. 5,000 since 2012 while the promise of a job to a member of the evicted family according to educational qualification also remains unfulfilled. The Moolampilly Coordination Committee lamented the unfinished business of rehabilitation even after 13 years and demanded time-bound allocation of assured benefits when the beneficiaries are still alive rather than awarding them posthumously. A meeting of the committee chaired by general convener Francis Kalathunkal to mark the 13th anniversary of eviction also demanded basic infrastructure at rehabilitation plots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/of-unfulfilled-promises-lost-lives/article33765208.ece
06 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Rehabilitation plots on reclaimed land lack basic infrastructure||The reclaimed nature of land, faulty land filling, and lack of basic infrastructure continue to plague the majority of the plots identified for the rehabilitation of families evicted for rail-road connectivity of the Vallarpadam International Container Transshipment Terminal. In a preliminary report following an inspection of four out of the seven rehabilitation sites in 2017, an assistant executive engineer of PWD Building Sub Division had admitted to it. Things, alleges Moolampilly Coordination Committee that has been anchoring the cause of evictees, remain more or less same almost four years later. The report found the plots at Moolampilly were devoid of basic infrastructure like a proper connecting road and that the existing road was too steep for vehicle movement. It also called for strong foundation for any construction on the plots. The finding was almost similar for the plots at Mulavukad too. Basic infrastructure like road, water, power, and drains were found missing with strong foundation recommended for constructions owing to the reclaimed nature of land. Lack of basic infrastructure ailed the plots at Kothad as well. The officer also recommended coconut wood piling and granite reinforcement considering the loose nature of land for the construction of a retaining wall for a plot of one of the evictees in Vaduthala. In Mulavukad, none of the allotted 13 families have so far constructed house for fear of making investments in a lost cause, said Francis Kalathungal, general convener of Moolampilly Coordination Committee. While six out of the 13 families have constructed houses on the plots at Moolampilly, two houses have developed cracks. Two out of 106 families alone have constructed houses on one of the rehabilitation plots at Thuthiyoor. One of the two houses constructed at another site at Thuthiyoor has developed a crack while the other has tilted discouraging the other 52 families there to undertake construction. The rehabilitation site at Vaduthala was by far the best among the plots where 42 of the 98 families have constructed houses. In Cheranalloor, three out of the six families and in Kothad, four out of the 15 families have built houses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rehabilitation-plots-on-reclaimed-land-lack-basic-infrastructure/article33765209.ece
06 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Kerala’s first human milk bank opened in Kochi||The State’s first human milk bank was inaugurated at the Ernakulam General Hospital by Health Minister K.K. Shylaja on Friday. The facility will ensure breast milk for newborns who cannot be breastfed by their own mothers, who might be deceased, unwell or unable to produce sufficient milk. Up to six months The milk, which will be collected from lactating mothers at the hospital, can be stored for up to six months at the bank. Initially, the milk will be provided to newborns admitted at the neonatal intensive care unit of the hospital. More hospitals will eventually be part of a collection and distribution network. Newborns While around 3,600 babies are born at the General Hospital in a year, 600 to 1,000 babies are admitted to the NICU, said a release. The milk bank, called ‘Nectar of Life’ and worth Rs. 35 lakh, was set up by the Rotary Club of Cochin Global in collaboration with the State Health Department. It consists of a pasteurisation unit, deep freezers, refrigerators, breast pumps, equipment for sterilisation and computers. Trained nurses Trained nurses will operate the milk bank. The concept of a human milk bank was conceived a while ago, and is popular in many countries, but Kerala could make it a reality only today, Ms. Shylaja said, during the virtual inauguration. “Breast milk is important for immunity and the milk bank could help save the lives of many children,” she said, according to a release.  It consists of a pasteurisation unit, deep freezers, refrigerators, breast pumps, equipment for sterilisation and computers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/states-first-human-milk-bank-opened/article33765201.ece
06 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Medical college teachers join State-wide strike||Teachers of the Government Medical College, Kalamassery, participated in a State-wide hunger strike by government medical college teachers protesting against the non-payment of arrears due to them from 2016 onwards, after the State government revised their salary. The day-long hunger strike witnessed participation by both the Ernakulam unit of the Kerala Government Medical College Teachers’ Association (KGMCTA) and the Co-operative Medical College Teachers’ Association (CMCTA). “We decided to have a relay strike since we did not want to disrupt regular medical services at the hospital. The strike did not affect outpatient services,” said Dr. Unmesh A.K., president, Ernakulam unit, KGMCTA. Classes, however, have remained suspended since January 29. The teachers had issued a strike notice nearly two weeks ago. On January 29, all medical services save for COVID-19 treatment and emergency services were suspended for three hours, and all classes and have come to a halt since then. “Only internal exams for the final year students will continue,” Dr. Unmesh said. The government has taken no action so far, he said, and the teachers would go on an indefinite strike from February 9 if the government continued to keep mum. The strike would then hit all medical services, except for COVID-19 and emergency care.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/medical-college-teachers-join-state-wide-strike/article33765199.ece
06 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Petitioners given time to file objections||The Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal has permitted the counsel of the petitioners to file their objections, if any, to the panel report by February 17. The petitioners had stated before the National Green Tribunal that the proponents of the Edappally-Ramanattukara national highway stretch widening would not be able to proceed with the work without conducting proper environment impact assessment as it came under the ‘Category A’ of the Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) Notification, 2006. They had cited similar cases before the Principal Bench of the tribunal and the Madras High Court to point out that the authorities were trying to widen the road without getting prior environmental clearance. In its order issued on November 11 last year, the tribunal had pointed out that there was a substantial question of environment which required its interference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/petitioners-given-time-to-file-objections/article33765205.ece
06 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||A defunct panel that failed to deliver||The Moolampilly Monitoring Committee (MMC) entrusted with reviewing the progress of the implementation of the rehabilitation package has failed to live up to that mandate going by its record since its inception. The committee is chaired by the District Collector and has members drawn from the Moolampilly Coordination Committee, local bodies, Revenue Department, KSEB, Kerala Water Authority, environmentalists, and political outfits. Supposed to meet every month and submit timely reports to the Revenue Department, MMC observed it more in breach with meetings held far less frequently. The last meeting was held on February 13 last year. “The committee has so far met only 18 times since it was formed on February 6, 2011, at a meeting under the stewardship of then Chief Minister Oommen Chandy,” said Francis Kalathungal, general convener, Moolampilly Coordination Committee. “It is a defunct body that never met during crucial junctures and the assurances given went largely unfulfilled. It wasn’t possible to hold the authorities concerned to their word when months separated meetings. The bureaucracy that marked the body was indifferent to the sufferings of people and felt the issues raised were old. But for the ones who lost their homes, it is not an old issue when they are still suffering,” said C.R. Neelakantan, a member of MMC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-defunct-panel-that-failed-to-deliver/article33765210.ece
06 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Pipe laying will be over by March-end: KWA||Pipe-laying in the Kathrikadavu area, which has been leaving roads in a bad state, will be completed by March 31, according to the Kerala Water Authority (KWA). The project involves laying pipelines on the Pachalam-Kathrikadavu stretch to augment water supply. Work is under way on Toll Gate Road, Judges Avenue and the Kathrikadavu-Thammanam road, adding up to 4.5 km, said a KWA official in charge of the project. “It is a delayed project. Work began 1.5 years ago, but the rains leave only a small window for trenching and pipeline laying,” the official said. The contractor undertaking the work has been asked to post workers to ensure that the roads are frequently levelled for better flow of traffic till work is complete. KWA and corporation officials visited the sites on Friday. Mayor M. Anilkumar said that the assistant executive engineer executing the project, the local councillor and the AMRUT officials at the corporation have been asked to coordinate with regard to properly relaying the Thammanam-Pullepady road. It should be complete in around 25 days. “The corporation’s engineers have been directed to prepare an estimate immediately to restore the road,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pipe-laying-will-be-over-by-march-end-kwa/article33765200.ece
06 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Cancer centre: High Court asks govt. to file affidavit||The Kerala High Court on Thursday asked the State government to file an affidavit in response to a writ petition filed by the construction company challenging the termination of its contract for the construction of the Cochin Cancer Research Centre. When the petition by P and C Projects Pvt Ltd, Erode, came up for hearing, Millu Dandapani, counsel for the company, submitted that if the petitioner was allowed to continue to do the work, the construction work could be completed successfully in 300 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cancer-centre-high-court-asks-govt-to-file-affidavit/article33765202.ece
06 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||IFFK office inaugurated||Senior filmmaker Joshiy inaugurated the organising committee office of the Kochi edition of the International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK) here on Friday. The office will function at the headquarters of the Malayalam Cine Technicians’ Association (MACTA) at Ernakulam North. Mayor M. Anilkumar presided over the function. Actor Joju George and MACTA chairman Jayaraj were among those who attended. The Kochi edition of the fest will be held from February 17 to 21. The distribution of passes will be held from February 15. The participants have to submit a COVID-19 negative certificate 48 hours before the start of the fest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iffk-office-inaugurated/article33765211.ece
06 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||714 new cases, 802 recoveries in Ernakulam||Ernakulam recorded 714 new COVID-19 cases and 802 recoveries on Friday, leaving an active case load of 10,434. Testing saw a boost in the district with 9,028 samples being sent on the day. Four health workers were among those who tested positive on Friday. Nedumbassery recorded 24 new cases, 20 people were infected in Chengamanad, and 19 each in Kalamassery and Thripunithura. The source of infection of 22 people could not be traced. Over 24,400 people remain in quarantine. Of the people recovering from the infection, 8,384 are at home, 48 patients are at the Government Medical College Hospital, 75 at PVS Hospital, and 22 are at the Fort Kochi Taluk Hospital. A total of 707 patients are being treated at private hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/714-new-cases-802-recoveries-in-ernakulam/article33765198.ece
06 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Expressing their angst||Tourism stakeholders took out a rally here on Friday, denouncing the alleged apathetic attitude of Central and State governments towards lakhs of employees who have been rendered jobless due to the pandemic situation and subsequent lull in arrival of tourists. This was part of a nationwide protest organised by tourism professionals. The rally in the city began from DH Ground and ended at Marine Drive. Both employees and owners of different tourism ventures took part in the protest. President of Tourism Professionals Club George Scaria, secretary Asok Swaroop, president of Tourism Care Foundation Sheik Ismail, and secretary of Kerala Travel Mart Jose Pradeep were among those who spoke. They expressed angst at the governments turning a blind eye towards employees who are suffering for the past 10 months and warned of stepping up their protest if the situation continued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/expressing-their-angst/article33765204.ece
06 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Jesna case: HC seeks CBI’s response to plea for probe||The Kerala High Court on Friday sought the response of the Central Bureau of Investigation to a plea for a CBI probe into the missing of Jesna Maria James, a second-year BCom student, from her home at Ranni since March 22, 2018. When the petition came up for hearing, senior government pleader P. Narayanan submitted that all possible measures had been taken by the Crime Branch to trace the missing girl, but to no avail. In fact, the police were not able to conduct an effective investigation due to the COVID-19 pandemic in the past seven months. The investigation was still on. Being a case of missing of a girl of tender age, it was too early to make a decision in the matter of completion of investigation and file a report before the court as undetected. The Crime Branch needs six more months to complete the probe, the government pleader submitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jesna-case-hc-seeks-cbis-response-to-plea-for-probe/article33764790.ece
06 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Summons to Mani C. Kappan||The Ernakulam First Class Judicial Magistrate Court on Friday issued summons to Mani C. Kappan, MLA, in a cheating case filed by a Keralite businessman based in Mumbai. The court issued the summons on a complaint filed by Dinesh Menon and said that a prima facie case was made out. The case has been posted to March 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/summons-to-mani-c-kappan/article33765212.ece
06 February 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Fresh action plan to check spread in Kollam||The Health Department has launched a fresh action plan in the district as part of the Triple Zero campaign following the recent surge in COVID-19 cases. The campaign aims at ‘zero infection, zero transmission and zero death.’ According to officials, closed and crowded workspaces and non-compliance with COVID-19 protocols have triggered the spike and measures are in place to curb further spread. While workplace clusters have been identified among cashew labourers and Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) workers in several places, tourist destinations pose another challenge. “After random persons from these sections and migrant workers tested positive, we started focusing on them. Very soon clusters were reported from cashew factories at Kulakkada, East Kallada, Munroe Thuruthu, and Thekkum Bhagam. We also came to know that the factories were not following the guidelines and at many places workers were mingling during lunch break leading to the spread,” said Deputy District Medical Officer R. Sandhya. More RT-PCR tests The department will be going for more RT-PCR (reverse transcription - polymerase chain reaction) tests while surprise inspections will be held at workplaces, events and functions, including weddings. “We have decided to go for intensive contact tracing and follow the strategy we employed in the initial days. Nowadays positive cases hardly give the details of their contacts other than family members. We have started to trace all the contacts and all family members will be tested on the same day or the next day.” Meanwhile, the authorities have decided to strengthen the functioning of lifestyle clinics for protecting persons belonging to vulnerable categories. Medical officers have been directed to ensure that all in home care are given proper instructions and guidelines. If they need expert treatment, they will be refereed on time as per protocol. While the eSanjeevani telemedicine facility will be promoted, Non-Communicable Disease (NCD) medicines will be made available to positive persons and those in quarantine. Non-Resident Indians and those coming from other States will have to strictly follow the protocol and persons who repeatedly test positive should get in touch with the department. The health officials have instructed all the private hospitals and labs in the district to upload the test results on the LDMS (Lab Diagnosis and Management System) portal within 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fresh-action-plan-to-check-spread-in-kollam/article33764772.ece
06 February 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam adds 391 cases to tally||The district reported 391 COVID-19 cases and 781 recoveries on Friday. Those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 include four NRIs, one person from another State, 383 contact cases, two persons with no known source and one health worker. The district currently has 11,317 persons under observation. A total of 1,306 persons completed home quarantine on Friday. 310 in Alappuzha Alappuzha reported 310 COVID-19 cases on Friday. The fresh cases include 301 patients who contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of two persons remains unknown. Five persons who came from abroad, one from another State and a health worker also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Meanwhile, 594 COVID-19 patients recovered on the day. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 4,434.  (With input from Alappuzha bureau)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-adds-391-cases-to-tally/article33764774.ece
06 February 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Opportunity for youth volunteers||The Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports has invited applications from youngsters to be deployed as National Youth Volunteers to spearhead campaigns and activities on health, literacy, sanitation, arts, sports, gender, environment and other social issues and assist the administration on implementation of various programmes. Those who are interested can apply on www.nyks.nic.in. Contact the Nehru Yuva Kendra Kollam office or call 0474 2747903, 9446496294 for further details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/opportunity-for-youth-volunteers/article33764773.ece
06 February 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Aid for sinking ponds||The Fisheries Department has invited applications from persons belonging to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes for setting up farm ponds (padutha kulam). Those with land not less than five cents can apply. The last date for accepting applications is February 10. Applications can be submitted at the Fish Farmers Development Agency (FFDA) under the district panchayat. Contact 0474-2795545 for more details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aid-for-sinking-ponds/article33764765.ece
06 February 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Workshop on food processing||The District Industry Centre is organising a free training workshop on food processing on February 16 and 17. There will be sessions on manufacturing of value-added products from jackfruit, plantain, fruits and vegetables. Interested persons may register before February 9. Call 0474 2748395, 9446314448.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/workshop-on-food-processing/article33764766.ece
06 February 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Applications invited for vacant teaching posts||Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, has invited applications for the vacant posts of elementary and secondary special educators (temporary) in the district. Interested persons can appear for an interview on February 9 at Government Higher Secondary School , West Kollam. The interview starts at 10 a.m. Call 0474 2794098 for more details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/applications-invited-for-vacant-teaching-posts/article33764767.ece
06 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Cyberpark hits a milestone||Cyberpark Kozhikode has clocked a milestone by adding 107 companies in just four years, as the government-owned IT hub today houses 113 firms as against six in the 2017-18 fiscal. As on this week, a statement said, Cyberpark allotted space to 56 companies. Of them, 44 are operational. Space has been allotted to 12 more companies, and they will commence operations after obtaining SEZ approval in the pivotal Sahya building on the 45-acre campus. In addition, 47 companies are functioning from App Incubation Hub in Mobile 10x. Of them, 22 are start-ups (less than two years). Another 25 have availed co-working spaces. Cyberpark had only four functional companies in 2017 before Sahya commenced operations. That way, the total strength has reached 113. The area under lease has gone up from 8% in 2017-18 to 73% in 2020-21. The number of employees grew from 107 to over 850 during the same period. Software exports marked an increase of nearly 390% from Rs. 3,01,71,390 in 2017-18 to Rs. 14,76,10,856 in 2019-20. The IT hub also initiated conversion of a basement space of 50,000 sq.ft. into a fully-fitted-out smart business centre. It can accommodate 31 companies, starting from 500 sq.ft. to 2,500 sq.ft. with seaters ranging from a minimum of 10 to as high as 70. These will be ready by the end of the current fiscal. Start-ups chiefly face the challenge of obscurity while sourcing global business. Cyberpark addresses this issue, as acquiring premium infrastructure space of a government-run IT park earns it instant recognition and quality ecosystem, experts point out. At a recent function to mark the achievements of Cyberpark, then Cyberpark General Manager C. Nireesh said that amid the pandemic there was huge demand from start-ups. They are keen to explore global markets towards export business, especially for product-based companies. Cyberpark, founded in 2009, has proposed a new IT building, as the existing space will be fully occupied within a year, going by the number of Expressions of Interest (EoI) from IT companies. Above all, as start-ups are looking at innovative products and are into research and development, there is every possibility of a global recognition for units from Cyberpark, Mr. Nireesh had observed. Calicut Forum for Information Technology (CAFIT) president P.T. Harris said north Kerala had a good number of entrepreneurs eager to shift base to Kozhikode to optimise cost and access a large talent pool. The pandemic has opened opportunities for the IT sector, as experienced and talented resources can be recruited from anywhere. Besides, work from home enables offices to go for smaller working space, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cyberpark-hits-a-milestone-adds-107-firms-in-four-years/article33764691.ece
06 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Tough times for migrant fishers, boat workers||Migrant fishers and boat workers who came back to the city following the relaxation of COVID-19 regulations are going through tough times owing to poor catch and the cancellation of daily fishing activities by boat owners to cut costs. While fishers from Tamil Nadu are still staying back, the majority from Odisha and Andhra Pradesh are returning to their home States. Heavy losses Boat owners say increasing fuel prices, unfavourable weather conditions and poor catch have been affecting their business for over six months. Many who resumed business are now facing huge losses and are staying away from daily fishing activities, they point out. “Sensing boat owners’ helplessness, many of the migrant fishers have already gone back to their States along with their friends,” says Karichal Preman, vice president of All Kerala Fishing Boat Owners Association. Skilled workers At the same time, some of the migrant fishers who are skilled in doing other jobs are staying back with a hope that the situation would improve. The majority of such workers are from Tamil Nadu who go for various part-time local jobs now. After the lifting of lockdown regulations, fishermen were hopeful of generating a good income by resuming fishing. Though the regulations introduced by Health and Fisheries departments as part of COVID-19 prevention measures were tough to follow, many had resumed the business. “After the national lockdown, it was tough to get the required strength of migrant workers. Quarantining them was also a challenge. But we never expected poor catch,” said a member of the Kerala Boat Owners Association from Beypore. He also said the adverse season and rough sea added to their woes.  After the national lockdown, it was tough to get the required strength of migrant workers. Quarantining them was also a challenge. But we never expected poor catch A Kerala Boat Owners Association member||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tough-times-for-migrant-fishers-boat-workers/article33764699.ece
06 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Terminal for Lakshadweep passengers||As part of upgrading Beypore port into a well-developed sea port, a modern passenger terminal will be constructed at the port to offer better facilities for Lakshadweep passengers. Preliminary inspection to start the construction work on the facility has already been completed under the leadership of people’s representatives and an engineering wing. A dedicated terminal for Lakshadweep passengers at Beypore port is a long-pending demand. In the absence of better seating arrangements and comfort station facilities, passengers now face inconvenience during their trips to and fro the island. According to Port officials, the Harbour Engineering wing has been entrusted with the preparation of the project plan to be submitted to the government. A detailed estimate will be prepared soon to complete the facility in two years. If required, local development fund of people’s representatives also will be used for the work. The new terminal will have modern amenities and comfortable seating arrangements for passengers. Filtered drinking water, feeding room, and quality comfort stations will be part of the amenities. The terminal will be constructed adjacent to the main entrance to the port. According to officials, the managing director of the Lakshadweep Cooperative Marketing Federation Bazar Jamhar, president P.P. Muhsin and Assistant Port Officer of the island N.B. Seethikoya have inspected the proposed site for the project. “They are happy with the site identified for the construction work,” officials said. At the same time, the construction of a dedicated wharf for Lakshadweep at Beypore Port is yet to be a reality. Though a Memorandum of Understanding had been signed in 2010 by the State government and the Lakshadweep administration for the project, it did not materialise. Development blueprint A separate development blueprint under District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao is getting ready for addressing the long-pending needs of the port. Stakeholders, including the port development committees of various chambers of commerce and exporters’ committees, have submitted their suggestions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/terminal-for-lakshadweep-passengers/article33764689.ece
06 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Infra development of police govt’s top priority, says CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday opened the newly constructed Kunnamangalam police station building. The station with modern surveillance amenities was constructed at a cost of Rs. 1.49 crore. In his online inaugural address, Mr. Vijayan said the State government gave top priority to infrastructure development of the police. It involves construction of new station buildings with better amenities for officials and visitors and foundation stone laying for new structures, he added. “Almost all police stations now have their own buildings. There are also sufficient number of quarters for personnel. The people-friendly atmosphere at police stations is the result of such interventions,” said Mr. Vijayan. He also sought the cooperation of the police to complete all remaining projects. Meanwhile, a colourful procession was organised in Kunnamangalam town as part of the inauguration of the station. P.T.A. Rahim, MLA, Kunnamangalam, led the procession, which drew the participation of local residents and heads of local bodies. The Kunnamangalam police said a hi-tech control room and a city surveillance project were part of the new facility. The surveillance project was rolled out following complaints by local traders about thefts and anti-social activities, they added. Model station The new building was sanctioned for the Kunnamangalam police under a project to convert it into a model police station. Since the station has a one-and-a-half-acre compound, more development projects could be undertaken, officials said. The Chief Minister also laid the foundation stone for a new building for the Mukkom police station on the occasion. The project will be completed in a year. The local development fund of people’s representatives will also be used for the development of amenities in both the stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/infra-development-of-police-govts-top-priority-says-cm/article33764692.ece
06 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Wildlife attacks go unabated in upland regions of Kozhikode||Upland farmers in Kozhikode district have been waiting for quite a while for solar fences and trenches to stop wild animals from entering cultivated land. However, they now feel that many projects to protect crops from straying wild animals are being given up midway owing to lack of follow-up action by Forest Department officials. Several damaged solar fences remain unrepaired, making it easy for wild elephants to enter cultivated fields. According to heads of various local bodies, there are no officials who are unaware of the matter. “Many officials have visited the areas and taken stock of the situation. What we miss is time-bound action to fix the problems,” said Thomas, a settler farmer from Peruvannamoozhi. He claimed that there were not enough trenches around any vulnerable forest stretches in Kozhikode. Ajesh Ramadas, a farmer from Muthappanpuzha, said the Forest Department proposal for construction of solar fences was yet to evoke a favourable response from the government owing to paucity of funds. “The department was found struggling for even timely maintenance of damaged solar fences,” he claimed. According to leaders of settler farmers welfare organisations, the plight of land owners near Ponnamkayam at Pullurampara itself exposes the continuing negligence. “Many families are scared of living in the area. Though there are a few solar fences, lack of timely maintenance has left them ineffective,” they argued. A farmer said wild animals had recently damaged crops in large areas at Mele Ponnamkayam. “Even monkeys and wild boars are causing nuisance to farmers. What we seek is a permanent solution to the issue and reasonable compensation for the loss,” he added. Meanwhile, members of Thiruvambady panchayat said they would seek the support of the district panchayat to address farmers’ concerns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wildlife-attacks-go-unabated-in-upland-regions-of-kozhikode/article33764694.ece
06 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||706 persons test positive in Kozhikode||Despite stringent enforcement of the health protocol and continuing restrictions on public events, there has been no satisfactory decline in the number of fresh COVID-19 cases in Kozhikode district, with 706 persons testing positive for the virus on Friday. Of the newly reported cases, 690 persons contracted the virus through local contact. Four Non-Resident Keralites and two health workers were among those who were infected. The source of infection in 11 cases is unknown. As usual, the largest number of local transmission cases was reported from the Kozhikode Corporation, with 185 persons testing positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/706-persons-test-positive-in-kozhikode/article33764695.ece
06 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Employment scheme for seniors||Minister for Excise and Labour T.P. Ramakrishnan will launch the Navajeevan self-employment scheme for senior citizens in Kozhikode on Saturday. The benefits of the scheme will be extended those above 50 years of age. District panchayat president Kanathil Jameela will chair the event to be held at the Perambra mini civil station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/employment-scheme-for-seniors/article33764693.ece
06 February 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||CPI(M) unmindful of State’s socio-political legacy: IUML||The Aiswarya Kerala Yatra led by Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala reached the district on Friday. Enthusiastic supporters of the United Democratic Front (UDF) swarmed Mr. Chennithala as he reached various reception points in the district. District Congress Committee (DCC) president V.V. Prakash, Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) district president Sayed Sadikali Shihab Thangal, UDF district chairman P.T. Ajaymohan, and UDF convener U.A. Latheef received Mr. Chennithala at the district border. Inaugurating the reception at Chelari, Mr. Sadikali Thangal said the CPI(M) and the BJP were raising the same slogans in Kerala. “Both are ruling by spreading intolerance and creating divisiveness,” he said. He accused the CPI(M) of being unmindful of the State’s socio-political legacy while attempting to divide society on communal lines. He stressed the necessity of bringing Kerala back to a fair democracy. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Chennithala lashed out at the CPI(M), accusing it of offering government jobs to relatives of party leaders. “If former MP of Palakkad M.B. Rajesh has self-respect, he should tell his wife to quit the job she got through illegal means,” he said. He added that the UDF would revoke all illegal appointments if voted to power. Mr. Chennithala accused the LDF government of cheating expatriates who returned. “Instead of helping them, the government described them as traders of death. It is time for them to repay,” he said. Hundreds attended receptions in Vallikkunnu, Vengara, Kondotty, Eranad, Manjeri, Wandoor and Nilambur Assembly constituencies. The rally will pass through Perinthalmanna, Mankada, Malappuram, Kottakkal, Tirurangadi, Tanur and Tirur constituencies on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-unmindful-of-states-socio-political-legacy-iuml/article33764698.ece
06 February 2021||Staff Reporter,KERALA||Police release app for women’s safety||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has directed the police to take strict action against those attacking women on social media. The police’s scientific investigation unit will be strengthened for this purpose, the Chief Minister said. Mr. Vijayan was speaking here on Friday after releasing Nirbhayam, a mobile app thatihas been prepared by the police for women’s safety.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-release-mobile-app-for-womens-safety/article33764770.ece
06 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||22 movies to figure in ‘World Cinema’||A total of 22 films are lined up in the World Cinema category of the 25th edition of the International Film Festival of Kerala, set to begin in the capital on February 10. Among the films to be screened are Wife of a Spy , directed by Kiyoshi Kurosawa. The film, which won the silver lion at the 77th Venice International Film Festival, is a historical drama. Iranian film The Wasteland , directed by Ahmad Bahrami, is on a brick factory supervisor, acting as go-between for the workers and the boss, when the boss is planning to shut down the factory.  The Man who Sold his Skin , directed by Kaouther Ben Hania, is inspired by Belgian contemporary artist Wim Delvoye’s living work Tim. It premiered in the Horizons section at the 77th Venice International Film Festival, where Yahya Mahayni won the best actor award. Italian director Uberto Pasolini’s Nowhere Special , Korean director Hong Sang-soo’s The woman who ran , Christian Petzold’s Undine , Malgorzata Szukowska and Michal Englert’s Never gonna snow again , Amos Gitai’s Laila in Haifa , Francois Ozon’s Summer of 85 , and Ye Lou’s Saturday Fiction are some of the directorial highlights in the category. Adhilkhan Yerzhanov’s Yellow Cat is a minimal movie that blends escapism and reality, as well as humor and tragedy perfectly. It is among the 10 Indian premieres along with Edmundo Yeo’s Malu , Pierre Monnard’s Needle Park Baby , and Uluc Bayraktar’s 9,75 . Wei Shujun’s Striding into the wind and Zhang Dale’s Stars await us are also among the Indian premieres. The COVID-19 antigen test for the participants of IFFK for the Thiruvananthapuram region will begin on Monday at the main venue of the festival, Tagore Theatre. The Chalachithra Academy, in association with the Department of Health will provide facilities for the test of delegates, officials, volunteers, and staff from February 8 till 10. Date of testing All the participants registered for the festival will be informed about the dates and details of the test via SMS on their registered phone numbers. Academy secretary Ajoy Chandran said facilities had been set up to conduct antigen tests for 150 people an hour. Delegates who test negative can get their kit containing the pass along with the negative certificate issued by the academy on the same day. Those who submit the COVID-negative certificate on their own will also be permitted to enter the festival. Only certificates issued from labs or hospitals 48 hours prior to the beginning of the festival will be approved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/22-movies-to-figure-in-world-cinema/article33765330.ece
06 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Govt. offers to form independent society||The government has expressed its willingness to form an independent society under it instead of floating a legally independent company, KSRTC-SWIFT, for operating long-distance buses under the proposed restructure of the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC). The offer to form the society was extended by Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac on Friday to win over the three recognised trade unions of Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), and Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) that are opposing the formation of the company. At the talks in the presence of Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran and KSRTC Chairman and Managing Director Biju Prabhakar at the Secretariat here, Dr. Isaac said the formation of the society was the alternative that the government could offer. The Finance Minister said the present government had provided Rs. 6,000 crore to the KSRTC in the past five years. The government had announced in the Budget pay revision for the KSRTC personnel and a revival package. The government was of the view that the KSRTC employees should get better pay and allowances and the policy was to take back the retrenched staff. The meeting was informed that even if a society was formed, the employees being posted would be on contract. The retrenched staff would be taken back only to the Kerala Urban Transport Corporation. The formation of the new company was to secure funds from the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). Offer opposed The INTUC-affiliated Transport Democratic Federation and the BMS-affiliated Kerala State Transport Employees Sangh opposed the offer to form the society. The CITU-affiliated Kerala State Road Transport Employees Association said they were ready to support the initiatives if the thrown out empanelled staff were taken back and salary and allowances of the KSRTC personnel on the rolls were assured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-offers-to-form-independent-society/article33764783.ece
06 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Second phase of water supply project begins||Water Resources Minister K. Krishnankutty on Friday inaugurated the second phase of the Vamanapuram drinking water project. He said that the government was committed to water quality. Water quality labs have been set up in all higher secondary schools in the district. Public can also make use of these facilities to check the quality of water in their wells. The second phase of the Vamanapuram project is being implemented for the Anad, Palode, and Kurupuzha villages. The State government has sanctioned Rs. 16 crore for the phase under which a water distribution network of 63 kilometres will be installed within 18 months. The project includes the installation of pump sets, pipes for carrying the purified water to a reservoir, and the construction of a reservoir with a capacity of 10 lakh litres. The land for the construction of the reservoir has been handed over to the Kerala Water Authority. Once the second phase is completed, 4,000 new connections can be provided. The first phase of the project was completed at a cost of Rs. 15 crore. The project is being implemented in three phases. D.K. Murali, MLA, presided over the function held at the Nanniyode panchayat office hall.  Work to be completed in 18 months 4,000 new connections can be provided||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/second-phase-of-water-supply-project-begins/article33765319.ece
06 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Double line up to Kanyakumari by March 2024||Railways will complete the ongoing doubling of the railway line via Kottayam by December 2021, via Alappuzha and from Thiruvananthapuram Central to Kanyakumari via Nagercoil by March 2024. The revised targets were announced by John Thomas, General Manager, Southern Railway, at a virtual press meet from Chennai on Friday to brief about the allocations made in the 2021-2022 Union Budget for the railway network of Kerala and Tamil Nadu. Kerala has got a Rs. 871-crore Budget grant, an increase by 134%, in 2021-22. In 2020-21, the State got Rs. 688 crore and Rs. 667 crore in 2019-20. Tamil Nadu, on the other hand, got Rs. 2,972 crore, an increase by 238% in the 2021-22 Budget. The double railway line from Kayamkulam via Kottayam to Ernakulam will be commissioned with the opening of Kuruppanthura-Chingavanam corridor by December 2021, using the Rs. 170 crore provided in the Budget. The Ambalappuzha-Haripad double line will be opened in March 2021 with the Rs. 15 crore provided. Steps will be taken soon to ‘defreeze’ the Ernakulam-Kumbalam, Kumbalam-Thuravur, and Thuravur-Ambalappuzha corridors, for which Rs. 10 crore each has been provided in the Budget, as the doubling work will be executed by Railways to enable commissioning of the doubling via Alappuzha by March 2024. Funds promised “The Railway Board will provide funds for the doubling via Alappuzha and re-appropriation will be undertaken if it does not work out. Funds for doubling to Kanyakumari will also be made available as the Rs. 275 crore allocated is not in the capital. Money will not be a problem as Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal has said funds would be provided from Rs. 44,000 crore available outside the Budget for need-based projects,” he said. To a query, the General Manager said the Detailed Project Report (DPR) and the revised estimate of the proposed coaching terminal at Nemom was yet to be cleared by the Railway Board. It would come subsequently as the 86.56-km corridor from the State capital to Kanyakumari was being doubled.  Non-interlocked gates in the Thiruvananthapuram division will be eliminated by September 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/double-line-up-to-kanyakumari-by-march-2024/article33764781.ece
06 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Sabarimala not an issue: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday said Sabarimala was not an issue now. The Supreme Court (SC) was reviewing the matter. Once the apex court reached a decision, the government would take a stance. It would calibrate its position after discussing it with everybody. The rituals and worship at Sabarimala were progressing smoothly. The Congress had sought to politicise the issue with an eye on the elections. Its gambit had failed in the recent local body polls. But, the Congress rarely learned from past mistakes. The party was prone to repeating them. The Communist Party of India (Marxist) had criticised the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) as a mainstream political party. The Congress had wrongly attempted to portray a fair assessment of the IUML’s political positions as communal. The IUML was trying to build bridges with the Jamaat-e-Islami, a fundamentalist outfit. The Congress had attempted the same in the local body polls, causing further divisions in the party. In contrast, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) had remained firmly moored to secular and constitutional values. ‘Not perturbed’ Mr. Vijayan said Congress State working president G. Sudhakaran’s “disparaging” comments about his roots in the toddy-tapping community had not perturbed him in the least. “I am proud my father is a toddy tapper. I hail from a family of farmers. My elder brother harvested toddy for a living. Another brother switched from toddy-tapping to baking. I have never felt ashamed of my working-class roots,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sabarimala-not-an-issue-cm/article33764784.ece
06 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Drastic increase in testing||The testing for COVID-19 went up significantly for the past two days and Friday’s report said the State tested 91,931 samples in 24 hours, the highest in a day so far during the pandemic. While 61,501 of these tests were rapid antigen assay, RT-PCR tests were also increased to 25,352, while other molecular diagnostic tests such as Truenat and CBNAAT constituted the remaining tests. The new cases reported were 5,610, with the test positivity rate dropping further to 6.1%. The State’s cumulative burden has risen to 9,56,421 cases. The active case pool has now come down to 67,795 cases, with 6,653 more recoveries. The cumulative recoveries till date have risen to 8,84,542.  19 more deaths On Friday, 19 more deaths were added to the official list, taking the toll ever since the pandemic began to 3,832. Kozhikode reported five deaths, Thiruvananthapuram four, Kollam three, Alappuzha, Kottayam and Malappuram two each, and Kannur one. Official reports said the number of critically ill patients being treated in ICUs in various hospitals across the State was 792 with 222 of them needing ventilator support. Among districts, Ernakulam continues to report the maximum number of cases with 714, Kozhikode 706, Malappuram 605, Pathanamthitta 521, Thrissur 495, Kottayam 458, Thiruvananthapuram 444, Kollam 391, Alappuzha 310, Kannur 253, Idukki 232, Palakkad 219, Wayanad 163 and Kasaragod 99.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/drastic-increase-in-testing/article33764786.ece
06 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State gets Rs. 1,276.92 cr. as PDRD grant||Kerala has received Rs. 1,276.92 crore from the post-devolution revenue deficit (PDRD) grant of Rs. 6,195.08 crore released to 14 States by the Department of Expenditure, Union Ministry of Finance. It was the 11th instalment of the PDRD grant released to the States. So far, Rs. 68,145.91 crore has been released to eligible States as PDRD grant in the current financial year. The PDRD grant is provided under Article 275 of the Constitution as per the recommendations of the 15th Finance Commission to meet the gap in revenue accounts of the States post devolution. The commission has recommended grant to 14 States. Eligibility The eligibility to receive this grant and the quantum were decided by the commission based on the gap between assessment of revenue and expenditure of the State after taking into account the assessed devolution for the financial year 2020-21. The finance commission had recommended a total PDRD grant of Rs. 74,341 crore to 14 States in the financial year 2020-21. Of this, 91.66% has been released so far. Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Himachal Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Punjab, Sikkim, Tamil Nadu, Tripura, Uttarakhand and West Bengal are the other States getting PDRD grant. In 2020-2021, Kerala has so far received Rs. 14,046.09 crore as PDRD grant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-gets-rs-127692-cr-as-pdrd-grant/article33764791.ece
06 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Elderly woman, son found dead||A 62-year-old woman and her 32-year-old son were found dead inside their house near Perunkadavila here on Friday morning. Based on an alleged note by the son that was recovered from the scene, the Marayamuttom police suspect that he had killed his mother before committing suicide. The deceased have been identified as Mohanakumari and her son Vipin from Thalamannoorkonam in Perunkadavila. According to the Marayamuttom police, Vipin had written in his note that his mother and wife had major differences and that their constant quarrel forced him to take the drastic step. The police estimate that the deaths might have happened between 9 p.m. on Thursday and 9 a.m. on Friday. Vipin’s wife was staying at her parents’ house along with their daughter when the incident happened. “His wife called up on Friday morning. Since there was no response, she asked a neighbour to enquire. Vipin was found hanging in the hall and the mother’s body was in the bedroom. We suspect that she was smothered. There were minor injuries on her nose and lips,” said the police. An inquest was conducted and the bodies were shifted to the Thiruvananthapuram Government Medical College mortuary. Vipin’s note has been sent for forensic analysis.  (Suicide prevention helpline: Disha - 1056, 0471-2552056)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/elderly-woman-son-found-dead/article33765331.ece
06 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Assistance for man living on ventilator support for 13 years||A Parassala man with a rare disorder, who has been surviving on ventilator support for 13 years, has been offered assistance to meet the huge expenses involved in his health care. District Collector Navjot Khosa visited the patient, Lijo, and his family members at their rented house on Friday and promised all help. Lijo was issued a ration card (AAY category). Steps have been taken to provide free electricity as the round-the-clock operation of the ventilator results in hefty power bills. Lijo has also been promised a house under the LIFE Mission scheme, the district administration said in a statement. Lijo, who is paralysed from the neck down, is afflicted with a condition called acute encephalomyelitis with neuropathy and cannot survive without ventilator support. He is the youngest of five children of Chellayan and Mercy. After the parents died, Lijo is being looked after by his brother Vipin. Doctor intervenes It was Sanjeev V. Thomas, senior professor, department of neurology, Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute of Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST), who helped Lijo fight the extremely grave health condition. Nonetheless, the huge monthly expenses incurred in helping him stay alive is much more than his family can bear. The District Collector intervened after Dr. Sanjeev informed her of Lijo’s plight, the district administration said. Lijo was admitted to SCTIMST in 2007 after he was paralysed neck-down. At the time, he was preparing to begin his engineering studies. Lijo has been living in a rented house since 2012.  Ration card, free electricity, new house among promises by the district administration||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/assistance-for-man-living-on-ventilator-support-for-13-years/article33765321.ece
06 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Students to get laptops soon under Vidyasree||Students will not have to wait much longer to get laptops under the State government’s Vidyashree scheme. Four companies have been empanelled by the Information Technology (IT) Department to supply laptops to students as part of Vidyashree, being implemented by the Kerala State Financial Enterprises and the Kudumbashree. The companies, which had cleared technical scrutiny, were approved by the purchase committee that met here recently. Tendering Two rounds of tendering were done. After the first round in which only one company had quoted less than Rs. 15,000, the government decided to go in for empanelment to provide more options, including better products, to students. Hence, instead of selecting the company that quoted the lowest rate, all companies that fulfilled the minimum technical qualification and quoted less than Rs. 18,000, the highest price fixed by the government, were empanelled. Bridging digital divide K. Mohammed Y. Safirulla, secretary in-charge, Electronics and IT Department, says that once the laptops were available to students along with good Internet connectivity through Wi-Fi hotspots or K-FON in future, the State would be able to address the digital divide.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/students-to-get-laptops-soon-under-vidyasree/article33765326.ece
06 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Chennithala opposes posting of new CIC||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has opposed the appointment of outgoing Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta as State Chief Information Commissioner (CIC). In a letter to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday, Mr. Chennithala said the reports that the decision of the selection committee to appoint Mr. Mehta was unanimous were “incorrect.” “I participated in the online meeting on February 4 regarding the selection of the CIC. Due to poor network coverage and poor video quality, I could not clearly communicate my views,” he said. The Leader of the Opposition said he had serious objections with regard to the appointment of Mr. Mehta in the critical post. “I have lodged a serious complaint against him to the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) for his attempt to engage some private international consultancy firms in the works and projects of the Water Resource Department in a highly irregular manner,” he had said in the letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chennithala-opposes-posting-of-new-cic/article33764779.ece
06 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Social audit of projects in Vattiyurkavu segment||The social audit of developmental projects taken up in the Vattiyurkavu constituency by V.K. Prasanth, MLA, continued on Friday. Contact MLA On the third day, audit of projects in Peroorkada, Thuruthummoola, Sasthamangalam, Kowdiar, Kuravankonam, Kudappanakkunnu, Pathirappally, and Chettivilakam was held. Public can send their opinions tovkprasanthmla@gmail.comor to WhatsApp number (+91 9288006492 ) till February 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/social-audit-of-projects-in-vattiyurkavu-segment/article33765320.ece
06 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Mental health centre residents to be rehabilitated||Five residents of Government Mental Health Centre, Kozhikode, will finally be able to walk out of the darkness of their dingy, cramped cells into the light. The five are being shifted to a mental health institution in Wayanad as part of a project of the Social Justice Department’s probation wing to rehabilitate prisoners who have been languishing in mental health centres for years or those acquitted by courts. Minister for Social Justice K.K. Shylaja, in a statement here on Tuesday, said Rs. 1.98 lakh had been sanctioned for their rehabilitation. The department will bear all their expenses in the time they put up at the Wayanad institution. The head of the institution or social worker should make attempts to locate relatives of the five persons and send them along. If they are not able to locate relatives and hand them over, the institutions can apply for financial aid every year. Those who can go home have to be monitored by district probation officers four times in the first year. A report has also to be submitted to the Social Justice Director. It is estimated that the mental health centres in Thiruvananthapuram, Thrissur, and Kozhikode have nearly 100 undertrial prisoners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mental-health-centre-residents-to-be-rehabilitated/article33764700.ece
06 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||111 school buildings to be opened today||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will on Saturday inaugurate 111 school buildings constructed as part of the government’s 100-day programme. The buildings have been constructed at a cost of Rs. 309 crore. Eighteen of the schools are in Thiruvananthapuram district, seven in Kollam, seven in Alappuzha, two in Pathanamthitta, four in Kottayam, nine in Idukki, 11 in Ernakulam, 16 in Thrissur, six in Palakkad, seven each in Malappuram and Kozhikode, five in Wayanad, four in Kannur, and eight in Kasaragod. KIIFB funds Twenty-two of the schools have been built using a financial assistance of Rs. 5 crore from the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB); 21 schools using Rs. 3 crore from the KIIFB; 58 schools as per Plan fund; six using Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, funds; and one each using MLA fund, NABARD, RMSA, and grama panchayat funds. Minister for General Education C. Ravindranath will preside over the function. Minister for Finance T.M. Thomas Isaac will deliver the keynote address. Ministers E.P. Jayarajan, A.K. Balan, A.C. Moideen, P. Thilothaman, K. Raju, E. Chandrasekharan K.K. Shylaja, V.S. Sunil Kumar, M.M. Mani, K. Krishnankutty, and K.T. Jaleel, and Deputy Speaker V. Sasi will be the chief guests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/111-school-buildings-to-be-opened-today/article33764702.ece
06 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||444 new cases in capital||The district reported 444 new COVID-19 cases and 416 recoveries on Friday. In all, 4,375 people are under treatment for the infection in the district. Of the cases reported on Friday, local transmission accounted for 332. The list included one health worker. The death toll had risen to 761 by Thursday. In all, 1,661 people were quarantined on Friday, taking the total number of people in quarantine to 23,232. Meanwhile, 2,488 health workers received the COVID-19 vaccination in the district on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/444-new-cases-in-capital/article33765323.ece
06 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Solar panel for stadium||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday inaugurated online the construction of a solar panel roofing system to meet the energy needs of Chandrasekharan Nair Stadium. The mechanism, to be set up at around Rs. 7.4 crore, would be able to supply power for 25 years, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/solar-panel-for-stadium/article33765327.ece
06 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Normal train services to be delayed||Restoration of normal train services and allowing unreserved passengers to commute will be delayed further in view of the prevailing COVID-19 situation. Southern Railway General Manager John Thomas said “no decision has been taken in this regard. Normality can be restored if the situation improves.”  He said the origin and destination of trains would be announced at major stations to avoid the confusion owing to the numbering of the special trains that are currently plying.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/normal-train-services-to-be-delayed/article33764782.ece
06 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Awards given away to workers||Labour Minister T. P. Ramakrishnan distributed the Thozhilali Shreshta awards to workers on Friday. The winners are K.V. Sajeevan of Ernakulam (security guard), Nazarudeen K.Y. of Kollam (headload worker), Unnikrishnan N. of Palakkad (construction worker), Muraleedharan T.S. of Wayanad (toddy tapper), K. Sasi of Alappuzha (tree climber), Kunhahammed A. of Wayanad (tailor), Gracy K.C. of Ernakulam (coir worker), Saraswati Amma P. of Kollam (cashew worker), George Varghese of Idukki (motor worker), Vasantha of Wayanad (plantation worker), Anoop P. of Malappuram (salesman/saleswoman), Aswathi A. S. of Malappuram (nurse), Liji K.S. of Alappuzha (textile worker), Shiny Rachel C. of Kollam (domestic worker), Rajesh T. of Kozhikode (jewellery maker). The awards carry Rs. 1 lakh and citation. The awards will be extended to more professions, Mr. Ramakrishnan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/awards-for-workers/article33764703.ece
06 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Website, app for hostels for women travellers||Actor Meera Nandan inaugurated online on Friday a website and mobile app of the Safe Stay hostels of the Kerala State Women’s Development Corporation (KSWDC). The hostels are intended to provide women travellers safe and clean accommodation at low rates across the State. Of the targeted 100 hostels, 40 are ready. The app and the website will allow people to ascertain availability of rooms, reservation and payment. Minister for Women and Child Development K.K. Shylaja launched visual advertisements to take the activities of the women’s development corporation to the people. The posters highlight the initiatives of the corporation and its 181 Mitra women’s helpline. Actor Manju Warrier appears in the visual advertisements with actor Bhavana who promotes the 181 helpline. Ms. Warrier promotes the corporation’s loan schemes for women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/website-app-for-hostels-for-women-travellers/article33764792.ece
06 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Walk-in interview for medical officer post||A walk-in interview for appointment of medical officer (Ayurveda) for a sports medicine project being implemented in the district by the Indian Systems of Medicine Department will be held at the district medical office of the department, near Government Ayurveda College, at 11 a.m. on February 11. Candidates should have BAMS degree and Travancore-Cochin Council registration. The appointment will be on daily wages. For details, call 2320988.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vacancy-of-ayurveda-doctor/article33764769.ece
06 February 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||NIPMR to be declared as centre of excellence||The National Institute of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (NIPMR), an autonomous organisation providing multidisciplinary intervention and rehabilitation for differently abled people, will be declared as a centre of excellence on Saturday. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will declare the institute as a centre of excellence through videoconferencing at a function to be held on the NIPMR campus at Kallettumkara, near Irinjalakuda. Minister for Health and Social Welfare K.K. Shylaja will preside over the function. An autonomous organisation under the Social Justice Department, NIPMR has been equipped with the latest technologies and expertise. The institute has the latest facilities set up at a cost of Rs. 27 crore, including state-of-the-art spinal injury rehabilitation unit, aquatic rehabilitation centre, art ability centre, ear mould lab, call and connect – information gateway for the differently abled, prosthetics and orthotics unit, sensory park, sensory garden, and virtual rehabilitation unit. Minister K.K. Shylaja will inaugurate the aquatic rehabilitation centre and the Centre for Mobility and Assistive Technology (C-MAT). Finance Minister Dr. Thomas Issac will open the spinal injury rehabilitation unit. Art ability centre While T.N. Prathapan, MP, will inaugurate the art ability centre, inauguration of the academic programmes and foundation stone-laying of the Occupational Therapy College will be done by K. Arunan, MLA. District panchayat president P.K. Davis Master will inaugurate the vocational rehabilitation unit. Sheeba George, Director, Social Justice Department, will inaugurate the ear mould lab. The Call and Connect–Information Gateway for Differently Abled, set up in association with Health Infonet, St. Stephen College, Uzhavoor, and ICUDS, Mahatma Gandhi University, will be inaugurated by Thrissur District Collector A. Shanavas. A memorandum of understanding for offering clinical training for occupational therapy course will be handed over to M.P. Jackson, president, Irinjalakkuda Cooperative Hospital. The prizes for the winners of the competition organised for designing equipment for differently abled people will be presented on the occasion. Biju Prabhakar, Secretary, Social Justice Department; Sandhya Naisan, president, block panchayat; K.R. Jojo, president, Aloor grama panchayat, and other elected representatives and officials will also be present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nipmr-to-be-declared-as-centre-of-excellence/article33765269.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Vital link||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vital-link/article33764708.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Teachers’ grievances||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/teachers-grievances/article33765325.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Problem of ‘illegal’ buildings||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/problem-of-illegal-buildings/article33765333.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Registering dissent||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/registering-dissent/article33764788.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||495 cases in Thrissur||A total of 495 COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Friday while 494 people recovered from the disease. There are 4,480 active cases in the district and 89 people from the district are undergoing treatment in hospitals in other districts. So far 89,841 COVID-19 cases have been reported from the district and 84,754 people have recovered. According to the official statistics, 485 people, including one health worker, contracted the disease through local contact on Friday. Of them, 87 people are above the age of 60 and 22 children are below the age of 10. In all, 3,038 people are under home care and 126 people were admitted to the hospital for treatment. A total of 12,657 samples were collected for the test on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/495-cases-in-thrissur/article33765273.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Frames of fame||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/frames-of-fame/article33765275.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Igniting minds||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/igniting-minds/article33765335.ece
06 February 2021||ANTARVEDI (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan likely to commission new temple chariot on Feb. 19||Authorities of East Godavari district and the Endowments Department are making arrangements for the annual ‘Kalyanotsav’ at Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swami temple here on February 23. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is likely to kick-start the celebrations and commission the new temple chariot on February 19. The authorities on Friday chalked out an action plan for the peaceful conduct of ‘Kalyanotsav’ as it coincided with the gram panchayat elections. The police have been asked to gear up for the Chief Minister’s visit. Meanwhile, the old chariot, which was gutted recently, continues to be under watch by the police for further investigation. Superintendent of Police Adnan Nayeem Asmi said additional teams would be deployed for the ‘Kalyanotsav’. “Special focus will be on guarding the old chariot. Thousands of devotees are expected to throng the temple for the event this year,” Mr. Nayeem Asmi said. Special buses District Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy, at a review meeting here, said that 130 buses would be operated to the temple from different parts of the district. This apart, basic facilities would be provided to the visiting pilgrims, he said. Accompanied by Amalapuram Sub-Collector Himanshu Kaushik, Mr. Muralidhar and Mr. Nayeem Asmi inspected the new chariot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-likely-to-commission-new-temple-chariot-on-feb-19/article33765254.ece
06 February 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Withholding unanimous elections unlawful, unpardonable: Minister||Panchayat Raj Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy on Friday termed the order of State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar withholding the declaration of unanimous elections in various panchayats as “unlawful and unpardonable.” Addressing the media in Tirupati, Mr. Ramachandra Reddy said the order pertaining to Chittoor and Guntur districts exposed Mr. Ramesh Kumar’s vested interests. “Mr. Ramesh Kumar has been taking unlawful decisions every day in order to serve the interests of the TDP. He has been implementing the directives of TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu and blackmailing the government,” the Minister alleged. Contending that the SEC had no power to withhold the declaration of unanimously elected panchayats, Mr. Ramachandra Reddy appealed to the returning officers to ignore the SEC order and issue the declaration forms to the victorious candidates. Warning to officials “The officials who try to favour the State Election Commission will be taken to task and will be blacklisted,” the Minister warned. Stating that unanimous elections were common in a democracy, Mr. Ramachandra Reddy accused Mr. Ramesh Kumar of trying to tighten his grip over the District Collectors and the official machinery. Referring to the Ministers’ complaint to the Assembly Committee of Privileges against Mr. Ramesh Kumar, he said action would be taken against the SEC by the committee. “The SEC will have to stand before the committee. He will be made answerable for his actions,” Mr Ramachandra Reddy said. Had any other official been the SEC, he or she would have immediately resigned following the High Court raising objections on the e-Watch app, Mr. Ramachandra Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/withholding-unanimous-elections-unlawful-unpardonable-minister/article33765251.ece
06 February 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Take the jab, do your bit in fight against pandemic: Collector||District Collector M. Hari Narayanan on Friday urged the frontline workers to remove all fears and misconceptions that they might have about the efficacy of COVID vaccine, and come forward to receive the jab as part of the concerted fight against the pandemic. The Collector received the jab at the District Headquarters Hospital here, after rolling out the second phase of the vaccination programme, when municipal workers, police personnel, government employees are going to get the jab. While health workers continue to come to take the vaccine, the second phase has commenced on a note of hope that it would get overwhelming response from the target group, the Collector said. In a bid to allay fears, Mr. Narayanan said going by observations of the first phase, it was found that the vaccine had proved to be successful to deter the virus spread, and it had not generated any side effects among the health workers. COVID-19 special officer P. Ravi Raju launched the second phase of the programme at the community health centres at Nagari and Puttur municipalities, and primary health centres in Karveti Nagaram, Narayanavanam, Nagari and Puttur mandals. Campaign ramped up Speaking to mediapersons, Dr. Ravi Raju said: “Except for pregnant women, those aged below 18 and those with severe co-morbid conditions, the jab will cover all the health workers and frontline workers. We have ramped up the campaign to cover the target by tracking and making the beneficiaries visit their session centres,” he said. At present, a stock of two lakh vaccines of two kinds were being maintained at the storage centres. 45% of health workers covered “We are going to get sufficient number of vaccines. We have covered close to 45% of the target among the health workers, and the remaining staff would be covered on a war footing. Though there were some hiccups initially, we are getting good response from both health and frontline workers now,” Dr. Ravi Raju said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/take-the-jab-do-your-bit-in-fight-against-pandemic-collector/article33765262.ece
06 February 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chinta opposes privatisation of VSP||Former Union Minister and Congress Working Committee (CWC) member Chinta Mohan on Friday demanded that Union government immediately stop the privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP). Staging a protest at his residence in Tirupati, the former Union Minister said that the privatization move of the Rashtriya Ispat Nigam, which runs the plant, it would only throw the State into further backwardness. “The Visakhapatnam Steel Plant holds a glorious history of 55 years. It was the result of a historic agitation by all sections of people between 1966 and 1970, when they took to a series of bandhs, closing educational institutions and halting public movement,” he said. Saying that the steel plant was the gift of the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi to Andhra Pradesh in 1971, Dr. Mohan maintained that the project has been the prestige of the State. The NDA’s move to privatise the plant, spread over 33,000 acres worth over Rs. 1 lakh crore for a meagre price would jeopardise the livelihood of about 18,000 employees. “At a time when the plant is capable of producing 7 crore tonnes of steel with a turnover of crores of rupees, destabilizing it is against prosperity of the State,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/steel-plant-prestige-of-our-state-chinta/article33765260.ece
06 February 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||IT Park in Vizag gets CM’s nod||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said that every village should have Internet connectivity, an e-library, and dedicated optic network to enable the people to work from home. Addressing a review meeting on the IT - Electronic Policy at his camp office on Friday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said all village / ward secretariats should have Internet connectivity and higher bandwidth. The Chief Minister also gave his nod for setting up an Integrated Technology Park in Visakhapatnam, where a high-end skill university, incubation centre, labs, IT office, State data centre and IT towers will be set up. University for emerging technologies “We are also setting up an Emerging Technologies University in Visakhapatnam, in which courses in Robotics, Artificial Intelligence, Cloud Computing, Block Chain Technologies, Data Analytics Sciences, Advanced Electronics, and IT applications in education, health, agriculture and water resources will be offered,” he said. He also directed the officials to make estimates for setting up IT concept cities near Visakhapatnam, Tirupati and Bengaluru in about 2,000 acres. These concept cities should have unique architecture styles, the Chief Minister said. “In the post-COVID-19 situation, the concept of work from home is gaining acceptance, and we should create facilities for the purpose. We will also support the IT sector in a big way. I also want the officials to focus on the IT Park at Kopparthi. Our policy should aim at massive job creation and industrial investment,” the Chief Minister said. Minister for IT Mekapati Gowtham Reddy, Special Chief Secretary Satish Chandra, Principal Secretary to CM Neelam Sawhney, IT Secretary G. Jayalakshmi, Special Secretary B. Sundar, Commissioner for Technical Education M.M. Naik, and MD of APSFL M. Madhusudana Reddy were present.  Every village should have Internet connectivity as the concept of work from home has gained acceptance in the post-COVID situation Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/it-park-in-vizag-gets-cms-nod/article33765191.ece
06 February 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Senior Army officer calls on Jagan||Major General R.K. Singh, General Officer Commanding of A.P. and Telangana Sub-Area, called on Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at the latter’s camp office in Tadepalli on Friday. During the meeting, Major General Singh invited Mr. Jagan to attend the golden jubilee celebrations of India’s victory over Pakistan in the Indo-Pakistani War of 1971, to be held in Tirupati on February 18. Later, NCC cadets from the A.P.-Telangana NCC directorate, who won the Prime Minister’s Championship at the recently-concluded Republic Day parade in New Delhi, called on the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/senior-army-officer-calls-on-jagan/article33764517.ece
06 February 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||SP pats staff on winning award||Superintendent of Police, Guntur Urban, R.N. Ammireddy has congratulated the officers of Disha police station on winning the ABCD award instituted by the Director General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang. Mr. Ammireddy said that the case handled by the Disha police station pertains to a complaint by a woman that her images were morphed and posted on social media sites. The investigation was led byDeputy Superintendent of Police  Lakshminarayana, Disha Police Station, in June 2020 and the accused was arrested. Prompt action Mr. Ammireddy said that the police would act sternly in such cases and promised prompt action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sp-pats-staff-on-winning-award/article33764515.ece
06 February 2021||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TS officials urged to observe dry days in border areas during local polls||Krishna district Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu has appealed to the Telangana police and the Prohibition and Excise personnel to cooperate for the peaceful conduct of the gram panchayat (GP) elections in A.P. The SP and Additional SP Vakul Jindal have urged them to observe ‘dry days’ in their jurisdiction during the panchayat elections. At a virtual meeting with the officers of the neighbouring State on Friday, the SP said closure of liquor shops in border areas of Telangana was necessary to ensure smooth polling in A.P. Patrolling “Krishna district has about 300 km of border with Telangana. We have been patrolling the stretch to prevent smuggling of liquor from the neighbouring State,” Mr. Ravindranath Babu explained. Mr. Vakul Jindal said about 50 border check-posts, 10 mobile patrolling teams and Grama Rakshana Dalams were on the job. Nuzvid DSP B. Srinivasulu and Nandigama DSP G. Nageswar Reddy explained how belt shop owners were procuring NDPL from the shops in the border villages of Telangana and transporting the stocks illegally into A.P. Mr. Ravindranath Babu appealed to the Telangana police and excise officials to help conduct joint raids to check belt shops in border areas during the local body polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ts-officials-urged-to-observe-dry-days-in-border-areas-during-local-polls/article33765354.ece
06 February 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dist. officials take lead in vaccination drive||The second phase of the vaccination programme for COVID-19 got a good response in SPSR Nellore district as the district officials were at the forefront in taking the jab. Nellore District Medical and Health Officer S.Rajyalakshmi said government staff were showing keenness to take the vaccine after District Collector K.V.N.Chakradhar Babu, Joint Collectors M.N.Harendhira Prasad and N.Prabhakar Reddy took the lead. As many as 2,290 government employees took the vaccine by Friday evening, she said while overseeing the administration of the programme at the 112 session sites set up in the district. As many as 29,996 persons have been given the vaccine in Nellore district since January 16. Prakasam In Prakasam district, 1,441 employees from the departments of Revenue, Panchayatraj and Municipal Administration were provided the vaccine on Friday. “We will continue the programme till all the targeted staff are covered.” So far, over 12,000 persons have been vaccinated in the district. COVID cases Meanwhile, active cases in the two districts of South Coastal Andhra Pradesh came down to 117 as only 10 new cases--three in Prakasam district and seven in SPSR Nellore district, were registered in the last 24 hours. Deaths due to COVID too had abated in the two districts in the last one month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dist-officials-take-lead-in-vaccination-drive/article33765264.ece
06 February 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Budget: poor allocation for childcare decried||Children’s issues had not received due priority in the Union Budget at a time when COVID-19 health situation demanded higher allocation and optimal utilisation of the available resources, feels HELP Director N.V.S.Rammohan Rao. Reacting to the Union Budget, he said it was unfortunate that for the government national development meant only improving the infrastructure and not improving living condition of vulnerable children, lamented the chief of the childcare institution here. Childcare had always been under-resourced. The sector had witnessed a massive cut in funds with an allocation of Rs. 1,089.36 crore in the Budget, he said. The merged Child Care Services and Child Welfare Services had been allocated only Rs. 900 crore as against Rs. 1,500 crore in the last fiscal, he added. The much-reduced allocation for child protection services seemed to be defeat the Supreme Court’s direction of taking care of vulnerable children during COVID-19 time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/budget-poor-allocation-for-childcare-decried/article33765263.ece
06 February 2021||RAMPACHODAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Polling time reduced in LWE-hit areas of E.G.||The State Election Commission has reduced the polling time by two hours for the panchayat elections in the 11 mandals affected by the Left Wing Extremism (LWE) activities in the East Godavari Agency area. In all, 78 gram panchayats have been declared as Naxalite-affected areas in the Agency, and many of them are sharing their borders with Chhattisgarh and Odisha. “Polling will now be conducted from 6.30 a.m. and 1.30 p.m. instead of up to 3.30 p.m. in the 11 mandals as they have been declared as LWE-affected areas,” Rampachodavaram Sub-Collector V.K. Seena Naik told The Hindu .  Authorities are making arrangements to help the Polavaram project displaced people of seven villages of Devipatnam mandal, who have been rehabilitated in the R&R Colonies, to exercise their franchise. “Special bus services will be operated and bus passes are being issued to those rehabilitated in the R&R Colonies to enable them exercise their franchise,” said Mr. Seena Naik.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/polling-time-reduced-in-lwe-hit-areas-of-eg/article33765255.ece
06 February 2021||TIRUMALA,ANDHRA PRADESH||No entry to Tirumala without darshan tickets on Ratha Sapthami||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy has made it clear that the devotees with valid darshan tickets alone will be allowed to travel up to Tirumala on the day of Ratha Sapthami festival (February 19) in view of the COVID protocol. Tens of thousands of devotees converge atop the town to take part in the festival which will be organised from dawn to dusk. A majority of the devotees tend to spend the entire day seated in the mada streets witnessing different processions of the deity. With an intention to minimise the congregation and thereby thwart any minute chances of infections, the TTD resolved to strictly abide by the health protocols.  Interactive session Anchoring the monthly public interactive session with devotees, Mr. Reddy said TTD was also committed to build 500 temples in both Telugu-speaking States as part of promotion of ‘sanatana Hindu dharma’. In reply to a question, he said that feasibility of telecasting the mythological importance of all the 108 Sri Vaishnava Divya Kshetras on the TTDs Sri Venkateswara Bhakti Channel (SVBC) would be explored. Virtual kalyanotsavams On the request of the devotees, the management has resolved to organise virtual kalyanotsavams at the temple of goddess Padmavati ammavaru in Tiruchanoor the bookings for which will be made available from February 9. Mr. Reddy, who said that efforts were on to make Kannada and Hindi version of SVB Channel available from Ugadi on April 13, stated that the TTD already resolved to stall all kinds of commercial ads on the channel to enable uninterrupted telecast of dharmic programmes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/devotees-with-darshan-tickets-only-will-be-allowed-on-ratha-sapthami/article33764437.ece
06 February 2021||TIRUMALA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Arjitha sevas: TTD to allow devotees if cases decline||The TTD is toying with the idea of allowing devotees in limited numbers to take part in various arjitha sevas performed inside the Tirumala temple of Lord Venkateswara after a further dip in COVID-19 cases. TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy, who closeted with TTD EO K.S. Jawahar Reddy, Additional EO A.V. Dharma Reddy and heads of various departments on Friday, said that the TTD stopped permitting devotees from taking part in arjitha sevas ever since the outbreak of COVID-19 in March last. The meeting also discussed the chances of enhancing the number of devotees allowed in the daily darshan of the deity and also took stock of the arrangements made for the grand conduct of Ratha Sapthami festival on February 19. He also made it clear that the TTD would strictly abide by the COVID health protocols till the completion of the vaccination programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/arjitha-sevas-ttd-to-allow-devotees-if-covid-subsides/article33764518.ece
06 February 2021||TIRUMALA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kalyana Vedika to open soon||The TTD has resolved to resume the functioning of Kalyana Vedika which offers conduct of free marriages and ear boring ceremonies. The sprawling platform was closed last March following the outbreak of COVID-19. With the pandemic curve gradually flattening, the management has decided to accept online bookings soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kalyana-vedika-to-open-soon/article33764519.ece
06 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Students from State shine in global contest||The mood was upbeat in the AP State Skill Development Corporation (APSSDC) office here on Friday as a group of students received their awards and certificates they won in the international 3D experience ‘Project of the Year 2020’, a virtual design competition for students, organised by the Dassault Systemes. The winners were given digital gadgets as awards and certificates by the corporation Chairman Madhusudan Reddy, Managing Director Arja Srikanth and Executive Director D.V. Koti Reddy. They were accompanied by Managing Director Dassault Deepak NG, Director, Global Affairs, Rajiv Atmadaka, and incharge, Government Business, Rajasekhar Swamy. The global competition saw 56,000 students enrolling from different countries to showcase their creative start-up ideas in the categories of automotive, agriculture, aerospace, ship-building, civil construction and manufacturing sectors. More than 300 students from the State participated with 148 projects and start-up ideas. Out of the total 26 start-up ideas that were short-listed, eight projects which got selected for the awards were of AP students who have been trained as part of the APSSDC-Dassault Systemes collaboration. Dassault Systèmes and APSSDC signed a Memorandum of Understanding on setting up a 3DEXPERIENCE Centre to make students industry-ready in the field of aerospace and defence, automotive, and ship-building on the 3DEXPERIENCE platform with built-in industry solution experiences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/students-from-state-shine-in-global-contest/article33764520.ece
06 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prakasam police bag award for solving sanitiser deaths case||Director General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang has appreciated the Kurichedu police of Prakasam district, who solved a case in which 16 persons died after consuming sanitisers during the lockdown period. Mr. Sawang said the team led by Markapur Additional SP K. Choudeswari and DSPs G. Nageswar Reddy and K. Prakash Rao had saved the lives of more than 40 people who had consumed the sanitiser, and said the case had been selected for the Crime Investigation Department (CID)’s Award for Best Crime Detection (ABCD). Presenting the ABCD awards at the A.P. Police Headquarters at Mangalagiri on Friday, the DGP said 15 police personnel investigated the case registered in July and arrested 10 persons, including the manufacturer and the distributor from Telangana, raw material suppliers and five medical shop owners of Kurichedu. “During investigation it emerged that ‘Perfect Gold’ brand sanitiser, which reportedly caused the deaths, was supplied to many drug stores in A.P. and Telangana. This helped save many lives during the lockdown,” Ms. Choudeswari explained. A property offence detected by the Vuyyuru Town police of the Vijayawada Commissionerate has won the first prize in the ABCD awards. A team of 10 officers led by Central Crime Station (CCS) ACP K. Srinivas Rao, who investigated the case, received the best crime detection award from the DGP. The theft was reported in January, 2020. Police arrested the accused, G. Subramanyam of Mudinepalli mandal in Krishna district, and recovered Rs. 37 lakh booty from him. Police observed a cobra image on the back of a two-wheeler in the CCTV footages, which led to his arrest. “Guntur Urban district Disha police, the Mudivedu police of Chittoor district, Kovur police of Nellore district and Nagari Urban police of Chittoor district have also won the ABCD awards,” the DGP said. Director General (Railways) Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao, Additional DG (Law and Order) Ravi Shankar Ayyanar, Additional DG (CID) P.V. Sunil Kumar and other officers were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prakasam-police-bag-award-for-solving-sanitiser-deaths-case/article33765257.ece
06 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor lays foundation for incubator virtually||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan on Friday virtually laid the foundation for Andhra Technology Business Incubator being set up in Narasaraopeta Engineering College (NEC). The new incubation centre is being established in collaboration with Innovation and Entrepreneurship Division of the National Science and Technology Entrepreneurship Development Board (NSTEDB), Government of India. The college, located in Guntur district, was affiliated to JNTU-K Kakinada. Mr. Harichandan, addressing the officers and the college faculty and staff, said he was happy to know that the incubation centre being set up was the first of its kind mission in the country to provide a complete ecosystem support to technology-based start-ups, where innovative ideas are generated, nurtured and positioned for development of sustainable enterprises. The Governor said that Centre had recently launched Rs. 1,000 crore Start-up India seed fund to help new start-ups to develop in the country and the government was making all efforts to create a start-up system to help the youth in becoming entrepreneurs. The Governor expressed the hope that the Andhra Technology Business Incubator will help in creation of jobs and promote new technology and innovation-based start-ups with a focus on manufacturing, agriculture, healthcare, clean tech, energy, water and Internet of Things (IOT). The Governor complimented the Narasaraopeta Engineering College chairman M. Koteswara Rao and vice-chairman M.S. Chakravarthi for their efforts to support the rural youth by providing them training, mentorship, funding and workspace to transform their innovative ideas into a start-up. Andhra Technology Business Incubator (ATBI) director Swapan Siddharth said the ATBI was focussing on strengthening the rural start-up system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-lays-foundation-for-incubator-virtually/article33764526.ece
06 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘DPR on Vizag railway zone under scrutiny’||Minister of Railways Piyush Goyal informed the Rajya Sabha on Friday that an Officer-on-Special Duty of South Coast Railway was posted at Visakhapatnam to undertake planning and preparatory work for the formation of the new South Coast Railway Zone. “The Detailed Project Report (DPR) submitted by the OSD is under the examination of the Railway Board,” Mr. Goyal stated in his written reply to a question posed by MP G.V.L. Narasimha Rao on the status of the railway zone proposed to be set up with its headquarters at Visakhapatnam. Mr. Goyal said while the Railway Board was looking into the DPR, an umbrella work titled ‘Creation of new South Coast Railway Zone and new Rayagada Division in East Coast Railway’ was included in the 2020-21 Budget under the capital expenditure head at an estimated cost of Rs. 170 crore. Redevelopment In reply to a separate question by the MP on redevelopment of Tirupati railway station, Mr. Goyal said Requests for Qualification for the redevelopment of Tirupati and Nellore stations have been finalised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dpr-on-vizag-railway-zone-under-scrutiny/article33765248.ece
06 February 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Panel yet to get info from State on NIMZ facility’||The Central government had on January 2, 2013, granted in-principle approval for the establishment of a National Investment and Manufacturing Zone (NIMZ) under the National Manufacturing Policy (NMP) in Chittoor district. Thereafter, the proposal for consideration of granting the final approval was placed before the High-Level Committee (HLC), and the same was not granted due to inadequate information from the State government. At the HLC meeting, the State government was directed to acquire land and transfer it in the name of the authority concerned. However, information on the status of land acquisition and other progress made so far for establishment of the NIMZ is awaited from the State government, according to Union Minister of State for Commerce and Industry Som Parkash. Mr. Prakash stated this in the Rajya Sabha on Friday in reply to a question by G.V.L. Narasimha Rao on the fate of the NIMZ. Answering a question by Mr. Narasimha Rao on the development of industrial corridors in the State, Mr. Parkash said at the meeting that the Visakhapatnam Chennai Industrial Corridor (VCIC) was being implemented as Phase I of the East Coast Economic Corridor (ECEC), and that Chittoor (Srikalahasti), Visakhapatnam, and Kadapa nodes were identified under it. A consultant was appointed by the National Industrial Corridor Development Corporation Ltd. for preparing the master plan and preliminary engineering for the Chittoor and Kadapa nodes. Master planning and preliminary engineering for the Visakhapatnam node was initiated by the State government. After their completion, the projects would be sent for consideration and approval by the National Industrial Corridor Development & Implementation Trust and the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/panel-yet-to-get-info-from-state-on-nimz-facility/article33765249.ece
06 February 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nadda, Pawan will decide on CM candidate: Somu||While claiming to have not said that his party would make a leader from the Backward Classes (BC) the Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh, BJP State president Somu Veerraju said on Friday that it was a decision to be taken by party president J.P. Nadda and Jana Sena Party (JSP) president Pawan Kalyan. Addressing the media here, Mr. Veerraju said it was true that he dared the YSRCP and the TDP to make a BC leader the Chief Minister, but it was not correct to draw an inference that the BJP took a decision to that effect. Mr. Veerraju insisted that he was not competent to make a statement on who should be the CM candidate. Quota for Kapus The aspiration of the Kapus for inclusion in the list of BCs and similar demands of other communities would be taken to the notice of the leadership, he said. On the issue of the proposed privatisation of VSP, Mr. Veerraju said the sentiments associated with it would be conveyed to Mr. Nadda. He further observed that it was a part of the national-level disinvestment policy. Asserting that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was getting temples built because of the protests by the BJP, he alleged that TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu was merely making statements for public consumption on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nadda-pawan-will-decide-on-cm-candidate-somu/article33765247.ece
06 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Second phase admissions in degree colleges from today||The Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) has released the schedule for the second phase of admissions in degree colleges. In a statement on Friday, Council Secretary B. Sudheer Prem Kumar said students can opt for fresh registrations and exercise of web options from February 6 to 10 in the second phase. Candidates, who want admission in a better college, other than the one allotted under phase-I, could re-examine their options. He said the allotment made under phase-I would stand cancelled if a candidate was given another allotment under phase-II. Those who were not given any allotment under phase-I could exercise web options once again under phase-II, said Mr. Prem Kumar. Seat allotment would be made on February 14 and classes would commence on February 15. Mr. Prem Kumar said this would be the final phase of the admission process for 2020-21 and the leftover seats would be handed over to the institution for being filled under spot admissions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/second-phase-admissions-in-degree-colleges-from-today/article33764521.ece
06 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP to Centre: drop plans of privatisation||The TDP on Friday urged the Centre to shelve its proposal to privatise Visakhapatnam Steel Plant. TDP MP Kinjarapu Ram Mohan Naidu wrote to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in this regard on Friday. “The oft-cited rationale for privatisation is that RINL has been reporting losses for some years now. But RINL was debt-free in 2011-12. It reported losses in the last four years due to huge interest payments to service debts that VSP has had to take on to fund its expansion plans for which the Centre did not invest fresh equity. The RINL had to rely heavily on a 10-year debt plan of Rs. 22,500 crore. The interest payments are eating into the earnings of RINL and the Centre is to be blamed for it,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drop-plans-of-privatising-rinl-tdp-urges-centre/article33764442.ece
06 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||97 persons test positive for COVID in State||Andhra Pradesh registered 97 new COVID-19 cases and one death (in Krishna district) in the last 24 hours ending Friday morning. A total of 33,876 samples were tested during the period. The total number of samples tested so far reached 1,32,76,678 and 179 patients recovered completely during the period. While East Godavari district has the highest number of positive cases (1,24,301) and Vizianagaram the lowest (41,141), Chittoor reported the largest death toll at 847. The tests per million touched 2,48,627 and the positivity rate stood at 6.69%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/97-persons-test-positive-for-covid-in-state/article33765258.ece
06 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Southern Zonal Council meet on March 4||The 29th meeting of the Southern Zonal Council of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Puducherry will be held in Tirupati on March 4, according to a letter written by Sanjeev Gupta, Secretary of the Ministry of Home Affairs, to Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das. The State government has been asked to make arrangements for 100 officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/southern-zonal-council-meet/article33765265.ece
06 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||65th Railway Week Celebrations held||The Vijayawada division of the South Central Railway organised the 65th Railway Week Celebrations here on Friday. Divisional Railway Manager P. Srinivas presented merit certificates to the officers who extended good services on the occasion. The DRM, through a video conference, appreciated the officers for their outstanding performance and for better services during the current financial year braving COVID-19. As many as 360 employees received the merit and cash awards and 37 received group awards. Senior railway officers and other staff participated in the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/65th-railway-week-celebrations-held/article33765355.ece
06 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tourist hotspot being ruined by trash||Vanjangi, the new tourist attraction in Visakhapatnam district, is facing pollution threat from tourists. People thronging the pristine greens tucked in the hills of the Eastern Ghats to experience its cool climes and the spectacular sunrise from a few view points, are dumping wastes, especially plastic waste, which is turning out to be an eyesore. Located about 100 km from Visakhapatnam city and six-km drive from Paderu mandal headquarters, Vanjangi has been making headlines since the last one year. The view points have been drawing hundreds of tourists on a daily basis since the last three months. Unfortunately, the overcrowding has led to a rise in plastic pollution, at the once serene village. Recently, city-based Ken Foundation has organised a clean-up programme and ended up collecting huge amount of plastic wastes. Team of Ken Foundation along with the support of a few several local youth took up the cleaning programme from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. “We collected over 800 used plastic bottles, 500 liquor bottles, a large number of plastic plates and spoons from the surroundings. Some of the wastes were thrown in the corners,” said founder of Ken Foundation, Visakhapatnam, P. Santosh. A few tourists said the spot lacks basic facilities, especially dustbins. “Either there should be dustbins arranged for the visitors or there should be some warning boards arranged not to spill any wastes. I have seen many visitors taking the garbage along with them during their return, but many are just dumping litter including used plastic water bottles to a side,” said P. Gowri Shankar, a tourist from Vijayawada, who recently visited Vanjangi. B. Sai Tejesh, a tourist from Srikakulam, said that it takes at least an hour to trek to the view point. While trekking, many consume water and then dump along the route. “We have seen many youth carrying tents, organise camp fire by giving Rs. 200 to locals, where they conduct parties and dump liquor bottles, food wastes on the premises, he said. Not just Vanjangi, even other tourist destinations Lambasingi, Kothapalle waterfalls and other tourism destinations have been facing threat of plastic pollution. Recently, officials from Integrated Tribal Development Agency(ITDA), Paderu MLA K. Bhagya Lakshmi, NGOs, managements of a few hotels and the Tourism Department officials had a meeting with the locals of Lambasingi expressing concern over increase in plastic pollution in the Agency areas. Use of paper bags The ITDA has chalked out a plan to combat plastic in a phased manner. Initially, it is gearing up to control use of plastic by creating awareness to use paper bags as alternative in shops in Agency areas. However, the ITDA is yet to take up concrete measures for waste disposal. “There is no proper mechanism for solid waste management in the Agency. Most of the tourist areas are facing threat from pollution. The plastic wastes are dumped here and there, they reach the villages first and then to the water bodies. We have seen cattle dying by consuming plastic in a few villages,” said K. Bhanumathi of Dhaatri Foundation. She said that the Tourism Department and the ITDA must come up with measures to dispose wastes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tourist-hotspot-ruined-by-trash/article33765268.ece
06 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Parties vehemently oppose ‘strategic sale’ of steel plant||Reacting to the proposed strategic sale of RINL, reactions poured in from all political parties, across the State. Supporting the agitation taken up by Left parties, employees of RINL and trade unions, here, Jana Sena Party president Pawan Kalyan said that it has to be stopped and added that he will take it up personally with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, if required. TDP leader Nara Lokesh, demanded why Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was silent on the issue. He went ahead to allege that not only RINL will be privatised, but the Chief Minister and Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy would also sell Yarada Hill to private companies. Senior TDP leader Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu said that all parties should come under one umbrella to step up the protest. He also said that discussions are on with all parties to call for a State-wide bandh. TDP MLA P.G.V.R. Naidu said that a lot of sacrifice has gone into the setting up of the plant. Over 60 villages were acquired and 32 persons lost their lives. Moreover, Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu had then actively participated in the ‘Visakha Ukku- Andhrula Hakku’ agitation and it is time that he intervenes to see that the sale is stopped. TDP MP K. Rammohan Naidu, said that a lot of emotion is wrapped round this plant and it cannot be privatised just like that. He demanded that it has to be stopped at any cost. TDP MLA Ganta Srinivasa Rao said that RINL had turned into a loss-making unit just because the captive mines were not sanctioned. He cautioned that RINL agitation could turn similar to the farmers agitation, if the decision is not revoked. BJP MP Sujana Chowdary said that merging the RINL with SAIL would be a better proposition than outright sale. He also said that he would put forward his suggestion to the authorities concerned. Former Joint Director of CBI V.V. Lakshminarayana, said that the Union government should reconsider its decision to privatise Vizag Steel Plant. Instead they should allot captive mines and make the plant operate to its full installed capacity. Meanwhile, Twitter has gone abuzz with #Visakha Ukku- Andhrula Hakku. Meanwhile, Congress Working Committee (CWC) member Chinta Mohan on Friday demanded that the NDA government immediately stop the privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant. Staging a protest at his residence in Tirupati, the former Union Minister said that the privatisation was nothing but betrayal of the people of Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/parties-vehemently-oppose-strategic-sale-of-steel-plant/article33765294.ece
06 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Waltair Division got over Rs. 1,192 crore in Budget: official||A total outlay of over Rs. 1,192 crore was allocated to Waltair Division of in the recent budget. The budget allotment has been significant for projects to be completed in 2021-22. There has been a significant increase in outlay for Road Safety works, Road under Bridge and Over Bridges, and LHS in addition to passenger amenity works. The ongoing doubling and new line works are given priority with allocation of Rs. 871 crore, which includes the funding for Jagdalpur-Koraput (110.22 km), Koraput-Singapur Road (164.56 km), Jeypore - Malkangiri (130 km), Jeypore - Navarangpur (38 km), according to a statement issued by Senior Divisional Commercial Manager A.K. Tripathi. Towards traffic facility works, an amount of Rs. 20.90 crore was allocated to traffic facility works, which include Gopalapatnam-Vizianagaram - provision of auto signalling, including Simhachalam bypass line, conversion of Line 4 into longer loop with common loop status for python trains at Chipurupalli. An amount of Rs. 47.22 crore has been allocated for road safety works like road over/under bridges, level crossings, that includes Palasa-Pundi - Road overbridge in lieu of level crossing no. ML/373 (Srikakulam District), Ponduru-Sigdam - Road overbridge in lieu of level crossing no.ML/438, Naupada-Kotabommali - Road overbridge, Urlam-Srikakulam - Road over bridge, three Limited Height Subways in lieu of level crossings Palasa-Pundi and Pundi-Naupada, three Limited Height Subways (LHS) in lieu of level crossings Kotabommali-Tilaru, Palasa-Pundi and Kotabommali Yard. An amount of Rs. 170.64 crore has been allocated for track renewal works. The renewal works include through sleeper renewal, track repairs and ballast works over the Division. Maintenance of Bridges, tunnels and approaches are important which got Rs. 20.87 crore. The Signalling and Telecom works got Rs. 22.125 crore that will be utilised for replacing old signalling system, modernisation and repairs. The Wagon POH workshop of 200 numbers capacity at Vadlapudi, Visakhapatnam, which is almost completed got Rs. 30 crore, augmentation of Diesel Loco Shed, Visakhapatnam, for homing 100 HHP locomotives got Rs. 10 crore, augmentation of Electric Loco Shed for homing of 200 locos got Rs. 1.5 crore fund allocation in this budget. In total, workshops and sheds got Rs. 45 crore in this financial year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/waltair-division-got-total-outlay-of-over-rs-1192-crore-in-budget/article33765266.ece
06 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||767 in fray for 296 sarpanch posts in Anakapalle division||As many as 767 Sarpanch candidates are going to the polls for 296 sarpanch posts in the first phase of gram panchayat elections in Anakapalle revenue division, scheduled to be held on February 9 in the district. The district administration has released the final list of sarpanch and ward member candidates on Friday. According to the District Panchayat Officer & Additional District Election Authority V. Krishna Kumari, there are about 340 offices of sarpanch notified for elections in Anakapalle revenue division. Of them, 44, including, seven sarpanch offices in Rambilli, six in Butchayyapeta amd, five each in K.Kotapadu, Cheedikada and Atchutapuram areas, elected their sarpanches unanimously. For the remaining 296 sarpanch posts, 767 candidates are in the fray. Similarly, as many as 3,250 ward member posts were notified for the elections. Out of them, members were unanimously elected for 804 posts. As many as 5,260 candidates are going to the polls for the remaining 2,441 ward member posts. The officials also said that no nominations were received for ward members posts in two wards at Koppugondupalem gram panchayat in Rambilli mandal, two wards in two gram panchayats in V Madugula and one ward in Butchayyapeta mandal. District Collector V. Vinay Chand said that randomisation of poll staff have been completed for Anakapalle division in accordance with the directives of poll observers, he said. Mr. Vinay Chand also said that the nomination procedure for Narsipatnam division is in process, while for Paderu, it will start on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/767-in-fray-for-296-sarpanch-posts-in-anakapalle-division/article33765290.ece
06 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Surakshita Prayanam’ launched||With the idea to make roads more safe and ensure free flow of traffic, the city police have started a new initiative ‘Surakshita Prayanam.’ As many as 101 personnel from other wings have been drawn to the traffic wing for this exercise. In this drive, the police aim at conducting counselling/ awareness camps over various traffic violations. According to the Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Ch. Adinarayana, the police teams would create awareness over other traffic violations. The police would impose fines against the violators, he said. “The traffic police would encourage use of certified helmets, regulate and ask people to follow lane discipline, conduct drive against drunken driving. The drive will also focus on speed limits, seat belt, helmet use, unauthorised use of sirens, government department stickers/plates, signal jumping and using mobile while driving,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/surakshita-prayanam-launched/article33765292.ece
06 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||HPCL inks MoU with Vimala Vidyalayams||An MoU was signed between Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL) – Visakha Refinery and The Diocese of Vizagapatam Society (responsible for running two Visakha Vimala Vidyalayams supported by RINL-VSP) for infrastructural development in Visakha Vimala Vidyalayams (VVV) at RINL-Visakhapatnam Steel Plant(VSP). The RINL has been extending the financial support to these two schools which are providing quality education to children coming from underprivileged sections of society. HPCL- Visakh Refinery is now providing financial support worth Rs. 37.30 lakh from their CSR funds for construction of a multipurpose hall at VVV-BC Road (Pedagantyada) and for setting up eight digital/ smart classrooms at both the VVV schools (four smart classrooms per school). The event was graced with the presence of Kishore Chandra Das, Director (Personnel), RINL, V. Ratan Raj, Executive Director, HPCL, K. Nagesh, General Manager-HR, HPCL, Fr. P. Ratnakumar (Secretary and Treasurer) and Fr. Thomas Pulickal (Correspondent for two VVVs) from The Diocese of Vizagapatam Society among others. K. Nagesh, ED, HPCL, said that the RINL has always been giving importance to education and that they are pleased to associate with RINL to further the cause of providing quality education to young students. Mr. Nagesh stated that they would be glad to collaborate for similar projects in the future also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hpcl-inks-mou-with-vimala-vidyalayams/article33765359.ece
06 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||20 sessions held at faculty development programme||About 20 technical sessions were conducted by eminent personalities in the two-week online faculty development programme on “Shallow and Deep Foundations” being organised by the Department of Civil Engineering, A.U. College of Engineering, under the AICTE Quality Improvement Scheme (AQIS) for teachers from engineering colleges and practising engineers. The programme began on January 25 and will conclude on February 6. Visiting Professor from IIT Gandhinagar, G.V. Rao, delivered lectures on geotechnical investigation, bearing capacity of soils, types of shallow foundations and settlement analysis of foundations. C.N.V. Satyanarayana Reddy from AU, B.V.S. Viswanadham from IIT Bombay, K.S. Beena from Cochin University of Science and Technology, Kochi, and several others delivered lectures with case studies. More than 120 participants consisting of teachers from various engineering colleges, practising engineers and research scholars attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/20-sessions-held-at-faculty-development-programme/article33765360.ece
06 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Eat healthy to build disease resistance’||A seminar on ‘Health and Nutrition’ was organised by the Vaisakhi Kalanjia Society, which is promoted by Dhan Foundation, at the Anglo Indian Kalyana Mandapam, near MVDM High School, here on Friday. GVMC Zone-3 Commissioner Phaniram underlined the need to consume nutritious food to improve disease resistance in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. He complimented Dhan Foundation for taking the initiative to train members. Dhan Foundation regional coordinator Ramaprabha said that members would be trained on preparation of nutritious meals with millets and the method of preparing tasty dishes with leafy vegetables.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eat-healthy-to-build-disease-resistance/article33765358.ece
06 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘VSEZ records 11.34% growth’||Visakhapatnam Special Economic Zone (VSEZ) Development Commissioner A. Rama Mohan Reddy said that the exports made from VSEZ were to the tune of Rs. 85,449 crore (January 31, 2021), which resulted in a growth of about 11.34%. He said that the VSEZ provided employment to 3,93,312 persons and an investment of Rs. 56,180 crore has been made so far. Speaking to the media here on Friday, he said that four operational units of gems and jewellery in VSEZ have been providing employment to 1,200 persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vsez-records-1134-growth/article33765362.ece
06 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Book released||A book titled: “On The Rocks – A single Malt or A Stranded Soul?? … the Choice is Yours”, authored by Anantram Ganapati, was launched by Sarada Vanka, a journalist and writer, who participated as chief guest. Rana Uppalapati, Vizag-based entrepreneur and skater, participated as a guest of honour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/book-released/article33765289.ece
06 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 10 new COVID cases||After a span of almost eight months, the number of active COVID-19 cases decreased below 100 in Visakhapatnam district on Friday. The district reported 10 new cases in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative tally to 60,351. The death toll stands at 534, as no death was reported in the last 24 hours, as per the bulletin. According to the officials, the number of active cases is 97. Meanwhile, the recovery rate is hovering around 98.9% and the number of discharges stands at 59,720.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-reports-10-new-cases/article33765291.ece
06 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||104 liquor bottles seized, one held||Atchutapuram police arrested a person while he was allegedly transporting 104 liquor bottles in the district on Friday. Team led by Sub-Inspector Lakshmana Rao conducted checks at Marturu junction and caught the accused. A case has been registered. District police have been conducting checks at various places in view of the panchayat elections. Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) has formed a control room for this purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/104-liquor-bottles-seized-one-held/article33765293.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||High pedestal!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/high-pedestal/article33764523.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fun time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fun-time/article33765296.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Unions oppose move to sell VSP||The union leaders said the proposed joint venture with South Korean steel maker POSCO, was only eyewash and the real intent was 100% sale, said G. Venkat Rao of INTUC. According to Mr. Narasinga Rao, the Union government was already in talks with a number of private steel makers such as POSCO, Tata, Jindal and ArcelorMittal for the sale. The union members said the government now intended to sell the plant for peanuts. In the earlier disinvestment move, the valuation of 22,000 acres of land was pegged at Rs. 48 crore, when the actual land cost was over Rs. 2.20 lakh crore. The entire plant was then valued at Rs. 4,898 crore, when it should not be less than Rs. 3.2 lakh crore. TDP MLA Velagapudi Ramakrishna Rao also joined the protest and said that TDP will also oppose the move. MP ready to resign Visakhapatnam MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana said that the YSRCP will not support the move. “If the Centre sticks to its proposal, we are ready to step down as MPs,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/unions-oppose-move-to-sell-vsp/article33765245.ece
06 February 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||PD Act invoked against habitual offender||The district police on Friday invoked the Preventive Detention (PD) Act against a "habitual offender" wanted in as many as 11 cases of ATM robbery in the erstwhile undivided Khammam district. The police identified the accused in the ATM robbery cases as Banala Prashanth of Jayashankar Bhupalpally district. He is also wanted in another 14 ATM robbery cases in the erstwhile composite Warangal, Karimnagar and Nalgonda districts in the State, besides in Andhra Pradesh’s Krishna district, police said. As per the instructions of the higher authorities concerned, the Bhadrachalam police detained him under the provisions of the PD Act and shifted him to the Central Jail in Warangal on Friday. In Khammam district, an alleged habitual property offender identified as T Narasimha Rao alias Chinnabbai, 28, of Tanikella in Konijerla mandal, was booked under the provisions of the PD Act (Act No 1 of 1986) on Friday. According to police, he was allegedly involved in nine property offences under various police station limits in Khammam Police Commissionerate limits. The PD Act was invoked against him by the appropriate authorities after noticing that his “unlawful” activities were prejudicial to the maintenance of public order, causing disturbance to peace and tranquillity in the limits of Khammam Police Commissionerate, police added. He was detained under thePreventive Detention Act here on Friday and moved to the central prison in Warangal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pd-act-against-habitual-offender/article33765195.ece
06 February 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||More funds for Bhadradri-Kothagudem to combat LWE||As part of its multi-pronged strategy to tackle the Left-Wing Extremism (LWE), the Centre has sanctioned additional funds of Rs. 14.25 crore to the district in the current fiscal (2020-21) under the Special Central Assistance (SCA) for the LWE-affected districts. Critical gaps According to sources, the additional funds would be spent on filling the critical gaps in public infrastructure and services in the LWE-affected pockets of the district, which shares a long border with Chhattisgarh’s south Bastar division, considered a stronghold of the banned CPI (Maoist). Of the total funds of Rs. 71.67 crore sanctioned to the district under the SCA for 2020-21, nearly Rs. 68.18 crore amount has already been spent on various development works including roads, education, health, agriculture, irrigation and other infrastructure facilities in the LWE-affected areas of the district so far in the present fiscal, sources added. The district administration has laid focus on effective utilisation of the remaining funds for the need-based infrastructure development works in the Agency areas in adherence to the stipulated norms before March 31, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/more-funds-for-bhadradri-kothagudem-to-combat-lwe/article33765192.ece
06 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hospital infra boost to handle bulk of Aarogyasri, EHS cases||Plans are afoot to strengthen the infrastructure, including equipment and personnel, in government hospitals so that a majority of cases referred under Aarogyasri and Employees’ Health Scheme are handled there, Health Minister Eatala Rajender. has said Speaking after a review meeting on Friday with the officials of Directorate of Medical Education, Directorate of Public Health and Family Welfare, Vaidya Vidhana Parishad on the functioning of government hospitals in the State, he said all major government hospitals had resumed medical care services and the flow of outpatients has reached the pre-COVID stage. He stated that promotions were given to all categories of employees in the Health department, including doctors, nursing staff, technical staff and other support staff. About 1,300 to 1,400 personnel were given promotions recently in teaching and super speciality hospitals apart from 700 others in Vaidya Vidhana Parishad hospitals. On strengthening the infrastructure in government hospitals, Mr. Rajender said he was expecting good allocation of funds from the Centre as part of its plans to strengthen the healthcare sector, as mentioned in the recent Union Budget. Responding to a question on the status of Osmania General Hospital, particularly that of the old (heritage) building, the Minister said the building was vacated as precautionary measure keeping in view its condition including the incidence of flooding during monsoon. He stated that a drainage line passes under the old building and the efforts to construct a new building were mired in court cases. Besides, construction of a new building in the vacant space was allowed only up to four floors and it would be not sufficient to meet the needs at present. The Minister stated that cancer treatment blocks in NIMS were modernised and about 150 beds were available now and another 50 beds were being planned to be added soon by spending Rs. 5 crore more. The number of ICU beds there would also be increased from 125 to 500. Further, he stated that tenders were already called for establishing modern operation theatres in Gandhi General Hospital with Rs. 35 crore so that organ transplantation too could be taken up. All the hospitals upgraded in the recent years would also be allocated funds in the coming budget, he noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hospital-infra-boost-to-handle-bulk-of-aarogyasri-ehs-cases/article33765161.ece
06 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Automatic approval of building plan drawings||Applications for building permissions have become a notch less cumbersome for citizens in city and the State, as the building plan approval has been automatised by the Municipal Administration department, and also by the GHMC. DCR Portal developed by the government is an online platform which scrutinises the CAD drawings as per the Building Rules. It is a server-based scrutiny system for citizens and architects to verify building/layout drawing plans to obtain permission from respective authority or institution. As per the new system, the applicant will just have to upload the plan onto the system, to get an approval or rejection maximum within a day, officials said. Titled TS-DCR, the portal at ‘dcrportal.telangana.gov.in’, rules out human interface as far as building/layout plan approval is concerned. It scrutinises the submitted drawings automatically and also notifies the applicants with regard to the status of the submitted drawings. Role of officials will be limited to field-level inspections and scrutiny of the ownership documents.  Big projects The portal is especially useful for structures in plot areas of 500 square metres and upwards, and buildings over 10 metres in height, officials said. Earlier, GHMC had the Auto-DCR platform for approval of drawings, but the access was limited to the officials concerned within the municipal corporation. With the latest intervention, the plans can be uploaded by citizens or engineers/architects on their behalf. For successful drawings, the applicant will receive the secret key of the file concerned using which the applicant may approach for the building/layout permission through the TSbPASS. The portal is transparent and easy to operate, with zero to minimal manual intervention in report generation. It facilitates application multiple times, and verification of the drawing options against the building rules from the applicants’ consoles.  Quick processing Based on the file size, reports are generated within 45 minutes for most of the drawings, officials said. Applications are run in an auto queuing system, which may delay the reports maximum by two to three hours, they affirmed. Though the portal was launched on November 16 last year on trial basis, there has not been any publicity among the citizens about the same. A total of 4,073 files have been uploaded up to January 21. To familiarise the engineering professionals and architects with the portal, four-day training classes are being conducted by the GHMC’s Town Planning wing starting from Saturday. About 300 engineers/architects have registered themselves for the classes, officials informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/automatic-approval-of-building-plan-drawings-fully-operational/article33765168.ece
06 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Opposition parties bat for Eatala as CM||The rumoured change in the power structure in the government is echoing more in other political parties, as a concerted effort is being made to prop up other names to counter Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao, the apparent heir to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. Ever since the rumours of KTR replacing his father as the Chief Minister started doing rounds, the opposition parties have stepped up a new narrative creating a platform for other leaders giving the social and agitational angle to it. And willingly or unwillingly, Health Minister Eatala Rajender has become the focal point of discussion for his promotion to the top post if at all Mr. KCR decides to rest himself to promote his son Mr. KTR. It was evident the way Congress, BJP, and Telangana Jana Samiti (TJS) leaders promoted their argument that Eatala deserved to be the Chief Minister as he was an important part of the Telangana agitation and also a Minister in the Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy’s government, much before KTR, when TRS shared power with the Congress. Senior Congress leader and MLC T. Jeevan Reddy went onto argue that Mr. Rajender would be the most acceptable choice among the public and the MLAs, given his association with the TRS and the agitation since two decades. Mr. Reddy used The Health Minister’s recent comments in favour of the farmers and the new laws to give weightage to his argument. He, however, distanced himself from creating controversy on opposing KTR saying the IT Minister was competent enough to get into his father’s boots but should be ready to face the ‘family rule’ criticism. TJS president M. Kodandaram too joined the bandwagon favouring the top post to leaders who were part of the agitation indirectly indicating that Mr. Rajender was the best option. Someone who played a key role in the agitation should be made the CM, he said, during his tour in Mahabubnagar. Earlier, firebrand BJP MP from Nizamabad Arvind Dharmapuri was generous in heaping praises on Mr. Rajender and said he was the lone eligible member of the TRS to take over from KCR. That Mr. Rajender belongs to the Backward Classes also gave them the required ammunition to use the social card. TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy went a step ahead and demanded that a Dalit from the TRS be made the Chief Minister as KCR had promised the same before the 2014 Assembly elections. Though the strong support from opposition parties will not have any effect on KCR, it is quite evident that there is an effort to create some confusion among the TRS cadre and build up some pressure. Meanwhile, TRS ministers and MLAs have no qualms on who their choice would be in case of transfer of power. “KTR is the one and only choice as he understands the new generation’s aspirations much better than others,” was the unanimous view of a couple of MLAs with whom The Hindu spoke. “He is the face of Telangana with enough administrative experience as well.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/opposition-parties-bat-for-eatala-as-cm/article33765183.ece
06 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. intensifies efforts to finalise quantum of fitment||Government employees may soon hear announcement on the implementation of the Pay Revision Commission (PRC) recommendations, including fitment hike. The State government has intensified its efforts to finalise the quantum of fitment hike and other benefits to employees. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is learnt to have conferred with Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, Principal Finance Secretary K. Ramakrishna Rao and other senior officials on Thursday, to discuss the implications of the PRC recommendations on State finances. The meeting comes in the light of presentation of the Union Budget 2021-22 by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, which offered no big assistance to the State forcing the administration to tread a cautious line. The Chief Minister is learnt to have directed the Chief Secretary and senior officials to prepare a detailed report on this. The committee is understood to have been directed to evaluate the impact on finances for different slots of fitment benefit. The PRC recommended 7.5% fitment hike and said that the fitment hike along with enhancement of some other emoluments would translate to Rs. 2,232 crore additional burden on the State exchequer. The Finance department had accordingly held meetings with officials concerned who assisted the PRC in calculating the effect to arrive at the basis on which the assessment had been made. Officials were however, tight-lipped about the outcome of the meetings, but sources said a detailed report would be submitted to the Chief Minister soon. The development follows the concerns expressed by employees over the ‘low’ fitment hike announced by the PRC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-intensifies-efforts-to-finalise-quantum-of-fitment/article33765180.ece
06 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Active COVID cases fall below 2k||With the steady decline in COVID-19 infections, the number of active cases fell below 2,000 for the first time in Telangana last week since May last year. The number of active cases in the State stood at 1,964 as at 8 pm on Thursday, including 780 individuals remaining in home and institutional isolation. The remaining 1,184 positive cases were undergoing treatment in various government and private hospitals across the State. The total positive cases reported in the State has reached 2,95,270 as of February 4 with 169 fresh cases reported till 8 pm on the day. With one death due to Covid symptoms on Thursday, the number of fatalities has gone up to 1,607. According to a bulletin issued by the Director of Public Health on the status of COVID-19 cases in the State, a total of 189 persons were declared recovered, taking the total number of recoveries to 2,91,699. Accordingly, the recovery rate has further improved to 98.79% against 97.1% at national level and the rate of case fatality has further declined to 0.54% against 1.4% at national level. The bulletin stated 37,387 samples were screened on Thursday, taking the total tests done to 80,34,038 till 8 pm on Thursday. Reports of 858 samples collected were still awaited. The samples tested per million of population has also increased to 2,15,852. Of the samples tested on Thursday, 16,450 were of primary contacts of the COVID-positive cases and another 4,486 were of secondary contacts. Samples of another 16,451 persons were given voluntarily. Of the samples tested on Thursday, 33,215 were tested in government facilities and 4,172 in private laboratories and hospitals. According to the Director of Public Health, of the total positive cases reported on Thursday, 31 were from GHMC (Hyderabad) area followed by 11 from Medchal-Malkajgiri and 10 from Karimnagar districts. No positive cases were reported from Jogulamba-Gadwal, Kumram Bheem-Asifabad, Narayanpet and Wanaparthy districts, while in the remaining 26 districts, the positive cases reported were in single digit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/active-covid-cases-below-2000/article33765159.ece
06 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Refund ITC’s Rs. 4.5 crore with 12% interest: HC to APIIC, TSIIC||The Telangana High Court had directed the Andhra Pradesh Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (APIIC) and the Telangana State Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (TSIIC) to refund to ITC company the Rs. 4.5 crore it had paid 14 years ago to the undivided APIIC. Delivering a verdict in a writ petition filed by ITC Limited seeking refund of the money, a bench of Justices M.S. Ramachandra Rao and T. Amarnath Goud said the APIIC and the TSIIC should return the amount in the ratio of 58.32 : 41.68 within four weeks with 12% annual interest. Both the corporations were directed to pay Rs. 10,000 each as costs to the company. ITC Limited deposited Rs. 4.5 crore with APIIC in 2007 for allotment of land to expand its project in Sarapaka village near Bhadrachalam of Telangana region in undivided AP. APIIC, which was the nodal agency for industrial development, allotted nearly 1,500 acres in Sarapaka village to the company. As per the plan, the land would be given to the Forest department, which in turn would allot the same to the company after securing permission from Union Ministry of Environment and Forests. Since the land in that village was degraded forest land, APIIC identified 1,500 acres of government land in Anantapur district for compensatory afforestation by the company. However, the transfer of land to the company was rejected by the Central government in a meeting held in 2012. Despite the rejection, the APIIC did not refund the amount to the company. Meanwhile, two years later, a separate State of Telangana was carved out of the then united Andhra Pradesh and the TSIIC and APIIC were constituted. After writing letters to the two corporations for refund, the company finally knocked the doors of the Telangana High Court nearly three years ago. After hearing contentions of the company and the two corporations, the bench of the HC pronounced this judgment. Retention of the amount paid by the company was against the fundamental principles of justice, equity and good conscience. It clearly amounts to unjust enrichment of the two corporations, the verdict said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/refund-itcs-rs-45-crore-with-12-interest-hc-to-apiic-tsiic/article33765178.ece
06 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Gang flees with ATM in Adilabad town||A gang of masked men ‘plucked away’ an ATM of State Bank of India in Adilabad town in the small hours of Friday. A rope was tied to the strongly planted cash machine, and its other end was hooked to a car waiting outside the ATM. The miscreants pulled out the machine easily as the car started moving. The act was caught on the surveillance cameras inside the centre and other CCTV cameras in the area. No bank security personnel was guarding the place. The ATM was in a high-security area that has the residences and offices of the District Collector, and Superintendent of Police. And the II Town and traffic police stations are just a few metres away. The police are mooting whether their existing patrolling system should require any overhaul. According to a senior police officer, around 3.30 a.m., a group of men reached the Collectorate Chowk SBI ATM in a four-wheeler, recced the area for a few minutes, and made away with the machine. After placing the machine in the car, they broke open it, took away Rs. 7.46 lakh and dumped the ATM near Battisavargaon village on the outskirts of the town. Stating that they had enough clues, the officer said that 10 teams, each consisting of at least five personnel, were formed to nab the miscreants. Teams were also sent to neighbouring Maharashtra. “They will be caught in a day or two,” an officer associated with the investigation of the case said, refusing to divulge more information.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gang-flees-with-atm/article33765187.ece
06 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Three inter-State burglars arrested||The Osmania University Police apprehended a notorious three members inter-State burglar gang on Friday and recovered stolen property pertaining to seven cases in Hyderabad and Rachakonda Commissionarates and Guntur of Andhra Pradesh. The accused have been identified as 34-year-old Arepally Durga Rao of Machilipatnam, and 41-year-old Pulletikurthi Umamaheshwar Rao and 30-year-old Pairdha Kiran Babu of Guntur town. Police said that prime accused Durga Rao along with his associates Umamaheshwar Rao and Kiran Babu targeted houses in posh colonies for committing house burglaries in the night. “They stay in lodges and recce the area on foot or in auto rickshaws and target locked houses in the day and during night they enter the premises through main or back doors and commit the offence. Durga Rao carries a backpack with iron rods and enters into the house by breaking the locks, while Umamaheshwar Rao and Kiran Babu keep a watch outside,” police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/police-arrest-3-inter-state-burglars/article33765169.ece
06 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Youth held for blackmailing girl||A youngster who blackmailed girls after collecting their intimate and personal pictures after creating fake Instagram accounts, was arrested by the Hyderabad Cyber Crime police here on Friday. The accused, Chilviary Santosh Kumar, is a resident of Abdullapurmet in Rangareddy district. In August last, police received a complaint from the parents of a 19-year-old girl who was being blackmailed by the accused. She had received a friend request on Instagram from an unknown account who introduced himself as her schoolmate, and subsequently they shared personal contact details with each other. They became good friends then he proposed to her and they shared their personal pictures with each other on WhatsApp, Joint Commissioner of Police (Detective Department) Avinash Mohanty said. “Later, the girl came to know that Mr. Kumar had cheated other girls in the same manner and started avoiding him and blocked his social media accounts. Then, he started to call her continuously and threatened and blackmailed her by sending her private pictures,” he said. Based on their complaint, a case was registered and Mr. Kumar was arrested on Friday. As per the preliminary investigation, Mr. Kumar was learnt to be chatting on social media platforms with unknown girls by creating fake accounts for ‘time pass’. Mr. Mohanty requested the general public not to share personal and private pictures with others and do not accept anonymous friend requests on social media platforms. “Take precautions while uploading personal pictures on social media platforms in open source and keep personal profiles in private or lock mode,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/youth-held-for-blackmailing-girl/article33765171.ece
06 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Suresh Prabhu, Sujana Chowdhary hail Union Budget||Former Union Ministers Suresh Prabhu and Sujana Chowdhary heaped praises on the Union Budget presented by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and termed it to be a ‘historic’ budget that will propel the economy to a double digit growth despite the COVID-19 impact last year. Addressing a press conference at the party office here on Friday, Mr. Prabhu compared the budget to the one presented in 1991 which heralded the economic reforms and said this one also has taken the decisive break from the past with due importance given to infrastructure, agriculture, health and education. He pointed out that the economy registered a negative growth last year and economies of several countries had contracted due to the pandemic but now every rating agency accepts that a double digit growth is possible for India as this budget has created a new wave for economic growth. The former minister was appreciative of the Finance Minister taking up reforms in fiscal and monetary policies along with removing the criminal aspects in the companies law. “In fact, the Modi government has been taking up corrective steps for the economy all through last year with stimulus packages,” he said. Defending the privatisation of public sector units, he said it was only a method to provide better returns to the shareholders or the people of the country with the President as the custodian. Indian Railways has been getting unprecedented funds for capital expenditure which started when he was the Railway Minister, he asserted. With regard to the ongoing farmers agitation, Mr. Prabhu felt there was some communication gap between the farmers and the government and efforts were on to bridge them. The best way forward is dialogue. The farm laws are meant to provide multiple markets to farmers but they seem to have grievances. We respect them and the government is open to talk to them,” he maintained. Mr. Chowdhary hailed the budget for moving forward towards creation of a sustainable sustainable physical and social infrastructure with emphasis on health and education. “All this has been done without raising taxes so this has to be appreciated,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ex-ministers-hail-budget/article33765179.ece
06 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Is selling PSUs only way to earn revenue?’||Former PCC chief and senior Congress leader Ponnala Lakshmaiah ridiculed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s statement that previous governments drafted the Union Budget with an eye on vote bank and polls. At a press conference here on Friday, he said that the Budget presented by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman was indeed divisive with an eye on States going for elections and neglecting all the others. “Modi Ji, either you are playing ignorant or blind to what was promulgated in the Budget. Have you not doled out Rs. 3.5 lakh crore to election bound States like Assam, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Kerala in the Budget?” Mr. Lakshmaiah said from 2004 to 2014, the GDP witnessed a rapid growth, a fact which neither BJP nor any economist worth his salt could deny. “In terms of dollars, the income of an average Indian which stood 628 USD had grown to 1596 USD during the Congress rule with an average growth 15% per annum. But under BJP, the rise is just 3.3% in six years,” he said. The former minister said that the Budget had proposed to put the country on sale. “You have proposed to sell the Vizag Steel Plant to your cronies. Is selling PSUs the only solution to earn revenue for the government? Is not selling PSUs like LIC, and Air India a glaring example of a bankrupt governance,” he asked the Prime Minister. He said the Congress initiated many schemes for the upliftment of farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/is-selling-psus-the-only-way-to-earn-revenue/article33765185.ece
06 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Commissionerate of Tenders reconstituted||The State government has reconstituted the Commissionerate of Tenders following reorganisation of the Irrigation Department. According to the orders issued on Friday, the Commissionerate is headed by Engineer-in-Chief (General) of Irrigation Department as its Chairman and ENC or Chief Engineer of Roads & Buildings, Panchayat Raj & Rural Development and Public Health, Chief Engineer (Enquiries) in Irrigation Department and Director of Works and Accounts as its Members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cot-reconstituted/article33765174.ece
06 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IICT tech on mitochondria stain moved to Japanese firm||Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT) scientists developed novel flourophores technology that can stain mitochondria has been licensed to Tokyo Chemical Industry, Japan, on Friday. The technology developed by Surya Prakash Singh’s group works in the department of polymers and functional materials and his major research focuses are on design and synthesis of various class of sustainable dyes for use on photonic devices, textiles, biological applications and paints. Dr. Singh’s group in collaboration with Srigiridhar Kotamraju’s lab at the department of applied biology in the institute found ‘BODIPY’ based novel fluorophores could be used for intracellular mitochondrial tracking. Mitochondria are considered to be the cellular powerhouses supplying energy in the form of ‘ATP’ for cellular needs, said a press release. They also play a major role in the survival and death of cells, therefore tracking its health in various disease conditions is important for which charged fluorophores are used. These mitochondria-selective fluorophores are permanently charged molecules and require special storage conditions. The technology transferred to the Japanese firm uses neutral BODIPY-based non-toxic, stable at room temperature, sensitive, and highly efficient neutral fluorophores, with an exclusive affinity towards mitochondria useful for better understanding of diseases. Most raw materials used in making such novel fluorophores are indigenously made, thus supporting government’s initiatives on ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’. These results were patented and published in a prestigious American Chemical Society journal. Other members of the team include Gayathri Thumuganti and Santosh Karnewar, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/iict-tech-on-mitochondria-stain-transferred-to-japanese-firm/article33765190.ece
06 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Police interact with RBI officials on loan app fraud||Police of Hyderabad, Cyberabad and Rachakonda Commissionerates investigating alleged financial irregularities by instant loan app companies on Friday held a meeting with the Reserve Bank of India appointed working group for devising modalities to regulate the space of digital money lending in the country. They apprised the officials of the RBI on the entire situation arising out of the operation of unscrupulous money lending apps and their predatory approach towards public lending and recovering the loans. Further, the police suggested devising guidelines to streamline the digital lending by authorised NBFCs using various platforms. “Public must be able to identify the genuine and unauthorised money lending agencies and their lending process should be transparent and adherent to all the legal provisions,” they said. The investigators also suggested that the banks whose accounts are being used for money transactions by these fraudulent money lending apps must have a stringent mechanism for KYC and also periodical review of the activities to alert the law enforcement agencies of any suspicious transactions. Cyberabad Commissioner of Police V.C. Sajjanar, State Counter Intelligence chief Rajesh Kumar, Hyderabad Joint Commissioner of Police (Detective Department) Avinash Mohanty and other senior officers were present at the video conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/police-interact-with-rbi-officials-on-loan-apps/article33765170.ece
06 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Jagga Reddy flays filmstars, cricketers for tweets on ryots||Senior Congress leader and Sangareddy MLA T. Jayaprakash Reddy hit out at filmstars and cricketers for their tweets in support of the Central government on the farmers’ issue. He ridiculed them saying that cultivation is not as easy as putting a paint on your face and holding a cricket bat in the ground is not equal to ploughing a field. “If you can’t support the farmers, at least have some sense not to demoralise them with your tweets,” he said at a press conference here. Mr. Reddy said that celebrities earlier were always on the people’s side but now they seem to be under duress to support the Central government. “It is unfortunate that they don’t even have the guts to question the wrong deeds of the government,” he said. On to tweets from cricketer Sachin Tendulkar and filmstars, he questioned why were they not moved by the plight of farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jagga-reddy-flays-filmstars-cricketers-for-tweets-on-ryots/article33765184.ece
06 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||NASSCOM’s e-learning platform now for TS students||IT and ITes Sector Skills Council of NASSCOM in association with Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE) and Telangana Academy for Skill and Knowledge (TASK) on Friday unveiled ‘Future Skills PRIME Platform’ for the State. Jayesh Ranjan, IT Principal Secretary, launched the programme and said rapid adoption of digital can help maintain normalcy and rebound from adversity. Emerging technologies will play an important role and Telangana students must lead this transformation, Mr Ranjan added. TASK CEO Shrikant Sinha said, “Future Skills Prime provides courses on emerging technology free of cost that will be beneficial to students, faculty members and the management of education boards and institutions”. The programme will offer a robust online platform to encourage remote and self-paced learning. Many awareness-building modules will be free to access and 4.12 lakh learners will get subsidised access to certified courses in emerging technologies like AI, Internet of things, Big Data Analytics, Robotic Process Automation, Additive Manufacturing/3D Printing, Cloud Computing, Social and Mobile, Cyber Security, Augmented/Virtual Reality and Blockchain, informed TSCHE chairman T. Papi Reddy and vice-chairman V. Venkata Ramana. TSCHE vice-chairman R. Limbadri, CEO of IT-ITeS Sector Skills Council NASSCOM Sandhya Chintala, CCO NEAT, AICTE Buddha Chandra Shekar, and head of FutureSkills Prime at NASSCOM Kirti Seth also spoke.  Future Skills Prime provides courses on emerging technology free of cost that will be beneficial to students, faculty members and the management of education boards and institutions. Shrikant Sinha, CEO, TASK||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nasscom-e-learning-platform-now-for-telangana-students/article33765164.ece
06 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KCR to address TRS public meet on Feb. 10||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao will address a TRS public meeting on February 10 at Halia in Nagarjunasagar Assembly constituency, where a by-election is scheduled shortly. The decision to organise the public meeting at Halia and lay the foundation stones for eight or nine lift irrigation schemes at Nellikallu, 20 km away, was taken at a meeting Mr. Rao had with TRS leaders from erstwhile Nalgonda district on Friday. A release said the meeting discussed irrigation facilities in Nalgonda to ensure coverage of ayacut other than that serviced by various projects. It was decided to construct lift irrigation schemes at Nellikallu and other places at an estimated Rs. 3,000 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-to-address-public-meeting-on-feb-10/article33765181.ece
06 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||STATE PAGE - BRIEFS CS headed PMGSY committee approves 225 roads||The State-level standing committee on Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana (PMGSY) has approved 225 roads spanning 1,412.98 km under phase-III (batch-II). The works are estimated to cost Rs. 867.51 crore and the funding would be in 60:40 ratio by the Central and State governments. The committee headed by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, which met here on Friday, gave the approval for the works. The proposals would be forwarded to the Central government for its sanction. The committee also reviewed the progress of works under PMGSY.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-page-briefs-cs-headed-pmgsy-committee-approves-225-roads/article33765176.ece
06 February 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Flashy auto on CCTV footage helps nab murderers||Investigation into the murders of two unidentified men in the wee hours of January 25, near Ramnagar locality on the town outskirts, reached a logical point on Friday with the Nalgonda police nabbing two suspects. The two dead persons were identified as Bondi Ramji and Bondi Nageswar of Pothulur village, Prathipadu in East Godavari district. They had come to Nalgonda in search of work, and later in the wee hours were found murdered. DSP Venkateswara Reddy produced two accused — Shaik Azeem and Shaik Amir of Girakalabavi in the old town — before media persons and disclosed the details. “The duo, one of whom was the auto-rickshaw driver, assumed the visitors’ bags contained a lot of money. So as part of a plan invited the two for a drink and took them to the outskirts, where after a couple of drinks the accused bludgeoned the victims with boulders,” he said.  No leads The crime scene on January 25 did not offer much to the investigating team of the police. One of the investigating officials said a small wallet was found, but it also did not provide a strong lead. However, footage from CCTVs on the route, one at Cherlapally on the Addanki-Narketpally State highway where the visitors got down and took the auto-rickshaw, and another CCTV on the Collectorate road near the crime scene, showed similarity. “At around 3.55 a.m., an auto-rickshaw with blinking lights and a fancy sticker, was seen on the CCTVs. The same vehicle was seen at Cherlapally and on the Collectorate road towards Ramnagar,” an official said. Following this lead the police questioned a few auto-rickshaw drivers and zeroed in on the two suspects who were picked up. During questioning their motive and role in the crime became clear. The duo were remanded to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/flashy-auto-on-cctv-footage-helps-nab-murderers/article33765302.ece
06 February 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||BRF||Tension prevailed at the Yadadri Thermal Power Plant (YTPP) at Damaracherla in the district on Friday, when irate residents from Veerlapalem attempted storming the project in protest over a worker’s death. They said Bommaraboina Raju, an employee at the plant, was crushed by a truck when he was on foot near the 5th unit. Raju died while he was being rushed to Miryalaguda Area Hospital. According to the protesters, the project officials were “casual and unconcerned” even when a worker died. Local police had to be rushed to the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article33765186.ece
06 February 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||NAAC peer team visits Sadashivapet College||Members of National Assessment And Accreditation Council (NAAC) peer review team consisting of Devanand Shinde, Sanjay Kumar Sthapathi and Professor Anup Kumar have visited the Government Degree College at Sadashivapet mandal headquarters and interacted with the faculty and officials of the collage for the past two days. The team completed its official visit on Friday. Representative of the Commissionerate of Collegiate Education and Regional Joint Director Rajendra Singh and Osmania University representative Gopal also visited the college along with NAAC members and explained the development activity. They have also examined the facility of virtual classrooms and biometric attendance system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/naac-peer-team-visits-sadashivapet-college/article33765305.ece
06 February 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Recording the live memory of a village||Kommu Raju is B.Sc. Microbiology student studying in Siddpet. Soon after he completed his schooling, the village started transforming for the worse. There were discussions in the village that it would get submerged in the proposed Mallannasagar along with seven other villages. He was witness to the ongoing discussions among villagers. The elders in the village were worried about not only their future but also of their kith and kin. Where to go and what to do was the big question that hunted them for long - and in fact still continues to haunt them. The villages, under Mallannasagar, one after other have been getting vacated and they are destined to disappear and submerge in the reservoir. Two villages – Erravalli and Singaram – under Kondapaka mandal, part of Gajwel Assembly constituency being represented by Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, were already vacated by villagers. This has all taken place before the eyes of Raju and he know what is in store for his village as well. The transformation taking place in the village has made him to think and record last glimpses of the village. The 13.34 minute video starts with women cleaning the veranda and sprinkling water mixed with cow dung. Then it goes on to narrate about the village-based professions like barber, carpenter, goldsmith, small grocery shop owners. A back ground song describing about village atmosphere runs while showing all these videos. The video also shows how the adjacent areas of the village are being dug and how once green carpet-like area with different crops has transformed into red soil. While Mr. Raju shot the video himself, he took the assistance of one Narasimhulu, a resident of Vemulaghat, also a submerging village in Mallannasagar, to edit the video. “Two of the submerging villages – Erravalli and Singaram- were already vacated and the pressure is building on us to vacate. The digging is taking place on the outskirts of our village. I wanted to have a permanent record of our village and hence shot this video. This will be a memory for us. Many in the village are yet to get some compensation amounts,” Mr. Raju told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/recording-the-live-memory-of-a-village/article33765310.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||When the zombies go to Seema||Deep in the Rayalaseema hinterland, where faction rivalry dictates the fault lines, bite-thirsty zombies threaten to destroy everyone in their wake. Amid all the mayhem, one woman is on the verge of breaking free from her self-imposed exile after years. Ever since she was deserted as a bride, she has isolated herself, still decked in wedding finery. Another character comments that the three months of lockdown in 2020 turned many of us nuts, so, understandably, the woman’s behaviour isn’t ‘normal’ after years of lockdown! In one stroke, director Prasanth Varma juxtaposes different worlds — a pandemic looming large, zombies, Rayalaseema faction rivalry — to hilarious effect. Zombie Reddy is a satirical potpourri replete with pop culture references at every turn. It builds up rather slowly but rises to a crescendo of madness, offering laughter and scope for a franchise. The film unfolds like a game and also turns to the higher powers of faith when things spiral out of control. ‘Mrutyunjay’ potion could well be a metaphor for the much-needed vaccine during the pandemic. The first few minutes encapsulate the many moods of the lockdown, be it the paranoia if anyone in the vicinity coughs or sneezes, cooking videos, lighting lamps and singing ‘go Corona go’ or trying to defy lockdown restrictions only to face the wrath of cops. At the fag end of the lockdown, friends and game developers Mario (Teja Sajja), Maggie (Daksha Nagarkar) and Bhadram (Kireeti) travel to Rayalaseema because their friend and co-worker (Hemanth) is getting married. In these on-screen villages around Kurnool, no one wears masks or uses sanitisers. Because there are enough non-viral reasons to lose a limb or life. The entry into the faction region is treated like a game, and as the narrative unfolds, the game moves to the next level with the central characters trying to find an escape route as the threat rises. Memories of Telugu cinema of the 90s are invoked through the rivalry between Bhooma Reddy (Vinay Varma) and Veera Reddy. In minutes, characters reminiscent of the Peddarayudu and Samarasimha Reddy era take over the screen. Despite the spoofs, the narrative takes time to find its rhythm. The film truly finds its feet when four characters find themselves in a house surrounded by zombies. The home invasion mode and the subsequent escape leads to further exploring the web of Rayalaseema rivalry and re-uniting of warring families. Anandi as Nandini Reddy is a welcome addition to the mayhem, as she’s torn between family pride, revenge and newfound friends. Teja Sajja gets ample scope to showcase his potential and Daksha is effective as a gaming addict. Kireeti invokes a few laughs as the always-paranoid-of-diseases friend. The casting of the many Reddys in the Rayalaseema region also works. The zombie genre is new to Telugu cinema and Prasanth skilfully weaves it into a region-specific story without making it look out of place.  (For the longer review, check www.thehindu.com)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/when-the-zombies-go-to-rayalaseema/article33765167.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||To pay tribute||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/to-pay-tribute/article33765301.ece
06 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||No intention to trouble public during chakka jam: protesters||The intention of chakka jam , on Saturday, is to demonstrate anger against the government and not to inconvenience the common man, asserted protesting farmers. The programme is scheduled to start at 12 p.m. and could go on for three hours, but not at the expense of troubling the masses. Amreek Singh, District Pradhan of Bharat Kisan Union (Jalandhar), protesting at Singhu border said that only national highways will be blocked during the jam and there is no intention to create any hassle for people commuting inside Delhi. “At the borders, protesters will park their trolleys and sit there. But they will make way for ambulances, military cars, marriage processions, and people travelling to airports,” he said. Planned to perfection Protesters said that the time was thoughtfully chosen – 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. in a deliberate attempt to ensure that people are not troubled. “If someone wants to go to work, they can leave in the morning and can return after it is over. If someone wants to enter or leave the city, they can plan accordingly. If we wanted to trouble the public, we would have planned from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.,” said Mr. Amreek. Mandeep Singh, member of Bharat Kisan Union (Ludhiana), said that all block heads have been sent back home a week before to plan the chakka jam in their respective villages in Punjab. “We have already done it twice in Punjab – in September and October,” he said, adding that volunteers at Singhu will continue to stay and ensure that no untoward incident occurs. People’s support Protesters hope that the locals would support them for three hours and shut their workplaces, just like it was in Punjab. Mr. Amreek recalled a similar event in Punjab on September 25. A roadside vegetable vendor sat with them on the dharna. “That man earns Rs. 300 a day to feed his family and even he sat with us,” he said. Protesters said that there is no intention to spark any problem at link roads inside Delhi. “However, if some miscreants try to create problems to defame us, we can’t say [anything],” said Joginder Singh from Mansa. Avtar Singh (50) from Moga said that Saturday’s event will be peaceful. “The reason it’s been announced much in advance is that people can plan their travel in advance,” he said. Sonipat resident Sudhir said they fully support the chakka jam and hope it puts “some pressure” on the government. At the same time, Internet continued to remain suspended at the protest site leading to multiple problems, especially for students taking online classes. Difficult lessons Sukhwinder Singh Barwa from Ropar said that some undergraduate students from Kerala, who were volunteering at the protest site, left on January 29 because of Internet suspension as exams were approaching. Pavneet Kaur, a Class 11 student from Sangroor, said her school has asked her to return because exams are scheduled for next month and she hasn’t been able to attend classes since Jan. 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/no-intention-to-trouble-public-during-chakka-jam-protesters/article33764804.ece
06 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Multilayered barricades, heavy security in place at Delhi borders||Delhi Police has intensified security at the Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders by placing multilayered barricades and heavy deployment of security forces for the proposed chakka jam by farmers, said a senior police officer on Friday. DCP (New Delhi) Eish Singhal said they have written a letter to the Delhi Metro for shutting 12 metro stations in the New Delhi area, in case the situation spirals out of control. A senior police officer said that a meeting was held at each border to review security while other district DCPs have been ordered to be on alert for any adverse situation. Borders have been completely covered with police barricades, barbed wires, and nails studded on the roads. Delhi Police Commissioner S.N. Shrivastava also held a meeting with senior officers of the force and reviewed the security arrangements. The police will also monitor content on the social media to track those spreading rumours against them, officers said. Security arrangements Elaborating on the security arrangements for the proposed chakka jam , Delhi Police PRO Chinmoy Biswal said that in view of the violence that marked the Republic Day, sufficient security arrangements have installed at the borders so that miscreants would be unable to enter the national capital. “We are monitoring content on the social media to make sure that rumours are not spread against the police. We are in touch with the police force of other States too,” he added. A senior police officer said that adequate forces are being deployed across the Outer-North district as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/multilayered-barricades-heavy-security-in-place-at-delhi-borders/article33764813.ece
06 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Post R-day violence, donations have dwindled, say farmers||Donations by supporters and sympathisers of farmers at the Singhu border protest site have dipped after January 26 violence, stage management committee members said. A member, who wishes anonymity, said they were once getting donations amounting to Rs. 5-7 lakh a day but it has now been reduced to Rs. 1-2 lakh. “We don’t know the reasons, but the daily expenditure of continuing the protest is more than the donations,” he said. The member also said that the daily cost of the protest includes the rent of speakers and waterproof tents. “The rent of speakers is Rs. 25,000 a day and there are over 100 waterproof tents, and their rent is Rs. 1,000 for one per day,” he said. The Sanyunkta Kisan Morcha also bears medical expenses of accident cases and sometimes hospital bills if families can’t afford them. “We pay medical bills of people who fall sick here. Recently, we have paid a bill of Rs. 5.5 lakh for a person who suffered a heart attack,” he said. Shooting expenses Other costs include the waterproof tent at the main stage, which according to the member cost them Rs. 50 lakh, and carpets that were bought along with it. “Sometimes, we have to buy water in bulk – it costs around Rs. 50,000. We have also bought tarpaulin worth Rs. 35-40 lakh, which has been distributed to people,” he said. Talking about the donation, the member said that people give a part of their salaries in service of people and those who feel for the cause. “There are constant questions on the funding of the protest. This is how the money is raised. All the donations are announced on the stage, even if it is Rs. 10 or Rs. 10 lakh,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/post-r-day-violence-donations-have-dwindled-say-farmers/article33764806.ece
06 February 2021||New Delhi,||Ponzi scam unearthed, 1 arrested||The Economic Offences Wing of Delhi Police on Friday arrested a man and unearthed a ponzi scheme that duped over hundreds of people on the pretext of high returns, said a senior police officer. The officer said that the accused has been identified as Sanjeev Upadhyay, a resident of Adarsh Nagar in Delhi. Police said they received more than 130 complaints. The complainants alleged that Sanjeev Upadhyay was running a partnership firm in the name of M/s Great India Expo. He induced them to invest in the firm with 200% assured return on monthly basis. A lot of people fell into his trap and invested their hard earned money in the firm. After collecting a huge amount from the complainants, the accused stopped the payment of monthly returns, shut down the office, switched off his phones and ran away. During investigation, several bank accounts of the accused/alleged firm were detected, scrutinised and action taken to safeguard the interest of gullible investors. Crores of rupees were withdrawn by the accused by way of numerous self cheques. Regional Manager, Department of Non Banking Supervision, RBI, confirmed that the alleged firm was not authorised for functioning as NBFC or for collecting money.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ponzi-scam-unearthed-1-arrested/article33764810.ece
06 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||DU to permit research scholars, teachers to use central library, reading room||The Delhi University (DU), in a notification dated February 4, announced that as part of its phased reopening, it will permit research scholars and faculty members to use the central library and its reading rooms. The varsity said the library will be opened with immediate effect and it will remain open from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. on weekdays. It also stated that prior registration of seats will be essential. “Visitors, alumni and others would be allowed only with prior permission. The users have to register his or her details in the register kept at the entrance. Thermal screening of all users and staff will be done at the entry point. The entry of users having temperature [COVID-19 symptoms] would strictly be banned,” the notification read. No late return fee All bona fide library members will be permitted to borrow and return books and late return fine would not be charged for the period of COVID-19, the notification said. “Limited users would be allowed at a time to borrow or return library books. Sitting areas have been rearranged, keeping in view the required social distancing. Users would only be allowed to sit on designated seats,” the university said. Prior booking must Further, the notification added, “Scholars are advised to make prior booking of seat online.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/du-to-permit-research-scholars-teachers-to-use-central-library-reading-room/article33764814.ece
06 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Police to approach Google to find ‘toolkit’ creator||To identify the authors of the ‘Toolkit’, which was shared on Google Docs, the Delhi police will write to Google to get the IP (internet protocol) address or the location from where the ‘Toolkit’ document was created and uploaded on the social media platform, said a senior police officer on Friday. Taking legal help The officer said that they are taking legal help and writing to Google to get more details about the uploader and creator of the ‘toolkit’. On Thursday, the Delhi police cyber cell had registered an FIR to investigate an “international conspiracy” to defame the country. A police officer said that they have registered a First Information Report into the matter after a Twitter handle had shared a ‘Toolkit’ on Twitter but deleted it later. No names have been mentioned in the FIR, the officer said. ‘Waging war’ Praveer Ranjan, Special Commissioner of Police, said that an FIR had been registered under section 124A (sedition), 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot), 153A (promoting enmity between different groups) and 120B (criminal conspiracy). He added that it also aims at waging social, cultural and economic war against India.  A First Information Report has been registered into the matter after a Twitter handle had shared a ‘Toolkit’ on Twitter but deleted it later. No names have been mentioned in the FIR A police officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/police-to-write-to-google-to-find-toolkit-creator/article33764811.ece
06 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Journalists’ union wants ban lifted on reporting stir||The Delhi Union of Journalists on Friday condemned Delhi Police’s decision to prohibit reporters from meeting protesting farmers at the Singhu border. In a statement, Delhi Union of Journalists (DUJ) said that reporters have been covering the protests of farmers since its beginning and there has been no intimidation against objective reporting of the protests. However, now, reporters have to travel fifteen to twenty kilometres extra through village roads to meet the farmers. “Reports so far indicate that Delhi Police has denied basic amenities such as food and water to the protesters, besides removing toilets and shutting off electricity. If the entry of reporters is banned and the Internet shut down, the media will be unable to verify reports of conditions in the camps. Unconfirmed rumours will become widespread,” the statement added. The union urged Delhi Police and the Union Home Ministry to lift the ‘ban’ on reporting farmers’ protests. “We also urge the authorities to lift the Internet shutdown and the consequent blackout of information about the protests,” it further added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/journalists-union-wants-ban-lifted-on-reporting-stir/article33765141.ece
06 February 2021||Noida,||Farmers plant flowers in response to ‘iron nails’ fixed by authorities||Farmers at Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border on Friday planted flower saplings along a road stretch, saying it was their response to “iron nails” fixed in the area by the police. Stringent security measures like multilayered barricading, concertina wires, had come up along with iron nails cemented on roads around the protest site in the wake of the January 26 violence in Delhi. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said: “The police had fixed iron nails for farmers but we have decided to plant flowers for them.” Rows of marigold flowers have come up near the barricading only in a “symbolic gesture” but a relatively bigger plantation drive was under way on a road stretch nearby, BKU media in-charge Dharmendra Malik said. “A flower garden is being created on the Delhi-Dabur Tiraha road. This will cover the dirt lying on road stretches, and also emanate fragrance and improve the environment around,” Mr. Malik said. Peaceful demonstration Farmers, who are getting the flower saplings from nearby nurseries, said they were on the path of “peaceful” demonstration. Farmers are camping in temporary tarpaulin-roofed shelters, while many have their tractor-trailers double up as their resting place that have come up on a stretch of the Delhi-Meerut highway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/farmers-plant-flowers-in-response-to-iron-nails-fixed-by-authorities/article33765140.ece
06 February 2021||LUCKNOW,||‘Dhannipur mosque project land not disputed’||The trust entrusted with building a mosque and hospital in Ayodhya's Dhannipur village on Friday,  quoting a revenue official,  stated that the five-acre plot allotted for the project by the Uttar Pradesh government was not disputed land. The Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation (IICF) issued the clarification days after two Delhi-based sisters moved the Allahabad High Court claiming ownership of the five-acre plot in Sohawal Tehsil of Ayodhya. They claimed their father, Gyan Chandra Punjabi, had come to India during Partition in 1947 from Punjab and settled in Faizabad (now Ayodhya) district, where he was allegedly allotted a 28-acre land in Dhannipur village by the Nazul Department for five years, which he continued to possess beyond that period. Later, his name was included in the revenue records but it was struck down from the records against which their father filed an appeal before the Additional Commissioner, Ayodhya, which was allowed, they claimed. The petition could be taken up by the court on February 8. In the petition, Rani Kapoor alias Rani Baluja and Rama Rani Punjabi demanded that the authorities be restrained from transferring the land to the Sunni Waqf Board till the pendency of dispute before the settlement officer. Athar Hussain, secretary of the IICF, issued a statement quoting “bandobast adhikari chakbandi” Rajesh Pandey to state that “there is no dispute regarding the Dhannipur mosque land”. The land dispute was in the neighbouring village of Sheikhpur Jafar, he said. A reply would be filed in the HC regarding the petition. With the unfurling of the tricolour, singing of the national anthem and planting of saplings of various trees like tamarind, mango, neem and guava at the five-acre plot in Dhannipur village here, the formal construction of the Dhannipur mosque project was launched on Republic Day. The soil testing procedure for the structure was also initiated before the actual construction begins.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/dhannipur-mosque-project-land-not-disputed/article33765145.ece
06 February 2021||Mumbai,||Nana Patole new State Congress chief||Putting speculation to rest, the Congress on Friday appointed senior leader Nana Patole as the Maharashtra Congress president, a day after he quit as Speaker. He will take over from Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat, who steered the party in tumultuous times of the 2019 general and Assembly polls. Mr. Patole has been given a jumbo team of six working presidents, 10 vice-presidents, and a parliamentary board of 37 members. The working presidents are Shivajirao Moghe, former minister from Vidarbha; Basavraj Patil, former MLA from Latur in Marathawada; Mohamed Arif Naseem Khan, former MLA from Mumbai; Kunal Patil, MLA from Dhule district in north Maharashtra; Chadrakant Handore, former MLA and Dalit leader from Mumbai; and Praniti Shinde, MLA from Solapur district in western Maharashtra. Mr. Patole said, “I am thankful for the responsibility bestowed upon me. The big team also means I no longer will face any difficulty on the organisational front. My sole aim would be to focus on making the Congress the number one party in the State.” He said the party requires an organisational rejig with a focus on districts and local bodies where it has no or minimum representation. “The Congress has its presence in every village, town of Maharashtra. We need to rejuvenate the party and that will be my task,” he said. ‘Lessons learnt’ On the Congress dropping to the number four spot in the State after being in control for a considerable period since Independence, Mr. Patole said the party had learnt from its mistakes. “You cannot be on top every time. There will be a period when you are forced to go on the back foot. We have analysed our mistakes and are ready to rectify them,” he said. On infighting in the party and opposition to his nomination, he said the Congress was the only party where democracy was practised. “We have the right to voice opinion and it is not groupism. Those who wanted to become president are free to have that feeling. There is nothing wrong in it,” he said. Mr. Patole, however, cautiously reacted when asked if the Speaker’s post would remain with the Congress. “Leaders of the three parties [Congress, NCP and Shiv Sena] — Sonia Gandhi, Sharad Pawar and Uddhav Thackeray — will take a decision. We will follow what is decided,” he said. NCP chief Mr. Pawar on Thursday said the post is open and a decision will be taken after discussions within the Maha Vikas Aghadi. Not discarding the possibility of the government having a second Deputy Chief Minister from the Congress, Mr. Patole said the demand made by Congress leaders like Manikrao Thakre was their personal opinion. “But there is nothing wrong for a leader to think good and big for the party,” he added. Mr. Patole, a farmer leader from the OBC community in Vidarbha, quit the Congress claiming that the then Congress-NCP government was not in favour of farmers’ interests. In 2014, he contested the Lok Sabha polls on a BJP ticket and won from Bhandara-Gondiya. He resigned alleging dictatorial behaviour by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and rejoined the Congress. He fought the 2019 general polls from Nagpur against Union Minister Nitin Gadkari, but lost. He contested the Assembly poll against ex-CM Devendra Fadnavis’s blue-eyed boy, Parinay Fukey, and emerged victorious.  The Congress has its presence in every village, town of Maharashtra. We need to rejuvenate the party and that will be my task Nana Patole Maharashtra Congress president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/nana-patole-new-state-congress-chief/article33764748.ece
06 February 2021||Mumbai,||Five arrested for making porn films||Five people were arrested in Mumbai for allegedly making pornographic films with struggling models and actors and uploading them on social media apps and websites, an official of the Crime Branch’s property cell said on Friday. The arrests of two male actors, a light man, a woman photographer, and a graphic designer came following a raid on a bungalow at Madh area, where such a film was being shot using mobile phone cameras, the official added. One woman has been rescued. “Six mobile phones, a laptop, cameras and equipment worth Rs. 5.68 lakh have been seized. We have frozen Rs. 36.60 lakh found in the accounts of the accused,” an officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/five-arrested-for-making-porn-films/article33764746.ece
06 February 2021||Nagpur,||CM visits Lonar lake||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday visited the Lonar crater lake in Buldhana district and asked officials to develop tourism facilities at the site without disturbing the local biodiversity. The District Information Office said the Chief Minister visited the Van Kuti viewpoint and Daitya Sudan temple. Mr. Thackeray said the Lonar lake is an ocean of biodiversity and careful planning is needed while developing tourism facilities around the site to avoid overcrowding. Accordingly, a draft plan should be prepared and implemented properly to give a facelift to the site. Mr. Thackeray held a meeting with officials and deliberated on the development of the Lonar Lake. “While developing the lake site, its biodiversity should not be disturbed and limited entry of visitors should be permitted,” he said. Mr. Thackeray on Friday also held a meeting with officials in Aurangabad to take stock of the ongoing development works in the district. The CM directed officials to provide agri pump connections to farmers. He also said that the State government would ensure ample funds for the Government Medical College and Hospital. Shiv Sena MLC and district unit chief Ambadas Danve said, “The chief minister discussed 43 different issues.” District Collector Sunil Chavan said these included four-laning of the Aurangabad-Paithan road, additional land for Harsul garbage processing centre, making tourist centres at Ajanta and Ellora operational, and a job guarantee scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cm-visits-lonar-lake/article33764745.ece
06 February 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Sena protests surging fuel prices||The Shiv Sena on Friday took out protest rallies in Thane and Belapur over the Centre’s failure to control the surge in fuel prices. Hundreds of party workers on bullock carts, cycles and also on foot held banners demanding the price of petrol be reduced to Rs. 50 per litre. Thane Mayor Naresh Mhaske and Sena MLC Ravindra Phatak led the march to the district collectorate. The protesters, which included a large number of women, raised slogans against the Central government and demanded that the hike in fuel prices be withdrawn immediately. “The Centre has stopped all sources of income of the civic corporations and is delaying its projects. This rise in fuel prices would add to the woes of the common citizens,” Mr. Mhaske said. Party workers also staged a protest outside Konkan Bhavan in Belapur. “We are staging protests outside government offices across the State. The intention is to wake up the Central government. With such a drastic rise in fuel prices, it has become increasingly difficult for the common man to survive. Farmers are annoyed and now the common man is upset,” Vitthal More, a Sena leader from Belapur, said. Protests were also held at Kranti Chowk in Aurangabad, Nanded, Jalna, Hingoli, Osmanabad and other parts of Marathwada. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sena-protests-surging-fuel-prices/article33764752.ece
06 February 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Woman found dead on tracks with her child’s body in bag||A 31-year-old woman has been found dead with a bag containing her child’s body on Vashi railway bridge. The police said the victim, Mayuri Biraadar, was undergoing treatment for depression after several miscarriages. She conceived last year after five years of marriage to a civil engineer in Chembur. Biraadar went home to Pune for delivery and didn’t return as her husband lost his job amid the pandemic. As her son would turn one on Saturday, Biraadar asked her mother to make some purchases from the market on Thursday evening. Biraadar left the house with her child when her father and brother left for work. “We are scanning CCTV footage and her call records to find out when and where she killed the child,” an officer said. The police said the woman reached Mumbai on Thursday night and boarded a train to Panvel. As the train approached Vashi station, she jumped on to the tracks. “Fellow passengers and home guards on the train alerted the police control room,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/woman-found-dead-on-tracks-with-childs-body-in-bag/article33764753.ece
06 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cannot afford to wait for zero cases to resume classes: Sisodia||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Friday said students need to get back to their normal routine and the government cannot afford to wait for COVID cases to drop to zero in order to resume classes. Mr. Sisodia, also the Education Minister, inspected the COVID-19 protocols put in place at the Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Gandhi Nagar on Friday when classes resumed for students of Class IX and XII. After inspecting the school, he said: “We cannot wait for ‘Zero COVID Case Day’ as it is necessary for us to adapt to our new lives in this pandemic. Students of Classes X and XII [reopened on January 18] were able to strictly follow COVID-19 instructions due to which we were confident to reopen Classes IX and XI as well.” Mr. Sisodia asked all school authorities to take necessary COVID-19 and follow social distancing norms in its premises. He added: “Our lives have slowly begun to get back on track. With the reopening of the schools, we are hopeful that we will be able to face all the uncertain challenges ahead of us.” Expressing his excitement on seeing students back in the science lab of the school he visited, he said: “The aim of the government is to prepare our students to face adversities in life. We want them to be ready to overcome all obstacles in their lives.” Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted: “Our students are really missing school. We have to protect them from COVID but also have to get the atmosphere of school back. Slowly we are getting the happiness and light of the school back.” Sisodia attacks Centre Mr. Sisodia also took a dig at the Central government for clearing a proposal that purportedly gives more power to the Lieutenant Governor. “The Kejriwal government has broken the old traditions and established world-class schools in Delhi. But the Centre stealthily approved a bill, which aims to give more power to the L-G. This is directly hampering the working of the elected government in Delhi and curtail the ongoing development,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cannot-afford-to-wait-for-zero-cases-to-resume-classes-sisodia/article33764737.ece
06 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Over 9,000 beneficiaries get the jab||A total of 9,216 beneficiaries took the COVID-19 vaccination in the city on Friday and there were 12 Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI) reported, the government said. The vaccination drive was carried out at 184 centres across Delhi’s 11 districts. The Capital reported 154 fresh COVID-19 cases on Friday along with two deaths and 140 recoveries over a 24-hour period. A health bulletin released by the Delhi government said 59,964 tests were conducted over the same period with a positivity rate of 0.26%. Out of the total tests, 37,770 were RTPCR tests and 22,194 were rapid antigen tests. The total number of cases in the city now stands at 6,35,793 with 6,23,714 recoveries and 10,873 deaths. The number of active cases in the city stands at 1206. The number of people in home isolation is 452.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/over-9000-beneficiaries-get-the-jab/article33764735.ece
06 February 2021||New Delhi,||20% drop in property circle rates for 6 months, Cabinet decides in meet||The Delhi government on Friday took several significant decisions, including a reduction in circle rates of residential, commercial, industrial and other properties by 20% for the next six months. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, who chaired a meeting of the Cabinet, said while the city was slowly recovering from an economic contraction in the post-Covid era, it was the government’s duty to take all steps to further reduce the financial burden on the common man. According to the government, a reduction of 20% in the circle rate would have an impact close to a reduction by 1% in the stamp duty or registration charges. Scholarship approved The Cabinet also approved the Mukhyamantri Vigyan Pratibha Pariksha under which it will provide Rs. 5,000 as a science scholarship to 1,000 meritorious students of Class IX. “It is a crucial step for our government to promote talented students. These are the future of our country, they will become future scientists, engineers, doctors and architects and will make our nation proud,” Mr. Kejriwal said. Under the scheme, students studying in Delhi schools — who have secured more than 60% in Class VIII — are eligible for the examination. Students belonging to SC, ST, PH or OBC category will be given a relaxation of up to 5% of marks. The Cabinet also decided to completely digitise the Education Department and approved the procurement of 1,200 computers, multi-functional printers and UPSs for all schools, branch offices and district offices under it. It also approved the constitution of a Group of Ministers to look after a new excise policy under the chairmanship of Deputy CM Manish Sisodia. The group will seek to ensure transparency and ease of doing business to taxpayers and the business sector. The group will examine aspects of the current system of excise duty administration, the Report of the Expert Committee and the suggestions received from the stakeholders and public. It will then suggest a progressive new Excise Policy to the Council of Ministers, which is expected to make a final decision in the coming weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/20-drop-in-property-circle-rates-for-6-months-cabinet-decides-in-meet/article33764738.ece
06 February 2021||New Delhi,||AAP govt. issues tender to set up 100 EV charging stations||The Delhi government has issued a tender — the largest in India — to set up public charging stations for electric vehicles in the city, said Power Minister Satyendar Jain on Friday. He said Delhi Transco Limited (DTL), a Delhi government agency, has initiated the process for setting up 100 public charging stations. All power infrastructure costs will be borne by the government, he added. These 100 charging stations with a total of 500 charging points will be ready in a year and a majority of these sites will be at DMRC metro stations followed by DTC depots. Fast and slow chargers He said there will be a mandate for a minimum of 20% slow chargers and 10% fast chargers at these stations to cater to all kinds of electric vehicles and battery swapping stations will also be allowed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/aap-govt-issues-tender-to-set-up-100-ev-charging-stations/article33764739.ece
06 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||AAP MLA refutes allegations of lying about qualifications||AAP MLA Preeti Tomar on Friday refuted in the Delhi High Court the allegation that she gave a false declaration regarding her educational qualifications in her nomination form. Responding to the petition challenging her election, Ms. Tomar said her M.Sc and B.Ed degrees were issued in her maiden name, which she changed after her marriage. She claimed that prior to her marriage to former AAP MLA Jitender Singh Tomar, her maiden name was Kumari Tulsa Solanki and she was enrolled under that name in the Raghunath Girls Degree College, which is affiliated with the Chaudhary Charan Singh University, earlier known as Meerut University. Ms. Tomar claimed that she was issued the B.Sc and M.Sc degrees in 1988 and 1990, respectively, from the Meerut University and the B.Ed degree from Chaudhary Charan Singh University in 1995.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/aap-mla-refutes-allegations-of-lying-about-qualifications/article33764731.ece
06 February 2021||New Delhi,||Jatin- Ration||LoP Ramvir Singh Bidhuri on Friday alleged that thousands of quintals of wheat and rice, meant to be distributed to the poor during the nationwide lockdown, are rotting in schools. In a letter to CM, he said 1,200 quintals wheat, 300 rice were lying in schools of his constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/jatin-ration/article33764740.ece
06 February 2021||Noida,||Elderly couple found dead in Greater Noida||An elderly couple was found allegedly murdered at their residence in U.P.’s Greater Noida on Friday, the police said. The body of Suman Nath, 65, was found inside the house while that of her husband Narendra Nath, 70, was recovered from the basement, an officer said. Greater Noida DCP Rajesh Kumar Singh said the incident took place in Alpha 2 Sector. “Prima facie, it appears that some people had been invited over to the house for a party where they had consumed liquor. Glasses, liquor bottle, chowmein, momos and cigarette stubs have been found from the house,” Mr. Singh said, adding: “The family members of the deceased have also raised suspicion over the involvement of people who had come to the house for the party.” The DCP said the couple was into money lending and the family members suspect that some borrowers could also be involved in the crime. “It appears the door of the house was opened by the couple and suspects were known to them had a normal entry,” he said, adding that an FIR has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/elderly-couple-found-dead-in-greater-noida/article33764741.ece
06 February 2021||Pune,||3,513 recoveries, 2,628 new cases in Maharashtra||Recoveries continued to outpace new COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra, with 3,513 patients being discharged and 2,628 new cases being recorded on Friday. The State’s active case tally has declined further to 33,936, while the total case tally has reached 20,38,630. Forty fatalities saw the total death toll climb to 51,255. The cumulative recoveries have risen to 19,52,187, while the recovery rate has marginally increased to 95.76%. The State’s case fatality rate has dipped to 2.51%. “Of 1,48,75,633 laboratory samples tested thus far, 20,36,002 (with case positivity rate down to 13.7%) have returned positive, with over 54,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. Pune reported more than 300 new cases to take its total case tally to 3,90,574. As per State Health Department figures, 10 deaths were reported to take the total death toll to 7,998. The district’s active case tally has dipped to 4,736, with a recovery rate of 96.45%. 415 cases in Mumbai Mumbai city reported 415 new cases to take its total case tally to 3,11,019, of which just 5,750 are active. Four fatalities saw the city’s death toll reach 11,384. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported more than 200 new cases, taking the district’s total case tally to 1,37,035, of which 3,323 are currently active. Three deaths saw the total death toll reach 3,373. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported no deaths, while 67 fresh cases saw the total case tally rise to 56,747, of which just 753 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,819. Neighbouring Sangli reported just 19 cases and a single death as well as the district’s reported cases reached 50,921, of which only 635 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,784. Kolhapur reported 24 cases and a single fatality as its total case tally reached 49,232, of which just 148 are active. The total death toll stands at 1,673. In north Maharashtra, Nashik district reported 174 cases and no deaths as its total case tally reached 121,914, of which 1,189 are active. Its death toll stands at 2,000. Jalgaon reported over 40 new cases and no deaths as its total case tally reached 57,647, of which only 444 are active, while its death toll stayed constant at 1,478. Dr. Awate said that currently, a total of 1,77,560 people across the State were in home quarantine and 2,025 were in institutional quarantine facilities.  Over 54,000 samples were tested in the last 24 hours Dr. Pradeep Awate State Surveillance Officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/3513-more-recoveries-2628-fresh-cases-in-maharashtra/article33764754.ece
06 February 2021||Pune,||Resignation won’t affect MVA: Pawar||Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Friday said Nana Patole’s appointment as the Maharashtra Congress chief was not “entirely unexpected” but he should have stepped down as Assembly Speaker after the winter session. Mr. Pawar refuted reports that the development had caused friction among the allies of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA). He said, “News of Mr. Patole’s resignation was in the air for the past few days. While it might have been better had he resigned after the last Assembly session, this decision by his party superiors will not affect the smooth functioning of the government.” The resignation has sparked demands from Congress leaders like Manikrao Thakre for the Deputy Chief Minister’s post. However, the MVA allies had agreed on an arrangement whereby the Congress would get the Speaker’s post, and Uddhav Thackeray (Shiv Sena) and Mr. Pawar (NCP) would be handed the Chief Minister and Deputy Chief Minister’s posts respectively. Meanwhile, Mr. Pawar accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of misleading the public on inflated power bills by claiming the government failed to provide relief to consumers. The senior NCP leader said the BJP was staging agitations across the State to divert attention from the BJP-led Centre’s failure to control rising fuel prices. “We waived of 50% of electricity bills, including interest and interest on recovery. Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis should first urge the Centre to reduce fuel prices before pointing the finger at us,” Mr. Pawar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/resignation-wont-affect-mva-pawar/article33764755.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Privacy concerns over Haryana’s ID scheme||A recent email from her ward’s school has left Tripti Singh grappling with many queries and doubts. The email says that all schools have been directed by the district education officer to collect required information for Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal’s unique identity card scheme — Parivar Pehchan Patra (PPP). It further says that it is mandatory for all families to register themselves on the PPP portal to avail the benefits of the social security schemes of the State government. But Ms. Singh, not availing any of the government social security schemes, is not sure about the objectives of this massive data collection exercise. She does not know what the government plans to do with this and whether the PPP was going to be accepted as an official identification document in the future in the State. “Like many parents, I do have apprehensions about sharing the details,” conceded Ms. Singh, who is the administrator of theGurgaon Parents’ for Better Education, a Facebook platform for parents. Renewed push Though the PPP scheme was formally launched in July 2019 to achieve Haryana government’s vision for “paperless” and “faceless” delivery of schemes, services and benefits offered by the government, it has got a renewed push over the past few months with the government collecting data through schools, residents’ welfare associations and holding special camps across the State to enrol families, especially those who are likely to avail benefits of government schemes such as below poverty line families, social security benefit recipients etc. Simultaneously, efforts are on to train district officials and residents are being made aware of the scheme through print and audio visual campaigns and face-to-face interactions. Focu group discussions are also being held with key stakeholders such as members of residents’ welfare associations in the urban areas and other local representatives in urban as well as rural areas. Families enrolled Of the estimated 65 lakh families in Haryana, around 48 lakh have voluntarily enrolled for PPP and provided the data on ‘self-declaration mode’, claimed the Haryana government. Any family with a Haryana residential address can enrol for the scheme. The family ID or PPP, an eight-digit alpha numeric ID, is provided to those who are residents of Haryana. A registration ID is provided to those who live in Haryana but have not completed residency requirements. The required period for residency has been reduced to five years from 15 years as of January 2021. The registration ID for migrant families will enable the State government to provide benefits such as rations from fair price shops, benefits of labour schemes from the Labour Welfare Board and the Board for Construction Workers and the street vendors’ support schemes, and more. Services delivered As of now, over 110 services and schemes being delivered to citizens via the Saral platform have been linked to the PPP scheme. These services and schemes such as social security pensions, ration cards and birth, death, caste and income certificates etc. are being delivered by various departments of the Haryana government. The government has plans to gradually extend the PPP to all government schemes, services, benefits and subsidies. The PPP may also be linked to property records in the government database of lands and properties to prevent fraudulent transactions and clarify ownership. Integration of the PPP with land records would enable the State to provide “anytime, anywhere” online registration of property transactions instead of visiting the tehsil office. As a first step, it has been announced that from April 1, “anywhere” registration of property transactions is being attempted — the first in the country. Contradictory reply Replying to an email from The Hindu , the office of principal secretary, Citizen Resources Information Department (CRID), Haryana, clarified that enrolment under the PPP was voluntary, but in case a citizen or a family wished to apply for a service delivered by the Haryana government or any benefit and subsidy under any citizen welfare scheme of the State government, which has already been integrated with the PPP, the PPP ID would be required. Enrolment is voluntary even for government employees at present, said the office of CRID principal secretary. Gurugram-based Public Policy and Technology professional Prasanto K. Roy said the data collection exercise for Haryana’s PPP database was problematic on multiple fronts. “A lot of data is being sought, well above and beyond what is required to deliver education and related services. The demand for Aadhaar numbers — evidently, virtually mandatory — is in violation of the Supreme Court guidelines — especially if no State benefits or subsidies are being sought by the residents,” said Mr. Roy. He also expressed concern over reports of plans to cross-link this database with other databases, saying that if the PPP becomes a precondition to getting birth or death certificates, etc. then there is no choice in the matter and it was an offer you can’t refuse. Data abuse “Additionally, in the absence of privacy laws in India, or any indication of data protection Standard Operating Procedures being followed for this exercise, I would worry about potential abuse of this data — including, but not limited to, its immediate leakage and availability to spammers at the very least, and perhaps more insidious uses,” said Mr. Roy. He added that though various official portals, including the State government website, it is stated that the “data is to be taken with consent”, but the State government is virtually mandating that consent via schools. “It is virtually telling schools and RWAs, please ensure 100% compliance,” Mr. Roy said, adding that the State government, in other words, was telling the residents of Haryana that giving this data was optional, but consent was mandatory, and you need to be in this database if you want any services, not just subsidies or benefits from the State but also birth and death certificates. “That is beyond bizarre,” he said. The office of PS, CRID, however, said that the data in PPP would be used only for planning purposes and for delivery of government schemes, subsidies, benefits and services and not for any private purpose. “Only data that is legitimately sought for implementation of government schemes, subsidies, benefits or services is put together and not any other private data.” It also dismissed apprehensions that the State government might profile people on the basis of this data and use it for election campaigns and strategy as “baseless”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/privacy-concerns-over-haryanas-id-scheme/article33765144.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Delhi riots: HC advances Jamia student’s bail plea||The Delhi High Court on Friday allowed a plea by Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha, arrested under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, seeking advancement of his bail petition in connection with a case related to larger conspiracy in the riots last year. An HC Bench advanced the date of hearing Mr. Tanha’s petition from March 12 to February 25. The court allowed the early hearing application noting that special public prosecutors Amit Mahajan and Amit Prasad fairly did not oppose the plea. Advocate Sowjhanya Shankaran, representing Tahna, sought advancement of the date of hearing of the petition on the ground that he is a student and has already undergone detention for 263 days. Mr. Tanha has challenged a trial court’s October 26, 2020 order by which his bail application was dismissed on the ground that he allegedly played an active role in the entire conspiracy and that there were reasonable grounds for believing that the allegations against were prima facie true. Mr. Tanha was arrested in the case in May last for allegedly being part of a “premeditated conspiracy” in the riots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/delhi-riots-hc-advances-jamia-students-bail-plea/article33764744.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Up in smoke||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/up-in-smoke/article33764750.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Social network||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/social-network/article33764743.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||‘U.S. will build strength at home, abroad’||In his first address to the State Department as President, Joe Biden outlined his administration’s foreign policy priorities, reiterating that America was back and engaging the world, but acknowledging the world had changed in the last few years. The new President said alliances were America’s greatest asset. He said the U.S. would engage with adversaries and competitors diplomatically when it was in the country’s interest, highlighting strategies in the Russia and China contexts. Mr. Biden also used the speech to announce the end of U.S. support to the Saudi-led war in Yemen and the appointment of foreign service officer Tim Lenderking as special envoy to Yemen. However, he said, the U.S. would continue to support Saudi Arabia in defending its sovereignty. The President also announced a pause in the withdrawal of U.S. troops from Germany, while the U.S. government — led by Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin and Secretary of State Antony Blinken — reviews its global military footprint to make sure it is in alignment with foreign policy and national security policies. Mr. Biden repeatedly returned to the theme of democracy and a need for the U.S. to work from a “position of strength” by strengthening itself at home and reclaiming its credibility. During his speech, he highlighted the reversal of the travel ban from several Muslim-majority countries and lifting the ban on transgender persons in the military. He also talked the importance of a free press and restoring the daily press briefing at the White House. “We believe a free press isn’t an adversary; rather, it’s essential. A free press is essential to the health of a democracy.” Mr. Biden said foreign policy would need to be aligned with the interest of American working families. “There’s no longer a bright line between foreign and domestic policy. Every action we take in our conduct abroad, we must take with American working families in mind,” he said. Growing ambitions The President said America must confront growing authoritarianism, while he singled out Russia and China. “American leadership must meet this new moment of advancing authoritarianism, including the growing ambitions of China to rival the United States and the determination of Russia to damage and disrupt our democracy.” Mr. Biden said America’s diplomacy must be rooted in democratic values, which he listed as, “defending freedom, championing opportunity, upholding universal rights, respecting the rule of law, and treating every person with dignity.” He acknowledged that these values had been “pushed to the brink” in recent weeks — a reference to the January 6 attack on the U.S. Capitol. Mr. Biden said the U.S. would engage with “adversaries” and “competitors” when it was in the country’s interest, citing Russia and China as examples. He said that was the reasoning behind the U.S. extending by five years the New START Treaty (an Obama-era arms control pact) with Russia. However, this was not giving Russian President Vladimir Putin carte blanche to do anything, Mr. Biden said. He called for Russian dissident Aleksei Navalny to be released “immediately and without condition.” “...I made it clear to President Putin, in a manner very different from my predecessor, that the days of the United States rolling over in the face of Russia’s aggressive actions — interfering with our elections, cyber attacks, poisoning its citizens — are over,” he said. The U.S. could deal more effectively with Russia if it worked with its allies, Mr. Biden said. On China, Mr. Biden said the U.S. would counter its economic abuses and counter its aggression but would work with Beijing when it was in America’s interest (the U.S. is expected to seek Chinese cooperation on climate change and pandemic preparedness for instance). “We’ll confront China’s economic abuses; counter its aggressive, coercive action; to push back on China’s attack on human rights, intellectual property, and global governance. But we are ready to work with Beijing when it’s in America’s interest to do so,” he said. “We will compete from a position of strength by building back better at home, working with our allies and partners, renewing our role in international institutions, and reclaiming our credibility and moral authority, much of which has been lost,” Mr. Biden said, citing the fact that his administration had reversed Mr. Trump’s steps to withdraw America from the Paris Climate Accord and the World Health Organization. Coup in Myanmar Mr. Biden called on the Myanmar military to relinquish the power they have seized and release political leaders and activists, desist from violence and lift telecommunications restrictions. “...We will work with our partners to support restoration of democracy and the rule of law, and impose consequences on those responsible,” he said. “Over the past two weeks, I’ve spoken with the leaders of many of our closest friends — Canada, Mexico, the U.K., Germany, France, NATO, Japan, South Korea, Australia — to begin reforming the habits of cooperation and rebuilding the muscle of democratic alliances that have atrophied over the past few years of neglect and, I would argue, abuse,” he said. The U.S. had been closely cooperating with allies in recent days, Mr. Biden said with regard to the military takeover in Myanmar (Just days ago, a State Department official had said that American officials were in touch with their Indian and Japanese counterparts on the unfolding situation in Myanmar). “There can be no doubt: In a democracy, force should never seek to overrule the will of the people or attempt to erase the outcome of a credible election,” Mr. Biden said, presumably referring to both the Myanmar coup d’etat and the final weeks of the Trump administration. “There’s no longer a bright line between foreign and domestic policy. Every action we take in our conduct abroad, we must take with American working families in mind,” he said. Dissenting views Mr. Biden also told diplomats that he valued their work. The President and Mr. Blinken have said they want to revitalise the State Department, which had seen significant workforce attrition during the Trump administration, with individuals being edged out and roles being politicised. “I value your expertise and I respect you, and I will have your back. This administration is going to empower you to do your jobs, not target or politicise you. We want a rigorous debate that brings all perspectives and makes room for dissent. That’s how we’ll get the best possible policy outcomes,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-will-build-strength-at-home-abroad/article33764424.ece
06 February 2021||Yangon,||Hundreds protest in Myanmar amid arrest of key Suu Kyi aide||Several hundred teachers and students protested at a Myanmar university on Friday as the military widened a dragnet against officials ousted in a coup that has drawn global condemnation and the threat of new sanctions. The rally took place after the arrest Win Htein, a key aide to de facto leader Aung Sang Suu Kyi, who has not been seen in public since being detained along with President Win Myint. A representative of Ms. Suu Kyi’s National League for Democracy said on Friday she was being held at her residence in Naypyitaw, the country’s capital, and was “in good health”. “As far as I know, she’s under house arrest and has not been taken to another place yet,” NLD press officer Kyi Toe told AFP. Monday’s putsch ended the country’s 10-year dalliance with democracy that followed decades of oppressive junta rule, and sparked outrage and calls by U.S. President Joe Biden for the generals to relinquish power. On Friday, around 200 teachers and students at Yangon’s Dagon University staged a rally, where they displayed a three-finger salute borrowed from Thailand’s democracy movements, and sang a popular revolution song. “We have to resist this dictatorship,” lecturer Win Win Maw told AFP. “If all civil servants participate in this movement, it’s not easy to operate this government system.” Students chanted “Long live Mother Suu” and carried red flags, the colour of Suu Kyi’s National League for Democracy (NLD) party. A similar protest took place across town in Yangon University. In the capital Naypyitaw, dozens of employees from several Ministries posed for group photographs wearing red ribbons and flashing the democracy symbol.  According to the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners (AAPP), a Yangon-based group that monitors political arrests in Myanmar, more than 130 officials and lawmakers have been detained. Telecom providers were ordered to cut access to Facebook, the main means of communication and accessing the internet for millions of people in Myanmar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hundreds-protest-in-myanmar-amid-arrest-of-key-suu-kyi-aide/article33764421.ece
06 February 2021||Jakarta,||Indonesia bans ‘hijab’ in schools||Indonesia has banned schools from forcing girls to wear Islamic “hijab” headscarves after the case of a Christian pupil pressured to cover up sparked outrage in the world’s most populous Muslim nation. The move was applauded on Friday by activists, who say non-Muslim girls have been forced for years to wear a hijab in parts of the country. State schools will face sanctions if they fail to comply with the edict from Education Minister Nadiem Makarim.  Schools that violate the rules could see their government funding cut, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/indonesia-bans-hijab-in-schools/article33764418.ece
06 February 2021||Jerusalem,||Palestinian killed in Jewish settlement in West Bank||A Palestinian was shot dead on Friday inside a Jewish settlement in the occupied West Bank that he infiltrated overnight, sources from both sides said. Khaled Maher Nofal, a 34-year-old family man and Palestinian Finance Ministry employee, was gunned down by settlers, the official Palestinian news agency Wafa reported. Palestinian Civil Affairs Minister Hussein al-Sheikh condemned the killing, saying on Twitter that it had come after settlers had seized Nofal’s land and moved caravans onto it. The Israeli Army said he had been “neutralised” by a guard in a farm that he had infiltrated near the Palestinian town of Qalqilyah and that no weapons were found in his possession. “At 03:45 (a.m.), a terrorist entered the Sde Efraim farm by vehicle... and pulled over adjacent to the entrance of the farm owner’s house,” it said in a statement. “The terrorist ran out of the car towards the house, shouting ‘Allahu Akbar’ (God is Greatest) while attempting to break into the house,” it added. It said the man had attacked an unarmed guard before being “neutralised” by settlers. The farm is a so-called wildcat settlement, an outpost not recognised by the Jewish state, according to Israeli anti-settlement movement Peace Now. International law regards all settlements built on occupied Palestinian land, whether public or privately owned, as illegal. The military said soldiers later entered Nofal’s village of Ras Karkar to carry out searches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/palestinian-killed-in-jewish-settlement-in-west-bank/article33764422.ece
06 February 2021||Beijing,||Beijing warns off U.S. warship in S. China Sea||China on Friday warned off a U.S. warship sailing near contested islands in the South China Sea, Beijing said, the first such encounter made public since the inauguration of President Joe Biden. The USS John S. McCain “broke into China’s Xisha territorial waters without the permission of the Chinese government,” Beijing’s military said in a statement, using its name for the disputed Paracel Islands. The People’s Liberation Army “organised Naval and Air Forces to track, monitor and warn off” the warship, the Chinese military said, blasting the U.S. for “seriously violating China’s sovereignty” and “harming regional peace.” The Arleigh Burke-class guided missile destroyer on Thursday also conducted a routine transit through the waterway separating the Chinese mainland and Taiwan, which Beijing says constitutes part of its territory. Washington has argued that such exercises are in line with international law and help defend right of passage through the region amid competing claims by China and other governments. China lays claim to nearly all of the South China Sea, including the Paracel Islands. Taiwan, the Philippines, Brunei, Malaysia and Vietnam also claim parts of the region, believed to hold valuable oil and gas deposits. The U.S. Navy in late January sent an aircraft carrier group into the South China Sea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/beijing-warns-off-us-warship-in-s-china-sea/article33764417.ece
06 February 2021||Washington,||Trump refuses to testify in impeachment trial||Former President Donald Trump refused on Thursday to testify in his looming impeachment trial after being called by House prosecutors to give evidence, branding the process “unconstitutional.” Mr. Trump’s lawyers ridiculed the request in a letter by lead House prosecutor Jamie Raskin to answer questions over the January 6 attack on the U.S. Capitol as a “public relations stunt.” “Your letter only confirms what is known to everyone: you cannot prove your allegations” against Mr. Trump, attorneys Bruce Castor and David Schoen said in their reply. While the attorneys did not say whether he would testify, a senior adviser to Mr. Trump, Jason Miller, said flatly that he would not. “The President will not testify in an unconstitutional proceeding,” Mr. Miller said. The refusal came five days before the trial of the former U.S. leader on one charge of “incitement to insurrection” opens in the U.S. Senate. Mr. Trump is accused of fomenting the attack by his supporters on the U.S. legislature one month ago. Mr. Raskin said the trial will prove “Trump’s conduct was indefensible.” “His immediate refusal to testify speaks volumes and plainly establishes an adverse inference supporting his guilt,” he said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-refuses-to-testify-in-impeachment-trial/article33764426.ece
06 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Imran Khan calls for restoration of Article 370||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan on Friday called upon India to restore Article 370 in Kashmir. He said Kashmiris should be free to decide their own future. Addressing a rally at Kotli to observe ‘Kashmir Solidarity Day’, the Pakistan Prime Minister said he would raise his voice for Kashmir’s aspirations. “Today, I say to you again. Come resolve this Kashmir dispute with us. And for that, the first thing you must do is to restore Article 370. And then speak to us and then as per the UN Resolution, give the Kashmiris their due right,” he said. Mr. Khan’s comment was part of a set of official remarks from Pakistan’s top leaders, who make similar comments every year on ‘Kashmir Solidarity Day’. “We are ready to speak to you again. But I say this again. Do not mistake our hand of friendship for weakness. Pakistan belongs to those who bow to no one but God,” said Mr. Khan, who was followed by President Arif Alvi, who said resolution of the Kashmir issue was the “key to durable peace in South Asia”. Dr. Alvi said, “We will continue to extend all-out support to the Kashmiris till the realisation of their unalienable right to self-determination.” The comments came just days after Army chief Qamar Javed Bajwa expressed the desire for a “dignified” resolution to the Kashmir issue. The Ministry of External Affairs had said in response that the “onus” for creating “normal neighbourly relations” was on Pakistan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/imran-khan-calls-for-restoration-of-article-370/article33765051.ece
06 February 2021||BERLIN,||EU--United Nations-Climate||The UN reappointed former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg as its special envoy on climate ambition and solutions on Friday “to mobilise stronger and more ambitious climate action” ahead of a global summit in November.Reuters||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/eu-united-nations-climate/article33764428.ece
06 February 2021||Moscow,||Moscow expels EU diplomats over Navalny protests||Moscow said on Friday it was expelling diplomats from Poland, Germany and Sweden for participating in unsanctioned demonstrations last month in support of jailed Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny. The diplomats were being declared “persona non grata” for their alleged participation in “unlawful” rallies on January 23.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/moscow-expels-eu-diplomats-over-navalny-protests/article33764419.ece
06 February 2021||NEW YORK,||US--Obit-Christopher Plummer||Christopher Plummer, the dashing award-winning actor who played Captain von Trapp in the film The Sound of Music and at 82 became the oldest Academy Award acting winner in history, passed away on Friday at the age of 91.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-obit-christopher-plummer/article33765050.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Farmers, the state, and a rising tide||The capital wears the look of a city fortified and battle-ready. As far as the eyes can see are reams and reams of razor wires, which, as a senior police officer points out, have their origins in the trench warfare of World War I. Metal and concrete barricades and panels of nails fastened by cement to restrict breach by vehicles display the readiness of the state to take on the farmers. The three-hour chakka jam (gridlock) on Saturday announced by a section of protesting farmers on all State and national highways around and beyond Delhi — the first “big event” since a proposed march to Parliament on February 1 was postponed — will be a test of self-discipline for the agitating farmers, and of nerves for security personnel manning veritable fortifications behind metal and concrete walls. Access to protest sites, for protesters, local residents and journalists alike, is controlled either directly through security personnel, especially at Singhu border, which is regarded as the headquarters of the movement, or indirectly via elongated routes through dirt roads replete with recently dug pits and concrete slabs. The Delhi Police, the Uttar Pradesh Police, commandoes, the Rapid Action Force (RAF) and riot police are on guard. Internet services are restricted at all three locations, earthmoving equipment is on standby to make “modifications” to the topography of the area as and when required, alongside riot control vehicles. Heavy slabs — longish metal ones placed on large trucks under the Tikri Border metro station, concrete ones topped with iron bar pieces jutting out from the top at the Singhu border, and smaller ones on either side of beds of nails on both the main roads leading to and on the Ghazipur flyover — have been requisitioned. Over two months since the mostly peaceful protests began, an interlude of a few hours on January 26 witnessed unprecedented violence at several locations, including the Red Fort, during the tractor rally taken out by farmers. The police say it was “a breach of trust” and a deliberate violation of terms related to the rally agreed upon by them and leaders of the farmer unions, and that has necessitated the bandobast (arrangements) this time. As the ceremonial parade on Rajpath got underway on January 26, the ‘Kisan Gantantra Parade’, too, commenced around 10 a.m. on routes on the peripheries of the capital. However, within a few minutes, reports of farmers aboard their tractors attempting to breach the boundaries began pouring in from all sides. Water cannons were used and tear gas shells were lobbed to stop the agitating farmers’ advance as tractors driven by men with faces covered rammed into DTC buses meant to demarcate the “permitted” route; men poured out from “private vehicles” to clash with security personnel and damage road dividers at Mukarba Chowk, Nangloi and Singhu border, among other locations. Soon, tractors and vehicles had breached the route on the UP Link road near the Akshardham Temple and had driven on towards ITO, the arterial junction between Old and Lutyens’ Delhi. Those who were stalled clashed brazenly with police personnel. Some attempted to run them over with their tractors under the mural of a smiling Mahatma Gandhi adorning one side of the old Delhi Police headquarters. One of the protesters died allegedly after his tractor overturned at a high speed. In the meantime, others, many of them on foot, had reached the Red Fort. As police personnel, a majority of whom had reported for duty almost 18 to 24 hours ago as per the standard protocol preceding Republic Day arrangements, scrambled onto the scene, a mob breached the gates of the 383-year-old fort, rampaging through its vicinity, and oversaw the hurried hoisting of the ‘Nishan Sahib’ flag on one of its poles amid cheers of triumph. Close to 400 police personnel, including both men and women, were injured, some seriously, during the course of the day. Almost one-fourth of these injuries were reportedly inflicted at the Red Fort. Of these, a sizeable number were suffered as police personnel fell or chose the relative safety of jumping over 15 feet into the dry moat along the periphery of the fort to escape the sticks, batons and other improvised weapons of the mob. Aftermath and resurrection The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella organisation of 41 farmer unions, alleged that some “anti-social elements” had infiltrated their otherwise peaceful movement. It called off the tractor march as the police administration took stock of its injured personnel and went into a huddle over the way forward at what a police source termed “the highest levels”. “ Chaupals (village meetings) and panchayats were convened throughout the night across villages in Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, and what had happened was discussed at length till noon the next day. We realised we had been betrayed not by our own but by the government,” said Suresh Dhaka, a resident of Haryana. Two days later, a video of a crying Rakesh Tikait, the national spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), followed by his emotional appeal to rural India to join the movement to strengthen it, instilled a new-found resolve among the agitating farmers. An old saying There is a saying in western Uttar Pradesh: ‘Jat mara tab janiyo jab tehervi ho jaye’ (Don’t consider a Jat dead before 13 days have elapsed). On the evening of January 28, the Ghaziabad administration realised its import as Tikait’s emotional outburst reinvigorated the agitation that was seemingly on its last legs at the Ghazipur border. Shaken and demoralised after the violent incidents of January 26, wherein some protesters lost in more ways than one, the farmers had begun to pack their bags, and those who were left were waiting to be detained after being caned. Rajveer Singh, State vice-president of the BKU, says he had warned the administration that “hum 500 se 5,000 kabhi bhi ho sakte hain” (we could swell within hours), “but that day even we were not sure”. Senior members of the BKU said they had conveyed to officials that they should arrest the protesters withpakke kagaz(proper charges), failing which, they would not vacate the almost 3-km space on the Delhi-Meerut expressway. “Otherwise, our position would have been worse than that of V.M. Singh [of the Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Sangathan] and Bhanu [BKU-Bhanu],” said a senior member. While Singh had left the protest site the previous day after blaming Tikait for mismanagement on Republic Day during the tractor rally, Bhanu Pratap Singh of the BKU-Bhanu vacated the protest site at Chilla on the Delhi-Noida border citing the violence. As images of a teary-eyed Tikait flashed across western Uttar Pradesh after the Additional District Magistrate served him an eviction notice under Section 133 of the CrPC, the Ghaziabad administration started getting inputs about movement of farmers from neighbouring districts. Police action, that had seemed imminent, was ultimately called off. On January 28, there had been indications: water and electricity supplies were cut off a night before and CCTVs were taken off. Within hours of the video, Tikait became a national figure and Ghazipur no longer had to play second fiddle to Singhu and Tikri. With his rival gone, Tikait, who had been saying that a section of farmers had let the movement down on January 26,  took no time to embrace Sikh farmers from the Terai belt who were mobilised by V.M. Singh, and declared unflinching support for the community. With his rustic wit and combative demeanour, Tikait handled both a prying media and impatient farmers with ease, but after January 28, he also shed the pro-BJP image, justifying his place in the coordination committee. Galvanising fresh recruits not only from villages in western Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, but also from other protest sites in the city, Tikait’s appeal, however, underlined the fact that a peaceful resistance against alleged attempts at besmirching and defaming the movement would be crucial. “This protest will continue till October-November; we have told the government this categorically and we have enough supplies to last us till then. Jab tak kanoon wapas nahin, tab tak kisan wapas nahin (There will be no farmers’ return home till the laws aren’t taken back),” Tikait announced on February 2. Apart from the tears that turned the ideological protest against the Central government’s farm laws into a fight for the dignity of farmers, Tikait’s allegation that the administration wanted the farmers to be beaten up by a crowd led by a BJP MLA decidedly turned the tide that night. It is not clear whether the BJP MLA from Loni, Nand Kishore Gurjar, was present at the spot — Ghaziabad Police say they are still verifying the charge — but his videos and a letter to the Union Home Minister, wherein he suggested that he and his supporters be allowed to remove the farmers from the protest site, gave BKU enough material to mobilise sympathy. However, Tikait still needed numbers on the ground. That came after he got a call from Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) president Ajit Singh, followed by a tweet of support from the party’s vice-president, Jayant Chaudhary. Most of the farmers that reached Ghazipur that night were supporters of the RLD from neighbouring areas. However hard BKU leaders try to describe themselves as “arajnaitik ” (apolitical), for Jat farmers in western Uttar Pradesh, the BKU and the RLD had been two faces of the same coin, until the BJP started making inroads into the community, particularly after the Muzaffarnagar riots in 2013. Considered close to senior BJP leader and former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Rajnath Singh, who had supported the BKU in protests during the Congress regime, Tikait had told The Hindu in December 2020 that he expected Rajnath Singh to join the talks at a later stage. But that didn’t happen and farmers who supported the BJP in the last two Lok Sabha elections were left without a political cover. Union Minister Sanjeev Balyan, the sitting MP from Muzaffarnagar, might be an effective polarising figure in the region, but he did not carry enough social or political weight to pull the farmers back from Ghazipur. Locals say the Tikaits are on a first-name basis with the Minister, who is a member of the Baliyankhapwhich Naresh Tikait heads, and yet, he could not force the farmers to return.  Social impact  After 2014, the BJP has tried to build a young, more Hindutva-friendly leadership among Jats. Locals say they were given the patronage of the administration during face-offs with other communities, but the elderly are still loyal to the clan of former Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singh, who created a robust social alliance among Jats, Yadavs, Muslims, and Gurjars in the 1970s. “The farmer, who was free of the communal virus even during the Ayodhya movement, fell prey to it after the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots. There was communalisation of farmers in the region and a particular party benefited from it,” says Sokhendra Sharma, assistant professor in the History department in Digambar Jain Degree College in Baraut. The town saw a huge panchayat of variouskhapslast week. Dr. Sharma says there has been tremendous social mobilisation throughkhapsafter January 26 as after the emotional appeal by Tikait, youngsters got connected with the protest. “Before January 26, the impression in the region was that farmers were being misguided like Muslims during the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests. The vernacular frontline media was not playing its part in explaining the clauses of the laws to the public,” says Dr. Sharma. But after January 26, he says, awareness spread through social media and the youth were mobilised quickly throughkhappanchayats. “Unlike rallies, to which people are brought, here, people come out of their own will,” says Yudhvir Singh, general secretary of the BKU. While in urban areas colleges are key sites for mobilisation of youth, in rural areas, it is the panchayats, he adds. “Panchayats continue to play an important role in peasant mobilisation, irrespective of caste. A large section of protesters at Ghazipur border may be from Jat families; food and other material support is being provided by people of all castes in a village. Even student leaders attend them,” says Dr. Sharma. On the slow mobilisation in western Uttar Pradesh, Dr. Sharma says that though census figures indicate that around 60% of the population is engaged in farming, the reality is different. “The direct involvement of the population in farming in this region has reduced considerably over the years as after globalisation, the children of farmers migrated to cities doing all kinds of jobs but not farming. Though they are from farming families, they are not aware of the interests of farmers.” The contentious farm laws have given the youngsters a jolt because, as Rakesh Tikait says, they have put their identity as a farmer at stake. “They were facing issues such as rise in electricity and diesel prices, stray cattle, and non-payment of sugarcane dues, but after the farm laws, they feared that their lands would be taken away by corporates. The apprehensions also brought back those who have agriculture as their secondary source of income.” “There are clauses that the government would intervene only if there is 50% increase over the previous year’s price in case of non-perishable goods and 100% rise over previous year’s price of perishable goods. It is against both the farmer and the consumer,” says Yudhvir Singh. Suddenly, old-timers say, youth have begun to realise why the elders used to say never allow diya aur bati (lamp and wick, the symbol of the erstwhile Bharatiya Jana Sangh, the predecessor of the BJP) to enter villages, as it is a party that keeps traders’ interest first. Political ambitions Politically, it is still an open game that depends on Tikait’s political ambitions after the new-found glory. Having bitten the dust on the hustings twice in the past, the seniors in the outfit hold that he is better placed as a farmer leader, with Jayant Chaudhary taking the political charge. Naresh Tikait, the less combative of the two brothers, understands that hereon, the protest could be termed as a protest of Jat farmers, a label he could ill-afford when the elections in the State are still a year away. Hence, he is not making any statements against the BJP leadership in the region and is telling reporters that Balyan must have his political compulsions, and otherwise, he is with them. Old-timers in the community do not foresee a profitable alliance between the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the RLD, unless SP chief Akhilesh Yadav concedes west Uttar Pradesh to the RLD. “The Jats still hold a grudge against Mulayam Singh Yadav for betraying the trust of his mentor Charan Singh by not giving his son Ajit Singh his share in the former Prime Minister’s political legacy,” says a senior BKU member. It was seen during the Bulandshahr Sadar bypoll in 2020, where the RLD candidate came a cropper. But those in favour of the alliance cite the Kairana win of 2018. Response to fortification Rakesh Tikait describes the turning of protest sites into citadels as a well-thought-out plan on the part of the police and the Centre, as that will only inconvenience people, which the authorities will then use to mobilise the public against farmers. Already, on WhatsApp groups of residential societies in Ghaziabad, messages that question using the word ‘ annadata’ (food-provider) for farmers have begun to surface. An argument is being promoted that the so-called ‘food-providers’ get many subsidies. On Friday evening, the BKU called off the chakka jam proposed for Saturday in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand citing ‘prevailing conditions’ and ongoing agricultural work in the region. Dharmendra Malik, media in-charge of the BKU, said the conditions in the two States are not conducive for the protest. “Now, members of BKU will give a memorandum to district officials in these two States. In the rest of the country, the call for the chakka jam remains as it is,” he said. The outfit has already kept Delhi out of Saturday’s protest. Sources in the BKU say to counter propaganda, it was proposed to keep Delhi-NCR out of the protest, but ultimately, only Delhi was kept out. Tikait says he had inputs that violence could be fomented in Uttar Pradesh by breaking windshields of cars during thechakka jam. Sources say the BKU is being careful as those who are averse to the farmers’ movement could foment trouble during the protest. “We have already proved that we can mobilise hundreds of people within hours. So, there is no point in pursuing the protest belligerently. We know we are in for a long haul,” said a senior member. In a touch of Gandhigiri, Tikait on Friday also made a flowerbed on the Ghazipur border in response to nails fixed into roads by the Delhi Police. Farmers have been urged to distribute water and food items like groundnuts and jaggery among people who get stuck in the jam. Music and noise No movement is complete without music. Every evening, as the sun sets at the Ghazipur border, young Jats assemble around tractors fitted with huge speakers and dance away to artiste Ajay Hooda’s “ Modiji thari top kde hum dilli aage” (Modiji, where is your canon? We have reached Delhi). Played in a loop, it is not the Punjabi beats, but the song’s biting lyrics — digital hogi duniya sari, a nnadata hua bhikari (the world has turned digital but the food provider is reduced to a beggar) — that pointedly capture the anguish of farmers. However, as the dance began to border on hooliganism and spilt onto the streets, the discipline of the protest has been dented. After a couple of days, senior members of the community had to step in to restore order. “We have to constantly fight the stereotype: I told you they are unruly and can go berserk any time,” said Rajveer Singh. So, on Friday, one could also hear the sound of Mohammed Rafi’s “Aaj mausam bada beimaan hai” emanating from tents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/farmers-the-state-and-a-rising-tide/article33764416.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Beating down critical journalism, creative freedom||Rioting in India’s capital city on a day reserved for the celebration of the Republic, was a new low in unravelling political concord. Within days of that trauma, points of entry into Delhi were barricaded with layers of concrete and steel, interwoven with vicious spools of concertina wire. Some locations had lethal iron nails embedded into the road and trenches dug deep to prevent the ingress of farmers long encamped around the capital city, protesting recent legislation that goes by the title of “agricultural reforms”. Media clampdown A few days after the riots, expectations that public resentment would enable the forceful dispersal of protests seemed belied. Active efforts to deter critical reporting were by then under way. Nine senior journalists were charged under the law of sedition, for reporting the ambiguous circumstances of the sole fatality in the riots. A young freelance journalist was arrested and charged with lacking appropriate media credentials. Even as he was granted bail, in a rare exception to what is becoming the general rule of denial, the Home Ministry decreed that only journalists with press credentials granted by the central government could legitimately report on the farmers’ agitation. A number of social media pages run by newspapers and websites were blocked by executive order. For media platforms that did not relent, the legal process of securing injunctions began, along with an unsubtle threat that employees of the social media company, Twitter, could face arrest for failure to comply. The tragedy of a government that remains deaf to the anxieties of a significant section of Indian citizens was transformed into farce, when formidable machines of propaganda were mobilised on February 3, to push back against two inconsequential Twitter posts, by a music artiste from the United States and an environmental campaigner from Sweden. Imperfections made worse Events since Republic Day constitute an unprecedented assault on three of the “rights to freedom” granted under Article 19 of the Constitution: free speech, free movement, and peaceful assembly. Like several other Articles in the Fundamental Rights chapter, Article 19 includes a non obstante clause: notwithstanding all its promises, each of the rights comes with certain conditions attached. These clauses were in most part inserted by the First Amendment to the Constitution, when the government of a fledgling nation sought to negotiate the fine line between freedom and necessity. It was a manifestly imperfect job of resolving a conundrum that has defied the most determined philosophical inquiries. And those imperfections have been compounded by decades of judicial default and executive caprice. The Supreme Court has spoken up in its lucid interludes, but often retreated rather than face down obvious abuses. In matters of sedition, the first impulse of the judiciary in the afterglow of the Republic’s emergence, was to strike the law down. Article 13 of the Constitution annulled every law that was inconsistent with the fundamental rights chapter and the Patna High Court was on solid ground when it held the sedition clause in criminal law unconstitutional. A few years later, in a milieu more sensitive to possibilities of disorder, the Supreme Court reinstated the law, but held it applicable only to “activities as would be intended … to create disorder or disturbance of public peace by resort to violence”. In 2012, the Gujarat High Court upheld this precedent in a matter involving the country’s largest English language newspaper, The Times of India , after sedition charges brought by the Commissioner of Police in Ahmedabad city. It also added that the Constitution protected strong commentary on “measures or acts of the Government, or its agencies, so as to ameliorate the condition of the people or to secure the cancellation or alteration of those acts by lawful means”. It took the newspaper and three employees, four years to secure full discharge. A luxury by the standards of the judicial system, this is one denied to most independent journalists and smaller media houses, entrapped in the coils of whimsical prosecution by police and other actors anxious to evade public scrutiny. State’s new weapon The nine journalists charged after the violence at the Red Fort have been spared arrest, but that possibility will hang heavy over their practice for years, potentially inducing a “play-safe attitude”. The State government in Uttar Pradesh, inattentive to even these niceties, has used arrest as literally the first recourse against critical journalism. Siddique Kappan, who works with a number of news organisations and is a member of the Kerala Union of Working Journalists, was arrested by the police while on his way to Hathras early in October, to report on the death after alleged sexual assault, of a young girl of the Dalit community. He was charged with sedition and other offences, and the statutes invoked, including the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, could potentially result in indefinite detention. Angle of religion Politics of religious offence constitute another clear threat to freedom of speech and expression. The arrest of a stand-up comic, Munawar Faruqui, in Indore, for jokes that he did not crack, represents a particular depth of absurdity. He was denied bail in successive hearings and the Madhya Pradesh High Court was particularly severe in its strictures about an intent which remained unexpressed. He finally was granted bail after over a month in detention, by the Supreme Court. In deciding the S. Rangarajan versus Jagjivan Ram case in 1989, the Supreme Court declined to embrace a doctrine of censorship. The benchmark for judging the potential for offence had to be a “reasonable” person and not someone of “weak and vacillating” mind. Yet, in the case of the TV serial, Tandav¸ whose producers and cast face charges despite multiple apologies, the Court has now chosen to underline the conditional nature of the free speech right. An actor seeking exemption from arrest because he was only a paid professional, was told that he should not “play a role which hurts religious sentiments”. Another blow In the matter of regulating the right to freedom of movement, the Supreme Court has encountered unanticipated turbulence. Last year, while hearing a petition seeking the dispersal of protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act in Delhi’s Shaheen Bagh area, the Court ruled that expressions of dissent should take place in “designated places only”. When called upon to apply the same principle to ongoing farmers’ protests, the Court baulked. A ruling that the protests were unconstitutional would have been the legal basis for a coercive dispersal of the farmers. Hesitant about that, the Court sought to play problem solver, nominating a team of mediators to find the solution the government had set its face against. It did not end well for the parties involved, and least of all, for public perceptions of the integrity of judicial institutions. Asymmetry in the application of the law, when charges are brought against partisans of the ruling party is another feature, widely commented on. While hearing a recent matter involving hate speech, the Chief Justice of India observed that the Court is trying to discourage litigation under Article 32, which enables any citizen to invoke the writ jurisdiction of the higher judiciary when fundamental rights are threatened. This ambivalence towards an article that B.R. Ambedkar called the “heart and soul of the Constitution”, and the curious judicial deference to the political executive, are central parts of the story of how precarious the rights to freedom are today. Sukumar Muralidharan teaches at the school of journalism, O.P. Jindal Global University, Sonipat. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/beating-down-critical-journalism-creative-freedom/article33764409.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||A prisoner’s tragedy, a nation’s shame||Perarivalan has been in prison for almost 30 years for his role in the assassination of Rajiv Gandhi during the 1991 election campaign. At the heart of the injustice being inflicted on Perarivalan is that government agencies have continued to insist on his incarceration despite being unsure of his role. It really is a classic case of state agencies being unable to identify and arrest those at the heart of the conspiracy while sacrificing the lives of those who might have had a peripheral role at worst. Prolonged injustice The charges of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) against Perarivalan for terrorist offences under the Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, or TADA, were upheld by the trial court along with the conspiracy to commit murder under the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Over the course of many rounds of litigation, his conviction only for the conspiracy to commit murder under the IPC has been sustained and he has served 30 years as part of his life imprisonment sentence (his death sentence was commuted in February 2014). But that procedural narration does not capture the profound injustice of Perarivalan’s incarceration. At the core of his conviction is his confession to a police officer, a violent legacy of the TADA that was carried forward under the Prevention of Terrorism Act (POTA). While confessions to a police officer are inadmissible as evidence under the Indian Evidence Act (to protect people from coerced police confessions), terrorism legislations such as TADA and POTA made confessions to the police admissible as long as it was made to an officer not lower than the rank of Superintendent of Police. A suspect ‘confession’ The CBI’s main weapon against Perarivalan was his confession to V. Thiagarajan (SP, CBI) where he allegedly confessed to his role in procuring a car battery for the main conspirator and purchasing two 9-volt batteries that were used in making the bomb to assassinate Rajiv Gandhi. All of this was damning until Mr. Thiagarajan came out in November 2013 and made the startling revelation that he had not recorded Perarivalan’s ‘confession’ accurately. In a sworn affidavit filed before the Supreme Court in December 2017, Mr. Thiagarajan stated that he had omitted to record Perarivalan’s statement that he did not know the purpose for which the battery was being procured. It was a glaring omission that completely changed the nature of Perarivalan’s involvement. In effect, Perarivalan was convicted based on a manipulated confession to a police officer. It is incredible that despite the Supreme Court dropping the TADA charges, his confession which was admissible only due to provisions of the TADA was then used to convict him for IPC offences. Beyond the untenable legal basis of Perarivalan’s conviction, details of the broader investigation into Rajiv Gandhi’s assassination only exacerbates the injustice. Justice M.C. Jain’s Report (Jain Commission Inquiry) to Parliament in March 1998 identified massive gaps in the CBI’s investigation, including lack of clarity on the source and the making of the bomb. To address these concerns, the CBI constituted the Multi-Disciplinary Monitoring Agency (MDMA) in December 1998 to conduct further investigations into the larger conspiracy and the origins of the human belt bomb used in the assassination. Over two decades, the MDMA has been submitting reports in sealed covers to the TADA Court and Perarivalan has been denied access to these. However, the MDMA has repeatedly stated that Perarivalan and the other accused are not part of these ongoing investigations. In essence, we have a situation where there is an acknowledgment at the highest levels that the origins and the making of the bomb remain unknown, and yet Perarivalan continues to be in prison for purchasing batteries whose use remains a mystery.  Despite all these indications of tenuous connections to the larger conspiracy, Perarivalan and his mother, Arputham, have been on a tireless crusade to end his incarceration. Having served 30 years of life imprisonment for the conspiracy to murder, his effort to get a remission under the Code Of Criminal Procedure was rejected by the Central Government in April 2018. However, Perarivalan continued to be entitled to have his pardon considered by the Governor of Tamil Nadu under Article 161 of the Constitution. His application for a pardon had been pending with the Governor since December 2015 and under the Constitution, the Governor is bound by the aid and advice of the State government in the exercise of pardon powers. Meanwhile, the central government employed obfuscation as a strategy to prolong Perarivalan’s incarceration. Having initially maintained that the issue of pardon was solely between the Governor and Perarivalan, the Centre took a constitutionally untenable argument before the Supreme Court in December 2020 that it was the President of India who had the power to consider Perarivalan’s pardon. Then on January 21, the Centre submitted to the Supreme Court that the Governor would take a decision on Perarivalan’s pardon within a matter of days. On February 4, the Centre informed the Court that the Governor had finally considered Perarivalan’s pardon and had decided that the President alone had the power to consider such an application. It is a shocking abdication of a constitutional duty and a blatantly unconstitutional manoeuvre to ignore the advice of the State government, which the Governor is constitutionally bound to follow. Life in jail Perarivalan was 19 years old when he was imprisoned, and 30 years later is still fighting for his freedom. In those 30 years, he has earned BCA and MCA degrees from the Indira Gandhi National Open University along with completing a whole host of certificate courses involving two wheeler mechanics, managerial skills, nutrition etc. In his book, An Appeal from the Death Row , Perarivalan says the MDMA will ultimately find that he had nothing to do with making the bomb. He then asks us, who can ever give him back his life. We must ask ourselves why Perarivalan continues to be incarcerated when we know that his confession was manipulated, that the government agencies themselves admit not knowing the origins of the bomb, and that Perarivalan is not part of the investigations on the bomb. Is it our fear that releasing Perarivalan would be a collective admission of our failure to successfully investigate the assassination of a former Prime Minister? It is cruel to ask Perarivalan to pay for our failures with his own life. Anup Surendranath and Trisha Chandran are with Project 39A at National Law University, Delhi. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-prisoners-tragedy-a-nations-shame/article33764412.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||New questions||The results of the ICMR’s third serological survey to ascertain the spread of COVID-19 show that nearly one in five Indians — about 270 million — may have been infected. The headline findings were publicised at a press conference and it will be a while before granular details of the course of the infection — as was known till December — will be made public in a peer-reviewed journal. However, what is known so far is that compared to August — when data for the second serological survey was announced — there has been a three-fold rise in infections. There has also been a five-fold rise (in percentage terms) of the infection in those aged 10-17 years. The third edition also included a serological survey of doctors, nurses and paramedical staff, revealing that nearly 25% — significantly above the national average — had been infected. Compared to reports of city-focused serology surveys in Delhi and mathematical modelling estimates, the ICMR survey-results appear to be more conservative in estimating the true spread. Experts of various hues point to the declining trend in infections since September, and the absence of multiple peaks in coronavirus cases as a pointer to the spread being far wider and speeding up ‘herd immunity’— a state when a significant proportion of people in a locale have been infected, thereby retarding future spread. But it would be wrong to derive comfort from this situation. The ICMR emphasises that the results point to a significant number still potentially vulnerable, underscoring the need to be vaccinated and continuing with distancing and masking up. Also, neither this survey nor any city-wide survey has evaluated how long antibodies persist and if certain virus mutant variants can overcome the protection from antibodies. Given that vaccines are round the corner for the general public and that no district has been immune from the virus, it is now no longer useful to know that 80% of India is still vulnerable. Rather, such surveys must shift focus to asking more granular questions: should the rise in spread among teenagers and children mean that they be considered for vaccination earlier than scheduled? Should companies accelerate trials to test protection in children? Should the rise in rural India — the survey is designed in a way to sample more villages than urban pockets — mean that they be given vaccines earlier? These and many more questions are no doubt already on the minds of specialist researchers but alongside the vaccination drives, the ICMR and the government health facilities must coordinate with a broader spectrum of specialists to investigate questions that can be used to guide and modify vaccination policy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/new-questions/article33764404.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Terminal declined||The Rajapaksa government’s decision to overturn Sri Lanka’s tripartite agreement to develop Colombo’s East Container Terminal is a setback to India and Japan. The project, worth an estimated $500-$700 million, was a key marker for infrastructure investment in the island nation where Chinese projects are most prominent. More than two-thirds of trans-shipment at this port is tied to India, making it an important trade and connectivity link. Japan has been a keen supporter of Sri Lanka’s growth story, with its loans of about ¥1.1 trillion and grants and technical cooperation of about ¥300 billion. As a joint venture for India and Japan to invest in, the ECT project was also expected to showcase how the two Indo-Pacific partners, and also Quad members, could provide South Asia with viable, transparent and sustainable alternatives for financing and development. The sharp statements from New Delhi and Tokyo now reflect their deep disappointment and their suspicions about the motivations. The ostensible reason for the Rajapaksa government’s decision is growing pressure from port union groups which have opposed any foreign participation, and threatened a “work-to-rule” agitation if ECT operations were handed to the Adani group, as proposed. India has also had some misgivings about whether the Rajapaksa brothers, who became President and Prime Minister in 2019-2020, would in fact honour the commitments made by the previous government, given the acrimony between the two governments. Similar commitments made by former PM Ranil Wickremesinghe during a visit to Delhi when he signed an MoU for developing the Eastern city of Trincomalee through oil and infrastructure projects also appear to have fallen by the wayside. The larger question of a possible Chinese role in the ECT decision also hangs over the decision, given that other terminal projects at the Colombo Port such as the Colombo International Container Terminal, have not faced similar pushback. It is also curious that given its financial difficulties, Sri Lanka felt confident in taking a decision guaranteed to upset such important donors. New Delhi has said it continues to engage Sri Lanka on the ECT issue, although it remains cold to Colombo’s alternative offer of developing the West Container Terminal. Over the past year, the Modi government has invested much time and resources to India-Sri Lanka ties, including a new credit line, currency swap agreement, and COVID-19 assistance and vaccines. NSA Ajit Doval and EAM S. Jaishankar have visited Colombo more than once, and Mr. Modi has hosted President Gotabaya and Prime Minister Mahinda. India has also set much store by its partnership with Japan, which could be a template for similar projects, as a counter to China’s BRI. There is much at stake for all three countries to derail the partnership. It is in all their interest, but primarily Colombo’s, to find a compromise formula to salvage a deal that has far-reaching consequences for the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/terminal-declined/article33764405.ece
06 February 2021||MUMBAI,||RBI reiterates growth-supportive stance||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday said it would retain an accommodative policy stance into the next financial year to help revive growth on a durable basis even as it held interest rates and vowed to ensure inflation remains within target. The RBI also lowered its projection for retail inflation for the current quarter and announced that it would gradually restore the Cash Reserve Ratio — which had been cut to address the pandemic’s fallout — to 4% in two phases by May 22 as part of a ‘normalisation process’.  Core a concern After breaching the RBI’s upper tolerance threshold of 6% for six consecutive months through November, CPI inflation had eased to 4.6% in December, helped by an appreciable softening in vegetable prices and a base effect. Core inflation, excluding food and fuel, however, remained elevated at 5.5% in December with only a marginal moderation from a month earlier. The RBI’s Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) noted in its statement that the RBI’s January survey showed households’ one-year ahead inflation expectations remained unchanged. “With the larger than anticipated deflation in vegetable prices in December bringing down headline closer to the target, it is likely that the food inflation trajectory will shape the near-term outlook,” the MPC observed. Sees Q4 inflation at 5.2% Taking into consideration various factors including risks from increases in industrial raw material prices, the MPC revised its projections for CPI inflation: for the ongoing fourth-quarter to 5.2% (from 5.8% projected in December), that for the first half of 2021-22 to 5.2% to 5.0 % (from 5.2% to 4.6%) and estimated it to ease to an average 4.3% in the third quarter, with risks broadly balanced. The MPC also estimated real GDP growth at 10.5% in 2021-22, slightly lower than the 11% projected in the Economic Survey and the Internation Monetary Fund’s forecast of 11.5%. Stating that growth was recovering, and that the outlook had improved significantly with the roll-out of the vaccine programme in the country, the MPC cautioned that the recovery was, however, still to gather firm traction, making it crucial to persist with policy support. The rate-setting panel voted unanimously to hold rates. “Going forward, the Indian economy is poised to move in only one direction and that is upwards,” RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das asserted. “It is our strong conviction, backed by forecasts, that in 2021-22, we would undo the damage that COVID-19 has inflicted on the economy,” Mr. Das added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-reiterates-growth-supportive-stance/article33764399.ece
06 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘PSUs playing a role in farm sector will be not be sold’||Public sector firms engaged in activities allied to the farm sector, such as provision of seeds to farmers, or procurement and distribution of food for the public distribution system, will not be up for sale under the new disinvestment policy announced in the Budget. While the policy has specified four strategic sectors where ‘bare minimum’ public sector presence will be retained as per Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s Budget speech, an annexure to the policy has listed out types of public sector entities that will remain outside its ambit. NITI Aayog would be in charge of recommending the firms in strategic sectors that should be retained, considered for privatisation or merger or ‘subsidiarisation’ with another public sector firm, or simply closed. “DIPAM shall move proposal for obtaining ‘in-principle’ from the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs for strategic disinvestment of a specific PSE from time to time, on a case-to-case-basis. The timing for specific transactions will, however, be contingent on the considerations of appropriate sequencing, sectoral trends, administrative feasibility, investors’ interests, etc,” the policy memo explained.  ‘Central public sector enterprises concerned with assisting farmers in getting access to seeds; promoting innovation in agriculture; or, procurement and distribution of food for public distribution system’ are excluded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/psus-playing-a-role-in-farm-sector-will-be-not-be-sold/article33764388.ece
06 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||DFI Bill will help set up private infra funding: FM||The legislation for setting up a development finance institution to fund infrastructure projects will allow for such institutions to be formed by the private sector as well, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman told India Inc on Friday, promising an ‘honest leakage-free implementation’ of the Budget proposals for 2021-22. While the Budget has provided a fiscal push for capital expenditure in infrastructure sectors with a multiplier effect, it relies on private sector participation in a big way, Ms. Sitharaman said, addressing more than 180 CEOs in a closed-door interaction with the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), urging them to step up investments. “Though government will provide some capital for the proposed Development Finance Institution, the DFI will also raise capital from the market,” the Minister said. “In addition, the DFI Bill will provide legislative space for private DFIs.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/dfi-bill-will-help-set-up-private-infra-funding-fm/article33764385.ece
06 February 2021||Chennai,||Chola Financial posts 6% increase in Q3 profit||Cholamandalam Financial Holdings Ltd. (CFHL) reported a 6% increase in its consolidated net profit for the third quarter ended December to Rs. 455 crore. Total income rose 7% to Rs. 3,645 crore. However, on a standalone basis, CFHL reported a loss of Rs. 3.48 crore compared with a net profit of Rs. 39.36 crore a year earlier due to interest costs recognised on the borrowing made for ‘equity investment in a subsidiary company’, it said in a regulatory filing. Cholamandalam Investment & Finance Co. Ltd. disbursed Rs. 7,926 crore compared with Rs. 7,475 crore and posted a net profit of Rs. 409 crore (Rs. 389 crore). Assets under management grew 15% to Rs. 75,813 crore. Insurance arm Cholamandalam MS General Insurance Co. Ltd. registered a Gross Written Premium of Rs. 1,274 crore (Rs. 1,207 crore). Net profit remained flat at Rs. 46 crore. Cholamandalam MS Risk Services Ltd. recorded total income of Rs. 13.32 crore (Rs. 12.42 crore). Net profit rose to Rs. 3.57 crore (Rs. 1.29 crore). CFHL’s board also approved the issue of non-convertible debentures of up to Rs. 200 crore on a private placement basis.  CFHL’s board approved the issue of non-convertible debentures of up to Rs. 200 crore via private placement||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/chola-financial-posts-6-increase-in-q3-profit/article33764390.ece
06 February 2021||Chennai,||SFL Q3 net profit rises 45% on business revival||Non-banking finance company (NBFC) Sundaram Finance Ltd. has registered a 45% increase in net profit for the quarter ended December 2020 to Rs. 242 crore due to an uptick in most of its business segments. During the quarter under review, disbursements went up by 8.5% to Rs. 4,307 crore, while net income rose 7% to Rs. 1,045 crore. Deposit base rose to Rs. 4,112 crore from Rs. 3,722 crore. Assets under management increased to Rs. 31,226 crore from Rs. 30,502 crore, the company said in a statement. Net NPA (stage III) contracted to 1.59% from 2.79%. As per a Supreme Court order, the NBFC has not classified any loan account as non-performing asset. “Compared to the scenario in the first two quarters of the year, the third quarter saw a revival in most of our business segments, except medium and heavy commercial vehicles. Passenger cars, tractors and construction equipment segments did particularly well in Q3,” said MD T.T. Srinivasaraghavan. On January 20, the board declared an interim dividend of Rs. 12 per share, to be paid on February 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sfl-q3-net-profit-rises-45-on-business-revival/article33764392.ece
06 February 2021||MUMBAI,||Retail investors to be able to buy G-Secs directly: RBI||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) said it would allow retail investors to open gilt accounts with the central bank to invest in government securities directly and without the help of intermediaries. “It is proposed to provide retail investors with online access to the government securities market — both primary and secondary — directly through the Reserve Bank (Retail Direct),” RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das said in a statement. “This will broaden the investor base and provide retail investors with enhanced access to participate in the government securities market,” he added. “This is a major structural reform placing India among select few countries which have similar facilities. This measure together with HTM [hold to maturity] relaxation, will facilitate smooth completion of the government borrowing programme in 2021-22,” the RBI Governor added. The RBI will soon come out with modalities for opening of such accounts. Later answering questions at a press conference, Mr. Das said the provision would not in any way hinder flow of investors’ funds into mutual fund schemes and bank deposits. “Allowing retail participation in the G-Sec market is a bold step towards the financialisation of a vast pool of domestic savings and could be a game-changer,” said SBI Chairman Dinesh Khara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/retail-investors-to-be-able-to-buy-g-secs-directly-rbi/article33764402.ece
06 February 2021||MUMBAI,||Aditya Birla Capital profit rises 15%||Aditya Birla Capital Ltd. reported consolidated third quarter profit increased by 15% to Rs. 289 crore. Consolidated revenue rose 16% to Rs. 5,346 crore. The performance was driven by strong growth across businesses, the company said. Gross disbursement in the lending businesses rose 18% to Rs. 5,100 crore. This was higher than the pre-COVID-19 level. Asset management business achieved the highest-ever quarterly profit before tax of Rs. 194 crore, recording 12% growth, the firm said. Individual first year premium in life insurance segment rose 6% in the nine months ended December 31 whereas the gross written premium in health insurance increased 57% .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/aditya-birla-capital-profit-rises-15/article33764386.ece
06 February 2021||New Delhi,||M&M’s Q3 consolidated profit slips 6%||Homegrown farm equipment and utility vehicles major Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (M&M) on Friday reported a 6% fall in consolidated profit after tax from continuing and discontinued operations to Rs. 159.6 crore for the quarter ended December. The company had posted a consolidated profit after tax from continuing and discontinued operations of Rs. 170.69 crore in the corresponding period last fiscal, M&M said in a regulatory filing. Consolidated revenue from operations stood at Rs. 21,625.95 crore, against Rs. 19,430.29 crore in the year-earlier period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mms-q3-consolidated-profit-slips-6/article33764389.ece
06 February 2021||MUMBAI,||3 submit offers for PMC Bank resolution: Das||Reserve Bank Governor Shaktikanta Das on Friday said three investors had submitted their offers for reconstruction of crisis-ridden Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative (PMC) Bank and evaluation of those are under way. Last month, PMC Bank administrator A.K. Dixit in a letter to customers and stakeholders had said that three prospective investors were given time till February 1, 2021, for submission of their final offer. “I have been informed that 3 final offers have been received. I am given to understand that the PMC Bank itself is evaluating the offers,” Mr. Das said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/3-submit-offers-for-pmc-bank-resolution-das/article33764396.ece
06 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Pharma exports rise 12.4%||India’s exports of pharmaceutical products during April-December 2020-21 grew by 12.4% to $17.57 billion, Parliament was informed on Friday. India’s exports of pharmaceutical products are growing consistently, Minister of State for Commerce and Industry Hardeep Singh Puri said in a reply to the Rajya Sabha. “During 2019-20, India’s exports of pharmaceuticals were $20.58 billion with a growth rate of 7.6% over the previous year. Total exports during April-December 2020-21 were at $17.57 billion, registering a growth rate of 12.4% per cent over the same period of the previous year.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/pharma-exports-rise-124/article33764397.ece
06 February 2021||New Delhi,||DPIIT working on new e-commerce policy: Govt official||The commerce and industry ministry is “definitely” working on a new e-commerce policy which will have various features such as those related to data and consumer rights, a senior official said on Friday. The other issues to be looked upon while formulating the policy are about the problem of counterfeit products, packaging and rules of origin, the DPIIT official said.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/dpiit-working-on-new-e-commerce-policy-govt-official/article33764393.ece
06 February 2021||New Delhi,||Govt set to launch MCA21 V3 in FY22; in-depth scrutiny of filings, e-adjudication system on anvil||In-depth scrutiny of filings, compliance management system to identify non-compliant companies and LLPs, and e-adjudication of various proceedings will be facilitated by the corporate affairs ministry’s latest version of MCA21 portal, set to be unveiled next fiscal. The third version of MCA21 will be aided by artificial intelligence and machine learning.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-set-to-launch-mca21-v3-in-fy22-in-depth-scrutiny-of-filings-e-adjudication-system-on-anvil/article33764394.ece
06 February 2021||New Delhi,||Paypal to shut domestic payment services within India from Apr 1||Digital payment solutions provider Paypal on Friday said it will stop offering domestic payment services within India from April 1. “We will continue to invest in product development that enables Indian businesses to reach nearly 350 million PayPal consumers worldwide, increase their sales internationally, and help the Indian economy return to growth,” a PayPal spokesperson said.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/paypal-to-shut-domestic-payment-services-within-india-from-apr-1/article33764395.ece
06 February 2021||MELBOURNE,||Germany dethrones Serbia||Alexander Zverev shrugged off a tight loss to Novak Djokovic to end Serbia’s ATP Cup title defence with victory in the doubles as Germany advanced to the semifinals of the team-based event here on Friday. Germany will meet Russia in the last four, with Spain to take on Italy. Zverev, beaten 7-6(3), 2-6, 5-7 in a high-quality match by World No.1 Djokovic earlier on Friday, stepped up to partner Jan-Lennard Struff to a rousing 7-6(4), 5-7, [10-7] victory over Djokovic and Nikola Cacic on Rod Laver Arena. “We played well, both of us,” he added of his doubles match with Struff, who beat Dusan Lajovic 3-6 6-3 6-4 in the opening singles rubber. With Rafael Nadal still sidelined with a back problem, Pablo Carrena Busta guided a depleted Spain into the last four by claiming a 6-3, 6-4 win against Greece’s Michail Pervolarakis at John Cain Arena. Though eliminated, Greece ended up winning the tie 2-1, with Stefanos Tsitsipas easing past Roberto Bautista Agut 7-5 7-5.  The results:   Group A: Germany bt Serbia 2-1 [Jan-Lennard Struff bt Dusan Lajovic 3-6, 6-3, 6-4; Alexander Zverev lost to Novak Djokovic 7-6(3), 2-6, 5-7; Zverev & Struff bt Djokovic & Cacic 7-6(4), 5-7, 10-7.]   Group B: Greece bt Spain 2-1 [Michail Pervolarakis lost to Pablo Carreno Busta 3-6, 4-6; Stefanos Tsitsipas bt Roberto Bautista Agut 7-5, 7-5; Pervolarakis & Tsitsipas bt Carreno Busta & Marcel Granollers 1-0, retd.]   Group C: France bt Austria 2-1 [Nicolas Mahut bt Dennis Novak 7-6(2), 6-2; Benoit Paire lost to Dominic Thiem 1-6, retd.; Mahut & Edouard Roger-Vasselin bt Philipp Oswald & Tristan-Samuel Weissborn 6-3, 6-3] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/germany-dethrones-serbia/article33764551.ece
06 February 2021||Chennai,||Root masterclass lights up milestone Test||In Latin they call it Centum. There is a magical ring to the number 100. It is a complete, fully rounded entity. And Joe Root made it hundred in 100. A century in 100th Test is much like extra cream on a cake. Makes it more delicious. It was a hundred steeped in character, sound in technique, and rich in strokeplay. On a hot, humid day, Root battled cramps, was not overcome by the pressures of a momentous occasion and made his own destiny. And at the end of Friday — the opening day of the series — Root was unbeaten on a 197-ball 128. The English captain ‘swept’ his way to glory. Batting surface And England, after Root won the toss, was on a comfortable 263 for three at stumps on a good batting surface. Dogged opener Dom Sibley fell leg-before to a full-length thunderbolt from Jasprit Bumrah for a fighting 286-ball 87 in the day’s last over. It takes two to tango and the decisive Sibley, secure in defence, going fully forward or travelling right back, strong on the on-side, and not missing out on short balls, added 200 massive runs with Root for the third wicket, frustrating India. Root walked in when England was at a tentative 63 for two — the impressive Bumrah had just reverse swung one to consume Dan Lawrence — and gradually assumed control. Watching Root was an education in the art of batsmanship. The last three years had been indifferent for him and the 30-year-old England captain has worked on his methods. His backswing is straighter, head position steadier and, consequently, he is beautifully balanced. His defence was solid and when he drove, his high left elbow was in view. Far less challenging After his huge monuments — 228 and 186 on surfaces offering turn at Galle in back-to-back Tests — the surface at the crowdless M.A. Chidambaram Stadium was far less challenging for Root. The outfield was fast too and Root cashed in. A cover-drive off Bumrah, his left foot forward and to the ball’s pitch, screamed for attention. The construction of the stroke from stance to finish was brilliant. Among the hallmarks of great batsmen is how quickly they pick the length and adjust their footwork. And the manner Root went right back, shortening the length of left-arm spinner Shahbaz Nadeem’s delivery, and using the depth of the crease to glide the ball late, behind point, was high-quality stuff. The Indian spinners, it seemed, still had the Australian hangover when they bowled a middle and leg line with men in catching position on the leg-side. But then, you need bounce for this tactic to succeed and the pitch here lacked it. Instead they were swept and reverse-swept. In the morning, the left-right pair of Rory Burns and Sibley gave England a sound 63-run start; the left-handed Burns could have left early had ’keeper Rishabh Pant held a difficult leg-side chance off Bumrah. Ishant Sharma bowled well, opening up batsmen, but without luck. Burns perished attempting to reverse-sweep Ashwin and Lawrence left soon. Then Root assumed centrestage, using his feet against Ashwin. Perhaps, no stroke encapsulated his spirit better than a sweep late in the day for a six off Ashwin after which he slid down in agony due to cramps. A heroic Centum in Centum it was.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/root-makes-it-a-memorable-hundred/article33764487.ece
06 February 2021||CHENNAI:,||Theme Group of Companies triumphs||Theme Group of Companies defeated Ranga Castings Company by 20 runs in the final of the XL1 Super Sports Corporate tournament recently.  The scores (final): Theme Group of Companies 319/8 in 50 overs (Vaidyanathan 76, N. Sathvik Athmaraman 65, Shriram 54, Om Nitin 79, B. Anirudh 3/33, D. Vikranth Nivas 3/39) bt Ranga Castings Company 299 in 48.3 overs (B.C. Keshav 86, B. Anirudh 77, Sandeep Praveen 54, R.K. Pranav Sabapathy 3/31, Vaidyanathan 3/34, Shriram 3/29).   Special awards: Best batsman: B. Anirudh; Best bowler: Shriram; Best all-rounder: Vaidyanathan; Man-of-the-tournament: Sathvik Athmaraman .  Young Talents wins title Young Talents ERS beat St. Joseph's Cricket Academy by 20 runs in the final of the Masters Cup under-12 inter-academy tournament.  The scores (final): Young Talents ERS 148 in 29.4 overs (Deepak Raj 56, Pranav Raghavendra 3/16) bt St. Joseph’s CA 128 in 28.2 overs (Shavin 52, Vineeth 34, Parnay Jain 3/21).   Special awards: Best batsman: S. Srivatsan (Young Talents); Best bowler: Abinav (Young Ta lents); Man-of-the-final: Dee pak Raj (Young Talents); Man- of-the-series: Shavin (St. Joseph’s CA).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/theme-group-of-companies-triumphs/article33765089.ece
06 February 2021||Chennai,||England has some great memories on Indian soil||Kevin Pietersen’s sorcery with the bat, skipper Alastair Cook constructing big scores at the top of the order, Jonathan Trott’s stability in the middle-order, off-spinning great Graeme Swann getting the ball to spin, dip, and then hiss and turn off the pitch, Monty Panesar’s quickish left-arm spin defeating the batsmen and James Anderson’s two-way swing. Chief ingredients These were the chief ingredients of England’s epoch-making 2-1 win over host India in the four-Test series of 2012. You need heroes for a famous conquest and England possessed them. They comprehended the conditions, and executed their strategy with precision. Pietersen’s 186 in the second Test at Mumbai — England went down by nine wickets in the first Test at Ahmedabad — has to be among the greatest innings ever played on an Indian pitch that offered considerable turn. The gifted Pietersen was light on his feet, played the ball late when it spun, using the depth of the crease, and employed the sweep and the reverse-sweep to compelling effect. Cook made 122 in the same innings — England’s first essay — with studious left-handed batting, occupying the crease for long periods, playing straighter than squarer and becoming a roadblock for the Indian spin attack led by R. Ashwin. And then there were wickets for the spin pair of Swann and Panesar, the latter’s six for 81 in the Indian second innings — Swann picked up the other four — settled the issue. Building another edifice England made it 2-1 in Kolkata, Cook built another edifice — an innings of 190 — blunting the spinners. And, Panesar and England’s pace pair of James Anderson and Steve Finn provided the wickets. Actually, David Gower’s England had stunned India 2-1 in 1984-85 as well after Laxman Sivaramakrishnan bowled India to victory in Mumbai with a 12-wicket match haul. Incredible victory Then, England spinners Phil Edmonds and Pat Pocock combined to bowl out India on the final day in Delhi to fashion an incredible victory. Legend Kapil Dev and Sandeep Patil were dropped for the next Test for ‘reckless’ batting. England clinched the series in Chennai with the lion-hearted Neil Foster bowling with verve, skill and heart, picking up 11 in the Test. And the runs were provided by opener Graeme Fowler and Mike Gatting, both of whom notched up double hundreds. England can surprise you.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/england-has-some-great-memories-on-indian-soil/article33765107.ece
06 February 2021||RAWALPINDI,||South Africa’s top-order comes a cropper||South Africa’s top order stumbled to 106-4 at stumps after Faheem Ashraf’s second successive half-century had rallied Pakistan’s first innings to 272 in the second Test on Friday. South Africa trails Pakistan by 166 runs in a match it must win to draw the series. Pakistan fast bowler Hasan Ali (2-29) grabbed his wickets off successive deliveries and Ashraf had Faf du Plessis (17) caught behind to leave South Africa struggling in its first innings on day two. Left-arm spinner Nauman Ali, who bagged seven wickets in his debut Test at Karachi last week at the age of 34, got the key wicket of Aiden Markram (32) with South Africa troubled by both pace and spin. Temba Bavuma survived a dropped catch and was unbeaten on 15 and giving him company was captain Quinton de Kock on 24 off 11 balls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/south-africas-top-order-comes-a-cropper/article33764489.ece
06 February 2021||CHENNAI,||Saliva ban has affected reverse swing: Bumrah||Jasprit Bumrah said the ban on the use of saliva to shine the ball, a restriction introduced in the wake of the pandemic, has made it difficult to get reverse swing. On a first-day wicket that did not offer any help for the bowlers, the 27-year-old pacer looked the most threatening, picking up two wickets. “When the wicket is on the flatter side, because of the new rules there are limited options to shine the ball,” said Bumrah after the day’s play. “In India, the ball gets scuffed up and to make it reverse, you need to make one side heavy. With the sweat, it doesn’t serve the purpose. But these are the rules of the game right now, and we have to make do with what we have.” Midway through the day’s play, the stitches of the seam began to protrude out, and Bumrah said it became hard for the bowlers once the ball lost its hardness. “The ball did become soft after a while and when the wicket has less bounce, you have limited options,” he said. Full credit to Root Commenting on Joe Root’s unbeaten 128, Bumrah said, “He has come from Sri Lanka with good knocks behind him. While playing the spinners today, I noticed he was staying low, trying to read the trajectory quickly. Full credit to him, he played a very good innings.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/saliva-ban-has-affected-reverse-swing-bumrah/article33764491.ece
06 February 2021||CHENNAI,||We want to get 600-700: Root||Joe Root, who celebrated his 100th Test with a brilliant unbeaten 128, said his team would look to score 600 to 700 runs in the first innings. In 2016, in the final Test in Chennai, England made 477 and still lost by an innings and 75 runs after India made 759 for 7 declared. “We have got to get as many as we can; 600-700 if we can, really try to make the most of the first innings while [the pitch] is good,” said Root. “The foot-holes are starting to wear quickly, so if we can bat the whole of tomorrow or maybe day three, then things could speed up quite quickly for us. You never know what can happen from that point onwards. “Ultimately we have got to try and back up today, and it has been an impressive start for us. We have got to make it count. That is going to be the challenge for this tour. We need to bat long periods in these conditions. That is all the focus will be, going into tomorrow.” Speaking about scoring his third hundred in as many Tests, the 30-year-old said, “I am in some good form and need to make sure I cash in on it. I think, over the course of my career, I have not always gone on to make big scores, so for me to be going and doing that currently is pleasing.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-want-to-get-600-700-root/article33764493.ece
06 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Jobby on the path of recovery||ATK Mohun Bagan striker Jobby Justin is recovering from the ligament injury which ruled him out of the current ISL season. The 26-year-old central forward suffered an Anterior Cruciate Ligament (ACL) injury during ATK's preparatory camp in Panaji. He immediately underwent surgery in Mumbai and is currently undergoing rehabilitation in Goa. Mild jogging Jobby, under close watch of the club physio, began mild jogging this week and is feeling comfortable. He is happy with his progress. “It is very disappointing to miss the entire season. I was looking forward to impressing coach Habas, but then came the injury. I tested positive for Covid-19 before the camp. “I had felt some stiffness in the muscles then. Maybe the injury had something to do with that. “However, I am happy with the progress I have made. Initially I felt a little pain but now I am fine and I have started jogging. I think I will be able to begin on-ball training next week,'' he said. Staying back with the team during his rehabilitation meant Jobby wasn't missing the dressing room atmosphere. He said ATK had done well this season. The comeback win against arch-rival Kerala Blasters has lifted the spirit of the team. “It was an important win for us to stay on top. Kerala Blasters always plays harder against us but we were able to beat them twice this season. “The morale of the team is high," he said.  It is very disappointing to miss the entire season. I was looking forward to impressing coach Habas, but then came the injury||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jobby-on-the-path-of-recovery/article33764757.ece
06 February 2021||ABU DHABI,||Daruvala and Falcons win again||Mumbai Falcons and Jehan Daruvala continued their winning spree with a second consecutive victory in the Asian Formula 3 Championship on Friday. Daruvala fought tooth and nail to win race two and also completed a hat-trick of podiums to finish second in the third race. He has now moved into the championship lead with his heroics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/daruvala-and-falcons-win-again/article33764540.ece
06 February 2021||Melbourne,||Serena, Osaka drawn in same half||Serena Williams has been drawn in the same quarter at the Australian Open as No. 2-ranked Simona Halep and the same half as Naomi Osaka in her latest bid for a record-equalling 24th Grand Slam singles title. First up for the seven-time Australian Open champion will be Laura Siegemund of Germany. Tough path U.S. Open champion Osaka will face Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova in the first round and has Major winners Angelique Kerber, Garbine Muguruza (last year’s runner-up), Venus Williams and Bianca Andreescu in her quarter. Defending champion Sofia Kenin is in the top half of the women’s draw along with No. 1-ranked Ashleigh Barty and they could potentially meet in the semifinals again. Novak Djokovic’s bid for a third consecutive Australian title, and ninth overall, could get tricky. He has an opener against Jerome Chardy and three-time Major winner Stan Wawrinka, Milos Raonic and Alexander Zverev are in his quarter.  Rafael Nadal, aiming to win a record 21st Major singles title will open against Laslo Djere and could face fifth-seeded Stefanos Tsitsipas in the quarterfinals.  Indian participation Meanwhile, India’s Sumit Nagal was drawn to play Lithuania's Ricardas Berankis. It will be Nagal's second clash against the World No. 72 in as many weeks. If Nagal, a wild-card entrant and World No. 139, can cross the first hurdle, he will run into either 19th seed Russian Karen Khachanov or local wild-card Aleksandar Vukic. However, Ankita Raina could not make the cut. Rohan Bopanna and Divij Sharan will compete with their respective partners in men’s doubles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/serena-osaka-drawn-in-same-half/article33764545.ece
06 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Saketh’s priority is to return to the circuit||With increased prize money for the early rounds as against the 33% cut for the champions, it is the best time to play a Grand Slam for most tennis players. Davis Cupper Saketh Myneni, who won the Asian Games mixed gold with Sania Mirza in Incheon 2014, last had played in the main draw of a Grand Slam in 2016. His priority is to first return to the circuit. “I wanted to play the Challengers, but it was tough to get in. So, I am looking at a bunch of ITF events, announced recently in India, as a starting point to return to the circuit,” said Saketh. He admitted that the extended period of inaction had helped his body regain good health and get into tennis shape and he needed to be patient. Protection to players He will be watching the Australian Open on television and was all praise for the phenomenal care taken by Tennis Australia to keep improving and to give the players the best possible protection. Looking forward to a new champion, like the way Dominic Thiem emerged at the US Open, Saketh said that Rafael Nadal and Novak Djokovic were always hard to beat, and the younger guys needed to deliver on the big stage to get past them. He was also keen to see Serena Williams win her elusive 24th Grand Slam singles title to match the Margaret Court’s record. “You have to beat the best to win a Grand Slam. And Serena is always the player to beat,” said Saketh. He hoped that Sumit Nagal would “go one better” after having won a round at the US Open last year, to give a boost for the sport in the country. All the line calls at the Australian Open will be made electronically. Saketh said that it was tough for the line umpires.  Watch the Australian Open live on Sony Pictures Sports networks from Feb.8 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sakeths-priority-is-to-return-to-the-circuit/article33764547.ece
06 February 2021||MELBOURNE,||Shoulder injury forces Serena to pull out||Serena Williams pulled out of a semifinal clash against World No.1 Ashleigh Barty with a shoulder injury on Friday, days before the Australian Open, in the Yarra Valley Classic while Simona Halep and Sofia Kenin both crashed to defeat. Stan Wawrinka pulled out of his quarterfinal match against Jeremy Chardy due to fatigue in the Murray River Open.  The results: WTA Yarra Valley Classic: Semifinal: Ashleigh Barty w/o Serena Williams. Quarterfinals: Barty bt Shelby Rogers 7-5, 2-6, 10-4; Garbine Muguruza bt Sofia Kenin 6-2, 6-2; Serena bt Danielle Collins 6-2, 4-6, 10-6; Markata Vondrousova bt Nadia Podoroska 4-6, 6-3, 10-4.   Gippsland Trophy: Quarterfinals: Ekaterina Alexandrova bt Simona Halep 6-2, 6-1; Kaia Kanepi bt Karolina Muchova retd.; Naomi Osaka bt Irina Begu 7-5, 6-1; Elise Mertens bt Elina Svitolina 6-3, 5-7, 10-6.   Grampians Trophy: Second round: Maria Sakkari bt Leylah Fernandez 6-2, 6-2; Angelique Kerber bt Ons Jabeur 6-4, 6-4; Victoria Azarenka bt Yulia Putintseva 6-4, 1-6, 11-9; Barbora Krejcikova bt Elena Rybakina 4-6, 6-2, 10-6; Sorana Cirstea bt Belinda Bencic 7-5, 6-2.   ATP Murray River Open: Quarterfinals: Jeremy Chardy w/o Stan Wawrinka; Daniel Evans bt Borna Coric 7-5, 7-6(1); Felix Auger-Aliassime bt Jiri Vesely 7-6(3), 0-0 retd.; Corentin Moutet bt Grigor Dimitrov 7-5, 6-2.   Great Ocean Road Open: Quarterfinals: Thiago Monteiro bt Jordan Thompson 6-4, 6-4; Stefano Travaglia bt Hubert Hurkacz 3-6, 6-3, 7-5; Jannik Sinner bt Miomir Kecmanovic 7-6(10), 6-4; Karen Khachanov bt Botic van de Zandschulp 6-7(6), 7-5, 6-3 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shoulder-injury-forces-serena-to-pull-out/article33764549.ece
06 February 2021||MUMBAI,||Internal squabble delays naming of Mumbai coach||Office-bearers of the Mumbai Cricket Association (MCA) and its Cricket Improvement Committee (CIC) have been involved in a bitter tussle over the appointment of the senior team’s coach for the forthcoming Vijay Hazare Trophy. The MCA, on Friday, wrote to Lalchand Rajput, the CIC chairman, to approve the appointment of Mumbai stalwart Amol Muzumdar as the successor of Amit Pagnis, who resigned last month after Mumbai’s poor show in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy. However, Rajput, the former India opener responded to MCA, proposing Ramesh Powar, former India off-spinner as the coach. Rajput, in his email, accessed by The Hindu , has also pointed out that the CIC has been authorised to appoint coaches as per the MCA rulebook. “The CIC has the prerogative to appoint the coach and the CIC committee feels that Mr. Ramesh Powar is the right candidate to be the coach of the Mumbai senior team since he has been the coach of the Indian senior women’s team and is associated with the National Cricket Academy as a senior coach,” Rajput wrote in his mail. “We as CIC committee had written a letter regarding the resignation of the coach and you haven’t replied yet and suddenly today you are appointing him (Muzumdar). We as CIC committee don’t agree and the committee’s choice is Mr. Ramesh Powar.” It is understood that the apex council meeting last week had authorised the office-bearers to appoint the coach. However, a section of the apex council members assumed that, since the MCA rules clearly state the CIC has to finalise coaches and selectors, the office-bearers would work in tandem with the CIC. No response Neither Rajput nor MCA president Vijay Patil nor secretary Sanjay Naik responded to queries about resolution to the coach appointment muddle. The internal squabble among the administrative set-up has resulted in the head coach being unable to witness the selection trials of the team. The staggering 104 probables’ list announced by the selectors last week has been pruned to 40. These players have been divided into three teams and the three selection matches are to be concluded on Saturday. The selection panel, headed by Salil Ankola, is set to finalise the squad of 22 for the one-day tournament, likely to start on February 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/internal-squabble-delays-naming-of-mumbai-coach/article33765238.ece
06 February 2021||COIMBATORE,||INRC for four-wheelers ends abruptly||After three successful rounds, the Indian National Rally Championship (INRC) for four wheelers came to an abrupt end with the FMSCI Rally Commission curtailing it to three rounds. An FMSCI release on Friday stated that the championship stands concluded after the penultimate Round 3 in Coimbatore held last weekend as the minimum criteria was three rounds taking into account the COVID-19 pandemic. It further added that the points accumulated in each category over the three rounds will help in deciding the winners. Rally Commission chairman Farokh Commissariat revealed that the Council deliberated at length the circumstances and issues that were faced in the last few days. “Due to unavoidable operational and non-operational issues, it became virtually impossible to even consider postponing as that would adversely affect next year’s calendar, which has to begin shortly.” JK Tyre’s Gaurav Gill was a happy man, having sealed the title in Coimbatore. “It’s quite unfortunate. You cannot blame anybody for this,” he said. “It’s good to plan your path right from the first round. I am glad I sealed it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/inrc-for-four-wheelers-ends-abruptly/article33764530.ece
06 February 2021||LONDON,||Chelsea into the top-six||Chelsea climbed into the Premier League top-six as Thomas Tuchel earned the first major victory of his short time in charge of the Blues with a 1-0 win at Tottenham on Thursday. Jorginho’s penalty midway through the first-half was scant reward for Chelsea’s dominance on another damaging night for Spurs boss Jose Mourinho against his former club. “We are happy about the result,” said Tuchel.  The result: Tottenham 0 lost to Chelsea 1 (Jorginho 24-pen).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chelsea-into-the-top-six/article33764532.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||BFC, CFC in goalless draw||Chennaiyin FC was left ruing a host of missed chances as Bengaluru FC (BFC) held it to a goalless draw at the Fatorda Stadium on Friday. Csaba Laszlo’s men missed more than half-a-dozen opportunities against a largely pedestrian BFC, leaving them in eighth place on 17 points, and without a win in five matches. BFC remains sixth BFC, which had hoped to build on the win over SC East Bengal, remains sixth with 19 points, three off the last playoff berth. As early as the eighth minute Sunil Chhetri was furious for not getting a free-kick for what he thought was a back pass from Eli Sabia to Vishal Kaith. The skipper would come close on 34 minutes when his fierce shot from the edge of the six-yard box was superbly blocked by Sabia. But for those two moments, it was all Chennaiyin. The presence of Manuel Lanzarote lent the side some vibrancy as it attacked with verve, especially from wide areas.  The result: Bengaluru FC 0 drew with Chennaiyin FC 0.   Saturday’s match: Odisha FC vs ATK Mohun Bagan, 7.30 p.m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bfc-cfc-in-goalless-draw/article33764533.ece
06 February 2021||Los Angeles,||James on fire as Lakers rally to bury Nuggets||LeBron James had a triple-double of 27 points, 10 assists and 10 rebounds as Los Angeles Lakers rallied from a double-digit half-time deficit to pull away for a 114-93 victory over Denver Nuggets. James recorded the second triple-double of the season and 96th of his career as the Lakers opened their five-game home-stand with an impressive come-from-behind win. With his third basket in the third quarter, James surpassed Wilt Chamberlain (12,681) for number three on career field scores list. In Philadelphia, Carmelo Anthony delivered a throwback performance, scoring 22 points as the short-handed Portland Trail Blazers stunned Eastern Conference juggernaut Philadelphia 76ers 121-105. The depleted Blazers won despite an array of injuries that got worse earlier Thursday with the announcement that marquee player Damian Lillard was ruled out of the contest with an abdominal strain.  The results: Grizzlies 103 lost to Rockets 115; 76ers 105 lost to Trail Blazers 121; Hawks 91 lost to Jazz 112; Lakers 114 bt Nuggets 93; Mavericks 116 lost to Warriors 147.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/james-on-fire-as-lakers-rally-to-bury-nuggets/article33764542.ece
06 February 2021||BENGALURU:,||Anjeze wins Stayers Trial Stakes||S. Attaollahi-trained Anjeze (Akshay K up) won the Stayers Trial Stakes, the chief event of the races held on Friday (Feb. 5). The winner is owned by Sarainaga Racing Pvt. Ltd.  1. GADAG PLATE (1,400m), rated 00 to 20: AEROSPEED (Naveen K) 1, Proudwish (B. Dharshan) 2, Gazebo Talk (Arvind K) 3 and Antheia (J.H. Arul) 4. 1-1/2, 1-3/4 and 4. 1m, 30.71s. Rs. 176 (w), 38, 77 and 14 (p), SHP: 193, THP: 58, FP: 5,078, Q: 3,817, Trinella: 35,400, Exacta: 31,571 (carried over). Favourite: Gazebo Talk. Owner: Mr. H.S. Chandre Gowda. Trainer: Samar Singh.  2. ICEBREAKER PLATE (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only, (Terms): ALLAMANDA (Suraj) 1, Mitsuro (A. Imran) 2, Tommy Shelby (Trevor) 3 and Karanveer (Srinath) 4. Not run: Faith Of Success. 10, Shd and 2-1/2. 1m, 15.22s. Rs. 11 (w), 12, 42 and 10 (p), SHP: 89, THP: 28, FP: 136, Q: 177, Trinella: 407 and 84, Exacta: 1,239 and 559. Favourite: Allamanda. Owner: Ms. Ameeta Mehra. Trainer: Arjun Mangalorkar.  3. MALAPRABA PLATE (Div. II) , (1,400m), rated 15 to 35, 5-y-o & over: TYTO ALBA (Trevor) 1, Super Gladiator (J.H. Arul) 2, Sir Piggot (Kiran Rai) 3 and Bombix (Arshad) 4. 3-1/2, 1 and 1-1/2. 1m, 29.88s. Rs. 17 (w), 15, 14 and 21 (p), SHP: 45, THP: 44, FP: 107, Q: 63, Trinella: 366 and 246, Exacta: 836 and 428. Favourite: Tyto Alba. Owner: Mr. S.N. Harish. Trainer: Narayana Gowda.  4. AMAZING GREY PLATE (1,400m), rated 45 to 65: COLONEL HARTY (Tauseef) 1, Cavaliere (Rayan) 2, Karadeniz (A. Imran) 3 and Bellator (Akshay K) 4. 3, 1-1/2 and Lnk. 1m, 28.80s. Rs. 60 (w), 17, 19 and 21 (p), SHP: 46, THP: 42, FP: 974, Q: 288, Trinella: 4,620 and 1,980, Exacta: 8,621 and 2,956. Favourite: Bellator. Owner: Mr. Gnanadeva Rao. Trainer: Narayana Gowda.  5. S.V. SUBRAMANIAM MEMORIAL TROPHY (1,600m), rated 60 & above: ANGELINO (Akshay K) 1, Velocidad (S. John) 2, Thailand (Antony) 3 and Alexandre Dumas (Trevor) 4. Not run: Peluche. 1, Shd and Nk. 1m, 41.49s. Rs. 46 (w), 15, 14 and 22 (p), SHP: 33, THP: 54, FP: 122, Q: 85, Trinella: 1,044 and 580, Exacta: 1,084 and 297. Favourite: Alexandre Dumas. Owner: Sarainaga Racing Pvt Ltd. Trainer: S. Attaollahi.  6. STAYERS TRIAL STAKES (2,400m), 4-y-o & over, (Terms): ANJEZE (Akshay K) 1, Sporting Memories (Trevor) 2, Salazaar (Suraj) 3 and Royal Crystal (S. John) 4. Hd, Nk and 5. 2m, 37.78s. Rs. 44 (w), 15 and 13 (p), SHP: 27, THP: 28, FP: 164, Q: 108, Trinella: 126 and 47. Favourite: Salazaar. Owner: Sarainaga Racing Pvt Ltd. Trainer: S. Attaollahi.  7. GLASS HOUSE PLATE (1,200m), rated 30 to 50, 5-y-o & over: HARMONIA (J.H. Arul) 1, Musterion (Srinath) 2, Stroke Of Genius (Arshad) 3 and Ultimate Speed (S. Saqlain) 4. 5, 1-1/4 and 3/4. 1m, 15.46s. Rs. 68 (w), 20, 15 and 40 (p), SHP: 40, THP: 97, FP: 241, Q: 180, Trinella: 5,132 and 3,849, Exacta: 50,745 (carried over). Favourite: Musterion. Owners: Mr. Rajan Aggarwal & Mr. Gautam Aggarwal. Trainer: Pradeep Annaiah.  8. MALAPRABA PLATE (Div. I), (1,400m), rated 15 to 35, 5-y-o & over: MEMORITER (Chetan K) 1, Chantelle (Indrajeet Singh) 2, Mrs Thatcher (Trevor) 3 and Another Rainbow (Rayan) 4. 2, 1-1/4 and 1-1/4. 1m, 29.76s. Rs. 32 (w), 17, 38 and 16 (p), SHP: 109, THP: 49, FP: 760, Q: 343, Trinella: 3,472 and 1,240, Exacta: 29,957 and 12,839. Favourite: Memoriter. Onwer: Mr. S.T. Kalappa. Trainer: Azhar Ali. Jackpot: Rs. 3,52,204 (carried over); Runner-up: 10,063 (15 tkts.); Treble (i): 2,424 (three tkts.); (ii): 4,946 (five tkts.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anjeze-wins-stayers-trial-stakes/article33764543.ece
06 February 2021||CHATTOGRAM,||Bangladesh in control||Mehidy Hasan followed up his first Test century with four for 58 as Bangladesh stayed in control of the first Test against West Indies on Friday. Bangladesh reached 47/3 in its second innings at stumps on day three, stretching its lead to 218 on an increasingly deteriorating pitch. Captain Mominul Haque (31) and Mushfiqur Rahim (10) were at the crease. Earlier, West Indies was all out for 259 in its first innings replying to the hosts’ 430. Skipper Kraigg Brathwaite led the charge with 76 after West Indies resumed on 75-2. The captain’s innings was vital in resisting Bangladesh’s spinners. Left-arm spinner Taijul Islam (2-84) broke through on the opening delivery, dismissing Nkrumah Bonner for 17. But Brathwaite led the repair job, sharing a 55-run partnership with debutant Kyle Mayers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bangladesh-in-control/article33764497.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Victimised by desires||Throughout the Bhagavad Gita, Krishna talks of how people are caught in the cycle of birth owing to inherent human weaknesses such as desire, anger, etc. Such is the sway of the world and its attractions to which one is exposed throughout his life since birth. The senses or the indriyas are the gates in us through which the world enters. But the Lord also shows that one can avoid being exploited and victimised by this assault if one is wise to use the intellect and common sense repeatedly, pointed out Srimati Sunanda in a discourse. The peculiar situation is that while it is not possible or advisable to open or shut the gates, one can control the entry points by withdrawing the mind from the attractions without yielding to the desire to enjoy and possess the objects of the world. The sadana here is on self control and not self denial. It is an intelligent regulation of life’s activities. When the mind is withdrawn and introvert, it is not agitated by what the world offers. But an extrovert mind attracts desires aplenty. You control yourself so that you can expend your energies for noble purposes. A sportsman dedicated to sports will focus on winning. He has a price to pay to win. He is not denying. If you need to be a better human being you must direct your energies suitably. Asceticism is in the mind and the hallmark of an ascetic is the extent of his control over passion. King Janaka is quoted as exemplifying this talent of renunciation. Though he had the entire kingdom at his command that he ruled righteously, he did not claim any personal possession in it. This shows that an aspirant can learn to cultivate this sense of detachment in his day-to-day life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/victimised-by-desires/article33764481.ece
06 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Vidit takes on Shankland||GM Vidit Gujrathi will open his campaign against USA’s Sam Shankland in the Opera Euro online rapid chess tournament on Saturday. Magnus Carlsen heads the elite 16-player field that includes his arch-rival Hikaru Nakamura, Ding Liren, Ian Nepominchtchi and Anish Giri. After three days of round robin league — five rounds per day — the top eight placed players will advance to the knockout phase of the $100,000 prize-money event.  First-round pairings: Sam Shankland (USA) vs Vidit Gujrathi; Wesley So (USA) vs Magnus Calrsen (Nor); Levon Aronian (Arm) vs Ding Liren (Chn); Maxime Vachier-Lagrave (Fra) vs Daniil Dubov (Rus); Matthias Bluebaum (Ger) vs Teimour Radjabov (Aze); Leinier Dominguez Perez (USA) vs Hikaru Nakamura (USA); Alexander Grischuk (Rus) vs Anish Giri (Ned); Jan-Krzsztof Duda (Pol) vs Ian Nepomniachtchi (Rus) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vidit-takes-on-shankland/article33764528.ece
06 February 2021||Monastir (Tunisia),||Zeel knocks out top seed||Zeel Desai outplayed the No. 1 seed Angelica Moratelli of Italy 6-1, 6-2 in the quarterfinals of the $15,000 ITF women’s tennis tournament on Friday. In the $320,775 Murray River Open ATP event in Melbourne, Divij Sharan and Igor Zelenay of Slovakia lost to fifth-seeds Jermey Chardy and Fabrice Martin of France 7-6(5), 6-4.  The results:   $320,775 ATP, Melbourne, Australia: Quarterfinals: Jeremy Chardy & Fabrice Martin (Fra) bt Igor Zelenay (Svk) & Divij Sharan 7-6(5), 6-4.   $15,000 ITF women, Monastir, Tunisia: Quarterfinals: Zeel Desai bt Angelica Moratelli (Ita) 6-1, 6-2.   Second round: Zeel Desai bt Kathleen Kanev (Ger) 6-1, 3-6, 6-3.   $25,000 ITF men, Villena, Spain: Quarterfinals: Dan Added (Fra) & Arjun Kadhe w/o. Jelle Sels & Tim Van Rijthoven (Ned) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/zeel-knocks-out-top-seed/article33764538.ece
06 February 2021||Chennai,||England pays tribute to Capt. Moore||The England players wore black armbands in memory of Captain Sir Tim Moore on the opening day of the first Test on Friday. The inspirational war hero and fund-raiser passed away earlier this week, aged 100, owing to coronavirus. And Root paid his tribute to the late Moore with a 100 in his 100th Test. In the morning, left-arm spinning all-rounder Axar Patel was ruled out of the Test after injuring his left knee during a training session. He was replaced in the squad by left-arm spinner Shahbaz Nadeem and leg-spinner Rahul Chahar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/england-pays-tribute-to-capt-moore/article33764484.ece
06 February 2021||MUMBAI,||IPL 2021: 1,097 in the fray||A whopping 1,097 players from 16 countries have registered for the IPL auction to be held in Chennai on February 18, according to a BCCI statement. A maximum of 61 slots, including 22 for overseas players, are available. While 814 of the registered players are Indians, 56 are from West Indies. It is understood that S. Sreesanth and Shakib Al Hasan are also in the fray. The preliminary list has been shared with the franchises and will be pruned over the next week based on their interest in the players. February 11 has been set as the deadline by the franchises to shortlist players.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ipl-2021-1097-in-the-fray/article33764485.ece
06 February 2021||LONDON,||Wimbledon eyeing trimmed crowd presence||Wimbledon organisers are planning for a reduced-capacity crowd at this tournament, though other options remain, the All England Club said on Thursday. The club had previously announced that the tournament, canceled in 2020 because of the coronavirus pandemic, would go ahead with or without fans. The three options are full capacity, reduced capacity or no fans. “The majority of our planning focus is currently centered on the option of a reduced capacity Championships and how that would affect each stakeholder group, but we are not yet in a position to rule out any of the other scenarios,” the club said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/wimbledon-eyeing-trimmed-crowd-presence/article33764527.ece
06 February 2021||GURUGRAM:,||Double for Paras Dahiya||Paras Dahiya bagged both the singles and doubles trophies in the Rs. 100,000 AITA men’s tennis tournament at the Higher Performance Academy.  The results: Singles (final): Paras Dahiya bt Digvijay Pratap Singh 7-5, 3-6, 7-5; Semifinals: Dahiya bt V.M. Ranjeet 6-2, 7-6(11); Digvijay bt Lakshit Sood 6-3, 6-1.   Doubles (final): Dahiya & Parikshit Somani bt Lakshit Sood & Chandril Sood 6-4, 4-6, [10-6] .    Rushil Khosla and Samiksha Dabas won the boys’ and girls’ titles in the AITA Super Series under-16 tennis tournament on Friday.  The results (finals): Boys: Rushil Khosla bt Manish Yadav 6-3, 4-6, 6-1. Doubles: Debasis Sahoo & Krish Ajay Tyagi bt Ayushman Arjeria & Daksh Prasad 4-6, 6-4, [10-5].   Girls: Samiksha Dabas bt Sahira Singh 6-3, 2-6, 7-5. Doubles: Samiksha & Hannah Nagpal bt Tamanna Panwar & Sahira 6-3, 6-2 .     Renne Singla beat top seed Yubrani Banerjee to win the Rs. 1,00,000 AITA women’s tennis tournament here on Friday. Renne led 6-4 in the final when Yubrani retired with a pulled hamstring.    Semifinals: Yubrani bt Niyati Kukreti 6-1, 6-1; Renne bt Kalluri Reddy 6-4, 7-6(4) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/khosla-and-samiksha-win-titles/article33764802.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Yash, Ishaan, Siddarth and Kush slam centuries||Yash Satwalekar (107) helped Cheerful Chums score an eight-wicket win over Adilabad in the A2-Division (two-day) league cricket championship on Friday. In other matches, HUCC’s Ishaan (105 n.o., 88b,12x4,7x6), Siddarth of SK Blues (105, 134b, 13x4) and Kush Agarwal (100, 96b, 7x4, 2x6) for Ekalavya batted well.  The scores:   A2-Div. (two-day) league: Rakesh XI 250 in 69.4 overs bt Team Speed 195 in 55.5 overs (Aravind 76, G. Dheeraj 5/8).   HBCC 315 in 79.3 overs bt National 152 in 42.3 overs (R.P. Praneeth 37, Md. Khalid 5/8, Apratim 3/40).   Nizamabad Dist. 285 in 64 overs bt Crown 156 in 64.5 overs (Siddharth Jain 63, P. Tarun Sai Krishna 43).   Adilabad 221 in 64.2 overs lost to Cheerful Chums 222/2 in 63.1 overs (Yash Satwalekar 107, Shravan Kumar 53 n.o.).   PKM 258 in 86 overs bt Mega City 220 in 61 overs (Anand Prakash 73, K. Jay Kiran 56, M.S.S. Narayan 36, B. Srujan Kumar 3/21, N. Shashank 3/47, T. Saurabh 3/48).   WMCC 253 in 66.2 overs bt Shalimar 222/9 in 71 overs (V. Rohit 36, Advaith 40, Sai Krishna 3/52, S. Anish Reddy 3/20).   Ours 356 in overs bt Elegant 218 in 74.4 overs (Shaik Abdul Razzak 64, K. Anirudh 55, Md. Abdul Rahim 42 n.o., D. Manoj Kumar 3/38, Akshit Reddy 3/31).   Venus Cybertech 287 in 52.5 overs bt HUCC 252 in 58.5 overs (Ishaan 105 n.o., Sri Madhav 82, Ezaz Ali 5/36, Rishith Reddy 3/63).   PJL 300 in 66 overs bt Vijay 237 in 73.3 overs (A. Manoj Sastry 56, B. Bhati 54, Shyam Reddy 54).   Vijayanand 369 in 85.5 overs bt Noble 258 in 63 overs (Dharmik 54, M.A. Adnan 59, Hussain Bin Jaffer 64, Manikanta Charan 5/69).   Sec’bad Gymkhana 376/8 in 80 overs bt SK Blues 358 in 77.3 overs (Ibrahim 40, Ali 49, Siddarth 105, Hussain Yousuf 70, Shashidhar Rao 4/72).   Vijaypuri Willowmen 326 in 80 overs bt Karimnagar 187 in 46.4 overs (Srikanth 56, G. Sai Vinay 99 n.o., M.M. William 5/26, Ayaan Mohd Ahmed 4/43).   Acrylic 225 in 75 overs bt Abhinav Colts 182 in 55 overs (Swachit 38, Varun Reddy 30, M. Vasudeva Raju 6/28).   Hyd. Academy 660/8 in 90 overs bt Bharat 193 in 54.5 overs (Preetam Reddy 31, Zaheer Abbas 5/24).   RJCC 345 in 83.4 overs lost to Eklavaya 348/6 in 81.1 overs (Kush Agarwal 100, Preetham 95 n.o, Dhruv 45, Sathwik 33).   Hyd. Patriots 181 in 48.3 overs bt Rushiraj 122 in 38.1 overs (S. Bhoopal 4/18, K. Rajesh 3/25).   SN Group143 in 51.3 overs bt Anu CC 92 in 44 overs (C. Sachin 32, Aryaman 3/12, Vijay 3/13).   Kishoresons 190 in 54.4 overs (Sandeep 52, Nitin 42, Syed Ali 6/35, Jawad 3/40) bt Sunshine 50 in 24 overs (Nawad 5/21, Manav 3/18).    The Hyderabad Cricket Association (HCA) will organise the A-Division (one-day) knock-out tournament for all three-day teams from February 6 to 13. For the first time in HCA history, there will be coloured clothing and all the teams should collect their dresses from the Association. In view of the knock-out tournament, the A1-Division (three-day) league matches scheduled from Feb. 9 to 11 have been postponed.   Warangal scored an emphatic 10-0 win over Kothagudem in the fifth senior inter-district hockey championship for men, organised by Sangareddy District Hockey Association at the BHEL ground. A. Venkateshwar Reddy, SATS chairman, inaugurated. Meanwhile, Olympian Alloysius Edwards has been nominated as the tournament selector for the on-going inter-district men’s hockey championship. Alloysius, who represented India as the goalkeeper at the 1996 Atlanta Games, will select the State team which will take part in the ensuing Senior Nationals.  The results (league):   Warangal bt Kothagudem 10-0; Hyderabad bt Ranga Reddy 5-0; Mahabubnagar bt Nalgonda 3-0; Nizamabad bt Badradri Kothagudem 6-0; Sangareddy bt Karimnaghar 6-0; Hyderabad bt Adilabad 4-1; Warangal bt Nalgonda 8-1; Sangareddy bt Rangareddy 2-0; Nizamabad drew with Mahabubnagar 1-1.    City College Old Boys and Hanumanth’s Sharp Academy will organise a 3x3 invitation basketball tournament for boys and girls (under-14 and 19) at City College ground on Feb. 7. Matches will be played on league-cum-knock-out basis. Call S. Hanumanth Rao, secretary, CCOB, on 93930 04825.   One Goal Chess Academy (OGCA) will organise the OGCA international online u-24 tournament from 10 a.m. on Feb. 7. There will be seven rounds. Call Jyothi Ganesh Inaganti on 83741 53718 before 9. 30 a.m. on Feb. 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/yash-ishaan-siddarth-and-kush-slam-centuries/article33765149.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||SCOREBOARD||ENGLAND — 1ST INNINGS   Rory Burns c Pant b Ashwin 33 (60b, 2x4), Dom Sibley lbw b Bumrah 87 (286b, 12x4), Dan Lawrence lbw b Bumrah 0 (5b), Joe Root (batting) 128 (197b, 14x4, 1x6); Extras (lb-4, nb-11): 15; Total (for three wkts. in 89.3 overs): 263.   FALL OF WICKETS   1-63 (Burns, 23.5), 2-63 (Lawrence, 25.4), 3-263 (Sibley, 89.3).   INDIA BOWLING   Ishant 15-3-27-0, Bumrah 18.3-2-40-2, Ashwin 24-2-68-1, Nadeem 20-3-69-0, Washington 12-0-55-0.   Toss: England.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/scoreboard/article33764494.ece
06 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Match drawn||Bangalore Eagles FC was held to a 1-1 draw by ASC & Centre FC in the BDFA Super Division football league on Friday.  The result: Bangalore Eagles 1 (Deepaj Pant 59-og) drew with ASC & Center 1 (P.P. Shafeel 53) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/match-drawn/article33765056.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||ENGAGEMENTS||At Coimbatore   Motorsports: KMS50, Kari Motor Speedway, 9 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/engagements/article33764529.ece
06 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||VDCA courses||Visakhapatnam District Cricket Association will conduct umpiring and scorers’ courses, followed by examination for district panel in the second week of March. Candidates can appear for both umpiring and scorers courses. Call S.V.R. Kiran (99499 62972) before Feb. 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vdca-courses/article33765244.ece
06 February 2021||Colombo,||Sangakkara, Muralitharan named in four-member technical advisory committee||Former skipper Kumar Sangakkara, Muttiah Muralitharan and Roshan Mahanama have been named in the technical advisory committee, chaired by Aravinda de Silva, announced by Sri Lanka Cricket on Friday.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sangakkara-muralitharan-named-in-four-member-technical-advisory-committee/article33764534.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 09:56 IST,||Sudoku — February 6, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-february-6-2021/article33765596.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||The smoky flavours of Himachali food||If there is one state that never fails to captivate me, it is Himachal Pradesh. I spent quite a few months there back in the late 70s and early 80s, staying with Himachalis and eating a lot of khatti dal and a sour pickle the region is known for. Having grown emotionally attached to their simple cuisine, I always rued the fact that there were hardly any outlets offering Himachali food in Delhi. I rue no more. I got a message some months ago about a place known as Pahadi Pattal. Run by a young woman called Nitika Kuthiala, it offers home-cooked dishes on the weekends. I had my thhali delivered last week — and was back in Kangra, inhaling the air scented by pine trees and tea leaves. Kuthiala worked for a corporate office, but decided to give up her job for the simple pleasure of cooking for people. She had picked up recipes from her father and mother, both known for their culinary expertise, and started organising pop-ups at home. “I wanted to showcase Himachali food,” she tells me. Soon she had a regular stream of clients. Then, during the pandemic, some suggested that she start delivering food. She has been doing this for some months now. You have to place your orders a day in advance (Ph: 8447674414). The thhali with a meat dish costs Rs. 1,299 (delivery charges are extra). You have to organise your own rice or rotis, but there is food for two. The meat dish, however, is mainly for one. Our thhali consisted of pipli mutton, aloo and mattar madra , siddu stuffed with poppy seeds, pahadi maah-rajma , jimikand , chutney and pickle. The madra is Dham food – that is festival food cooked without onion, ginger or garlic. It consisted of chickpeas and potatoes in a thick and tart curd-based sauce. The curd has to be cooked well for the dish to get its consistency and taste. I enjoyed that, and liked the dal, too – rajma and urad dal, which had been smoked with a piece of charcoal. It was not heavy, as rajma and ma ki dal can be, and had been tempered with coriander, cumin and fenugreek seeds. I had it with the siddu — a savoury gujia -like dish with a filling of poppy seeds and walnut. I thought it was not just different, but also appetizing. There was some chutney on the side, too, which added to the zing. The jimikand (yam) was disappointing. But that was not the problem with the dish; it was more an issue I have with the tuber itself. It seldom pleases me. This dish had been cooked with whole spices, masala powders, local herbs and desiccated coconut. The dish I enjoyed the most was the mutton, which was light and tender, with the gravy the perfect balance of flavours. Pipli is a kind of a chilli in the north, and the dish had been cooked with these. It reminded me of a desi chicken dish that we’d eaten, sitting by a bonfire out in the open in a little village called Lagga in Chamba, back in the early 90s. I can still recall the lightness of its gravy, and the clear, starry night. I have one grouse, though. A thhali is not a thhali if there is no dessert. And while Himachal is not exactly known for its sweets, I could have done with its mittha , a dish of sweetened rice. That would truly have meant ‘ muh mittha karna ’, as we in north India refer to our offering of sweets to mark a celebration. The writer is a seasoned food critic||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-smoky-flavours-of-himachali-food/article33764842.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Divided by opinion||If you want the budget to go from pointless pandering to shimmering strategising, all in a microsecond, change the TV channel. Talking heads with faultless credentials spit and stamp on each other’s opinions at deafening decibels. Greatly empowered by our cosy echo chambers, we forward violently contradictory analyses with self-important glee. The price of onions may be rising, but opinions come free. And your opinion is wrong! Look, I’ve even got a forward to show you how wrong you are. You then send me three forwards that proclaim that your opinion is more right than mine — that is the opinion of the person who forwarded the forwarded opinion to the one who forwarded it to you. No one wins, of course. That’s the whole point. No one even pretends to try. You and I, who shared a class bench, homework, lipstick, secrets, and tiffin, now social distance farther than the coronavirus would ever get us to. It started with that political post. You called the politician I worship, a worm. I called yours a buffalo’s bladder. A week later, we laughed, made up, and I posted again. About the economy or footpaths or cricket, I’ve forgotten. “You’re wrong, you were always wrong,” you said, “Even back in Class 3 in that Maths sum I copied from you.” “You always lied through your teeth,” I retorted, “Little wonder you’ve got such gaps between them.” Later, you blamed your unforgivable rant on the heat. And I objected; it had been a cold day. “It wasn’t even day,” you snapped, “It was night.” You’ve always been two-faced, I fumed. I’d always talked rubbish, you raged. You were stupid. I was snobbish. No surprise you got the sum wrong in Class 3. It was Class 4. Your memory has gaps wider than those in your teeth. My eyes were so squinty I could never tell the truth if it danced in front of me. Before we flush three decades of best friendship down the loo (you always said ‘restroom’, you pretentious prude!), hear this: the head lice you had back in school wormed their way into your brain and destroyed it. As I close my browser, I see you telling everyone I secretly ate chalk which made me delusional. Whatever you believe, you’re wrong. Whatever I say is wrong before I say it. There is only one way to see it: you’re wrong unless you agree with me that you’re wrong. Where Jane De Suza, author of Flyaway Boy , pokes her nose into our perfect lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/divided-by-opinion/article33765007.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Fish amok in Karnad’s dining room||Number 697, JP Nagar 2nd Phase. Today, it is the address of Bengaluru’s new Southeast Asian restaurant with a Cambodian thrust, Khmer Kitchen. But until just three years ago, it was the residence and writing studio of late littérateur, actor and playwright, Girish Karnad. It was where he penned books, met with local luminaries like actor and theatre personality Arundhati Nag, and wrote his last play Boiled Beans on Toast (2012). Locals still point out the familiar landmark hidden behind large ficus and rain trees. In fact, when architect-cum-newly minted restaurateur, Naveen Reddy, was scouting for a suitable property, it was the trees that helped him make up his mind. “They created a lush canopy that hid the house from view,” says Reddy, 47, who ensured no tree was cut while designing the restaurant (only a branch was removed to accommodate a transformer). So jackfruit and fig trees pierce walls and glass roofs, while flame of the forests paint the terrace floor vermilion. An ‘energy audit’ — which measures the positive energy in a space (“and the house has plenty of it”)” — convinced Reddy to retain the original structure. “The architectural challenge was to fuse the new and the old,” he says. “The house is quite contemporary for its time [built in 1982] and it came with two eccentric [off centre] courtyards.” The one at the back is now an outdoor seating space, while the courtyard in the middle has been converted into the Angkor bar. “The jackfruit trees are fruiting now and it looks like they are growing out of the mural [inspired by the Bayon and Ta Prohm temples],” he laughs.  The new chapter  Working with the original blueprint, one of the big changes made was accommodating terrace seating. They dismantled the sloping roof and Mangalore tiles of the two front rooms and put in steel beams and pillars to take the weight of a new flat roof. It is now the most popular dining spot come evening. What’s remained unchanged is Karnad’s library. Once the focal point of the residence, Reddy has retained it as a reading room. The only addition: a leafy cut out in the roof to let in more natural light. “We will be stocking the shelves with classics and books that explore Indian and Cambodian history, such as Nagapattinam to Suvarnadwipa [which looks at Chola naval expeditions to Southeast Asia],” he says, adding that next month, they will also showcase Karnad’s books and memorabilia, after they get his family’s permission. The Cambodian touches come through in the architectural motifs used — think traditional concentric squares used in local windows — the art and the décor. Highlighted by the ochre and teal palette that Reddy’s wife (and managing partner) Veena picked, are dramatic cane and bamboo lights made from fishing baskets, a carved soapstone head of King Jayavarman, and even a life-size canoe. “The staircase [now contemporarised with glass railings and wood cladding] has a large illustrative map depicting the “places we visited and those that are known for its food”, concludes Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/fish-amok-in-karnads-dining-room/article33765030.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||The big ban theory||I always knew that one day the next generation will do things that I won’t entirely comprehend or, worse still, I will do things that they don’t, and either ways I would know that I have aged. And at that point it would be crucial for me to accept this transition, to embrace this metamorphosis, and learn to prioritise a good read and an early night in over trying to be the last man standing at some drunken night club party. To be honest, I never got into that latter anyway, even when I was primed for such. Now feeling old is one thing but to feel entirely left out, a relegated has-been rather than a once-was (not even an also-ran), that’s way worse. What is even worse is that it is not even the next generation that is my chronological undoing. In fact, I realise that I was coming undone since the times of Shakespeare and Da Vinci! Here then are paradigms that I have never comprehended nor managed to reasonably inculcate. If I ever get to be a bouncer at the door of sensibility, these are the culprits I will have evicted.  1. Smoothie b owl-ers: The same people who refuse to acknowledge the six perfectly good species that God gave us to milk and, instead, choose to churn milk from nuts, oats and what-not are also mostly the people who take a thing that was perfectly fine to drink out of a glass and put it in a bowl, decorated like a Pride Parade Christmas tree. Why kiddos, why?  2. Clichéd c aptioners: It is funny when influencers use the same caption to stand out. It is like being part of a cult that has gone mainstream but is in denial. Originality is rarer than an honest politician.  3. Double p ressers: I don’t understand people who press for a lift when it has already been summoned and the indicator light is well lit to highlight that. Ironically, these are the same people who need to be constantly reminded of their pending bills, which they never end up paying on time!  4. Anyone who incorrectly uses “Begs the question”: I have always feared dying without ever knowing the correct usage of this idiom. No, it is not what you think — urging people to ask the question. In fact, it means quite the contrary that it is so obvious a question that it has possibly been asked and hence ends up evading the question completely. Good, now that makes two of us who will die confused.  5. Astrologers: It must be depressing to know that your entire life will be spent telling others one continuous lie. No, not the one about God and religion, but the one about their future. Imagine your entire raison d’être being a slightly more euphemistic form of a used car salesman. Your ilk needs to be held accountable for all the confusion and ambiguity they have added to my life.  6. Bridge c ommentary w riters: I suspect the game was invented sometime during the Black Death in Europe and probably encouraged more people to run out and embrace the sick in a bid to die of the plague instead. Bridge commentary in the newspapers reads like what happens if engineers and lawyers fancy themselves as novelists. Case in point, “Nobody was able to fulfil the easy contract… perished because of force of habit.” What kind of game commentary is this?  This column is for anyone who gives an existential toss.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-big-ban-theory/article33765032.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||The big squeeze||Recently, I had exulted in these pages about the feast of Hollywood big screen releases that we can look forward to from March onwards. Well, I spoke too soon. The US and Europe, the primary market for these films, are still battling Covid-19 while deploying the vaccine and cinemas largely remain closed. The long-awaited James Bond film No Time To Die has been postponed again, from Easter to October. India began February with the welcome news that cinemas are returning to 100% occupancy and many long delayed big-ticket releases will finally screen. Simultaneously arrived the news that Suman Ghosh’s terrific satire, the independent film Aadhaar , is now postponed from its scheduled February theatrical slot. The furious debate in global film circles is, once there is a glut of marquee projects in cinemas, will the smaller independent films get squeezed out and go straight to streaming? Only time will tell, but thankfully, there are plenty of those to look forward to. In a non-Covid world, perhaps, The Dig , with a stellar cast of Ralph Fiennes, Carey Mulligan and Lily James, would have seen a theatrical release, but it is on Netflix and doing very well for the streamer indeed, trending at No. 1 in the UK. Will Sharpe’s upcoming The Electrical Life of Louis Wain , about the artist known for his surreal cat paintings, starring Benedict Cumberbatch, Claire Foy, Andrea Riseborough, is a film I’d love to see in cinemas, but will now watch it anywhere when it becomes available. Mellowed French enfant terrible Bruno Dumont’s On A Half Clear Morning , with Léa Seydoux as a celebrity journalist whose life takes a nasty turn, is another keenly-awaited film as is Paul Verhoeven’s Benedetta that explores the love-that-dare-not-speak-its name in a nunnery, and stars Charlotte Rampling. While in France, Claire Denis’ Feu (fire), with Juliet Binoche and Vincent Lindon, set in the world of radio, is a resounding yes from me, as isDheepandirector Jacques Audiard’s romantic triangle film, Les Olympiades . There’s also Julia Ducournau’s Titane , with Lindon and Nathalie Boyer, a drama with a backdrop of gruesome murders, andPetite Maman, from Portrait of a Lady on Fire director Celine Sciamma. These French films may seem like speciality titles to those used to Hollywood, but at home in France, these are huge and will almost certainly hold out for a theatrical release while Macron and co go about the business of vanquishing the virus. Moving to regions with a far superior record of dealing with the virus, Korean auteur Park Chan-wook returns home after a Hollywood sojourn with crime drama Decision to Leave , starring Tang Wei fromLust, Caution. Thai master Apichatpong Weerasethakul’s first English-language film, Memoria , starring Tilda Swinton, should play at Cannes by the time it rolls around on its delayed July dates, unless of course the virus has other plans. Wong Kar Wai’s next, Blossoms , is not contingent on cinemas, as it is a series meant for streaming/television. Can we hope against hope to see it in 2021? Only Wong knows the answer to that. Meanwhile, seven of his films have been restored, under his personal supervision, and are currently streaming across several outlets around the world, ahead of a Criterion Collection box-set release in March. Yes, I have pre-ordered. Don’t judge me — it is my birthday then.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-big-squeeze/article33764994.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Being resort ready in 2 0 2 1||The general mood for resort wear before the lockdown was to go big or go home, with extravagant styles and silhouettes. For instance, Tanieya Khanuja’s holiday collection last year had a lot of ruffles with exaggerated sleeves or structured corsets. The Zsa Zsa Zsu edit from Papa Don’t Preach had lots of embellished bralettes that were matched with ornate accessories. Now the focus is on comfortable transitional separates that can be recycled and reused over seasons to come. Classic cuts and practical silhouettes with a relaxed feel are in, and there is a conscious shift towards sustainability. Vibrant florals, tribal prints and boho luxe-inspired ensembles took away the gloom of the pandemic and kept us looking forward to dressing up on our first holiday post-lockdown. I love to mix all kinds of prints, and I’m partial to graphic, animal prints, gingham, plaid and muted florals. I picked a couple of pieces from Saaksha & Kinni for my trip to Goa in December, as they fit the bill. Forever kaftans The kaftan has always been one of my favourite styles. But it has definitely gathered more attention in the past year. Thebandhinikaftan from Dyelogue by Rachita Parekh, which I had featured on my Instagram feed, is a popular one. Several followers went ahead and purchased it for themselves. I think it had such a good response because it is flattering, comes in a range of vibrant colours, and suits most body types. Other picks include Moroccan-themed kaftans from Rajdeep Ranawat (a current favourite with Kareena Kapoor Khan) and baroque embroidered maxis in bronze and gold by Nikita Mhaisalkar. For work and play One of the most frequent questions I get about resort wear is if they can be used beyond just one season or occasion — something that is on everyone’s mind post-pandemic. I believe it is important to invest in versatile pieces that can be styled not just on holiday, but back home as well. Fluid separates withdabuprints on muga silk from KoAi and free-spirited silhouettes from Verb by Pallavi Singhee come to mind. I also love the bold and unapologetic designs of Bobo Calcutta, with graphic printed silk pieces that will provide all the drama you need after months of being housebound. 431-88 by Shweta Kapur is a brand that has stood the test of time; her classic minimalist clothing can be dressed up or down. And the voluminous sleeves and modern embellishments in Pankaj & Nidhi’s Talisman collection add some drama that is much-required today. On my wishlist: Suket Dhir’s linen pant suit, which can be matched with other separates, making it a classic addition to the wardrobe. Necklines and accessories Necklines and cut-outs have also been in the spotlight thanks to the focus on waist-up fashion for Zoom calls. For work, I’ll pick button-down shirts, turtlenecks, regular round or V-neck T-shirts and accessorise with minimal jewellery. Regular slim fit shirts from Zara and the muted office shirts from 431-88 with minimal embroidery are great options for a weekday meeting call. Off-shoulder, halters and strappy tops have been the preferred choice for my casual video interactions. I would pair these with some statement earrings from Valliyan, The YV Brand by Yashvi Vanani, Deepa Gurnani, Studio Metallurgy and Outhouse, along with layered necklaces from Misho Designs. I’ve barely worn denim through the lockdown. But with travel opening up gradually, there are a lot of interesting jackets to pick from. I’d recommend Dhruv Kapoor’s embroidered ones; they are such a fun addition to the wardrobe and can elevate any look. Accessories remain strong, with wicker bags (Straw India), straw hats, bold earrings, statement belts, oversized totes, trendy sunglasses and mask chains (Ishraya, Argento) adding glamour to muted colour palettes. While I’m not much of a hat person, I love to collect interesting belts and sunglasses. The former I pick from Loewe, Cult Gaia, Shivan and Narresh, peplum belts from Johanna Ortiz, Richa Khemka, and Alexander McQueen. I usually stay away from logo-embossed pieces. For sunglasses, it has to be Linda Farrow, Celine, Karen Walker and Dior. And don’t forget your resort must-have: a pair of interesting flat sandals to complete the look. I suggest Alameda Turquesa’s pearl-embellished tie-ups, the strappy Ofis from Ancient Greek Sandals and the ocean-themed selection from Cult Gaia.  The writer is a fashion stylist (@stylemuze) and co-founder of Funky Fish and Kairos Home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/being-resort-ready-in-2-0-2-1/article33765008.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||The Parsis who pedalled across the world||Last November, tired of being cooped up at home, travel enthusiasts Bakcen George, Allwyn Joseph and Ratish Bhalerao decided to ‘work from cycle’. Carrying their devices and basic necessities, the trio cycled from Mumbai to Kanyakumari — a journey of 1,687 km that took over a month — while meeting their daily work targets. An impressive feat, but not without precedent. Nearly a century ago, between 1923 and 1942, 12 Parsi men pedalled across the world on their fixed-gear push bikes, traversing the Amazon forest, Sahara Desert, Persia, Korea, Europe and America, witnessing historic events and meeting people who would shape history in the years to come. In 1923, the Super Six — Adi B Hakim, Gustad G Hathiram, Jal P Bapasola, Keki D Pochkhanawala, Nariman B Kapadia and Rustom B Bhumgara — set off from Bombay on the first-ever expedition by Indian cyclists. However, only Hakim, Bapasola and Bhumgara completed their journey over four-and-a-half years (the others called it off midway for personal reasons). In 1924, Framroze Davar cycled more than 9,000 km by himself, for nearly 10 months, before meeting a young rider, Gustav Sztavjanik in Vienna, who joined him on his expedition. Cyclists Keki J Kharas, Rustam D Ghandhi and Rutton D Shroff rode from Bombay in 1933, while Jamshed Mody and Manek Vajifdar each began their solo journeys in 1934. These epic adventures have been painstakingly compiled by former journalist Anoop Babani and writer-painter Savia Viegas in their new book, The Bicycle Diaries , which will release tomorrow. Avid cyclists themselves (“we try to cycle at least six times a week”), Babani says the couple caught the bug in their 60s after moving to Goa from Mumbai in 2005.  From the family archives  He learned about the cyclists by chance, after he suffered a fall in 2017 that forced him to keep his feet off the pedal for three months. “We were reading about the Super Six when we found that [Hakim, Bapasola and Bhumgara] had written a book, With Cyclists Round the World . It mentioned Davar [whose journey the couple found the most interesting], and, following that, we learnt about the third journey. By then we had started contacting their grandchildren, grandnephews, friends and neighbours for more information,” says Babani, who curated a photo exhibition on the cyclists, Our Saddles, Our Butts, Their World , in 2018 (Goa) and 2019 (Mumbai). “After reading about the exhibitions in Parsi journals, the daughters of Mody and Vajifdar [who live abroad] wrote to us about their fathers being cyclists too.” By then they had gathered so much material that they felt “the best thing would be to honour these journeys by compiling them in a book”. Says Viegas, “India doesn’t have a sense of history the way the world does, where every little event that is recorded goes to a museum. But these families still had handwritten notes, photos, and their travel paraphernalia.” Surprisingly, Babani learned that the cyclists had not talked much about their journeys. “When they came back, there were no jobs. Many of them returned when the freedom struggle was at its height. Their children told us that their fathers weren’t very happy people. Nobody really cared about their achievements, so they didn't talk much about their expeditions. So there were less stories than I expected,” he says.  Taste for adventure  Why would journeys that happened nearly 100 years ago be of interest to young people today? “It has a lot of relevance because sports history is going to become a part of academics,” says Viegas, a former academician. “[It also serves as inspiration] for younger people. These cyclists went through such hardships; they made themselves into some kind of superhuman machines, travelling with cycles that did not have the wherewithal to go through the desert heat, for example [they stuffed it with straw to make the tyres last].” Moreover, the cycle has been gaining popularity recently — many cities have Bicycle Mayors, cycle lanes have come up in Bengaluru. Additionally, sales went up by 100% between May and September last year, according to the All India Bicycle Manufacturers’ Association. “The cycle is a machine that’s coming back to life. It is street-friendly and can keep the body healthy. It is very important for youngsters to not only learn to ride it but also realise how it has been a vehicle of adventure. There are so many more stories from places like Europe and South America. It is something that should be in the curriculum,” Viegas concludes. The book is priced at Rs. 599. For copies, email saxtti@gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-parsis-who-pedalled-across-the-world/article33765001.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||On a budget||Payal Singhal is no stranger to collaborations. Over the past few years, the Mumbai-based designer has worked with Paio (footwear), Joey & Pooh (headbands), Ranavat Botanics (beauty) and Marshalls (wallpaper), and created capsule collections for The Label Life and Wella. Her latest endeavour is with fashion brand Indya, which launched on February 1. Add to cart This summer-festive line features separates like drop crotch pants, shararas , draped and crop tops, and jackets, besides pants and skirts with attached dupattas , asymmetric tunics and dressy jumpsuits. Georgettes, mesh and art silk with touches of velvet come in a sorbet palette of vintage blush pink, mint, powder blue and grey, with pops of lemon yellow and navy. Like many other launches, this one too was delayed by the pandemic, but Singhal remains unperturbed. “It was designed for small, intimate events anyway, and now it just fits,” she says. Singhal was one of the few Indian designers who was already well-versed in the e-commerce space, having had a retail website since 2013. During the pandemic “we added new product lines, gift cards and a pret line. We have lots of plans and projects in the pipeline — definitely in the accessories, beauty and home décor space”, she concludes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/on-a-budget/article33765004.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Hélène Darroze serves her food with kindness||Don’t set out to be a man in the kitchen. This has consistently been Hélène Darroze’s advice to young women in her profession. Part of a small group of celebrated female chefs who have been breaking boundaries in a male dominated industry, she should know. Last week, Darroze once again made headlines as her eponymous restaurant at The Connaught in London joined Michelin’s vaunted three-star club. The French chef has often emphasised that she is no radical feminist. Over a phone call late in 2019, she explained, “We have our own sensibilities and the difference is complimentary. So be proud to be a woman in a kitchen full of men”. Her acceptance speech during Michelin’s online awards ceremony last Monday, underlined this. “Believe in your dreams, everything is possible. And stay true to your femininity,” she said.  Equality in the kitchen  Successfully running her restaurants — Hélène Darroze at The Connaught in Mayfair and Marsan and Joia in Paris — Darroze, 53, has split her time between the two cities for years now. She is known for her easy manner and being a hands-on mother to her two young daughters, something that didn’t change when she was named the world’s best female chef in 2015 by World’s 50 Best Restaurants. A controversial award, many food writers have wondered aloud at the need for a separate category for female chefs. It was called out by the late Anthony Bourdain as far back as 2013. ‘Why —at this point in history — do we need a “Best Female Chef” special designation? As if they are curiosities?’ he’d asked on Twitter. “Best Female Chef is not necessarily a 50 Best Chef,” a male chef told me, off the record. But Darroze, refreshingly unpretentious, added that it only spurred her into being more ambitious. It has resulted in three restaurants in two capitals, and now, the coveted three-star accolade.  Journey to this moment  Darroze was raised in Les Landes, south west France (which explains why she is partial to truffles, foie gras and suckling lamb from the Basque country). The fourth generation restaurateur — though she refers to her grandparents, parents and uncles simply as ‘cooks’ — learnt early on about the importance of quality produce as hunters and fishermen visited their kitchen every morning with their catch. “My family taught me how to cook but also to welcome people to my table. And in the south-west of France, there is much life around food,” she explained. Darroze graduated from business school, then trained under chef Alain Ducasse at his three Michelin-starred Monaco restaurant, Louis XV. Three years later, she returned home to run her family's restaurant Chez Darroze, before relocating to Paris at 32 and opening her own restaurant. In no time, she was lauded for her unusual interpretation of French rustic classics. “Ducasse’s influence was huge and he taught me to work with rigour and push myself every day,” said Darroze, for it was the super chef who inspired her to get involved in cooking at Le Louis XV. Yet Darroze famously ignored his feedback at his first tasting at her restaurant — he had suggested she be more Parisian. “I was open to his advice, but wanted to be myself and couldn’t change my style. I cannot cook something that I couldn’t believe in,” she later shared with me on a voice note. Be it her winter specials back then at The Connaught — the scallops, black and white truffle, foie gras from the south west but here, an experiment with seaweed and citrus, and venison Wellington with quince and a strong pepper sauce — or her Valentine’s Day takeaway for next weekend, Darroze seems to know her diners’ food cravings even before they do.   Spreading the love  A week before her restaurant at The Connaught got its three stars in 2021’s Michelin Guide for Great Britain and Ireland, her Paris Masan joined the two-star list in the Michelin France guide. So there is much to celebrate at Chez Darroze. She has received blooms from that enfant terrible of the UK culinary world, Gordon Ramsey, as well as her Connaught neighbour, Balenciaga. There have been macarons and other treats coming her way all week, as shared with her 5.5 lakh followers on Instagram. For the Michelin rating, she has duly credited her eight-year-old team, be it Kirk Whittle, her “pastry accomplice for the last 17 years”, executive chef Marco Zampese or restaurant manager Mirko Benzo, and her “small suppliers”. She posted on social media that this is a week she will remember for the rest of her life.  What began withRatatouille  Having inspired Colette, the only female cook in Chef Skinner’s kitchen in Disney Pixar’s 2007 Ratatouille , Darroze told Independent then that she was not as tough as that character. But almost everyone who meets her comes away impressed. “When people meet me they always talk about my kindness. It is true because it my way of being,” was her artless response when I mentioned this. Gaggan Anand, the celebrity chef known for his two Michelin stars and making it to the fourth spot on the 2019 World’s 50 Best Restaurants List, says Darroze was “very simple and nice” to him when he briefly met her in Paris that year. “She is gentle and kind and the food shows it,” shares another industry powerhouse, Chef Ritu Dalmia. “I have eaten at The Connaught a couple of times. She is not one of those Gordon Ramsey female versions, and I know many chefs like that as well!” Also shuttling between cities (Goa and Delhi) as she tackles the effects of the pandemic on her business, Dalmia agrees that women “by nature are nurturers” but that is it good that they are at least being recognised for it. “I don’t think most people realise how difficult it is to get where she [Darroze] is today,” concludes Dalmia, who left the 50 Best Restaurants panel as she didn’t agree with the separate category for a woman chef. (Clockwise from far left) Hélène Darroze, Connaught Hotel in Mayfair, Marsan in Paris, and a selection of dishes from The Connaught and Marsan Darroze’s new book,Chez Moi, and (below) a still fromRatatouille.The French chef inspired the character of Colette in the hit animated film||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/hlne-darroze-serves-her-food-with-kindness/article33765023.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Kala Ghoda Arts Festival||The Mumbai-based festival that celebrates arts, culture and heritage, goes digital this year. The nine-day event begins today, with a peek into the working spaces of artists like Arzan Khambatta (left), musical performances by singers TM Krishna, Usha Uthup and Ankur Tewari, and stand-up by comedian Radhika Vaz. Till February 14. Register for free on insider.in. Details: kalaghodaassociation.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/kala-ghoda-arts-festival/article33765006.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Outsider Art Fair: Even as London Art Fair went completely digital last month and Art Basel postponed their 2021 edition once again, from June to September, this New York event went offline. At least partially. The pared down version has seven curated shows and 45 online viewing rooms. Check out Daniel Johnston’s colourfully nightmarish drawings and more @outsiderartfair.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/instapick/article33765009.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Art and more||Red Earth presents Lockdown Chaumasa, an online art exhibition featuring works by sculptor Vyom Mehta and painter Debarchan Rout, among others. The artwork draws similarities between the monsoons and the lockdown — both of which forced people to stay indoors. Details: 2020.themonsoonfestival.com For the first time, IIT-Madras' annual fest, Saarang, is streaming online (till tomorrow). Catch The Yellow Diary at the Rock Show tonight and Jonita Gandhi tomorrow, both at 7.30 pm on saarang.org.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/art-and-more/article33765010.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Goa calling||If you’re headed to the west coast, take a tour of Maka di Brewery located an hour north of Panjim. Choose from three packages (starting from Rs. 2,000), which includes sampling the craft beer and activities like beer pong.9426074972 From February 12 to 14, Marbela Beach in Morjim plays host to a scaled down version of Heineken’s Krank Sessions, a techno music festival. Marseille-based Rafael Cerato, Russian DJ Alexey Union and Amsterdam’s Baba Robijn, among others, are in the lineup. From Rs. 1,500 on insider.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/goa-calling/article33765011.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Sneakerheads rejoice||Singapore’s OG sneaker artist, Mark Ong, collaborates with footwear brand Asics and Singapore-based sneaker store Limited Edt for the Monsoon Patrol 2 collection that drops tomorrow. Only 170 pairs of the grey/green colourway are up for grabs in India. At Rs. 12,999, online and offline at Superkicks and VegNonVeg. German brand Birkenstock and Maison Valentino’s second collab is all about the Arizona sandal. The unisex piece comes in a striking oversized camouflage pattern with three contrasting tones. On birkenstock.in/1774||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/sneakerheads-rejoice/article33765012.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Talking point||#FarmerProtests: After pop icon Rihanna and climate activist Greta Thunberg tweeted about the ongoing protests in New Delhi, the Internet had plenty to say. Punjabi singer-actor Diljit Dosanjh released a new song, ‘RIRI’, giving meme makers more material. Meanwhile, the number of cricket and Bollywood celebrities coming out in favour of #IndiaAgainstPropaganda is increasing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article33765013.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Designer deals||Traditional folk designs meet Marwari style in Raw Mango’s new festive collection, Moomal. Saris andlehengas,as well as separates likeodhanis,kurtas,pants and jackets in silk feature techniques likebandhejandgota,with the peacock as a central motif. From February 9 to 11, at Amethyst, Whites Road. Priced from Rs. 11,800. Expect designer wear at great deals at luxury boutique Collage’s annual sale. With discounts up to 50%, pick from Varun Bahl, Jayanti Reddy, 11:11 and more. From Rs. 1,000. Till February 9 at Greams Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/designer-deals/article33765015.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Love is in the air||Plan ahead for Valentine’s Day with Fendi’s new collection that includes their signature bags in a palette of bright yellow and powder pink, Fendimania bracelet watches, and Baguette sunglasses. From Rs. 20,000, in stores and on fendi.com. Mumbai-based The Gift Studio has curated hampers from Rs. 1,419 onwards. Keep it simple with strawberries and flowers, or opt for a celebratory food trunk hand-picked by Sonam Kapoor Ahuja. It features sweet and savoury treats packed in a cream leather trunk (Rs. 6,999). On thegiftstudio.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/love-is-in-the-air/article33765016.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Podcasts and takeovers||David Javerbaum or God on Twitter (@TheTweetOfGod), recently hosted Stephen Colbert on the debut episode of his podcast, aptly titledGodcast.The late-night talk show host chats with the celestial representative about the meaning of life,Lord of the Rings, and the second joke he ever wrote. On Apple Podcasts and Spotify. Another social media phenomenon, albeit on Instagram, designer Sabyasachi Mukherjee will take over the Bergdorf Goodman handle today. Tune in all day for surprises @bergdorfs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/podcasts-and-takeovers/article33765017.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Learning about reptiles||Madras Crocodile Bank brings back their popular night safaris all through February. Grab a torch and join a herpetologist guide, who will introduce you (from a safe distance) to the nocturnal reptiles. For children aged five and above. Tickets at Rs. 300 on in.bookmyshow.com. Aspiring content creators from nine to 14 can learn the basics of the craft at a two-day YouTube Champ Camp. Comic and TV host Cyrus Broacha, accompanied by an industry expert, will lead the master class. On February 6 and 7, from 6 pm. At Rs. 499 on insider.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/learning-about-reptiles/article33765019.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Biennale @ Bihar Museum||The first-ever Museum Biennale has been announced by Bihar Museum and is set to take place next month at its Patna premises. Featured speakers at the week-long phydigital event organised by the Department of Arts, Culture and Youth affairs, Government of Bihar, include Neil MacGregor, Hilary Knight, Sabyasachi Mukherjee, and Javier Baron, among others. The aim is to sensitise the public on India’s museum culture and it will bring together specially-curated virtual tours of participating national and international museums. Visitors at the museum can also go on a curated, audio-guided tour and have access to two curated exhibitions. March 22 to 28. biharmuseum.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/biennale-bihar-museum/article33764996.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Tag Heuer x Porsche||Earlier this week, Swiss luxury watchmaker TAG Heuer and German sports car manufacturer Porsche announced a new partnership. As part of the launch, the brands unveiled a new watch, the TAG Heuer Carrera Porsche Chronograph. The 44 mm automatic carries Porsche’s presence through the engraved inscription on the bezel and their signature font used for the indexes. The palette of red, black, and grey also recalls historic Heuer models. The dial comes with an asphalt effect that is reminiscent of race tracks and open roads. Available in stainless steel and leather strap options at approximately Rs. 4.84 lakh, on tagheuer.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/tag-heuer-x-porsche/article33764998.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Face of Chennai||The hunt for youth icons in the city continues with the 10th edition of Face of Chennai. The 2021 event is aimed at identifying men and women (between the ages of 16 and 25) who come with a positive attitude and engaging personality. The annual event also features several sub-categories that recognise ‘enticing smile’, ‘expressive eyes’, ‘healthy hair’, and ‘catwalk’, to name a few. The auditions will be held on February 7 at Citi Centre, Mylapore. Email irisfaceofchennai@gmail.com or call for details.9841206506/9884783510||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/face-of-chennai/article33765000.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Now trending: vacation homes||When it comes to how the realty sector has changed over the last one year, several trends come to mind: people are looking at buying larger homes, they are including home offices in the blueprint, and workcations are the new normal. Another trend gaining traction is that of people buying vacation homes. While the concept of a second home is not new, these homes are now being bought in India’s smaller towns and for the purpose of staying and working from there for longer periods of time. But is it just the work-from-home (WFH) scenario that has prompted buyers? Amit Agarwal, Co-Founder and CEO, NoBroker, says that the return on investment is another motivation. “Property prices have reduced in the wake of the pandemic and home loan interests are at an all-time low. People who buy a home now can enjoy significant capital gains on their investment in the long run and rental income from second homes can also be a strong addition to one’s overall income,” he says, adding that a recent survey on their platform indicates that 82% of people are looking to make a purchase in 2021. Other factors are plenty: health and wellness concerns, the WFH set-up, people moving closer to their families, and favourable realty policies. “Wellness concerns due to COVID-19 have pivoted the focus towards spacious holiday homes, away from densely packed metro cities. Further, with competitive prices being offered by developers and low-interest rates on home loans, non-metros have become a preferred choice of investment for second-home buyers. This is gradually attracting even the travel-savvy upper-middle-class, who earlier enjoyed annual holidays but can no longer opt for it due to travel restrictions,” says Karan Kumar, Senior Vice-President and Chief Marketing Officer, DLF Ltd. He adds that cities such as Kasauli, Panchkula, Alibaug, Panjim, Lonavala are some of the popular destinations for holiday homes. Experts are also of the opinion that these buying trends indicate a revival in the vacation homes market that has been in the doldrums for years on the back of a slowing economy. “Second home buyers are no longer considering rental income and future appreciation, for which the outlook continues to be dim over the next few years. Their focus is on leveraging the lower property prices in such locations to get bigger homes in greener, safer surroundings,” says Santhosh Kumar, Vice-Chairman, Anarock Property Consultants. In demand It’s no surprise then that it’s not only the country’s hill stations that have been seeing a high demand, but Tier II and Tier III cities too. Agarwal says the demand for second homes is primarily driven by wealthy individuals from Tier 1 cities such as Mumbai, Delhi-NCR, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Chennai, and Pune. “The demand within Tier I cities is for apartments and villas. Independent homes are popular choices when the location shifts to places like Goa, Alibaug and Haridwar,” he explains. As for average prices, major middle-class-favoured destinations around the top cities range anywhere between Rs. 3,000 and Rs. 12,000 per sq. ft. For the ultra-rich eyeing opulence in prime holiday locations, deals have been closed at over Rs. 200 crore in certain locations, most notably in Goa and Amby Valley, says Kumar of Anarock. Tata Realty’s properties in Kasauli, Lonavala and Goa have been popular among buyers. Sarthak Seth, Chief Marketing Officer, Tata Realty & Infrastructure Ltd, says that with the pandemic leading to travel bans, there is a strong demand for safe homes that are away from urban hotspots. “Hence, a majority of the demand for these homes is coming in from metro cities like Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru.” At Auramah Valley, a luxury residential township project in Shimla, founder Manav Singh says there is demand for areas such as Dharamshala, Shimla and Manali. He says a home in the hills is three times cheaper to one in the city and a second home is a necessity more than a desire. “We’ve seen interest from professionals with an income of over Rs. 1 crore, businessmen with income of more than Rs. 3-4 crore, retired individuals with disposable incomes, etc.” Singh adds that investors and developers are now eyeing Tier II and Tier III cities. “Places like Amritsar, Chandigarh and Shimla, etc. are on the radar of bigger builders due to reverse migration.”  Legal speak What should you keep in mind when looking for a property in small towns and hill stations? For starters, the property should be easily accessible, have good internet connectivity, and be in proximity to basic amenities such as grocery stores, hospitals, etc. “Buyers must also evaluate that the property has all necessary permissions and clearances before making the purchase. Buying a property at a hill station, for a non-domiciled resident, often requires additional permits and paperwork. It is also important to conduct a property rate check locally before committing to the purchase to ensure that the price quoted is fair and in keeping with the local circle rates,” explains Agarwal of NoBroker. Buying only from developers who understand local laws and regulatory frameworks, especially in hill states, is important too. “There are many fly-by-night local operators who could offer you a ‘dream deal’ but buyers must actively carry out due diligence to see their track record, especially with reference to transactions they have already completed in the past,” adds Kumar of DLF.  Investors and developers are now eyeing Tier II and Tier III cities like Amritsar, Chandigarh and Shimla   DOCUMENT CHECK  Each town has specific legal terms when it comes to buying a home or land (by non-agriculturalists). Navigating these laws isn’t easy, so keep a few ground rules in mind to avoid future legal hassles:  1. Title deed: When buying a property, it is vital to ensure that the land/property being sold is in the name of the person selling it. The individual or group must also possess the right to sell that property without the consent of another party. Title deeds must also be verified by a lawyer for their validity.  2. Sales deed: When making a purchase, it is essential to also demand a sales deed from the seller, as the document conveys that the property has been transferred from the seller to the buyer. The document also affirms that the land belongs, absolutely and in entirety, to the buyer and not to any other society, builder, development authority, etc.  3. Tax receipts and bills: Before making the payment and taking over the property, buyers must ensure that the seller has cleared all previous dues such as electricity bills, water bills, and property tax, etc.  4. Pledged land: When buying a land/home, buyers must ensure that the property in question is not mortgaged under loan by the seller. Any outstanding payments must be cleared by the seller before the property transfer is finalised.  5. Agreement: Agreements are essential in any property purchase. Having an agreement in place ensures that the seller does not go back on commitments. It also ensures that the deal is not hijacked by another buyer offering a better price at the last minute.  6. Registration: The proof that a transaction has taken place between the selling and buying parties, this document is one of the penultimate legalities that must be addressed in a property purchase. It attests that all the details and conditions mentioned in the agreement are true and have been satisfactorily met by both parties. At the time of registration, all the previous deeds, property/house tax receipts, original title deeds, etc. must be presented, along with two witnesses. Buyers and sellers must also ensure that the relevant deeds are registered within the timeframe mentioned in the agreement.  Courtesy: NoBroker||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/now-trending-vacation-homes/article33765035.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Building with clay roof tiles||Handcrafted clay roof tiles may have been a ubiquitous feature across India’s small towns and villages a few decades ago. But, if you take a walk through one of these towns today, you will find this architectural feature missing. It is interesting to note, however, that the clay roof tile comes with a rather important quality: it is climate responsive, which means the tile helps in cutting down heat ingress, thus serving as a fine source of insulation in warmer regions. Architect Manoj Patel, of Ahmedabad’s Manoj Patel Design Studio, stumbled upon this local material while researching sustainable green solutions for buildings. “The use of clay roof tiles is on its way out, leaving it on the brink of extinction, and forcing traditional craftsmen to look for employment elsewhere. The technique of handcrafting these tiles will certainly be lost a generation from now. With it, the vernacular construction mode of addressing heat ingress will also fade away,” he says. The heat effect When temperatures soar to 45°C during summer, the conventional Reinforced Cement Concrete (RCC) terrace causes heat ingress, resulting in the interiors requiring greater artificial cooling. To make matters worse, RCC radiates heat just as a glass façade does, causing the urban heat island effect. “When an RCC terrace is layered with clay roof tiles, the heat ingress is substantially reduced and prevents external heat radiation. Cladding the façade with clay roof tiles prevents exterior walls, especially west-facing ones, from being exposed to direct sunlight. This automatically reduces interior temperatures by several notches even in peak summer besides addressing the heat island effect,” explains Patel. Interestingly, he goes one step further and brings craft into the equation alongside the green quotient. According to him, clay roof tiles can be broken down and clad on the façade in an aesthetic pattern that is in sync with the sun’s movement as well as the wind pattern. He says, “Patterned cladding brings art to the exterior wall while acting as a shield against the harsh sun.” The presence of clay roof tiles together on the roof and the façade reduces the internal ambient temperature by 10 to 15°C in peak summer, Patel claims. Incidentally, while this keeps the operational costs of cooling minimal, the installation cost of clay tiles is extremely inexpensive as a sizeable portion can be sourced from damaged, broken tiles that are discarded, “as the tiles in any case need to be broken and used,” he adds. Myriad uses Patel does not restrict the use of clay roof tiles to exteriors alone, but uses them in interior spaces too where they feature as wall art and also serve as vertical planters in balconies and courtyards. These vertical planter boxes double up as an aesthetic green wall in semi-open interiors as well as aid to reduce the ambient temperature and increase humidity during dry summer months. This is especially so if the balcony or courtyard faces south-west where the heat is intense, he says. “Their presence significantly drops the temperature. The tiles act as a traditional desert cooler: the dry hot air comes in contact with the water-laden planter boxes and then turns cool,” says Patel, whose residential project, Ridge, uses this technique effectively to reduce the interior temperature. The architect also points out that clay tiles are a much better option when compared to plastic planter boxes that are commonly used for vertical gardens. “Clay continues to keep the roots cool even during peak summer while plastic does the reverse.” However, given the weight of the clay tiles, Patel faced a structural problem in their vertical installation. “We addressed this by using an appropriate chemical bonding material by engineering their placement in a manner where the full weight of the boxes did not transfer to the floor and rested more on the wall.” Big on recycling As for interior spaces, Patel transformed the tiles into art by creating a wall mural with broken tiles in one of his office space projects. Here, the tiles served as an arresting contrast against the wood panelling and granite floor in the meeting room. Similar clay murals feature in a fashion boutique that he designed. “The broken tiles are sourced for free and yet they form a fabulous piece of wall art when used creatively,” he says, adding that discarded broken bathroom tiles were used to create artistic vibrant flooring while waste beer bottles went into wall art. Incidentally, Patel’s work is not confined to clay roof tiles alon, and he experiments with various forms of discarded material. He avers that a design has to be both climate responsive and economical and this can be achieved by exploring options for recycling, reuse and upcycling.  Cladding the façade with clay roof tiles reduces indoor temperature by several notches even in peak summer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/building-with-clay-roof-tiles/article33765041.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||How the Budget works for NRIs||NRIs are among the most important drivers of real estate in the country and they had high expectations from the Union Budget 2021-22. While their hopes for key tax reforms did not materialise, here’s what the Budget offered them: The government has now allowed NRIs to incorporate One-Person Companies (OPCs) in India. This doesn’t just help start-ups and innovators, it will also encourage NRIs to enter the market and the move will also boost investments across sectors.  In a major relaxation, the government proposes to eliminate double taxation for them on foreign retirement funds. When NRIs return to India, they face challenges with their accrued incomes in their foreign retirement accounts, usually due to a mismatch in taxation periods. They also struggle with getting credit for Indian taxes in foreign jurisdictions. The government proposes to notify rules for removing the hardship of double taxation.  The FM also reduced the time limit for reopening income tax assessment cases to three years from the previous six years (10 years for serious tax fraud cases involving concealment of Rs. lakh or more).  To boost the affordable housing segment, the government has extended the period for extra deduction of Rs. 1.5 lakh available for loans up to March 31, 2022.  A generous pipeline of housing supply by branded developers assures NRIs reliable investment options even in affordable housing. The rental yields of budget housing are currently better than in any other budget segment, including luxury real estate.  Anarock Property Consultants||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/how-the-budget-works-for-nris/article33765046.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Now trending: vacation homes||When it comes to how the realty sector has changed over the last one year, several trends come to mind: people are looking at buying larger homes, they are including home offices in the blueprint, and workcations are the new normal. Another trend gaining traction is that of people buying vacation homes. While the concept of a second home is not new, these homes are now being bought in India’s smaller towns and for the purpose of staying and working from there for longer periods of time. But is it just the work-from-home (WFH) scenario that has prompted buyers? Amit Agarwal, Co-Founder and CEO, NoBroker, says that the return on investment is another motivation. “Property prices have reduced in the wake of the pandemic and home loan interests are at an all-time low. People who buy a home now can enjoy significant capital gains on their investment in the long run and rental income from second homes can also be a strong addition to one’s overall income,” he says, adding that a recent survey on their platform indicates that 82% of people are looking to make a purchase in 2021. Other factors are plenty: health and wellness concerns, the WFH set-up, people moving closer to their families, and favourable realty policies. “Wellness concerns due to COVID-19 have pivoted the focus towards spacious holiday homes, away from densely packed metro cities. Further, with competitive prices being offered by developers and low-interest rates on home loans, non-metros have become a preferred choice of investment for second-home buyers. This is gradually attracting even the travel-savvy upper-middle-class, who earlier enjoyed annual holidays but can no longer opt for it due to travel restrictions,” says Karan Kumar, Senior Vice-President and Chief Marketing Officer, DLF Ltd. He adds that cities such as Kasauli, Panchkula, Alibaug, Panjim, Lonavala are some of the popular destinations for holiday homes. Experts are also of the opinion that these buying trends indicate a revival in the vacation homes market that has been in the doldrums for years on the back of a slowing economy. “Second home buyers are no longer considering rental income and future appreciation, for which the outlook continues to be dim over the next few years. Their focus is on leveraging the lower property prices in such locations to get bigger homes in greener, safer surroundings,” says Santhosh Kumar, Vice-Chairman, Anarock Property Consultants. In demand It’s no surprise then that it’s not only the country’s hill stations that have been seeing a high demand, but Tier II and Tier III cities too. Agarwal says the demand for second homes is primarily driven by wealthy individuals from Tier 1 cities such as Mumbai, Delhi-NCR, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Chennai, and Pune. “The demand within Tier I cities is for apartments and villas. Independent homes are popular choices when the location shifts to places like Goa, Alibaug and Haridwar,” he explains. As for average prices, major middle-class-favoured destinations around the top cities range anywhere between Rs. 3,000 and Rs. 12,000 per sq. ft. For the ultra-rich eyeing opulence in prime holiday locations, deals have been closed at over Rs. 200 crore in certain locations, most notably in Goa and Amby Valley, says Kumar of Anarock. Tata Realty’s properties in Kasauli, Lonavala and Goa have been popular among buyers. Sarthak Seth, Chief Marketing Officer, Tata Realty & Infrastructure Ltd, says that with the pandemic leading to travel bans, there is a strong demand for safe homes that are away from urban hotspots. “Hence, a majority of the demand for these homes is coming in from metro cities like Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru.” At Auramah Valley, a luxury residential township project in Shimla, founder Manav Singh says there is demand for areas such as Dharamshala, Shimla and Manali. He says a home in the hills is three times cheaper to one in the city and a second home is a necessity more than a desire. “We’ve seen interest from professionals with an income of over Rs. 1 crore, businessmen with income of more than Rs. 3-4 crore, retired individuals with disposable incomes, etc.” Singh adds that investors and developers are now eyeing Tier II and Tier III cities. “Places like Amritsar, Chandigarh and Shimla, etc. are on the radar of bigger builders due to reverse migration.”  Legal speak What should you keep in mind when looking for a property in small towns and hill stations? For starters, the property should be easily accessible, have good internet connectivity, and be in proximity to basic amenities such as grocery stores, hospitals, etc. “Buyers must also evaluate that the property has all necessary permissions and clearances before making the purchase. Buying a property at a hill station, for a non-domiciled resident, often requires additional permits and paperwork. It is also important to conduct a property rate check locally before committing to the purchase to ensure that the price quoted is fair and in keeping with the local circle rates,” explains Agarwal of NoBroker. Buying only from developers who understand local laws and regulatory frameworks, especially in hill states, is important too. “There are many fly-by-night local operators who could offer you a ‘dream deal’ but buyers must actively carry out due diligence to see their track record, especially with reference to transactions they have already completed in the past,” adds Kumar of DLF.  Investors and developers are now eyeing Tier II and Tier III cities like Amritsar, Chandigarh and Shimla   DOCUMENT CHECK  Each town has specific legal terms when it comes to buying a home or land (by non-agriculturalists). Navigating these laws isn’t easy, so keep a few ground rules in mind to avoid future legal hassles:  1. Title deed: When buying a property, it is vital to ensure that the land/property being sold is in the name of the person selling it. The individual or group must also possess the right to sell that property without the consent of another party. Title deeds must also be verified by a lawyer for their validity.  2. Sales deed: When making a purchase, it is essential to also demand a sales deed from the seller, as the document conveys that the property has been transferred from the seller to the buyer. The document also affirms that the land belongs, absolutely and in entirety, to the buyer and not to any other society, builder, development authority, etc.  3. Tax receipts and bills: Before making the payment and taking over the property, buyers must ensure that the seller has cleared all previous dues such as electricity bills, water bills, and property tax, etc.  4. Pledged land: When buying a land/home, buyers must ensure that the property in question is not mortgaged under loan by the seller. Any outstanding payments must be cleared by the seller before the property transfer is finalised.  5. Agreement: Agreements are essential in any property purchase. Having an agreement in place ensures that the seller does not go back on commitments. It also ensures that the deal is not hijacked by another buyer offering a better price at the last minute.  6. Registration: The proof that a transaction has taken place between the selling and buying parties, this document is one of the penultimate legalities that must be addressed in a property purchase. It attests that all the details and conditions mentioned in the agreement are true and have been satisfactorily met by both parties. At the time of registration, all the previous deeds, property/house tax receipts, original title deeds, etc. must be presented, along with two witnesses. Buyers and sellers must also ensure that the relevant deeds are registered within the timeframe mentioned in the agreement.  Courtesy: NoBroker||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/now-trending-vacation-homes/article33765043.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Divided by opinion||If you want the budget to go from pointless pandering to shimmering strategising, all in a microsecond, change the TV channel. Talking heads with faultless credentials spit and stamp on each other’s opinions at deafening decibels. Greatly empowered by our cosy echo chambers, we forward violently contradictory analyses with self-important glee. The price of onions may be rising, but opinions come free. And your opinion is wrong! Look, I’ve even got a forward to show you how wrong you are. You then send me three forwards that proclaim that your opinion is more right than mine — that is the opinion of the person who forwarded the forwarded opinion to the one who forwarded it to you. No one wins, of course. That’s the whole point. No one even pretends to try. You and I, who shared a class bench, homework, lipstick, secrets, and tiffin, now social distance farther than the coronavirus would ever get us to. It started with that political post. You called the politician I worship, a worm. I called yours a buffalo’s bladder. A week later, we laughed, made up, and I posted again. About the economy or footpaths or cricket, I’ve forgotten. “You’re wrong, you were always wrong,” you said, “Even back in Class 3 in that Maths sum I copied from you.” “You always lied through your teeth,” I retorted, “Little wonder you’ve got such gaps between them.” Later, you blamed your unforgivable rant on the heat. And I objected; it had been a cold day. “It wasn’t even day,” you snapped, “It was night.” You’ve always been two-faced, I fumed. I’d always talked rubbish, you raged. You were stupid. I was snobbish. No surprise you got the sum wrong in Class 3. It was Class 4. Your memory has gaps wider than those in your teeth. My eyes were so squinty I could never tell the truth if it danced in front of me. Before we flush three decades of best friendship down the loo (you always said ‘restroom’, you pretentious prude!), hear this: the head lice you had back in school wormed their way into your brain and destroyed it. As I close my browser, I see you telling everyone I secretly ate chalk which made me delusional. Whatever you believe, you’re wrong. Whatever I say is wrong before I say it. There is only one way to see it: you’re wrong unless you agree with me that you’re wrong. Where Jane De Suza, author of Flyaway Boy, pokes her nose into our perfect lives||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/divided-by-opinion/article33764816.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||The big ban theory||I always knew that one day the next generation will do things that I won’t entirely comprehend or, worse still, I will do things that they don’t, and either ways I would know that I have aged. And at that point it would be crucial for me to accept this transition, to embrace this metamorphosis, and learn to prioritise a good read and an early night in over trying to be the last man standing at some drunken night club party. To be honest, I never got into that latter anyway, even when I was primed for such. Now feeling old is one thing but to feel entirely left out, a relegated has-been rather than a once-was (not even an also-ran), that’s way worse. What is even worse is that it is not even the next generation that is my chronological undoing. In fact, I realise that I was coming undone since the times of Shakespeare and Da Vinci! Here then are paradigms that I have never comprehended nor managed to reasonably inculcate. If I ever get to be a bouncer at the door of sensibility, these are the culprits I will have evicted.  1. Smoothie b owl-ers: The same people who refuse to acknowledge the six perfectly good species that God gave us to milk and, instead, choose to churn milk from nuts, oats and what-not are also mostly the people who take a thing that was perfectly fine to drink out of a glass and put it in a bowl, decorated like a Pride Parade Christmas tree. Why kiddos, why?  2. Clichéd c aptioners: It is funny when influencers use the same caption to stand out. It is like being part of a cult that has gone mainstream but is in denial. Originality is rarer than an honest politician.  3. Double p ressers: I don’t understand people who press for a lift when it has already been summoned and the indicator light is well lit to highlight that. Ironically, these are the same people who need to be constantly reminded of their pending bills, which they never end up paying on time!  4. Anyone who incorrectly uses “Begs the question”: I have always feared dying without ever knowing the correct usage of this idiom. No, it is not what you think — urging people to ask the question. In fact, it means quite the contrary that it is so obvious a question that it has possibly been asked and hence ends up evading the question completely. Good, now that makes two of us who will die confused.  5. Astrologers: It must be depressing to know that your entire life will be spent telling others one continuous lie. No, not the one about God and religion, but the one about their future. Imagine your entire raison d’être being a slightly more euphemistic form of a used car salesman. Your ilk needs to be held accountable for all the confusion and ambiguity they have added to my life.  6. Bridge c ommentary w riters: I suspect the game was invented sometime during the Black Death in Europe and probably encouraged more people to run out and embrace the sick in a bid to die of the plague instead. Bridge commentary in the newspapers reads like what happens if engineers and lawyers fancy themselves as novelists. Case in point, “Nobody was able to fulfil the easy contract… perished because of force of habit.” What kind of game commentary is this?  This column is for anyone who   gives an existential toss.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-big-ban-theory/article33764710.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Being resort ready in 2 0 2 1||The general mood for resort wear before the lockdown was to go big or go home, with extravagant styles and silhouettes. For instance, Tanieya Khanuja’s holiday collection last year had a lot of ruffles with exaggerated sleeves or structured corsets. The Zsa Zsa Zsu edit from Papa Don’t Preach had lots of embellished bralettes that were matched with ornate accessories. Now the focus is on comfortable transitional separates that can be recycled and reused over seasons to come. Classic cuts and practical silhouettes with a relaxed feel are in, and there is a conscious shift towards sustainability. Vibrant florals, tribal prints and boho luxe-inspired ensembles took away the gloom of the pandemic and kept us looking forward to dressing up on our first holiday post-lockdown. I love to mix all kinds of prints, and I’m partial to graphic, animal prints, gingham, plaid and muted florals. I picked a couple of pieces from Saaksha & Kinni for my trip to Goa in December, as they fit the bill. Forever kaftans The kaftan has always been one of my favourite styles. But it has definitely gathered more attention in the past year. Thebandhinikaftan from Dyelogue by Rachita Parekh, which I had featured on my Instagram feed, is a popular one. Several followers went ahead and purchased it for themselves. I think it had such a good response because it is flattering, comes in a range of vibrant colours, and suits most body types. Other picks include Moroccan-themed kaftans from Rajdeep Ranawat (a current favourite with Kareena Kapoor Khan) and baroque embroidered maxis in bronze and gold by Nikita Mhaisalkar. For work and play One of the most frequent questions I get about resort wear is if they can be used beyond just one season or occasion — something that is on everyone’s mind post-pandemic. I believe it is important to invest in versatile pieces that can be styled not just on holiday, but back home as well. Fluid separates withdabuprints on muga silk from KoAi and free-spirited silhouettes from Verb by Pallavi Singhee come to mind. I also love the bold and unapologetic designs of Bobo Calcutta, with graphic printed silk pieces that will provide all the drama you need after months of being housebound. 431-88 by Shweta Kapur is a brand that has stood the test of time; her classic minimalist clothing can be dressed up or down. And the voluminous sleeves and modern embellishments in Pankaj & Nidhi’s Talisman collection add some drama that is much-required today. On my wishlist: Suket Dhir’s linen pant suit, which can be matched with other separates, making it a classic addition to the wardrobe. Necklines and accessories Necklines and cut-outs have also been in the spotlight thanks to the focus on waist-up fashion for Zoom calls. For work, I’ll pick button-down shirts, turtlenecks, regular round or V-neck T-shirts and accessorise with minimal jewellery. Regular slim fit shirts from Zara and the muted office shirts from 431-88 with minimal embroidery are great options for a weekday meeting call. Off-shoulder, halters and strappy tops have been the preferred choice for my casual video interactions. I would pair these with some statement earrings from Valliyan, The YV Brand by Yashvi Vanani, Deepa Gurnani, Studio Metallurgy and Outhouse, along with layered necklaces from Misho Designs. I’ve barely worn denim through the lockdown. But with travel opening up gradually, there are a lot of interesting jackets to pick from. I’d recommend Dhruv Kapoor’s embroidered ones; they are such a fun addition to the wardrobe and can elevate any look. Accessories remain strong, with wicker bags (Straw India), straw hats, bold earrings, statement belts, oversized totes, sunglasses and mask chains (Ishraya, Argento) adding glamour to muted colour palettes. While I’m not a hat person, I love to collect interesting belts and sunglasses. The former I pick from Loewe, Cult Gaia, Shivan and Narresh, peplum belts from Johanna Ortiz, Richa Khemka, and Alexander McQueen. I usually stay away from logo-embossed pieces. For sunglasses, it has to be Linda Farrow, Celine, Karen Walker and Dior. And don’t forget your resort must-have: a pair of interesting flat sandals to complete the look. I suggest Alameda Turquesa’s pearl-embellished tie-ups, the strappy Ofis from Ancient Greek Sandals and the ocean-themed selection from Cult Gaia. The writer is a fashion stylist (@stylemuze) and co-founder of Funky Fish and Kairos Home||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/being-resort-ready-in-2-0-2-1/article33764821.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||The Parsis who pedalled across the world||Last November, tired of being cooped up at home, travel enthusiasts Bakcen George, Allwyn Joseph and Ratish Bhalerao decided to ‘work from cycle’. Carrying their devices and basic necessities, the trio cycled from Mumbai to Kanyakumari — a journey of 1,687 km that took over a month — while meeting their daily work targets. An impressive feat, but not without precedent. Nearly a century ago, between 1923 and 1942, 12 Parsi men pedalled across the world on their fixed-gear push bikes, traversing the Amazon forest, Sahara desert, Persia, Korea, Europe and America, witnessing historic events and meeting people who would shape history in the years to come. In 1923, the Super Six — Adi B. Hakim, Gustad G. Hathiram, Jal P. Bapasola, Keki D. Pochkhanawala, Nariman B. Kapadia and Rustom B. Bhumgara — set off from Bombay on the first-ever expedition by Indian cyclists. However, only Hakim, Bapasola and Bhumgara completed their journey over four-and-a-half years (the others called it off midway for personal reasons). In 1924, Framroze Davar cycled more than 9,000 km by himself, for nearly 10 months, before meeting a young rider, Gustav Sztavjanik in Vienna, who joined him on his expedition. Cyclists Keki J. Kharas, Rustam D. Ghandhi and Rutton D. Shroff rode from Bombay in 1933, while Jamshed Mody and Manek Vajifdar each began their solo journeys in 1934. These epic adventures have been painstakingly compiled by former journalist Anoop Babani and writer-painter Savia Viegas in their new book, The Bicycle Diaries , which is set for release. Avid cyclists themselves (“we try to cycle at least six times a week”), Babani says the couple caught the bug in their 60s after moving to Goa from Mumbai in 2005. From the family archives He learned about the cyclists by chance, after he suffered a fall in 2017 that forced him to keep his feet off the pedal for three months. “We were reading about the Super Six when we found that [Hakim, Bapasola and Bhumgara] had written a book, With Cyclists Round the World . It mentioned Davar [whose journey the couple found the most interesting], and, following that, we learnt about the third journey. By then we had started contacting their grandchildren, grandnephews, friends and neighbours for more information,” says Babani, who curated a photo exhibition on the cyclists, Our Saddles, Our Butts, Their World , in 2018 (Goa) and 2019 (Mumbai). “After reading about the exhibitions in Parsi journals, the daughters of Mody and Vajifdar [who live abroad] wrote to us about their fathers being cyclists too.” By then they had gathered so much material that they felt “the best thing would be to honour these journeys by compiling them in a book”. Says Viegas, “India doesn’t have a sense of history the way the world does, where every little event that is recorded goes to a museum. But these families still had handwritten notes, photos, and their travel paraphernalia.” Surprisingly, Babani learned that the cyclists had not talked much about their journeys. “When they came back, there were no jobs. Many of them returned when the freedom struggle was at its height. Their children told us that their fathers weren’t very happy people. Nobody really cared about their achievements, so they didn’t talk much about their expeditions. So there were less stories than I expected,” he says.  Why would journeys that happened nearly 100 years ago be of interest to young people today? “It has a lot of relevance because sports history is going to become a part of academics,” says Viegas, a former academician. “[It also serves as inspiration] for younger people. These cyclists went through such hardships; they made themselves into some kind of superhuman machines, travelling with cycles that did not have the wherewithal to go through the desert heat, for example [they stuffed it with straw to make the tyres last].” Moreover, the cycle has been gaining popularity recently — many cities have Bicycle Mayors, cycle lanes have come up in Bengaluru. Additionally, sales went up by 100% between May and September last year, according to the All India Bicycle Manufacturers’ Association. “The cycle is a machine that’s coming back to life. It is street-friendly and can keep the body healthy. It is very important for youngsters to not only learn to ride it but also realise how it has been a vehicle of adventure. There are so many more stories from places like Europe and South America. It is something that should be in the curriculum,” Viegas concludes. The book is priced at Rs. 599. For copies, email saxtti@gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-parsis-who-pedalled-across-the-world/article33764718.ece
06 February 2021||PALWAL,||Locals hold the fort at Palwal||The farmers’ sit-in off the Delhi-Agra highway here against the three contentious agriculture sector laws has an attendance of around 2,000 daily, mostly locals from the nearby villages. More farmers from Madhya Pradesh and Bundelkhand are expected to join the protests soon. After two months of protest on the Delhi-Agra highway, which blocked traffic, hundreds of farmers from Madhya Pradesh’s Gwalior and Bunkdelkhand, were forced to vacate the site in the wake of a clash between them and the local police on Republic Day. “The police action left several people, including locals, injured and tractors damaged on January 26. The police registered a case in connection with the violence and warned the farmers of legal action. It left the locals terrorised and the agitating farmers vacated the site,” said All-India Kisan Sabha activist Raghubir Singh. However, the locals came together to hold a “mahapanchayat” on February 1 and decided to start the sit-in again. Munshi Hari Singh Chauhan, running the community kitchen at the site, claimed that unlike the Tikri and Singhu borders, the local administration was cooperating with them and had provided them with water and power supply. Led by the leaders of 52 khaps (locally known as paals), the sit-in site attracts protesters from villages in Palwal and neighbouring Mathura in Uttar Pradesh. Mr. Chauhan claimed that daily around 2,000-3,000 people were served food at the community kitchen, run with the support of the locals, and around 500 stayed overnight. “Thousands of farmers from Madhya Pradesh and Bundelkhand, forced to return, are also expected to join us shortly. Soon, it will be a bigger protest site than Singhu and Tikri, but we make sure to keep it peaceful and keep anti-social elements away,” said Deepak Chaudhary, who has been part of the protests since the sit-in was first started in December. Mr. Chaudhary said the farmers had assured the local administration that they won’t lay permanent blockade on the highway, but the traffic would be stopped for three hours on February 6 in response to the farmer unions call.  ‘Ready to wait’ Rakesh, 27, conceded that a resolution to the issue was not in sight, but the farmers were prepared to wait as long as it took for the government to accept their demands. “Now the people have been awakened. It may take weeks, months or even years, but we are determined not to give up till our demands are met,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/locals-hold-the-fort-at-palwal/article33764725.ece
06 February 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Border dispute: Naveen flayed over Kotia ‘polls’||The Opposition parties on Friday came down heavily on the Naveen Patnaik government, saying it failed to protect its own land with neighbouring Andhra Pradesh reportedly conducting panchayat elections in three of Odisha villages. Both Odisha and Andhra Pradesh have been at loggerhead over the jurisdiction pertaining to Kotia gram panchayat in Odisha’s Koraput district for several decades. As per reports from Koraput district, Andhra Pradesh is scheduled to hold panchayat election in three villages — Talaganjeipadar, Patusineri and Phagunseneri in Kotia gram panchayat — by changing their names to Ganjeibadara, Pattuchennuru and Pagluchennuru on February 13. Nominations have been filed for the post of sarpanch and ward members from the three villages. Perturbed over the report, the Odisha government has transferred Koraput Collector Madhusudan Mishra on Thursday evening, a day before Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik inaugurated different welfare programmes in Kotia gram panchayat. The 2015-batch IAS officer Muhammed Abdaal Akhtar has been asked to assume charge of Koraput collector. Mr. Patnaik on Friday inaugurated projects worth Rs. 18 crore in Kotia gram panchayat by videoconferencing. He also laid the foundation stone of a bridge in the bordering panchayat. According to the Chief Minister’s Office, projects to the tune of Rs. 150 crore were being taken up in the area.  ‘We need a solution’ Leading the attack on government, Union Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said, “It seems we have not attached seriousness to the Kotia gram panchayat. We are not giving emphasis on connecting with people of Kotia. We need to find a solution by taking all parties into confidence.” Senior Congress leader Narasingha Mishra said, “Another State conducting polls in jurisdiction of Odisha proves that we have a weak leadership.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/border-dispute-naveen-flayed-over-kotia-polls/article33764727.ece
06 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Journalists’ union seeks lifting ban on reporting stir||The Delhi Union of Journalists on Friday condemned Delhi Police’s decision to prohibit reporters from meeting protesting farmers at the Singhu border. In a statement, Delhi Union of Journalists (DUJ) said that reporters have been covering the protests of farmers since its beginning and there has been no intimidation against objective reporting of the protests. However, now, reporters have to travel fifteen to twenty kilometres extra through village roads to meet the farmers. “Reports so far indicate that Delhi Police has denied basic amenities such as food and water to the protesters, besides removing toilets and shutting off electricity. If the entry of reporters is banned and the Internet shut down, the media will be unable to verify reports of conditions in the camps. Unconfirmed rumours will become widespread,” the statement added. The union urged Delhi Police and the Union Home Ministry to lift the ‘ban’ on reporting farmers’ protests. “We also urge the authorities to lift the Internet shutdown and the consequent blackout of information about the protests,” it further added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/journalists-union-seeks-lifting-ban-on-reporting-stir/article33764807.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Two sides of protest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/two-sides-of-protest/article33764809.ece
06 February 2021||Guwahati,||CAT stays forest officer’s transfer order||The Central Administrative Tribunal has stayed the transfer order of an Indian Forest Service officer in Manipur on the ground that he has been transferred too often and in violation of service rules. N. Ganesh, a 2015 batch IFS officer, had filed a petition for quashing the January 27 government order that sought to transfer him from Divisional Forest Officer in Chandel district to DFO, Division 1 of Soil and Water Conservation Department. The applicant argued that the transfer order was in violation of the IFS Rules of 1966 and that a cadre officer cannot be replaced by a non-cadre officer. The CAT observed that Mr. Ganesh had been transferred eight times since being appointed as an Assistant Conservator in Manipur on May 22, 2017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cat-stays-forest-officers-transfer-order/article33764726.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Meghalaya Minister’s kin gets bail||The Meghalaya High Court has granted interim bail to two people, including the brother of a Cabinet Minister, in a case related to a coal mine mishap that killed six labourers in the State’s East Jaintia Hils district. The single Bench of Justice W. Diengdoh heard the pre-arrest bail application of Bison Shylla and his aide Tiufill Shadap on February 3. Bison Shylla is the brother of Social Welfare Minister Kyrmen Shylla. In its order, the Bench allowed interim bail for the petitioners on the condition that they do not abscond and tamper with evidence and witnesses, besides cooperating with the investigating officer. The petitioners had filed for the pre-arrest bail in connection with a First Information Report filed on January 22 and registered with the Khliehriat Police Station in the coal-rich East Jaintia Hills district. The FIR followed the death of six labourers in the accident at the coal pit near Rymbai village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/meghalaya-ministers-kin-gets-bail/article33764728.ece
06 February 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Report sought over delay in prosecution sanction||The Odisha Lokayukt has issued notice to State Chief Secretary over the government not granting sanctions for prosecution of officials under the Prevention of Corruption Act. Prasanta Kumar Mohapatra had moved the Lokayukt complaining that he had obtained information under Right To Information that as many as 69 cases relating to corruption against different public servants were pending since 2015 in the General Administration and Public Grievance Department for sanctions regarding their prosecution under Prevention of Corruption Act.  ‘Deliberate delay’ Mr. Mohapatra alleged that applications were deliberately kept pending for sanction. “Non-issuance of sanction order in time is an offence as per Central Vigilance Commission,” he submitted. The RTI information annexed by Mr. Mohapatra says the State government did not give its sanction in 19 cases in 2020 while 21 cases could not get approval in the year 2019. In 2018, as many as 18 cases were pending for sanction in the General Administration Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/report-sought-over-delay-in-prosecution-sanction/article33764729.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Hélène Darroze serves her food with kindness||Don’t set out to be a man in the kitchen. This has consistently been Hélène Darroze’s advice to young women in her profession. Part of a small group of celebrated female chefs who have been breaking boundaries in a male dominated industry, she should know. Last week, Darroze once again made headlines as her eponymous restaurant at The Connaught in London joined Michelin’s vaunted three-star club. The French chef has often emphasised that she is no radical feminist. Over a phone call late in 2019, she explained, “We have our own sensibilities and the difference is complimentary. So be proud to be a woman in a kitchen full of men”. Her acceptance speech during Michelin’s online awards ceremony last Monday, underlined this. “Believe in your dreams, everything is possible. And stay true to your femininity,” she said.  Equality in the kitchen  Successfully running her restaurants — Hélène Darroze at The Connaught in Mayfair and Marsan and Joia in Paris — Darroze, 53, has split her time between the two cities for years now. She is known for her easy manner and being a hands-on mother to her two young daughters, something that didn’t change when she was named the world’s best female chef in 2015 by World’s 50 Best Restaurants. A controversial award, many food writers have wondered aloud at the need for a separate category for female chefs. It was called out by the late Anthony Bourdain as far back as 2013. ‘Why —at this point in history — do we need a “Best Female Chef” special designation? As if they are curiosities?’ he’d asked on Twitter. “Best Female Chef is not necessarily a 50 Best Chef,” a male chef told me, off the record. But Darroze, refreshingly unpretentious, added that it only spurred her into being more ambitious. It has resulted in three restaurants in two capitals, and now, the coveted three-star accolade.  Journey to this moment  Darroze was raised in Les Landes, south west France (which explains why she is partial to truffles, foie gras and suckling lamb from the Basque country). The fourth generation restaurateur — though she refers to her grandparents, parents and uncles simply as ‘cooks’ — learnt early on about the importance of quality produce as hunters and fishermen visited their kitchen every morning with their catch. “My family taught me how to cook but also to welcome people to my table. And in the south-west of France, there is much life around food,” she explained. Darroze graduated from business school, then trained under chef Alain Ducasse at his three Michelin-starred Monaco restaurant, Louis XV. Three years later, she returned home to run her family's restaurant Chez Darroze, before relocating to Paris at 32 and opening her own restaurant. In no time, she was lauded for her unusual interpretation of French rustic classics. “Ducasse’s influence was huge and he taught me to work with rigour and push myself every day,” said Darroze, for it was the super chef who inspired her to get involved in cooking at Le Louis XV. Yet Darroze famously ignored his feedback at his first tasting at her restaurant — he had suggested she be more Parisian. “I was open to his advice, but wanted to be myself and couldn’t change my style. I cannot cook something that I couldn’t believe in,” she later shared with me on a voice note. Be it her winter specials back then at The Connaught — the scallops, black and white truffle, foie gras from the south west but here, an experiment with seaweed and citrus, and venison Wellington with quince and a strong pepper sauce — or her Valentine’s Day takeaway for next weekend, Darroze seems to know her diners’ food cravings even before they do.   Spreading the love  A week before her restaurant at The Connaught got its three stars in 2021’s Michelin Guide for Great Britain and Ireland, her Paris Masan joined the two-star list in the Michelin France guide. So there is much to celebrate at Chez Darroze. She has received blooms from that enfant terrible of the UK culinary world, Gordon Ramsey, as well as her Connaught neighbour, Balenciaga. There have been macarons and other treats coming her way all week, as shared with her 5.5 lakh followers on Instagram. For the Michelin rating, she has duly credited her eight-year-old team, be it Kirk Whittle, her “pastry accomplice for the last 17 years”, executive chef Marco Zampese or restaurant manager Mirko Benzo, and her “small suppliers”. She posted on social media that this is a week she will remember for the rest of her life.  What began withRatatouille  Having inspired Colette, the only female cook in Chef Skinner’s kitchen in Disney Pixar’s 2007 Ratatouille , Darroze told Independent then that she was not as tough as that character. But almost everyone who meets her comes away impressed. “When people meet me they always talk about my kindness. It is true because it my way of being,” was her artless response when I mentioned this. Gaggan Anand, the celebrity chef known for his two Michelin stars and making it to the fourth spot on the 2019 World’s 50 Best Restaurants List, says Darroze was “very simple and nice” to him when he briefly met her in Paris that year. “She is gentle and kind and the food shows it,” shares another industry powerhouse, chef Ritu Dalmia. “I have eaten at The Connaught a couple of times. She is not one of those Gordon Ramsey female versions, and I know many chefs like that as well!” Also shuttling between cities (Goa and Delhi) as she tackles the effects of the pandemic on her business, Dalmia agrees that women “by nature are nurturers” but that is it good that they are at least being recognised for it. “I don’t think most people realise how difficult it is to get where she [Darroze] is today,” concludes Dalmia, who left the 50 Best Restaurants panel as she didn’t agree with the separate category for a woman chef. (Clockwise from far left) Hélène Darroze, Connaught Hotel in Mayfair, a selection of dishes from The Connaught and Marsan in Paris Darroze’s new book,Chez Moi, and (above) a still fromRatatouille.The French chef inspired the character of Colette in the hit animated film||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hlne-darroze-serves-her-food-with-kindness/article33764850.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Outsider Art Fair: Even as London Art Fair went completely digital last month and Art Basel postponed their 2021 edition once again, from June to September, this New York event went offline. At least partially. The pared down version has seven curated shows and 45 online viewing rooms. Check out Daniel Johnston’s colourfully nightmarish drawings and more @outsiderartfair.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/instapick/article33764823.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Art and more||Red Earth presents Lockdown Chaumasa, an online art exhibition featuring works by sculptor Vyom Mehta and painter Debarchan Rout, among others. The artwork draws similarities between the monsoons and the lockdown — both of which forced people to stay indoors. Details: 2020.themonsoonfestival.com For the first time, IIT-Madras' annual fest, Saarang, is streaming online (till tomorrow). Catch The Yellow Diary at the Rock Show tonight and Jonita Gandhi tomorrow, both at 7.30 pm on saarang.org.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/art-and-more/article33764825.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Goa calling||If you’re headed to the west coast, take a tour of Maka di Brewery located an hour north of Panjim. Choose from three packages (starting from Rs. 2,000), which includes sampling the craft beer and activities like beer pong.9426074972 From February 12 to 14, Marbela Beach in Morjim plays host to a scaled down version of Heineken’s Krank Sessions, a techno music festival. Marseille-based Rafael Cerato, Russian DJ Alexey Union and Amsterdam’s Baba Robijn, among others, are in the lineup. From Rs. 1,500 on insider.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/goa-calling/article33764827.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Sneakerheads rejoice||Singapore’s OG sneaker artist, Mark Ong, collaborates with footwear brand Asics and Singapore-based sneaker store Limited Edt for the Monsoon Patrol 2 collection that drops tomorrow. Only 170 pairs of the grey/green colourway are up for grabs in India. At Rs. 12,999, online and offline at Superkicks and VegNonVeg. German brand Birkenstock and Maison Valentino’s second collab is all about the Arizona sandal. The unisex piece comes in a striking oversized camouflage pattern with three contrasting tones. On birkenstock.in/1774||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sneakerheads-rejoice/article33764829.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Talking point||#FarmerProtests: After pop icon Rihanna and climate activist Greta Thunberg tweeted about the ongoing protests in New Delhi, the Internet had plenty to say. Punjabi singer-actor Diljit Dosanjh released a new song, ‘RIRI’, giving meme makers more material. Meanwhile, the number of cricket and Bollywood celebrities coming out in favour of #IndiaAgainstPropaganda is increasing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/talking-point/article33764831.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Love is in the air||Plan ahead for Valentine’s Day with Fendi’s new collection that includes their signature bags in a palette of bright yellow and powder pink, Fendimania bracelet watches, and Baguette sunglasses. From Rs. 20,000, in stores and on fendi.com. Mumbai-based The Gift Studio has curated hampers from Rs. 1,419 onwards. Keep it simple with strawberries and flowers, or opt for a celebratory food trunk hand-picked by Sonam Kapoor Ahuja. It features sweet and savoury treats packed in a cream leather trunk (Rs. 6,999). On thegiftstudio.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/love-is-in-the-air/article33764833.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Podcasts and takeovers||David Javerbaum or God on Twitter (@TheTweetOfGod), recently hosted Stephen Colbert on the debut episode of his podcast, aptly titledGodcast.The late-night talk show host chats with the celestial representative about the meaning of life,Lord of the Rings, and the second joke he ever wrote. On Apple Podcasts and Spotify. Another social media phenomenon, albeit on Instagram, designer Sabyasachi Mukherjee will take over the Bergdorf Goodman handle today. Tune in all day for surprises @bergdorfs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/podcasts-and-takeovers/article33764835.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Mom, dad, and me||Nykaa Fashion now has its first multi-brand store at Ambience Mall, New Delhi. They have brands like RSVP, Twenty Dresses, Mondano and Nykd by Nykaa, Aachho, Lavanya the Label, Kaanchie Nangia and Anokhe Rang. Something for kids while you shop: Aspiring content creators from nine to 14 can learn the basics of the craft at a two-day YouTube Champ Camp. Comic and TV host Cyrus Broacha, accompanied by an industry expert, will lead the master class. On February 6 and 7, from 6 pm. At Rs. 499 on insider.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mom-dad-and-me/article33764837.ece
06 February 2021||February 06 2021 00:00 IST,||On the food front||Eros Hotel New Delhi, at Nehru Place has reopened the Empress of China that serves up Sichuan, Yunnan and Hunan food. Specialities include Szechuan Red Snapper, Empress Dim Sum Platter, Empress Corn Cake, Steamed Jasmine Chocolate. Mai Bao, a modern Singapore street food restaurant is at Commons, DLF Avenue Mall, Saket, Delhi, offersing an alcoholic bubble tea. Gurugram’s Karma Lakelands has a Sunday brunch (Rs. 1,399) at Club Karma, with south Indian, continental and Indian street food.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/on-the-food-front/article33764839.ece
