07 February 2021||New Delhi,||Farmers block roads, toll plazas peacefully to protest farm laws||The three-hour chakka jam , or road blockade protest, called by the protesting farm unions on Saturday went off smoothly, despite nearly 60 people being detained at a solidarity protest site within Delhi. There were also reports from some unions of detentions in Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Telangana and Karnataka. With fears of a Republic Day-style chaos and violence looming in the background, security forces stepped up deployment within the national capital, and farm unions called off protests in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. The call for the chakka jam was given by the joint front of protesting unions, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, which is trying to keep the movement’s momentum alive after almost two-and-a-half months of camping by tens of thousands of farmers on the borders of Delhi. They are demanding a repeal of the three farm reform laws. “The real struggle has begun after January 26,” said Punjab Kisan Union president Ruldu Singh Mansa, addressing a late night press conference at the Singhu border. “Today’s chakka jam was meant to highlight three issues,” said Krantikari Kisan Union president Darshan Pal Singh. This included the core demand for repeal of the laws as well as a protest against the government and the police intimidation, in the form of arrests, missing people, barricades, and the suspension of power, water and Internet services. The third focus was on the cut in the allocation for the agriculture sector in the Union Budget this year. He also expressed anger at Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar’s statement in Parliament on Friday. “During the talks, he said he was ready to make changes to remove whatever is problematic in the laws. But yesterday, he said the laws are in the interests of farmers, which is a lie,” he added. The road blockades seemed to be most extensive in Punjab and Haryana, which have been the prime movers of the agitation so far. Apart from a blockade at Palwal on the Delhi-Agra Highway by around 2,000 farmers, protesters blocked the major Delhi-Jaipur and Delhi-Ambala highways as well. Blockades were also held at two dozen toll plazas in Haryana. Overall, protesters blocked roads in at least 300 locations across Haryana, including 100 places in Hisar district alone, according to Haryana Kisan Sabha vice-president Inderjit Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmers-block-roads-toll-plazas-peacefully-to-protest-farm-laws/article33771981.ece
07 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||NITI Aayog seeks to track impact of green verdicts||The NITI Aayog — the government’s apex think tank — has commissioned a study that seeks to examine the “unintended economic consequences” of judicial decisions that have hindered and stalled big-ticket projects on environmental grounds. A perusal of the document appears to suggest that judgements that negatively impact major infrastructure projects don't adequately consider the economic fallout — in terms of loss of jobs, revenue. Doing so, it reckons, would contribute to public discourse among policymakers for promoting an “economically responsible approach by judiciary” in its decisions. Focus on five projects The project brief, a copy of which has been viewed by The Hindu , says that it intends to examine five major projects that have been “impacted” by judicial decisions of the Supreme Court or the National Green Tribunal. It plans to do this by interviewing people who have been affected by the closure of the projects, environmental campaigners, experts and assessing the business impact of closure. Projects to be analysed include the construction of an airport in Mopa, Goa; cessation of iron ore mining in Goa and, the shutting down of the Sterlite copper plant in Thoothukudi, Tamil Nadu. The others are decisions by the NGT involving sand mining and construction activities in the National Capital Region. “These have been some of the most significant cases in the recent past that have caused substantial damage to the economy,” the brief notes. The study is to be undertaken by the Jaipur-headquartered CUTS (Consumer Unity and Trust Society) Centre for Competition, Investment and Economic Regulation, that also has an international presence. “The judiciary needs to take into account environment, equity and economic considerations while deciding cases, and needs to institutionalise a mechanism for it,” the brief notes. ‘Judicial activism’ “The absence of ex-ante (before an event) analysis of the economic costs associated with a decision is further exacerbated when judicial activism by courts and tribunals is also in play.” Vikrant Tongad, Uttar Pradesh-based environmentalist and Founder, SAFE (Social Action for Forest and Environment) was among those whom CUTS reached out to, as an expert, because of his involvement in campaigns against sandmining operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/niti-aayog-seeks-to-track-impact-of-green-verdicts/article33771977.ece
07 February 2021||MANGALURU,||Batpady residents relieved as connectivity is restored||Residents of Batpady abutting Kerala to the South of Mangaluru heaved a sigh of relief on Saturday as the Public Works Department (PWD) gave finishing touches to a temporary road thereby restoring connectivity that was lost about seven months ago. About 500 metres of Someshwara-Uchchila-Batpady fisheries road near Batpady end-point was swallowed by the raging waves of the Arabian Sea during the monsoon of 2020. It was not a new development as the authorities and residents knew years ago that the sea would swallow the shoreline and destroy the fisheries road. Yet, the administration had not made any arrangements to protect the shoreline. Former gram panchayat member Hameed Batpady on Saturday told The Hindu that the PWD was working towards restoring the last connectivity. More than 15 households had remained almost cut off from the mainland. Abdullah Batpady, another resident of the area, said authorities’ failure to build two more groyens in the sea towards Batpady end-point had resulted in escalated erosion of the shoreline. The government was building groyens on the seashore and reefs off the shore between Uchchila and Batpady under the ADB-funded Someshwara Shoreline Protection Project to protect the shore that was subject to sea erosion following construction of the South Breakwater for Mangaluru fishing harbour at the mouth of Netravathi-Phalguni rivers.  PWD assistant executive engineer Chandrashekhar said the road was being restored as an immediate measure with available funds of Rs. 49 lakh. It was to restore the lost connectivity for the residents as well as to facilitate progress of the tourism project being undertaken at Batpady end-point, he said. Though a sea protection wall was needed at the affected stretch for the safety of the restored road, it was said that fresh sand dunes get formed once ADB project’s groyens and off-shore reefs give the expected results. Upon formation of fresh sand dunes, the department would either build a concrete or a bitumen road on the stretch, he said. Otherwise, it would have to wait for construction of the shore protection wall, Mr. Chandrashekhar added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/batpady-residents-relieved-as-connectivity-is-restored/article33772779.ece
07 February 2021||Ghaziabad,||‘A flower for every nail’, pledge farmers at Ghazipur||“The government will plant nails and razor wires for us, we will plant flowers for it,” said Sukhjeet Singh, a farmer, pointing to a group of men digging a patch of land near the coils of sharp concertina wires placed as part of the several layers of barricading at the Ghazipur border near Delhi. “We have already planted potatoes and sugarcane in two rows. This is all we know or can do. What they [the government] have done is their job; we farmers will do ours,” Mr. Singh said as some of the farmers squatted to plant flowers while others, at a little distance, patted the soil where they had sown vegetables on Saturday afternoon. As the national chakka jam announced by farmers’ unions got under way elsewhere, agitating farmers at Ghazipur announced they would give the government “a flower for every nail” hammered into the roads on Delhi borders to keep the protesters from entering. “We are demanding our rightful due, not asking for something that doesn’t belong to us. The government will remember us long after we leave for standing up to it despite every obstacle it has, and plans to, put in our way,” said Manveer Rathi, a farmer from Ambala. Stepped-up security Security arrangements at the protest site were stepped up on Saturday in view of the chakka jam . Razor wire fencing was added to the initial layers of police barricades at road surface level, riot control vehicles and a truck with an iron container were parked to stall a possible vehicular advance towards Delhi on the flyover where the farmers have erected their stage. Bhartiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait said they had decided not to observe the chakka jam in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand because of inputs that attempts would be made to defame the movement through individuals indulging in violence in the garb of farmers at “at least five locations”. The farmer unions’ next agitation, he said, would feature a rally up to the office of the National Green Tribunal, which is “seeking to bestow more profit on corporate houses by banning diesel vehicles — mainly tractors — which are over 10 years old”. Mr. Tikait issued an appeal to farmers across the country to bring a handful of soil to the movement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-flower-for-every-nail-pledge-farmers-protesting-at-ghazipur/article33772266.ece
07 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Decks cleared for regularising protected teachers||Decks have been cleared for regularising teachers appointed in aided schools since 2016 but who are yet to draw salary. The government has issued orders that it will approve appointments made to additional posts created as per the law in schools that agree to appoint protected teachers from the teachers’ bank. In schools that have no vacancies at present but agree to post protected teachers in vacancies that arise in future through an affidavit, all legal appointments will be given approval. The provision of the order will be applicable to teachers appointed from the 2016-17 academic year to 2019-20. Pre-upgraded section In schools that started or upgraded after 1979, if no such post of protected teachers could be set aside in the upgraded section, then a post should be kept for them in the pre-upgraded section. In the cases of managements with more than one school, if there is no vacancy for a protected teacher in a newly started or upgraded school, they can be appointed to any post created in any school under the management. If there is no vacancy in a district to appoint protected high school teachers, they can be posted to vacancies arising when upper primary headmasters/headmistress are relieved from teaching a class or as upper primary school teacher, language and specialist teacher posts if eligible with salary protection.  High school teachers High school teachers can be posted only if the district teachers’ bank has no protected upper primary or lower primary teachers. Vacancies that arise when headmasters/headmistress are relieved of their class charges should only be filled with protected teachers. In cases where managers have made appointments without following the condition that additional posts created following an increase in number of students should be filled in the 1:1 ratio by appointing protected teachers, the condition of appointing an equal number of protected teachers can be implemented on the basis of Supreme Court verdict. Such appointments could be approved subject to this condition, the government order said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/decks-cleared-for-regularising-protected-teachers/article33772748.ece
07 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Jagan urges PM to rethink VSP divestment||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Saturday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him to reconsider the Centre’s proposal to divest its stake in Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) and explore other opportunities to put it back on track. Mr. Jagan said that the in-principle approval given by the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs for 100% strategic sale of the Union government’s stake in VSP was a cause of concern for the public. He pointed out that the VSP was India's first shore-based integrated steel plant which gave direct employment to about 20,000 people and it was a dream come true after many sacrifices were made by the people. Thirty-two people had died during the campaign for its establishment. The Chief Minister said the VSP had posted a good performance between 2002 and 2015, during which period it had a positive net worth. The plant had achieved a turnaround in 2002 after being referred to the Bureau for Financial & Industrial Reconstruction as a sick company. VSP has around 19,700 acres of land, whose valuation exceeds Rs. 1 lakh crore. VSP currently has a capacity of 7.30 million tonnes and has taken up modernisation and capacity expansion recently. It was due to the unfavourable global steel cycle that the VSP incurred losses since 2014-15, and it was struggling to service its debt. One of the major structural issues that led to high cost of production was the absence of captive mines, which affected profitability. Mr. Jagan suggested that the Centre take the following measures for the revival of VSP: continuing operations for a further period of two years to achieve a turnaround, providing captive iron ore mine to reduce input costs, and restructuring both long and short-term loans. The Andhra Pradesh government would closely work with the Centre under the PM's leadership for reviving the public sector steel giant thereby unlocking its great value Mr. Jagan assured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jagan-urges-pm-to-reconsider-vsp-divestment-decision/article33771973.ece
07 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||PM lauds judiciary for safeguarding rights||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday lauded the judiciary for safeguarding people’s rights and personal liberty even during the most challenging times and prioritising national interests whenever the occasion demanded. Releasing a postage stamp to mark the diamond jubilee of the Gujarat High Court, Mr. Modi said the Supreme Court had conducted the highest number of hearings via videoconference in the world during the pandemic. Mr. Modi said the rule of law was the underlying principle not just while drafting the Constitution but also of the traditional ancient society. He said the Constitution guaranteed justice as a matter of right for citizens, and the judiciary and the government should work together to create a world class justice system. ‘Stood for people’ “Our judiciary has always interpreted the Constitution positively and creatively to strengthen it further. Be it safeguarding the rights of the people of the country or when any situation arose where national interest needed to be prioritised, the judiciary has always performed its duty,” he said. Union Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, Justice M.R. Shah of the Supreme Court, Chief Justice of Gujarat High Court Vikram Nath, Solicitor-General of India Tushar Mehta and Advocate -General of Gujarat Kamal Trivedi and others attended the online event. Justice Shah, who referred to the Gujarat High Court as his karmabhoomi, described the Prime Minister as a “visionary” leader. “I feel proud and privileged to participate in this function of release of a commemorative stamp of Gujarat High Court on completion of its 60 years by our most popular, loved, vibrant and visionary leader, Hon’ble Prime Minister Narendra bhai Modi,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pm-lauds-the-judiciary-for-safeguarding-peoples-rights/article33771975.ece
07 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||FSSAI caps trans fats in food products||The Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) has amended its rules to put a cap on trans-fatty acids (TFAs) in food products, just weeks after it tightened the norms for oils and fats. “Food products in which edible oils and fats are used as an ingredient shall not contain industrial trans-fatty acids more than 2% by mass of the total oils/fats present in the product, on and from 1st January, 2022,” said the revised regulations notified recently and made public on Friday. In December, the FSSAI had capped TFAs in oils and fats to 3% by 2021, and 2% by 2022 from the current levels of 5%. “The 2% cap is considered to be elimination of trans-fatty acids, which we will achieve by 2022. We are happy to say that we will be reaching this goal a year sooner than the WHO deadline. We have held eight meetings with industry stakeholders and they are on board to implement the rules,” FSSAI CEO Arun Singhal told The Hindu . Trans-fatty acids are created in an industrial process that adds hydrogen to liquid vegetable oils to make them more solid, increase shelf life of food items and for use as an adulterant as they are cheap. They are present in baked, fried and processed foods as well as adulterated ghee, which becomes solid at room temperature. They are the most harmful form of fats as they clog arteries and cause hypertension, heart attacks and other cardiovascular diseases. As per the World Health Organization (WHO), approximately 5.4 lakh deaths take place each year globally because of intake of industrially produced trans-fatty acids. The WHO has called for the elimination of industrially produced trans-fatty acids from the global food supply by 2023. “The latest amendments to FSSAI rules signal the completion of the process of regulating trans fats in India. The move will make a big difference to the health harm caused by this unwanted ingredient.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fssai-caps-transfats-in-food-products/article33771979.ece
07 February 2021||CHENNAI,||Sasikala, Dhinakaran may incite violence: AIADMK brass to DGP||Senior Ministers and AIADMK leaders on Saturday complained to Director General of Police J. Tripathy that V.K. Sasikala, aide of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, and T.T.V. Dhinakaran, general secretary of Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK), were trying to incite violence in the State. Ministers D. Jayakumar, P. Thangamani, C.Ve. Shanmugam and party presidium chairman E. Madhusudhanan were among those who met Mr. Tripathy. On Thursday too, they submitted a complaint seeking to prevent Ms. Sasikala from using the party flag. “We have no objection to Ms. Sasikala’s return to the city on February 8. However, T.T.V. Dhinakaran said Ms. Sasikala would travel using the AIADMK party flag. Mr. Dhinakaran had said even if we give a complaint to the DGP or the chiefs of armed forces, no one could prevent them. A few supporters of Ms. Sasikala had said that they would become 100 human bombs and reach Tamil Nadu,” Mr. Shanmugam told reporters on Friday. Mr. Shanmugam alleged Mr. Dhinakaran issued a major threat, which would cause law and order problems in the State. To incite violence, Ms. Sasikala, Mr. Dhinakaran and their men have hatched a “major conspiracy”. The AIADMK government has been functioning successfully, he said. “Ms. Sasikala, who has come out of the prison, claims that she is the AIADMK party leader and has been acting in contempt of the Supreme Court orders. They are planning to incite violence and blame the AIADMK,” said Mr. Shanmugam. Meanwhile, a press release from the office of the DGP said the police would take precautionary measures to prevent political, religion and caste related problems The release said, “We have received information that some specific group, with a political motive, are pretending as some other organisations and are planning to cause law and order problems by disrupting public transport and public peace. These types of activities will cause law and order problems and will be a stumbling block in maintaining the peace of the State.” Action would be taken against those who indulged in unlawful acts, it added.  A few supporters of Ms. Sasikala said they would become 100 human bombs C. Ve. Shanmugam Law Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sasikala-dhinakaran-may-incite-violence-aiadmk-brass-to-dgp/article33772034.ece
07 February 2021||Mangaluru,||Drive launched against feeding animals at Agumbe Ghat||Acting tough against people feeding wild animals while driving through the Agumbe Ghat, the Forest Department on Saturday launched a special drive to create awareness on the issue as well as penalise those indulging in the act. Agumbe Ghat, which connects Udupi district with Shivamogga and Chikkamagaluru districts, witnesses movement of hundreds of vehicles every day. Tourists travel in large numbers between Udupi-Sringeri, Dharmasthala-Sringeri, Sringeri-Kollur and other circuits through this ghat. While common langurs were seen receiving food from motorists for long, the lion-tailed macaques, an endangered species living only in the Western Ghats, too began receiving food from people a couple of years ago. This created a furore with environmentalists as well as others, including Forest Department officials, contending that the wild animals were abdicating their natural food habits. Feeding food could also trigger the spread of diseases, they feared. This weekend, forest officials led by Siddapura Assistant Conservator of Forests Bhagavandas Kudtalkar and comprising personnel from Hebri, Karkala, Amasebail, and Siddapura ranges, patrolled the 10 km ghat stretch throughout the day. Around 40 personnel stood at locations vulnerable for animal feeding and discouraged people from doing that. As many as three persons were fined for being defiant. Officials also erected publicity material against feeding animals and throwing plastic waste inside forests. Hebri Range Forest Officer Anil Kumar, Amasebail RFO Sandesh Kumar and others participated in the drive. Mr. Anil Kumar said the drive was organised on Saturday when there would be heavy movement of tourists through Agumbe Ghat. Feeding animals had the potential of damaging their natural food habits thereby threatening animals’ natural existence, he said. Fine The department would impose Rs. 100 fine for throwing plastic and other dry waste inside forests; Rs. 200 for unauthorised entry into forests, taking bath in way-side streams/ falls, washing vehicles etc., and Rs. 500 for feeding wild animals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/drive-against-feeding-animals-at-agumbe-ghat/article33772620.ece
07 February 2021||Kolkata,||Mamata roadblock to Bengal’s development: Nadda||BJP president J.P. Nadda on Saturday accused the Trinamool Congress government in West Bengal of creating roadblocks to development. He was addressing a gathering at Nabadwip in Nadia district after flagging off the “Parivartan Yatra” of the party. “Your government will go. The Trinamool will be defeated. Lotus will bloom here. Bengal will join the mainstream… This is what the ‘Parivartan Yatra’ is all about,” he said. With just a few months to go for the State Assembly election, the yatra, using a bus converted into a “rath” (chariot), is a major programme by the BJP to reach far-flung areas of West Bengal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mamata-roadblock-to-development/article33772265.ece
07 February 2021||Srinagar,||Apni Party dents Gupkar Alliance’s DDC prospects||The J&K Apni Party (JKAP), a new regional party floated post August 5, 2019 in Jammu and Kashmir, on Saturday won two District Development Council (DDC) Chairman posts with the help of the BJP, denting the prospects of the Gupkar Alliance that had its eye on heading all 10 districts in the Valley. The JKAP, headed by former Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Minister and legislator Altaf Bukhari, won the DDC Chairman polls in Srinagar and Shopian districts. An official said JKAP candidate Aftab Malik bagged 10 out of 14 votes against three votes bagged by the Gupkar Alliance candidate Kaiser Ganai, also a member of the National Conference, in Srinagar, to win the Chairman’s post. Independent support The JKAP had won three seats in the DDC polls, held in November-December last year, out of 14 in Srinagar district. It required the support of four more candidates to win the Chairman’s post. Sources said the BJP-backed Independent candidates also supported the JKAP. In south Kashmir’s Shopian, JKAP candidate Bilqees Akhtar polled eight votes to win the Chairman’s post while the Gupkar Alliance candidate secured only six votes. Sources said the JKAP candidate was short of one vote but a councillor from the Gupkar Alliance, which also won seven seats out of 14 in Shopian, voted in favour of the JKAP. Communist Party of India (Marxist) candidate Muhammad Afzal Parray won the Chairman’s post in Kulgam. The CPI(M) is the part of the Gupkar Alliance, apart from the NC and the PDP. There are 20 districts in J&K, 10 each in the Kashmir region and the Jammu region. Under the first ever DDC polls last year, each district was divided into 14 segments and the elected candidates are now in the process of electing District Chairpersons of 20 districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/apni-party-dents-gupkar-alliances-ddc-prospects/article33772701.ece
07 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Highs and lows||In the past 10 days, Bellandur, Doddanekundi, Begur, Banaswadi, Koramangala, Horamavu, Hagadur, Konena Agrahara, HSR Layout, and Puttenahalli areas reported the highest number of cases in Bengaluru city. On the other hand, Kushalnagar, Muneshwaranagar, Lingarajapuram, Jogupalya, Okalipuram, Vrishbhavathinagar, Kempapura Agrahara, Padarayanapura, Gurappanapalya, and Hongasandra did not report any cases during the period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/highs-and-lows/article33772615.ece
07 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||SEC orders confining of PR Minister to his house||Andhra Pradesh State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar on Saturday asked the Director-General of Police (DGP) to confine Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy to his residential premises till the completion of the gram panchayat elections on February 21, on the ground that he had created fear in the minds of the electorate by making statements that amounted to interfering with the election process. In his proceedings, Mr. Ramesh said the alleged threatening of District Collectors, district election authorities, and Returning Officers by the Minister was a serious breach of law and the tenets of the Constitution, and it was tantamount to subverting the democratic process of elections to the local bodies. Charging the Minister with the abuse of his office for wrongful ends, the SEC said in his order to the DGP that if corrective steps were not taken immediately, the holding of free and fair elections would be in peril and in danger of being vitiated. He stated that the restrictions imposed on the Minister were entirely preventive in nature, while denying access to the media, and that the Minister could go out to avail himself of medical services or meet other exigencies that warranted inevitable movement. He would have access to all official records and papers, the SEC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sec-confines-ap-minister-to-home/article33771915.ece
07 February 2021||Hyderabad,||TRS executive meeting today||A meeting of the State executive of Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) to be held on Sunday afternoon after a long gap has assumed significance in the backdrop of the setback that the party suffered in elections to Dubbak Assembly constituency and Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC). It is also taking place amidst confusion in the cadre whether the party president and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao will hand over the reins of power to his son and next in command K.T. Rama Rao on February 17, which is the former’s birthday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/trs-executive-meeting-today/article33772702.ece
07 February 2021||Tiruppur,||‘Students need not be scared as attendance is optional’||Ahead of the reopening schools for Classes 9 and 11 from Monday, School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan on Saturday tried to allay the fears of the students. The Minister said that students need not be worried as attendance was not compulsory. The Minister took part in the inauguration of the Government Middle School in Mudalipalayam that was recently upgraded from a panchayat union primary school, following which he addressed mediapersons. Positive cases To a question regarding government schoolchildren in Tiruppur district testing positive for COVID-19 after the reopening of schools, the Minister replied that the schools had been reopened to ensure that all the students receive education, but not everyone had to attend regular classes as per standard operating procedures issued by the State government. At the inauguration of the Government High School in Mangalam that was upgraded from middle school, Mr. Sengottaiyan said the school was upgraded to ensure that Muslim girls living in Mangalam did not miss education. Collection of fees On allegations of private schools demanding excess fees from parents, the Minister said action would be taken if the Department of School Education received complaints, in writing. Mr. Sengottaiyan also inaugurated the Government Girls Higher Secondary School in Perumanallur. The school has been upgraded from a high school.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/students-need-not-be-scared-as-attendance-is-optional/article33772027.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Need for speed||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/need-for-speed/article33772030.ece
07 February 2021||kolkata,||MP dares Suvendu to contest from Nandigram||Taking the fight against Suvendu Adhikari to his constituency, Nandigram, Trinamool Congress MP Abishek Banerjee on Saturday dubbed his former party colleague who joined the BJP two months ago as a “traitor” and “Mir Jafar”, and dared him to contest against Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee from the constituency. Ms. Banerjee announced last month that she would contest from Nandigram, weeks after Mr. Adhikari, a prominent Trinamool leader, joined the BJP. After her announcement, Mr. Adhikari promised to defeat her with a margin of 50,000 votes .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mp-dares-suvendu-to-contest-from-nandigram/article33772174.ece
07 February 2021||Yangon,||Myanmar junta blocks Internet access||Myanmar’s new military authorities appeared to have cut most access to the Internet on Saturday as they faced a rising tide of protest over their coup that toppled Aung San Suu Kyi’s elected civilian government. Numerous Internet users noted a slow disappearance of services, especially from mobile service providers, that accelerated sharply late Saturday morning. Broadband connection also later failed, while there were mixed reports on whether landline telephone service was still working.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/myanmar-junta-blocks-internet-access/article33772614.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||MVA leaders yet to take call on new Speaker||A day after former Maharashtra Assembly Speaker Nana Patole was appointed the new State Congress president, senior Maha Vikas Aghadi leaders are yet to decide on the candidate to fill the vacant post. Sharad Pawar, Nationalist Congress Party president, has said the resignation of Mr. Patole has opened up negotiations on the Speaker’s post. Mr. Patole too said the top leaders of three parties would soon arrive at a decision. The Congress now seems headed for a series of negotiations to reclaim the post. Contenders include Tribal Affairs Minister K.C. Padvi, former chief minister Prithviraj Chavan, and senior Congress MLA Sangram Thopate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mva-leaders-yet-to-take-call-on-new-speaker/article33772804.ece
07 February 2021||MANGALURU,||664 grams of gold seized, one arrested||The Customs sleuths on Friday arrested Mohammed Harshad of Bengre Kasba for allegedly smuggling gold into Mangaluru International Airport. They seized 664 grams of gold valued at Rs. 31.73 lakh. According to a press release, Harshad had concealed the gold in his body. The gold, in powder form, had been mixed with gum. Following profiling, he was questioned and the gold was seized. On Thursday, the sleuths seized 120 grams of gold coins concealed by two passengers in their slippers. They also seized cosmetics allegedly smuggled in commercial quantity in violation of Cosmetics Rule 2020, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/664-grams-of-gold-seized-one-arrested/article33772780.ece
07 February 2021||Mysuru,||‘Sunny Side’ is now a museum||‘Sunny Side’, the ancestral home of General K.S. Thimayya in Kodagu has been refurbished and converted into a museum. It was inaugurated by President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday. Gen. Thimayya served as Chief of Army Staff from 1957 to 1961. Gen. Thimayya was the only Indian to command an Infantry brigade in the battle during the Second World War. He later headed a U.N. unit to deal with the repatriation of prisoners of war. The President recalled the contribution of the war veteran in pre- and post-Independent India and hoped that the museum would inspire youngsters from Kodagu to join the armed forces. The war-related memorabilia includes a battle tank and a fighter jet MiG 21 used in the 1971 war.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sunny-side-is-now-a-museum/article33772113.ece
07 February 2021||Idukki,||Power generation resumes partially at Moolamattom||Power generation resumed at the Moolamattom power plant of the Idukki hydroelectric project on Saturday moring. The State experienced power shortage following the suspension of power generation after a blast in one of the six generators around 6.30 p.m. on Friday. The blast occurred at the auxiliary system of the transformer in Generator 4 when power production was on. Smoke filled the power house and generation was stopped. A Kerala State Electricity Board official on Saturday said power generation resumed partially on Saturday. Generators 1, 2, 5, and 6 were functioning now and Generators 4 and 3 would resume generation after inspection. The latter generators were interconnected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/power-generation-resumes-partially-at-moolamattom/article33772151.ece
07 February 2021||Mumbai,||‘Rasta rokos’ by farmers in Karad, Kolhapur||‘Rasta rokos’ were staged in Karad and Kolhapur cities in Maharashtra on Saturday as part of the ‘chakka jam’ called by farmer bodies agitating on the borders of Delhi against the new farm laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rasta-rokos-by-farmers-in-karad-kolhapur/article33772805.ece
07 February 2021||new delhi,||Delhi court issues arrest warrant for Hafiz Saeed||A Delhi court on Saturday issued an arrest warrant for Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba chief and 26/11 Mumbai attack mastermind Hafiz Saeed in a money laundering case related to terror funding in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-court-issues-arrest-warrant-for-hafiz-saeed/article33772699.ece
07 February 2021||New Delhi,||AAP names candidates for civic body bypolls||The Aam Aadmi Party on Saturday announced its candidates for the upcoming by-election in five wards (two in North Delhi Municipal Corporation and three in the East Delhi Municipal Corporation). The bypolls will be held on February 28. The results will be announced on March 3. The last date of filing nominations is February 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aap-names-candidates-for-civic-body-bypolls/article33772270.ece
07 February 2021||Chennai,||For third day in a row, T.N. reports under 500 cases||For the third day in a row, Tamil Nadu reported under 500 fresh cases of COVID-19. A total of 477 persons tested positive for the infection on Saturday, taking the State’s tally to 8,41,326. Of the fresh cases, Chennai reported 156, followed by Coimbatore (65) and Chengalpattu (36).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/for-third-day-in-a-row-tn-reports-under-500-cases/article33772028.ece
07 February 2021||NAGERCOIL,||AIADMK govt. under Centre’s control: Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Saturday appealed to the voters of Tamil Nadu to throw out the AIADMK government, which, he said, was being “manoeuvred by the BJP government at the Centre to execute its anti-Tamil agenda”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aiadmk-govt-under-centres-control-stalin/article33772032.ece
07 February 2021||CHENNAI,||Recommendations of rights panel binding: HC||In a significant ruling, the Madras High Court has held that recommendations made by the State Human Rights Commission, after a full-fledged inquiry into allegations of human rights violations, are binding on the government and that they are legally and immediately enforceable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/recommendations-of-rights-panel-binding-hc/article33772033.ece
07 February 2021||Kolkata,||BJP president flags off ‘Parivartan Yatra’||Bharatiya Janata Party president J.P. Nadda on Saturday accused the Trinamool Congress government in West Bengal of creating roadblocks to development. He was addressing a gathering at Nabadwip in Nadia district after flagging off the party’s “Parivartan Yatra”. “Your government will go. The Trinamool will be defeated. Lotus will bloom here. Bengal will join the mainstream… This is what the ‘Parivartan Yatra’ is all about,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-president-flags-off-parivartan-yatra/article33772175.ece
07 February 2021||GUWAHATI,||BJP-led govt. gifts cash to Assam tea workers||With an eye on the Assembly election, the BJP-led alliance government in Assam doled out cash to more than 7 lakh tea plantation workers on Saturday.Tea plantation workers, referred to as “tea tribes” with roots in Central India, are a potent electoral force in 45 of the 126 Assembly constituencies in eastern, central and southern Assam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-led-govt-gifts-cash-to-assam-tea-workers/article33772176.ece
07 February 2021||GUWAHATI,||BJP-led govt. gifts cash to Assam tea workers||Eye on the Assembly election, the BJP-led alliance government in Assam doled out cash to more than 7 lakh tea plantation workers on Saturday. Tea plantation workers are a potent electoral force in 45 of the 126 Assembly seats in Assam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-led-govt-gifts-cash-to-assam-tea-workers/article33772268.ece
07 February 2021||LUCKNOW,||BJP ally, SP seek justice for Nishad community||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav has accused the Uttar Pradesh government of “kicking the belly” of the Nishad community, after their boats were allegedly damaged by the police in Prayagraj during an anti-mining drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-ally-sp-seek-justice-for-nishad-community/article33772269.ece
07 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Medical student comes under wheels of truck||A 19-year-old medical student was mowed down by a Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike truck while she was negotiating a bad stretch on Hennur Main Road on her two-wheeler. The incident occurred around 11.45 a.m. on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/medical-student-comes-under-wheels-of-truck/article33772618.ece
07 February 2021||Mumbai,||Reduce school fees to help lockdown-hit parents: Maha BJP MLA||A BJP MLA from Mumbai on Saturday demanded that school fee be slashed by 50% as parents of several students had lost their jobs due to the coronavirus outbreak and the resultant lockdown. Atul Bhatkhalkar, MLA from Kandivali East, said School Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad should take the initiative on fee reduction. “Several people have lost their jobs in the lockdown. If the demand is not met, the BJP will take to the streets,” he said. “I wonder why Varsha Gaikwad has given a stay on the committee looking into parents’ complaints of exorbitant fee hike by some schools in the state” he added.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/reduce-school-fees-to-help-lockdown-hit-parents-maha-bjp-mla/article33772803.ece
07 February 2021||Mangaluru,||Dead mammal was False Killer Whale: Scientists||Scientists have said that the 10-ft long whale that was washed ashore at Mogaveerapatna in Ullal, off Mangaluru, on Thursday was a False Killer Whale (Pseudorca Crassidens).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dead-mammal-was-false-killer-whale-scientists/article33772782.ece
07 February 2021||Mangaluru,||BJP leader in the dock for Poojary remark||BJP district vice-president Jagadish Adhikari’s statement allegedly defaming Congress leader B. Janardhana Poojary, and his comments about Billavas and the revered twins Koti Chennayya, has put him in the dock. Though he has apologised, the Congress and other organisations have demanded disciplinary action against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-leader-in-the-dock-for-poojary-remark/article33772783.ece
07 February 2021||Kalaburagi,||KK development board remains non-functional||The Kalyana Karnataka Region Development Board (KKRDB), which was formed under Article 371(J) of the Constitution that offered Special Status to the region, remains paralysed, with no members appointed, except for its chairman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kk-development-board-remains-non-functional/article33772117.ece
07 February 2021||Hubballi,||Seer welcomes CM’s decision to seek report||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s decision on Friday night to seek a detailed report by the Karnataka State Commission for Backward Classes on the demand for inclusion of Panchamasali (Lingayat) under 2-A category seems to be have pacified the community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/seer-welcomes-cms-decision-to-seek-report/article33772118.ece
07 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Bengaluru’s caseload now over 4 lakh||Bengaluru Urban breached the four-lakh mark on Saturday with 318 new cases. With a total of 4,00,315 positive cases, Bengaluru is now the second city in the country to cross this mark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bengalurus-caseload-now-over-4-lakh/article33772119.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||The party that defied the junta||In 1988, Aung San Suu Kyi, who was living in the U.K., travelled to Rangoon (now Yangon), to be with her ailing mother. Gen. Ne Win, the long-time military dictator of Burma (now Myanmar), had stepped down. Demonstrations erupted across the country, demanding democracy. The junta unleashed a violent crackdown on the protesters. Many of the wounded were taken to the hospital in Yangon where Ms. Suu Kyi was attending to her mother. For the daughter of Aung San, who fought against both the British colonialists and the Japanese imperialists and founded the Burmese military, the brief stay in the hospital gave a closer view of the military regime that had been ruling her country since the 1962 coup. The protesters, mostly students, wanted a leader against the junta. In a country where Aung San, who was assassinated in 1947 at age 32, is widely revered, they would not have found a better name than Aung San Suu Kyi to lead their campaign for democracy. Ms. Suu Kyi agreed to address the protesters. On August 26, 1988, half-a-million people showed up at the capital’s famous Shwedagon Pagoda, to listen to her. “I could not, as my father’s daughter, remain indifferent to all that is going on,” she told the crowd, in a speech that would change not just her destiny but also that of her country. “This national crisis could in fact be called the second struggle for national independence.” She couldn’t stop the military. Within a month, a new junta, the State Peace and Development Council (SPDC), would take over. But the struggle she launched would never cease. As the Generals were trying to regain control, Ms. Suu Kyi helped found the National League for Democracy (NLD), the most potent political rival to the military till date. On February 1 this year, when the military staged another coup, the soldiers naturally went after almost all the top leaders of the NLD, including Ms. Suu Kyi and President Win Myint. The party was founded on September 27, 1988, a week after the SPDC was formed. Tin Oo, a former Commander-in-Chief of the Burmese military, and Aung Shwe, a former Brigadier-General, joined hands with Ms. Suu Kyi. Mr. Tin Oo was the first president of the party, while Ms. Suu Kyi served as the general secretary for years. The NLD, a liberal, social democratic party, demanded the junta give up power and initiate the country’s transition to democracy. The junta detained Ms. Suu Kyi, Mr. Tin Oo and other NLD leaders in response. But under domestic and international pressure, the SPDC agreed to hold polls in 1990. The NLD swept the polls, winning roughly 58% of the popular vote (382 seats in the 492-member Assembly), while the National Unity Party, a proxy of the military, won only 10 seats. Expectations were high that Myanmar’s ordeal was coming to an end. But the Generals had other plans. They annulled the results, arrested several lawmakers and detained Ms. Suu Kyi again at her house on the University Avenue in Yangon. Between 1989 and 2010, she spent about 15 years under house arrest. Now, after 10 years of freedom, including five years in power, Ms. Suu Kyi is back in detention. Resistance to Army Even in the face of increased state repression, neither Ms. Suu Kyi nor the NLD did compromise on their most vital demand — the end of the military rule. The Generals knew that Ms. Suu Kyi was the greatest threat to their hold on power. She has been immensely popular. People referred to her ‘The Lady’, when uttering her name angered the rulers. The junta promised her freedom if she agreed to leave the country. She didn’t. The NLD, in the face of a hostile junta, built a centralised party organisation. Ms. Suu Kyi assumed party presidency in 2011. She is now the chairperson. Mr. Tin Oo remains a patron. The NLD has two vice-chairpersons, a two-member secretariat and a 16-member central executive committee, which is the main decision-making body. It also has several working committees and networks. For years, the NLD remained a defiant political movement that rode the wave of resentment against the junta. In 2007, a series of protests broke out in Myanmar against the regime of Gen. Than Shwe, which was brutally cracked down. It was also the time when the military’s grip on power was loosening. International sanctions prevented the country’s economic rise, while the rest of Asia was marching ahead. Myanmar was seen increasingly dependent on China. Pressure was mounting both inside the country and abroad. In 2008, the military adopted a new Constitution that promised semi-democracy. The NLD initially rejected the Constitution and boycotted the polls. The pro-military Union Solidarity and Development Party (USDP) won the election and the retired General Thein Sein became the President. He initiated political reforms. The government released Ms. Suu Kyi and other political prisoners, relaxed media censorship and promised transition to democracy. President Thein Sein wanted the NLD’s participation for legitimacy for his reforms. In August 2011, he met Ms. Suu Kyi for dinner. Later that day, she told Mr. Tin Oo, “I have the feeling that I can work with him.” The NLD later recognised the Constitution that has reserved 25% of the seats in Parliament and three key Ministries in the government — Defence, Home Affairs and Border — for the military, and agreed to contest the election. In the 2012 byelections, the NLD won 43 of the 44 seats it contested. Ms. Suu Kyi was elected to Parliament from Kawhmu. The NLD won an outright majority in the 2015 Parliament elections. But Ms. Suu Kyi cannot become President under the current Constitution as her children are foreign citizens. Win Myint, a long-time NLD leader and a former political prisoner, became the President. The party, with its majority, passed a law creating a new post of State Counsellor for Ms. Suu Kyi. But the fundamental contradiction between an Army that never wanted to fully relinquish power and a political party that is dedicated to democratise and rebuild Myanmar was never resolved. The NLD continued to call for constitutional reforms, which the military found as a direct threat to its interests. Full circle Ms. Suu Kyi initially offered peace to the country’s various ethnic rebel groups. But she didn’t have the powers to keep the promises. Instead of challenging the Generals, the NLD opted for tactical cooperation. On the Rohingya issue — over 700,000 Rohingya Muslims were forced out of the country since 2017 by a military crackdown on the Rakhine state — she toed the military line, at least publicly. She once told Hillary Clinton that she did not want to be an icon. “I have always been a politician.” But even her cold political pragmatism did not help Suu Kyi tackle the country’s power-hungry Generals. The November 2020 election was a turning point. The NLD won another landslide, while the USDP, the military proxy, suffered a humiliating defeat. The USDP alleged voter fraud. The military backed those claims, without offering any evidence. Since then, tensions were on the rise and fears of another coup were in the air. Those fears came true in the early morning of February 1 when the military chief Min Aung Hlaing ordered the soldiers to detain the country’s elected leaders. For the NLD, which was born out of the popular resistance against the junta’s power grab, history has come full circle.  In Focus The NLD was founded in September 1988 by Suu Kyi and her allies amid a popular resistance against the military dictatorship  The party swept the 1990 election, but the junta refused to hand over power. It annulled the results and put NLD leaders under detention  After Suu Kyi was released in 2010, the NLD accepted the 2008 Constitution and agreed to contest elections. It swept the 2005 and 2020 polls, but is back to square one as the military has staged another coup   Even in the face of increased state repression, the NLD refused to compromise on its key demands — the end of the military rule and transition to democracy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-party-that-defied-the-junta/article33771958.ece
07 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Cong. moots law to protect Sabarimala customs||The Congress on Saturday appeared to stonewall a bid by the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] to relegate the Sabarimala issue to the back burner. Former Home Minister Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan revealed an initial draft of the law that sought to protect the “religious rights, custom and usages” of Ayyappa devotees if the Congress is voted to power. He said Sabarimala was an election issue. The CPI(M)’s bid to dodge discussion on the subject would not pass muster with the voters. The CPI(M) should spell out whether it opposed the ‘Bill’. The Congress move seemed a counter to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s attempt to throw water on the party’s gambit to revive the Sabarimala issue to draw Hindu votes. Mr. Vijayan had said Sabarimala was not a talking point now. The Supreme Court was reviewing the matter. The government “will discuss with everybody” and calibrate its position once the apex court delivered its verdict, he said. The Congress’s draft law pointedly states that the Devaswom Board will ensure that worship at the Sabarimala temple strictly adheres to the established tradition, “notwithstanding anything contained in any judgment, decree or order”. The Bill proposes to allow only devotees who have complied with temple tradition to enter its precincts. It describes “Ayyappa devotees” as persons who follow the “Ayyappa dharma”. They include only women worshippers below ten and above 50 years of age (Malikappuram). It describes “Ayyappans and Malikappurams” as those who have earned the right to enter the temple by observing a 41-day austerity period, marked by celibacy, spartan vegetarian diet, and sobriety. The Devaswom Board, in consultation with the Tantri, will ban the entry of persons who do not adhere to the Ayyappa dharma and, hence, might unsettle the “purity, serenity, cleanliness, and sacred nature” of the temple. Prison term It also envisages imprisonment of not less than three months and up to two years to those who violate the shrine’s sanctity. The Bill also seeks to punish those who encourage or abet acts of sacrilege. CPI(M) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan said the Bill lacked legal merit and served only to pull the wool over the voters’ eyes.  The Bill proposes to allow only devotees who have complied with temple tradition to enter its precincts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-moots-law-to-protect-sabarimala-customs/article33771912.ece
07 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Village groups coordinate chakka jam||Protesting farmers at the Singhu border on Saturday said residents of their respective villages had participated in the chakka jam (road block) called by the farmers. Teams and committees at the village level had been formed earlier to coordinate between those who were required to be present at the borders and those who would participate in the chakka jam , they said. Patiala resident Manjeet Singh, who has been at the Singhu border since the protest began, said, “These days we are mostly staying at the borders on a rotational basis. Committees have been formed at the village level specially for coordination purposes — to decide which group is going to be at the borders and for how long.” “Similarly, for the chakka jam as well, it was decided as to who all will block the highways. Considering we are here at the border, people from our village have participated in the three-hour blockade, in large numbers. From our village, tractors and trolleys were used to protest on the Bhatinda-Chandigarh highway. Link roads were also shut during this period, according to the updates we received from those who participated,” Mr. Singh said. Several tractors and trolleys were also seen arriving at the Singhu border on Saturday, with groups of people joining the protest, even as the chakka jam was under way in other parts of the country. Division of labour Vikram Singh of Bathinda said, “I have been at the protest site since the first day. We have 25 to 30 trolleys from our village itself. The village pradhan is the one who is mostly coordinating and organising everything. People from our village have gone to the Bhatinda-Amritsar highway for the chakka jam . Because the distance is also less, there are instances where all members from a particular family have joined the three-hour long blockade.” Stating that people back in the villages were ready and motivated to participate in the protest, Maninder Singh, a farmer from Mohali district said, “The call had gone from the main stage at Singhu border and people in the villages were more than happy to join the protest. Everyone is prepared. Anyway people are visiting the borders on a rotational basis. So the ones who are currently in the villages joined the chakka jam wholeheartedly.” Internet services remained disrupted at the Singhu border amid deployment of security forces.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/village-groups-coordinate-chakka-jam/article33771929.ece
07 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||‘India now pharmacy of world’||External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar has said the Indian economy is poised to grow by about 11% despite the COVID-19 crisis. “It is not only the pent-up demand that is set to rebound but there is also the prospect of new growth in the post-COVID-19 era as per the Reserve Bank of India’s monetary policy for FY 2021-22,” Mr. Jaishankar told presspersons at the BJP State office here on Saturday. On the stand-off in Eastern Ladakh, Mr. Jaishankar said military commanders of India and China had held nine rounds of negotiations to ease tensions following an agreement on the disengagement of troops. ‘Progress made’ “I believe some progress has been made but there is no visible expression of that on the ground. But talks will continue,” he said. “While according priority to the infrastructure, manufacturing and healthcare sectors, efforts are on to increase investments in the agriculture sector and giving the much-needed push to liquidity, productivity, and credit flow where needed,” the Minister said. Bad banks would take care of the non-performing assets that pushed some banks into an existential crisis, he said. By converting the crisis into an opportunity, he said, India became the “pharmacy of the world” by supplying medicines such as paracetamol and hydroxychloroquine to countries across the globe. Besides, the number of manufacturers of ventilators had increased to 25 and there were 16,000 COVID treatment centres. Thousands of industrial units were making masks and personal protection equipment. Meeting in Moscow Mr. Jaishankar said Defence Minister Rajnath Singh had met his Chinese counterpart in Moscow last year and he had interactions with top Chinese Foreign Ministry officials too. It was then resolved to disengage in some areas but since it is a complicated process, it might take some more time for things to fructify, he suggested. On the regime change in Washington and its implications, Mr. Jaishankar said Mr. Modi had earned a lot of respect in the U.S. since his visit to that country when Barack Obama was the President, Joe Biden the Vice-President and Antony Blinken the Deputy Secretary of State. “We still have an appeal and relationships that transcend politics,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-now-pharmacy-of-world/article33771938.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Countryside calm||On February 2, announced the Guinness World Records, Chinese social media star Li Ziqi had crossed 14 million subscribers on her YouTube channel, making her the most followed Chinese-language account in the world. Li Ziqi (pronounced zi-chee) has, since uploading her first YouTube video in August 2017, become an unlikely social media phenomenon. For the uninitiated, her slickly produced videos show a slice of life in the Chinese countryside, taking viewers into a world of idyllic calm that offers a sharp contrast to fast-paced urban life. The videos are shot painstakingly with a high quality of production, showing Ms. Li doing everything from chopping firewood to climbing trees to pick fruit, all intended to convey a sense of therapeutic calm, with the kind of aesthetic one usually finds in online meditation videos. Her most popular video so far, which has 83 million views, is a case in point. Titled “Peanut and melon seeds, dried meat, dried fruit, snowflake cake”, it begins with Ms. Li searching the forest floor, with a basket strapped to her back, sifting through leaves to find chestnuts. She picks oranges and apples from trees, and strolls through fields in the company of her pet lamb and puppies. She then uses traditional cooking methods — she eschews all modern appliances — to make a variety of snacks and popcorn. Her videos go beyond cooking. Ms. Li is a one-woman army, making bamboo crafts and, as she showed in her first YouTube video in August 2017, a dress using grape skin. Ms. Li’s is an unlikely success story. Born in Mianyang, a city in southwestern Sichuan province, she grew up with her father after her parents separated. He passed away when she was six, leaving her in the care of her grandparents. She now lives with her grandmother, who makes a regular appearance in her videos and is the main benefactor of Ms. Li’s culinary skills. She dropped out of high school and tried odd jobs in the city from waitressing to working as a DJ in a bar. Unable to find work, she moved back to the countryside and opened an online clothing store. Her first videos were shot only on her phone, a far cry from today’s elaborately produced videos with a videographer assisting her full-time. Global success Her global success has now spurred other rural Chinese celebrity success stories. The latest such sensation, also from Sichuan, is a Tibetan herder named Tenzin, known as Dingzhen in China, who has become a social media star for his rugged looks and herding lifestyle, and is being promoted by the local government to boost tourism. “It looks like a random incident, but it’s not,” Han Li, a professor at Rhodes College who wrote a study on rural internet celebrities in China, told the South China Morning Post . “It’s getting harder and harder to find jobs, and the high living costs mean that it’s increasingly hard for migrant workers to survive and settle down in cities. The government is sending the signal, telling people that you should go back to your rural hometowns, where there might be more economic opportunities.” If Ms. Li’s success is now encouraging local governments in China to manufacture their own stars, her global footprint will be harder to replicate. The irony, of course, is Ms. Li’s stardom has grown on a platform, YouTube, that is banned in China. So are Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram, all of which can be used only with virtual private network software that many Chinese don’t use. Language is another barrier, which Ms. Li has worked around by subtitling her videos and relying broadly on the images to tell her story (she rarely speaks). Even as China’s government spends billions of dollars in trying to boost the country’s soft power and cultural appeal overseas, Ms. Li’s story serves a reminder that cultural appeal can’t often be engineered, and the stories that connect widely are often those that are authentic and organic. In 2016, President Xi Jinping urged the state media “to tell China’s story well” abroad. There are many other Li Ziqis in the country who can perhaps tell that story better than any of the government’s cash-rich official media outlets that are now tasked with doing so — only that a great firewall of China’s internet restrictions stands in between them and the rest of the world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/countryside-calm/article33771956.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Far-right provocateurs||Proud Boys, stand back and stand by, Donald Trump, then President of the U.S., said during the first presidential election debate in September last year, after he was challenged by the moderator to condemn white supremacism. The far-right men’s group of self-described “western chauvinists”, which has grown in notoriety since has recently been in the news for its visible involvement in the January 6 attack on the U.S. Capitol. The group, which until recently strongly supported Mr. Trump, was started by British-Canadian Gavin McInnes in 2016, when he launched its New York chapter. Mr. McInnes, who was described by The New York Times in 2018 as “a former Brooklyn hipster turned far-right provocateur”, also co-founded digital media company Vice in 1994 and was associated with it until 2008. The Proud Boys is a male-only group known to espouse racist and misogynistic views. In a 2017 article, Mr. McInnes wrote: “We [white men] brought roads and infrastructure to India and they are still using them as toilets. Our criminals built nice roads in Australia but Aboriginals keep using them as a bed.” Over the years, the group has also been involved in several street confrontations across the U.S. with Antifa, an amorphous network of anti-racist, anti-fascist organisations. One such fight occurred in Washington DC in December, two days before the Electoral College was scheduled to certify Joe Biden’s victory in the presidential elections. Last week, Canada, where Mr. McInnes grew up, officially designated the Proud Boys as a terrorist organisation, adding it to a list with names like the Islamic State, Boko Haram, the Taliban and Al-Qaeda on it. The listing says, “Members of the group espouse misogynistic, Islamophobic, anti-Semitic, anti-immigrant, and/or white supremacist ideologies and associate with white supremacist groups. The Proud Boys consists of semi-autonomous chapters located in the U.S., Canada, and internationally.” Now that it is listed, members who commit violent crimes could be charged with terror-related offences in Canada and financial assets linked to the group can be frozen. Escalation in violence Canadian Public Safety Minister Bill Blair said there had been an escalation in violence in the aftermath of the U.S. elections by various groups, including the Proud Boys. Ideologically motivated extremism was the greatest threat to Canadian domestic security, as per Mr. Blair. He said the U.S. Capitol attack of January 6 initiated a political response, but the decision itself was a legal call, according to Politico . Henry ‘Enrique’ Tarrio, the 30-something Cuban American chairman of the Proud Boys, said Canada’s move was “ridiculous.” “It’s infringement of free speech rights. All the Canadian Proud Boys have ever done is go to rallies,” Mr. Tarrio said, as per the Associated Press. Mr. Tarrio was arrested on January 4 — two days before the Capitol attack — for possessing high-capacity firearm magazines and for burning a Black Lives Matter flag outside a Washington DC church in December. (He is out on bail awaiting trial). It has also emerged that about a decade ago, Mr. Tarrio, after a previous arrest, had repeatedly cooperated with law enforcement and the FBI in their pursuit of over a dozen alleged criminals, according to court records analysed by Reuters. His lawyer described him as a “prolific cooperator” as per court records. Mr Tarrio has denied this, as per the Reuters report. Trouble is brewing for the group in the U.S. too as the FBI investigates its role in the U.S. Capitol attack. Some group members were identified from videos and pictures (including selfies) taken during the riot. Four cases have been registered against six members, according to the New York Times , although no case has been registered against the group as a whole, as per the Washington Post . The charges against individuals include conspiracy, obstruction of an official proceeding (the certification of the 2020 election), as well as theft and destruction of government property. Apart from this, the U.S. is conducting a domestic extremism review and will await the results of that process before deciding on whether to declare the Proud Boys a terrorist organisation, Press Secretary Jen Psaki said last week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/far-right-provocateurs/article33771960.ece
07 February 2021||Kolkata,||Mamata roadblock to development: Nadda||BJP president J.P. Nadda on Saturday accused the Trinamool Congress government in West Bengal of creating roadblocks to development. He was addressing a gathering at Nabadwip in Nadia district after flagging off the “Parivartan Yatra” of the party. “Your government will go. The Trinamool will be defeated. Lotus will bloom here. Bengal will join the mainstream… This is what the ‘Parivartan Yatra’ is all about,” he said. With just a few months to go for the Assembly election, the yatra, using a bus converted into a “rath” (chariot), is a major programme by the BJP to reach far-flung areas of the State. Mr. Nadda said the “yatra” would start from five places in the State. Union Home Minister Amit Shah would flag off two of them. Raising the slogan “A nek hoyeche Mamata, Paribartan chaiche janata (Enough of Mamata, people want change)”, he alleged that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had been standing in the way of development like a roadblock .   “We want to awaken the people of the State through the ‘yatra’. But I think they have already been awakened. They have decided to remove the Trinamool government. Wherever I went, I saw tremendous support for the BJP,” he said. Earlier in the day, he visited the Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture in Malda district and participated in a roadshow. He also had lunch with farmers. Mr. Nadda, in both his public speeches, highlighted the issue of denial of benefits of the PM Kisan Scheme to the State farmers. “Every farmer in the State would have got Rs. 14,000 . About 70 lakh farmers have been denied of the benefit because of Mamata ji politics of “ cholbe na ” (non-cooperation),” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mamata-roadblock-to-development-nadda/article33771946.ece
07 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi opts to wait, watch U.S. foreign policy shift||U.S. President Joseph Biden’s 20-minute speech at the State Department last week contained many themes for the new administration’s foreign policy agenda, including a return to traditional alliances, a push back to what he called “advancing authoritarianism” and a harsh spotlight on Russia and China on the issues of human rights violations and other challenges they pose to the United States. But he left some of those in New Delhi watching the speech closely, guessing about the future of U.S.-India ties and Washington’s engagement with the region. Conspicuous silence “It is noteworthy that Mr. Biden did not refer to India, Indo-Pacific, South China Sea or the Quad,” said former Ambassador Vishnu Prakash, also making the point that the U.S. President had dealt with China while giving primacy to “economic, IPR and human right aspects, instead of the security concerns resulting from the aggressive Chinese posture”. In his speech, President Biden made five references to China, which he called the U.S.’s “most serious competitor”, and eight references to Russia, which he referred to as a threat that is “determined to damage democracy” in the U.S. He said Washington would engage both countries if it served U.S. national interests. “India and South Asia are not a priority for the Biden administration, given the need to address stark domestic challenges and the urgent requirement, to first, reassure United States’ allies in Europe and northeast Asia ,” said Rudra Chaudhuri, Director of Carnegie India. Experts also pointed out that Mr. Biden’s lack of reference to India, and the fact that he has not so far called Prime Minister Narendra Modi since taking office, has been more than made up by calls last week from his Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin, National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan and Secretary of State Anthony Blinken to their Indian counterparts. The other guessing game in Delhi is over whether the Biden administration will slap sanctions on India when it takes delivery of the Russian S-400 missile system, under its Countering American Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA). This week, U.S. Charge d’Affaires Don Heflin had said that there was no waiver for India from the sanctions at present. For the moment, New Delhi appears to be playing down any concerns over U.S. foreign policy agenda, with officials prepared to “wait and watch”, and not ruffle any feathers while the Biden administration deals with other preoccupations first.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-opts-to-wait-watch-us-foreign-policy-shift/article33771954.ece
07 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Ka-226T to be 33% indigenous: HAL||The total indigenous content of the Ka-226T utility helicopters, to be jointly manufactured locally by India and Russia with Transfer of Technology (ToT), is between 27%-33%, said Chairman and MD of Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) R. Madhavan. The final deal is held up as the Russian proposal of 62% indigenous content in assembled helicopters falls short of the tender requirement of 70%, “In Ka-226T when we talk of 70% indigenous content, it is not the same as the Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) 52%. The 70% is of the Russian content. Engine from Safran and avionics from other countries are not accounted for in this. Balance is what we are looking and from there 70% is taken. Taking the whole helicopter, the indigenous content is about 27-33%,” he said in response to a question from The Hindu at Aero India. Russians were unable to offer 70% of this and they offered up to 62%; that too only in Phase-4 of production, he stated. Defence Ministry is also asking for better split of indigenous production from Phase-2 onwards and increasing it to 70% by including more items, Mr. Madhavan said, adding that the items are being identified for including in the Transfer of Technology to bring the indigenous content up to 70%. The Ka-226T is meant to replace the ageing and obsolete Cheetah and Chetak fleet of the Army and Air Force and the total technical life of these will start finishing from 2023 onwards. As per the Russian proposal, the localisation plan would be spread over four phases, beginning with 3.3% indigenisation for 35 helicopters, going up to 15% for next 25 helicopters, 35% for 30 helicopters in Phase 3 and eventually to 62.4% indigenisation in Phase 4 for the last 50 helicopters. The helicopters would be manufactured by India Russia Helicopters Limited (IRHL) — a joint venture between HAL and Russian Helicopters. As reported by The Hindu last December, faced with an urgent need for utility helicopters, the Army is preparing to approach the Defence Ministry for a waiver on the indigenous content. In 2015, India and Russia had concluded an Inter-Governmental Agreement (IGA) for at least 200 Ka-226T twin engine utility helicopters estimated to cost over $1 billion with 60 helicopters to be directly imported and remaining 140 manufactured locally. The first helicopter would be delivered within 36 months from the signing of the contract.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ka-226t-to-be-33-indigenous-hal/article33771940.ece
07 February 2021||Kozhikode,||Eight posts in 20-member Kerala PSC remain vacant||Eight of the 20 posts of members in the Kerala Public Service Commission (PSC) are vacant at a time when the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government has been accused of regularising the services of temporary staff in various departments and extending the rank lists prepared by the recruitment panel. Sources say the term of Lopus Mathew ended on December 17, 2020, while D. Rajan retired on November 2 and P. Suresh Kumar on April 4. The tenure of P. Sivadasan, T.T. Ismail, Simmi Rosebell John, and E. Raveendranath expired on June 3, 2019, and that of S. Shine on June 10 the same year. M.K. Raghunathan is scheduled to retire on April 9 this year. It is learnt that the government is yet to nominate new members to replace them. The tenure of a PSC member is for six years or 62 years of age, whichever is earlier. The norms According to the PSC website, “ ...The chairman and members of the Commission are appointed by the Governor. The composition of the Commission is such that as nearly as one half of the members of it shall be persons who on the date of their appointment have at least 10 years of service under the Government.” Sources told The Hindu that the size of multi-member interview boards could get reduced now. This would lead to more workload for the remaining members and possible delay in appointments to various departments. Also, the PSC members chair the department-level promotion committees, in which the respective Principal Secretaries are the conveners. If the commission lacks full strength, it could affect the promotion procedures of government employees, the sources added. It is not clear if the government will nominate new members as the Central Election Commission is expected to issue notification for the Assembly polls within a month or so. The model of code of conduct will be in force thereafter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/eight-posts-in-20-member-kerala-psc-remain-vacant/article33772191.ece
07 February 2021||Kochi,||Protests rock university in Kerala for the second day||The main campus of the Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit at Kalady in Kerala witnessed protests by the Congress’s student wing for the second consecutive day on Saturday against the appointment of R. Ninitha, wife of M.B. Rajesh, former Palakkad MP of the CPI(M), as an assistant professor in the Department of Malayalam. The day’s protests began with activists affiliated to the Ernakulam district unit of the Kerala Students’ Union (KSU) taking out a march to the main campus. The police had locked the gates leading to the administrative and academic blocks. The activists then climbed over the gates and rushed towards the office of Vice-Chancellor Dharmarajan P.K. raising slogans alleging irregularities and nepotism in the appointment. However, the police stopped them from entering the office. KSU activists alleged that the Vice-Chancellor was protecting the interests of the CPI(M) by justifying Ms. Ninitha’s appointment. They also accused the Left Democratic Front government of speeding up backdoor appointments of its well-wishers ahead of the Assembly election. Ms. Ninitha’s appointment had sparked a row after one of the subject experts took to social media on Thursday, saying that “it was his first experience where the rank list had gone topsy-turvy.” Those who got the first two ranks were bypassed to choose Ms. Ninitha, he said. She was ranked first in the list of candidates in the Muslim category. The Vice-Chancellor had denied the charge, saying the selection process was transparent. CPI(M) State committee member and Ms. Ninitha’s husband M.B. Rajesh alleged conspiracy by the three subject experts to favour a candidate known to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/protests-rock-university-in-kerala-for-the-second-day/article33771922.ece
07 February 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Farmers block highways in Punjab and Haryana||Members of different farmer outfits in parts of Punjab and Haryana on Saturday blocked several national and State highways and squatted on roads between 12 p.m. and 3 p.m. as part of a programme against the Union government’s three agriculture laws. The protests, which saw the participation of elderly, women and youth, were peaceful and no untoward incident was reported. Slogans were raised against the Centre, demanding the repeal of the laws. Roads in Patiala, Moga, Ferozepur, Fazilka, Barnala, Faridkot, Muktsar, Mansa, Bathinda and other districts were blocked, hampering traffic. Sukhdev Singh, general secretary of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan), one of the largest farmers’ outfit in Punjab, said that its members blocked roads in 13 districts. Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) general secretary Sarvan Singh Pandher said its members blocked roads at 57 places in Amritsar and Tarn Taran among other districts. The protests were held on a call from the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a joint front of farmer unions, which had been agitating against the farm laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/protesters-block-highways-in-punjab-and-haryana/article33771935.ece
07 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Second dose of vaccines to be administered from Feb. 13||India will begin to administer the second dose of COVID-19 vaccines — Covishield and Covaxin — from February 13 for people who were vaccinated on January 16, a press statement said on Saturday. The statement quoting Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan asked the States to schedule all healthcare workers for vaccination at least once before February 20 and all frontline workers at least once before March 6. A total of 12 States and Union Territories have achieved 60% or more vaccination coverage of healthcare workers. Mr. Bhushan addressed a conference of top officials in charge of the State-level Health departments. Both vaccines approved in India are to be given 28 days apart, according to the rules governing their dosage. In the U.S., the two doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine are recommended to be given 21 days apart. And for the Moderna vaccine, the interval is 28 days. In the U.K., the AstraZeneca and Pfizer vaccines are allowed to be given 12 weeks apart (though 21 days is the recommended interval) to ensure more people get at least one shot. As of Saturday, India has inoculated 5.6 million, which includes 5.2 million healthcare workers and 3,70,693 frontline workers, for whom vaccination began this week. There have been 22 deaths reported so far following vaccination. However, none of the deaths have been ruled as being due to the jabs. Scope for improvement Mr. Bhushan urged States and Union Territories to “exponentially increase” the pace of vaccination and that there remained “substantial scope for improvement” in the number of average vaccinations per session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/second-dose-of-vaccines-to-be-administered-from-feb-13/article33771942.ece
07 February 2021||New Delhi,||‘Today’s times can’t be exaggerated as Emergency’||The present times should not be compared to the Emergency as there are still spaces where one can air strong opinions and fight repression, N. Ram, Director, The Hindu Group of Publications, said on Saturday. He was speaking in a webinar organised by Live Law on “Criminalising journalism and cinema”. Mr. Ram said uneven implementation of law, and the higher judiciary, on more than one occasion, had failed to protect press freedom. “The recent arrests and filing of criminal cases against several journalists and also other creative persons, has exposed and widened the fault lines in our Constitution. There are many escape clauses in law which is aggravated by executive overreach and failure of the judiciary to adequately protect,” he said. “There was a time when, in terms of freedom of press, India was in an enviable position among the developing nations. But that was 40 years ago, we had just come out of the dark chapter of Emergency. Political scientist Robin Jeffrey, in a book dealing with the Indian language press, called it India’s newspaper revolution. Today, if I were to claim that we are in an enviable position, then I will be accused of spreading fake news,” he said. One must not fall into a temptation of exaggerating today’s times as the Emergency. “I wouldn’t say that this is like an Emergency. That would be a mistake. I have lived under Emergency, when there was total censorship, detention of journalists. Let’s not rush out to conclusions. There are still spaces where you can express vigorous opinion, strong condemnation of the acts of the executive, criticise the judiciary and so on,” he noted. ‘More sinister’ Senior Advocate Akhil Sibal said what was happening was far more sinister. Mr. Sibal said, “We may not have reached the stage of Emergency, but we are definitely on the way. What we are seeing should be something which alarms us at a deeper level and we must not be dismissive about it as something which is just a temporary blip, but see it for what it is”. Screenwriter Jyoti Kapoor said that after the controversy over Tandav, screen writers were a vulnerable lot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/todays-times-cant-be-exaggerated-as-emergency/article33771933.ece
07 February 2021||Mysuru,||‘Gen. Thimayya will continue to inspire’||President Ram Nath Kovind, who inaugurated Gen. Thimayya Museum at Madikeri in Kodagu district on Saturday, said it commemorates the services and valour of one of the greatest soldiers of India. General K.S. Thimayya served as the Chief of Army Staff from 1957 to 1961 and his ancestral house ‘Sunny Side’ has been renovated and converted into a museum. The museum showcases memorabilia, including weapons and military uniforms, and houses a battle tank at the entrance in addition to a fighter jet, MiG 21, both of which were used in the 1971 war. The President, who went around the museum observing the war memorabilia on display, later wrote in the visitors’ book: “General Thimayya Museum preserves special aspects of the extraordinary character and contribution of one of the finest soldiers in the history of our army.” “The memorabilia at Sunny Side, once the residence of Gen. Thimayya, highlights the sterling features of our brave forces. District Kodagu has the honour of having enriched our armed forces with stalwarts like Gen. Thimayya and Field Marshal Cariappa. I am sure that the museum will inspire our youth to carry forward the legacy of Gen. Thimayya,” the President remarked. Mr. Kovind also paid homage at the War Memorial which is on the premises. The President, who arrived by an IAF helicopter at Madikeri, was received by Minister for Forests, Kannada and Culture Aravind Limbavali, Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, and senior ex-servicemen from Kodagu. Visit to Talacauvery Earlier, the President and his wife, Savitha Kovind, paid a visit to Talacauvery, the birth place of the Cauvery, and offered prayers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gen-thimayya-will-continue-to-inspire/article33771907.ece
07 February 2021||New Delhi,||Hackers leak phone data of Army personnel in J&K||A hacker group has allegedly leaked data of Army personnel using the Bharti Airtel network in Jammu and Kashmir. However, the company has denied any breach in its system. The group, with the name of Red Rabbit Team, hacked some Indian websites and posted the data on the webpages of those portals. The hackers shared some links of those webpages on Twitter in a comment over a tweet of cybersecurity researcher Rajshekhar Rajaharia and tagged several media organisations. The query sent to the Indian Army did not elicit any reply but an Army official said, “We are not aware of any such information but it appears to be malicious intent of some inimical elements.” When contacted, Bharti Airtel spokesperson denied any breach of its server. “We can confirm there is no hack or breach of any Airtel system as claimed by this group. Multiple stakeholders outside of Airtel have access to some data as per regulatory requirements. We have apprised all the relevant authorities of the matter to, therefore, investigate this and take appropriate action. This group has been in touch with our security team for over 15 months now and has made varying claims in addition to posting inaccurate data from one specific region,” the spokesperson said. The links shared by the hacker were initially accessible with mobile number, name and address of subscribers but stopped working after sometime. Red Rabbit Team claimed that it has access to pan-Indian data of Bharti Airtel through a shell uploaded on the company's server and will leak more data soon. Mr. Rajaharia said that hackers had failed to show any credible evidence of possessing pan-India data of Bharti Airtel and it is also unclear on the way they got subscriber’s data.  Telecom operators are required to give access to government and law enforcement agencies of subscriber data registration (SDR) portal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hackers-leak-phone-data-of-army-personnel-in-jk/article33771927.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||NY State Assembly resolution calls for Kashmir American Day||A resolution petitioning New York State Governor Andrew Cuomo to declare February 5 as Kashmir American Day was passed by the State’s Legislative Assembly on February 3. The 5th is also observed in Pakistan as Kashmir Solidarity Day and a social media post from the Consulate of Pakistan in New York suggests the country had a role in promoting the resolution. If the New York State Governor decides to recognise the day as suggested, it could potentially contribute to an understanding of the Kashmir issue that is out of kilter with the Indian government’s positions and messaging. The resolution, which was sponsored by two Democratic Assemblymen, Nader Sayegh and Nick Perry, says, “The Kashmiri community has overcome adversity, shown perseverance, and established themselves as one of the pillars of the New York immigrant communities.” “Kashmiri people living around the world speak the Koshur language and practice their distinct and ancient rites of Islam, Hinduism, and Sikhism; and in the recognition of their unique cultural identity and storied history, which has its roots in the Himalayan foothills and the Pir Panjal Range, helps to keep the Kashmiri identity alive,” it says. “The State of New York endeavours to champion human rights including the freedom of religion, movement, and expression for all Kashmiri people, which are embedded within the United States Constitution, through the recognition of diverse cultural, ethnic, and religious identities,” the resolution says. The Consulate General of Pakistan posted a message of congratulations to the Assembly, Mr. Sayegh and the American Pakistani Advocacy Group on its Facebook page. Following the government’s reorganisation of Jammu and Kashmir via a dilution of Article 370, and the restrictions instituted on August 5, 2019, the Kashmir issue has gained attention in the U.S. It was the main focus of a hearing organised by an Asia-focused committee of the U.S. House of Representatives in October 2019. The Ministry of External Affairs and the Indian Embassy in Washington did not comment on the development in New York when approached by The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ny-state-assembly-resolution-calls-for-kashmir-american-day/article33771931.ece
07 February 2021||MALAPPURAM,||Ghana President gets a taste of Malayali mobilisation||Republic of Ghana President Nana Akufo-Addo must be a puzzled man. A large group of Malayalis has swarmed his Facebook page with comments in Malayalam and English sarcastically asking for the “release” of P.V. Anvar, MLA, from Ghana. After commenting apologetically against Sachin Tendulkar on tennis star Maria Sharapova’s page a couple of days ago, Malayali netizens proved yet again that they had few competitors and parallels in social media sarcasm and humour. Mr. Anvar has been away for the past several weeks, and there were rumours that he was detained in Ghana, the West African country he visited in connection with his business. Soon after Ghana President’s February 2 post on the ‘Composition of the Council of State’ on FB, hundreds of Malayalis began commenting about Mr. Anvar. The post got 305 shares and 3,400 comments till Saturday evening. A comment by Fazal Kavot read: “Mr. Nana Addo, kindly send back our great rainfall observer, Mr. and Dr. Anwar, MLA, to our nation. He is the inventor of ‘Japanese Clouds’.” The user was referring to an old comment by Mr. Anvar that “monsoon clouds from Western Ghats travel to Japan and causes rain there”. Najad Palathingal commented: “Our scientist from Kerala has been missing for a few days. We request you to find him as soon as possible.” Another commenter, Sabith, went on to issue a “threat”: “If he [P.V. Anvar] is not released soon, we are ready to organise a dharna in front of the Ghana Secretariat. As a first step, the Ghananian President’s image will be burned in all cities of Kerala. Please don’t underestimate the power of Kerala people.” But Mr. Anvar responded to the trolls in a jovial manner. Borrowing a Rajinikanth dialogue from Tamil movie Basha , Mr. Anvar said: “I will come late, but I will be the latest.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/malayalis-swarm-ghana-presidents-facebook-page/article33771919.ece
07 February 2021||GUWAHATI,||BJP-led govt. gifts cash to Assam tea workers||Eye on the Assembly election, the Bharatiya Janata Party-led alliance government in Assam doled out cash to more than 7 lakh tea plantation workers on Saturday. Tea plantation workers, referred to as “tea tribes” with roots in Central India, are a potent electoral force in 45 of the 126 Assembly constituencies spread across the tea-growing belts of eastern, central and southern Assam. Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman presided over the “Cha Bagichar Dhan Puraskar Mela” (fair for gifting wealth to tea garden workers) in Guwahati. The event entailed transferring Rs. 3,000 each to the bank accounts of 7,46,667 tea workers. This was the third such cash transfer after two instalments of Rs. 2,500 earlier. The Assam government has so far spent Rs. 584 crore under the scheme. Addressing thousands of tea workers, Ms. Sitharaman said they were the beneficiaries of several schemes today because Prime Minister Narendra Modi had been thinking about them before the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. “The tea workers now enjoy digital facilities anyone in the metros does. You are directly getting money. There are no middlemen. This is the benefit of digitalisation,” she said. Ms. Sitharaman added that the initiatives of the BJP-led governments at the Centre and in the State had led to the opening of bank accounts, mobile banking, and installation of ATMs in tea gardens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-led-govt-gifts-cash-to-assam-tea-workers/article33771944.ece
07 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||‘Centre taking up disinvestment of only loss-making PSUs’||Union Minister of State for Finance Anurag Singh Thakur has stated that the Centre is taking up disinvestment of only the loss-making public sector enterprises and no injustice is done to the two Telugu States in the Union Budget. Speaking at the party office and later at a talk here on Saturday on “Budget 2021 – A giant stride towards Atmanirbhar Bharat” organised by Laghu Udyog Bharathi, Mr. Thakur said that the decisions on disinvestment of PSUs would be taken by the NITI Aayog after categorising them as strategic and non-strategic undertakings. “Every PSU is not put for sale just like that,” he noted. On privatisation of Vizag Steel Plant or Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Ltd (RINL) at Visakhapatnam, the Union Minister said that disinvestment of the PSU was taken up on the suggestion of NITI Aayog. He mentioned that every PSU that had been disinvested so far in the country had performed better and all the stakeholders including employees had benefited with better pay and the companies’ market cap. In case there was any disinformation regarding disinvestment in any particular PSU, the Centre would try to clarify on doubts of the stakeholders from time to time, the Union Minister stated. Responding to a question on the talk of injustice done to Andhra Pradesh and Telangana in the Union Budget, Mr. Thakur said that there was no discrimination meted out to any State and the Budget should be looked from the perspective of the country and not individual States. Funds for all programmes, schemes and project including Polavaram would be given as provisioned. On the agitation against the new farm laws, the Union Minister blamed the Opposition parties for misleading the farming community and said the laws were only aimed at improving their income and not harming their interests. On allocations for Telangana, the Union Minister said that a total of 15 projects including Vijayawada-Itarsi North-South freight corridor with an outlay of Rs. 29,586 crore, which were either completely in Telangana or the State is a part of the project such as lines passing through the State, were in different stages of planning, approval and execution. They include new lines to the length of 1,771 km, doubling of 1,422 km electrification of 1,450 km. On devolution of funds to Telangana from the Centre during 2021-22, the Union Minister said the State would get a total of Rs. 13,990 crore tax devolution and Rs. 2,905 crore grants from the Finance Commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/disinvestment-move-only-for-loss-making-psus/article33772244.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||PM lauds judiciary for safeguarding rights||He stressed that the Gujarat High Court had always stood for the independence of the judiciary and respected the principle of separation of powers. Justice Shah said, “Even in the dark days of Emergency, judges of this court stood for the protection of human rights and independence of the judiciary.” Apart from highlighting the role of technology in delivering justice during the pandemic, Mr. Prasad reiterated the government’s commitment towards independence of judiciary as ‘total and absolute’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-lauds-judiciary-for-safeguarding-rights/article33771923.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||NITI Aayog seeks to track impact of green verdicts||Projects to be analysed include the construction of an airport in Mopa, Goa; cessation of iron ore mining in Goa, and the shutting down of the Sterlite copper plant in Thoothukudi, Tamil Nadu. The others are decisions by the NGT involving sand mining, and construction activities in the National Capital Region. “These have been some of the most significant cases in the recent past that have caused substantial damage to the economy,” the brief notes. The study is to be undertaken by the Jaipur-headquartered CUTS (Consumer Unity and Trust Society) Centre for Competition, Investment and Economic Regulation, that also has an international presence. “The judiciary needs to take into account environment, equity and economic considerations while deciding cases, and needs to institutionalise a mechanism for it,” the brief notes. “The absence of ex-ante (before an event) analysis of the economic costs associated with a decision is further exacerbated when judicial activism by courts and tribunals is also in play.” Vikrant Tongad, Uttar Pradesh-based environmentalist and founder, Social Action for Forest and Environment (SAFE) was among those whom CUTS reached out to, as an expert, because of his involvement in campaigns against sandmining operations. He told The Hindu that he found the study “surprising” in its intent. “Does the government now want to train judges not to give such judgements? Is the government forgetting that due to their negligence, courts have been forced to give strict orders. Will the NITI Aayog also study how much damage will be done if the courts do not give such orders,” he asked. Vice-Chairman of NITI Aayog Rajiv Kumar said the study was a purely economic exercise. “The intent of this study is to analyse the cost and benefit of certain judicial decisions. It doesn’t question judicial intervention. I was, for example, happy to see how Supreme Court's intervention led to the adoption of CNG (compressed natural gas, in transport vehicles in Delhi) and the economic benefits from it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/niti-aayog-seeks-to-track-impact-of-green-verdicts/article33771924.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Farmers block roads, toll plazas in protest||“In a show of their deep anguish over the alleged conspiracy orchestrated by the Central government to discredit and disrupt the ongoing struggle, the people across Haryana took to the roads on Saturday,” he said. The police said no untoward incidents had been reported in the State. The protest was also peaceful in Punjab, where farmers blocked roads and hampered the movement of traffic in Patiala, Moga, Ferozepur, Fazilka, Barnala, Faridkot, Muktsar, Mansa, Bathinda and other districts. Farmers were seen shouting slogans against the BJP-led government at the Centre, but the crowd at Mohali’s Phase-7 road intersection, a prominent protest location, was thinner than during previous farm protests, such as the December 8 ‘Bharat bandh’. In Delhi, where there was no plan for road blockades, a solidarity meeting organised by trade union activists and others was sought to be organised at a park in the Income Tax Office area, which saw high levels of violence and chaos on Republic Day. The police took at least three trade union leaders into preventive custody in the morning, and then detained about 60 protesters at the park itself. Nearly 50,000 police personnel were deployed across the city, with others monitoring social media for harmful rumours, while drones scanned key locations. Farm unions reported police detentions at Jaura in Madhya Pradesh, near Yelahanka stadium in Bengaluru, and a highway near Hyderabad. About 150 protesting farmers of Baghpat in Uttar Pradesh have also been served with notices by the police, according to an SKM statement. Other States Blockades were also carried out at 200 locations in Madhya Pradesh, as well as at multiple locations in Bihar, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Odisha, Karnataka and Rajasthan, the SKM said. Blockades were also carried out in parts of western Uttar Pradesh, even though the Bharatiya Kisan Union-Tikait had yesterday called off the chakka jam in the State. “There was a plan to indulge in violence by people carrying the tricolor and the banner and caps of the Kisan Ekta Morcha,” said BKU leader Rakesh Tikait, explaining that such people had been found among the protesters at Ghazipur.  (With inputs from Vikas Vasudeva in Punjab, Ashok Kumar in Gurugram, and Hemani Bhandari, Jatin Anand and Priscilla Jebaraj in New Delhi)   There was a plan to indulge in violence by people carrying the tricolor and the banner and caps of the Kisan Ekta Morcha. Rakesh Tikait, BKU leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-block-roads-toll-plazas-in-protest/article33771925.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||FSSAI caps trans fats in food products||Trans-fatty acids are created in an industrial process that adds hydrogen to liquid vegetable oils to make them more solid, increase shelf life of food items and for use as an adulterant as they are cheap. They are present in baked, fried and processed foods as well as adulterated ghee, which becomes solid at room temperature. They are the most harmful form of fats as they clog arteries and cause hypertension, heart attacks and other cardiovascular diseases. As per the WHO, approximately 5.4 lakh deaths take place each year globally because of intake of industrially produced trans-fatty acids. The WHO has called for the elimination of industrially produced trans-fatty acids from the global food supply by 2023. “The latest amendments to FSSAI rules signal the completion of the process of regulating transfats in India. The move will make a big difference to the harm caused by this unwanted ingredient. This allows FSSAI and the State-level food safety machineries to focus on implementation and enforcement of the regulations,” said Ashim Sanyal, COO of Consumer Voice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fssai-caps-transfats-in-food-products/article33771926.ece
07 February 2021||Kolkata,||MP dares Suvendu to contest from Nandigram||Taking the fight against Suvendu Adhikari to his constituency, Nandigram, Trinamool Congress MP Abishek Banerjee on Saturday dubbed his former party colleague who joined the BJP two months ago as a “traitor” and “Mir Jafar”, and dared him to contest against Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee from the constituency. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee announced last month that she would contest from Nandigram, weeks after Mr. Adhikari, a prominent Trinamool leader, joined the BJP. After her announcement, Mr. Adhikari promised to defeat her with a margin of 50,000 votes but did not specify whether he wants to contest from the seat or not. “He [Suvendu Adhikari] should say he wants to contest from Nandigram… He wants to make a fool of someone by making that person contest from Nandigram against our leader and is trying to save himself from a humiliating defeat,” Mr. Banerjee said. The MP, who was addressing a gathering in Purba Medinipur after almost six years, accused Mr. Adhikari of joining those who attacked the bust of Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar, who hailed from Purba Medinipur, in Kolkata in 2019. The bust was vandalised during Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s roadshow in Kolkata during the 2019 Lok Sabha election. “The people of Purba Medinipur will never side with the traitors who have tainted the soil of the district,” Mr. Banerjee said. As the polls approach, the war of words between Mr. Adhikari and Mr. Banerjee is getting shriller.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mp-dares-suvendu-to-contest-from-nandigram/article33771950.ece
07 February 2021||Kochi,||‘Problematic move as case is pending before SC’||“The Supreme Court had held in its initial judgment that the exclusion of women for the specific reason of menstruation is violative of their fundamental rights,” says Kaleeswaram Raj, advocate practising in the Supreme Court. “Going by that logic which is still available, you cannot have legislation which goes against the judgment of the Constitution Bench. The judgment maintained that the practice has been violative, is of recent origin and goes against the tenets of gender justice, therefore it violates the equality clauses of the Constitution,” he said. “It could be a violation of fundamental rights as ascertained by the SC in the initial judgment,” he added. Pending in court “The initial judgment has not been reviewed and recalled. The matter is now pending before the Supreme Court and what the Constitution Bench had earlier said has not been strictly reviewed. That has only been adjourned for further adjudication, keeping it in abeyance. A legislative move at this juncture will be problematic since it is pertaining to something before the Supreme Court. It could constitute an intrusion into the ongoing adjudication process, and will be incompetent and vulnerable to challenge,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/such-a-move-will-be-problematic-advocate/article33771908.ece
07 February 2021||Hubballi,||Seer to continue with padayatra||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s decision on Friday night to seek a detailed report by the Karnataka State Commission for Backward Classes on the demand for inclusion of Panchamasali (Lingayat) under 2-A category seems to be have pacified the community. Basava Jaya Mrutyunjaya Swami of Lingayat Panchamasali Peetha at Koodalasangama, who had spoken tough on Friday following Mr. Yediyurappa’s reply on the floor of the House that he cannot take a call on the issue without consulting central leaders, told The Hindu on Saturday that he welcomed the decision of the Chief Minister on referring to the matter to the commission. “We urge the government to get the report as early as possible and implement the same. But our padayatra will continue,” he said. On the further course of action, the seer said they had called a meeting of all the Panchamasali leaders on February 10 to discuss the issue. “We have clearly said that all the leaders, including MLAs, MPs, MLCs, and former MLAs, should compulsorily participate in the meeting. We will discuss the development in detail and announce the next course of action on that day,” he said. The meeting is likely to be held in Tumakuru. Ministers’ statement On Saturday, two of Mr. Yediyurappa’s Cabinet colleagues representing Panchamasali community, Minister for Mines and Geology Murugesh Nirani and Minister for Small-Scale Industries, Information and Public Relations C.C. Patil, issued a joint statement in bid to clear the air. They said the Chief Minister’s reply on the floor of the House that theirs was a national party and decision had to be taken in consultation with the central leaders had been “misinterpreted”. Emphasising that it was their government which had included Panchamasali community in 3-B category earlier, they thanked Mr. Yediyurappa for his decision to seek a report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/seer-welcomes-cms-decision-to-seek-report-padayatra-to-go-on/article33772150.ece
07 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||‘Containment steps working in Kerala now’||The third round of serosurveillance conducted by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) in three districts in the State in mid-December, as part of a national sero survey, has put the seropositivity rate (IgG positivity, indicative of silent, prior exposure to SARS- CoV-2) at the time at 11.6%. This is a jump by 14.5 times from August, when the ICMR’s second round of sero survey had indicated a seroprevalence of 0.8% in the State. The sero survey was conducted in Ernakulam, Thrissur and Palakkad in December 2020. The ICMR’s strategy has been to do repeated cross-sectional sero studies in the same geographic locations so that the disease transmission trends can be traced. The first round of the sero survey in May in the same districts had shown a seroprevalence of 0.33%, while the second round in August showed the seroprevalence to be 0.8%. When compared to the national average, Kerala’s seroprevalence (11.6%) as of December was just half that of the national average (21%). This shows the effectiveness of robust containment measures in the State, including quarantine, contact tracing and testing strategies, it is claimed. However, the other side of the story is that if the seroprevalence at the national level went up by 3.1 times between August and December, in Kerala, this went up by 14.5 times during the same period. Extrapolating the third round sero survey results to the State’s population and comparing it with the actual number of cases that were detected around December, it can be seen that for every case officially diagnosed and detected, the State had missed only about six infections in the community. Susceptiblity Kerala fares well if this is compared at the national level, wherein 30 infections were being missed for every case detected in December. This indicates the efficacy of the focussed testing strategy adopted by the State. The seroprevalence rate thrown up by the ICMR study indicates that a huge proportion of the State’s population continues to be susceptible to COVID-19. Ironically, Kerala seems to be paying the price for the effective control measures that were being adopted. The 100% compliance and cooperation shown by the public in adopting universal masking and other COVID-19 protocols ensured that disease transmission remained slow and steady in the community. Given the nature of the infection and the current seroprevalence rate in the community, Kerala’s engagement with COVID-19 is going to be a long affair. Cases will continue to occur, with occasional local outbreaks, necessitating stronger control measures. All non-pharmacological means of COVID-19 control — masks, hand sanitation, physical distancing — will have to be maintained strictly. As the State goes through the agony of the extended epidemic, the real challenge for Kerala in the coming months would be devising strategies to keep the mortality rate down. However, no discussions on this seems to have come up in any public fora. The government demanded that the State be given priority for COVID-19 vaccination drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/containment-steps-working-in-kerala-now/article33771917.ece
07 February 2021||Srinagar,||CRPF jawan injured in Srinagar||A CRPF jawan was injured in an attack by militants in Srinagar on Saturday afternoon. An official said the jawan suffered bullet injuries in a leg when militants opened fire on an installation of the 29 Battalion in Nowgam area. The police said the area was immediately cordoned off to trace the attackers. No outfit has claimed responsibility for the attack. The injured jawan, identified as Head Constable Manoj Kumar Yadav, was shifted to a hospital where his condition was stated to be stable, officials said. Amid the development, the chief of a recently floated militant outfit was arrested in Jammu. The police said Hidayatullah Malik, alias Hasnain, chief of Lashkar-e-Mustafa (LeM), believed to be a shadow organisation of the Jaish-e-Mohammad, was nabbed during an operation. Around 3.30 p.m., Malik attacked a search party and tried to escape from a spot. “The team, however, displayed exemplary discipline and apprehended him tactfully,” the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/crpf-jawan-injured-in-srinagar/article33771936.ece
07 February 2021||KHAMMAM,||Lorry hits actor’s caravan||Vehicular movement on the busy bypass road here was disrupted for some time on Saturday afternoon when a container lorry hit the caravan reportedly belonging to Telugu film actor Allu Arjun at Satyanarayanapuram. However, no one was injured in the accident. The actor was away in Andhra Pradesh’s East Godavari district shooting for his upcoming film, sources said. Sources said the caravan with its driver and an attendant on board the classy vehicle was returning to Hyderabad from a film shooting spot at Maredumilli in Andhra Pradesh’s Rampachodavaram Agency area when the incident occurred. The rear portion of the caravan was partially damaged under the impact of the collision. Some of the passers-by vied with each other to take selfies against the backdrop of the caravan at the accident spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lorry-hits-actors-caravan/article33772622.ece
07 February 2021||Gwalior,||MP cop attack: Digvijaya hurls 'commission' jibe at state govt||A day after a police inspector, Sudhir Singh Kushwaha, was attacked allegedly by the sand mafia in Madhya Pradesh, Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Saturday blamed the BJP government, saying those involved in the illegal activity feel emboldened because they are “paying commission” to the legislators and Ministers. The BJP has dismissed the allegation, saying it reflected the “working model and culture of the Congress”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mp-cop-attack-digvijaya-hurls-commission-jibe-at-state-govt/article33772272.ece
07 February 2021||Hyderabad,||COVID-19 vaccination for front line workers begins||COVID-19 vaccination for front line workers has begun on Saturday. Telangana Health department staff started to give jabs to employees of Police, Municipality, Panchayat Raj, and Revenue departments. While the target was 41,666, only 15,437 beneficiaries have turned up. Only 37% of the listed beneficiaries took the jab. Two cases of minor Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI) were reported. The vaccination drive was launched on January 16. The first priority was given to Healthcare Workers (HCW) from government sector, followed by those from private sector. The drive for HCWs has come to an end on Friday and the vaccination for the front line workers has begun from Saturday. From January 6 to February 6, 2,08,922 were vaccinated. Photos of senior police officers taking the vaccine on Saturday started to circulate from the morning. Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy took the vaccine at Urban Primary Health Centre (UPHC), Tilaknagar, Nallakunta. Senior officials from the Health department said that employees from Municipality, Revenue, and Panchayat Raj departments too were given the vaccine on Saturday. There are a total of around 2.5 lakh front line workers. As per current plans, vaccination for them will be conducted from February 6 to 12. The drive will resume from Monday. A mop-up round will be held to immunize the front line workers who missed taking the jab.  Covaxin from Monday Telangana Health department will start using Covaxin to immunise people from Monday. Till Saturday, only Covishield was used. State’s Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao said that Covaxin doses were supplied to Hyderabad, Rangareddy, and Medchal-Malkajgiri districts. It will be supplied to other districts too gradually.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-19-vaccination-for-front-line-workers-begins/article33771904.ece
07 February 2021||Kochi,||CB records statement of Sunny Leone||The Ernakulam Crime Branch (CB) unit has recorded the statement of actor Sunny Leone on a petition filed by the coordinator of an event which she was supposed to attend in the district on Valentine’s Day in 2019 but did not. Shiyas, a resident of Perumbavur, petitioned the State Police Chief, who forwarded it to the CB. A CB team met the actor and recorded her statement a couple of days ago at Poovar in Thiruvananthapuram where she was shooting for a movie. The petition accused Ms. Leone of cheating the organisers of Rs. 29 lakh, which was paid as her fee to attend the programme scheduled at Adlux International Convention Centre, Angam aly. The event was not held. Rescheduled many times Ms. Leone reportedly told the CB team that the programme was rescheduled many times, clashing with her other engagements and that the rest of her fee as per the agreement was also not paid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cb-records-statement-of-sunny-leone/article33771916.ece
07 February 2021||Ghaziabad,||Delhi Police notices to Baghpat farmers||Exercising powers under Section 160/91 of CrPc, Delhi Police has served notices on farmers in Baraut town of Baghpat district to join the investigation in connection to Republic Day violence in the Capital. The notice has been issued by Pandav Nagar and Seemapuri police stations. The FIR has been registered under serious sections such as 307 (attempt to murder), 353 (criminal assault on public servant) 147 (rioting) 395 (dacoity), 397 (robbery) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-police-notices-to-baghpat-farmers/article33772177.ece
07 February 2021||Mysuru,||Golden Chariot to be back on track in March||Karnataka’s luxury train Golden Chariot, which has remained off the rails for over three years, is set to chug again for the first time since a complete overhaul, in March. This will also be its inaugural run after the operations were taken over from the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation (KSTDC) by the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC). IRCTC officials confirmed that the first run would be on March 14 and the second on March 21. The Golden Chariot’s official website has scheduled departures till April 2023 but sources admitted much of it would depend on the response. Earlier, the IRCTC had scheduled a February 14 departure but had to put this off owing to operational reasons, and people who had booked the tour were given the option to be accommodated in the new itinerary or get a refund. The refurbishing also took time as during the pandemic, many interior works were pending. These resumed in September/October 2020, said the sources. Though catering largely to overseas tourists, the IRCTC has been forced to tap the domestic travellers as international tourism is still not open. “The response is good and encouraging and we have more than 50% bookings for both the scheduled departures,” according to the IRCTC officials who said they expect to run a full house owing to pent-up demand for travel. All norms related to COVID-19 would be complied to and tourists could be confident of high degree of sanitation and hygiene which would be “built-in”, given the international standards of luxury that entails the Golden Chariot. The luxury train would have had a complete makeover, with new features including renovated cabins, bathrooms, and new upholstery besides Wi-Fi-enabled smartrooms in every cabin. The rakes have also got a different suspension which will pave the way for smoother ride without much jerks. Introduced in 2010, it was billed as the pride of Karnataka tourism and the itineraries included coverage of major places of tourist interest in Karnataka and south India. However, it ran into operational losses amounting to Rs. 41 crore, following which the government of Karnataka suspended its operations temporarily — both for refurbishing the coaches and finalising a new agency to run the train.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/golden-chariot-to-be-back-on-track-in-march/article33772115.ece
07 February 2021||LUCKNOW,||Compensate Prayagraj boats damaged by authorities: SP, BJP ally||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav has accused the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh of “kicking the belly” of the Nishad community, after boats belonging to them were allegedly damaged by the police and administration in Prayagraj during an anti-mining drive. Following the incident, the BJP’s own ally in the State, the Nishad Party, has also demanded action against the officials who allegedly damaged the boats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/compensate-prayagraj-boats-damaged-by-authorities-sp-bjp-ally/article33771948.ece
07 February 2021||New Delhi,||Chidambaram questions delay in Faruqui’s release||Former Finance Minister P. Chidambaram on Saturday questioned why stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui had not been released from jail, more than 30 hours after the Supreme Court ordered his release. In a series of tweets, he asked if the delay was happening with or without the knowledge of the Madhya Pradesh CM.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chidambaram-questions-delay-in-faruquis-release/article33772613.ece
07 February 2021||Mumbai,||Teenager convicted for rape of cousin granted bail||The Bombay High Court has granted bail to a 19-year-old youth and suspended his sentence for raping his minor cousin. In its order, the court said, “Incidents of consensual sex between minors has been a grey area under the law as minor’s consent is not valid in the eyes of law under Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act”. The case dates back to September 2017 when the minor was living in her paternal uncle’s house. She is reported to have told a friend that her her cousin had touched her inappropriately and that her stomach hurts. The friend told their class teacher who inquired about it from the victim. She told the teacher about being sexually harassed by the male cousin and described when, how and where she was subjected to penetrative assault by one of her cousins. The ordeal was then described to the school principal after which an FIR was registered under section 376 (2) (n) and 354 of the Indian Penal Code, along with sections 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the POCSO. The trial court sentenced him to 10 years rigorous imprisonment. However, Justice S.S. Shinde noted that “In the case at hand, facts are distinctive in the sense, victim is first cousin sister of the appellant. At the relevant time, she was a 15-year-old and appellant was 19. Both were students and living in one house. A fact cannot be overlooked that the victim had resiled from her statement under Section 164 — recording of confessions and statements of the Code of the Criminal Procedure. Even her mother was unfriendly to prosecution. Opinions of doctor that victim was subjected to sexual assault was not obtained.” While granting bail, the Bench held, “ The letter and spirit of the law, which defines a child as anyone less than 18 years of age, is to protect children from sexual abuse. I am also conscious of the fact that consensual sex between minors has been in a legal grey area because the consent given by minor is not considered to be a valid consent in the eyes of law.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/teenager-convicted-for-rape-of-cousin-granted-bail/article33771951.ece
07 February 2021||Kolkata,||Major reshuffle in Bengal police ahead of Assembly polls||In a major reshuffle of the top brass of the police, the West Bengal government on Saturday transferred 24 senior IPS officers, including the Kolkata Police Commissioner. Soumen Mitra will be the new Kolkata Commissioner, while Anuj Sharma, who was the Commissioner since mid-2019, has been appointed as the Additional Director General, Criminal Investigation Department. The transfers, which come before code of conduct is enforced, were anticipated, feel political observers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/major-reshuffle-in-bengal-police-ahead-of-assembly-polls/article33771952.ece
07 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rights panel recommendations binding upon government: HC||In a significant ruling, a Full Bench (comprising three judges) of the Madras High Court has held that recommendations made by the State Human Rights Commission (SHRC), after a full-fledged inquiry into allegations of human rights violations, are binding on the government and that they are legally enforceable immediately. Justices S. Vaidyanathan, V. Parthiban and M. Sundar ruled that the State could not choose to ignore the recommendations and that the only remedy available to it would be to approach the High Court seeking judicial review of the recommendations. The authoritative ruling was made while answering a reference made to the Bench. The judges said SHRC could also approach the High Court for enforcement of its recommendations if the government fails to enforce them within a month or a larger time-frame fixed by the commission. The government could not oppose such a case filed by SHRC unless it had also filed a petition to review the recommendations. The Full Bench further held that the Commission could direct the State to pay compensation to victims of human rights violations and the State, in turn, could recover the money from the erring official concerned. However, before effecting recovery, a show cause notice must be issued to the official seeking his explanation. Such explanation must be sought only with respect to the quantum of compensation recoverable from him/her and not on the aspect as to whether he/she was responsible for the human rights violations, the Bench ordered. A similar show cause notice would be sufficient even if the delinquent official had to be imposed with minor penalty. On the other hand, if the official had to be imposed with a major penalty, a limited departmental inquiry must be conducted to ascertain the extent of culpability, the judges said. They also stated that the officials found guilty by the commission could also approach the High Court challenging the findings as well as the recommendations. After answering all legal questions, the judges said: “We are constrained to express our considered opinion that despite all the provisions in the Protection of Human Rights Act of 1993… a perception has been gaining ground in the corridors of the implementing authorities that the recommendation of the Commission lacks legal sanctity and hence can be trifled with.” Hence, they suggested suitable amendments to the Protection of Human Rights Act of 1993 “to provide for an internal/self-contained mechanism qua Human Rights Commission for enforcing its recommendations under Section 18 of the Act.” Such amendment would complete the Act and leave no room for procrastination, the judges said. Before concluding the 517-page judgement, the Full Bench commended SHRC counsel R. Srinivas assisted by Arun Anbumani, amicus curiae B. Vijay and advocates D. Nagasaila and Sarath Chandran for enriching the Bench to gain insight into the relevant and important case laws, conventions, treaties and other related materials. “Their scholarship collectively has contributed to our conclusion and without their varying degrees of perspectives, we would not have been able to discover our pioneering and plausible answers to the reference,” the Bench observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rights-panel-recommendations-binding-upon-government-hc/article33772081.ece
07 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. sees under 500 cases for a third day||For the third day in a row, Tamil Nadu reported under 500 fresh cases of COVID-19. A total of 477 persons tested positive for the infection on Saturday, taking the State’s tally to 8,41,326. Of the fresh cases, Chennai reported 156, followed by Coimbatore (65) and Chengalpattu (36). There were 26 cases in Tiruvallur and 20 in Erode. Except Perambalur, which reported no new case, the remaining districts saw fewer than 20 cases each. Of these, seven districts — Ariyalur, Krishnagiri, Namakkal, Ranipet, Tenkasi, Tirupattur and Thoothukudi — reported just one case each. Six returnees — four from Karnataka and one each from Kerala and Telangana — also tested positive. Three persons succumbed to the infection — one each in Chennai, Cuddalore and Madurai. Till date, 12,382 persons have died. A 51-year-old man from Madurai with diabetes and hypertension was admitted to a private hospital on January 21 with complaints of fever for eight days, cough for five days and difficulty in breathing for a day. He died on February 5 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. Another 503 persons were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 8,24,527. As many as 4,417 persons are presently under treatment. This includes 1,567 persons in Chennai, 474 in Coimbatore and 297 in Chengalpattu. As of Saturday, Chennai’s tally stood at 2,32,168, followed by Coimbatore (54,753) and Chengalpattu (51,764). In the last 24 hours, 53,256 samples were tested in the State, taking the total figure to 1,63,34,713. Two more returnees from the U.K. tested positive for COVID-19. Till date, 29 returnees and 20 contacts have tested positive. Three returnees are presently undergoing treatment in isolation wards, while the remaining 26 primary and 20 contacts who had tested positive have tested negative during follow-up testing and have been discharged. They are under home quarantine, according to a Health Department bulletin. The samples were sent for whole genome sequencing for the U.K. variant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-sees-under-500-cases-for-a-third-day/article33772068.ece
07 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Traffic police walk the extra mile to create awareness on road safety||The job of traffic police goes beyond regulating traffic and issuing challans to violators. Persuading road users to adhere to rules strictly and maintain discipline is the latest addition to their list of duties. The objective is to reduce fatalities and road accidents in the city. Traffic inspector Marimuthu and his colleague Azhagesan get into MTC buses and give a pep talk to women travelling in the bus about safety. After explaining the do's and don'ts to them on the road, the police officers advised the women to instill a sense of road safety among their family members. “We believe that road discipline should begin at home,” said an officer. Recently, traffic police in Royapuram distributed sweets to those following road rules sincerely at a traffic junction. Although the violators felt embarrassed, they appreciated the gesture of the men in uniform, said an officer. Elsewhere, the police have set up temporary stands. They get artistes to dress up as Yama, the Hindu god of death, and deploy them at traffic junctions. Even mimicry artistes from local clubs are roped in to drive home the message. Traffic police have also joined hands with autorickshaw drivers for spreading road safety awareness. Assistant Commissioner of Police Julius Christopher assembled all autorickshaw drivers on EVR Road and advised them to strictly follow rules and make other road users adhere to the rules to make it a safe city. At Ellaiyamman Koil junction on Ennore Express Highway, ACP Rajagopal met drivers of heavy vehicles and asked them to avoid rash driving and overtaking along Ennore Express Highway. These efforts are immediately promoted on social media by Additional Commissioner (Traffic) N. Kannan on a daily basis. “As far as road safety programmes are concerned, we leave it to the imagination of local officers. People should listen to them and follow road rules,” he said. “The objective is to reduce fatalities and road accidents and making roads safe for travel. A month-long awareness programme on road safety that started January 18 will go on till February 17. Each one of our officers has been given a programme chart to execute,” said Mr. Kannan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traffic-police-walk-extra-mile-to-create-awareness/article33772659.ece
07 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Colleges reluctant to have all students||Though the Higher Education Department has given permission for colleges to reopen on Monday, institutions are hesitant to go the whole hog and bring all students in. In many colleges, students predominantly depend on suburban trains. However, time restrictions to issue tickets to students has been a hindrance, colleges say. At DRBCCC Hindu College in Pattabhiram, nearly 50% of the students commute by train, said N. Rajendra Naidu, director. “Already the students and teachers have been complaining about the low attendance during the first hour of college. The Railways does not issue tickets to our students before 9 a.m. and after 4 p.m. Our second shift classes continue beyond 6 p.m. Due to the restrictions, we have to permit students to leave by 3.30 p.m. It is difficult for our administration as well,” he said. Loyola College principal A. Thomas said though no parent had approached him with complaints so far, the college had not asked first year students to come to the campus on Monday. “Since we have been ordered to strictly follow the SOP, we have asked the final year Arts students alone to come. It will be very difficult to call all the students as we have more than 2,000 of them in the senior classes,” he said. Mr. Thomas said the students and the parents were comfortable with the arrangement. “Parents are a little apprehensive to send their wards. We have around 7,000 plus students. It will be too much for them and for us. We will be able to control in the classrooms but outside, despite the information boards, we don’t know how far the physical distancing norms would be followed. We are taking all the precautionary measures.” D.G. Vaishnav College Principal Santhosh Baboo said students were in the midst of semester exams. Students with laboratory work were asked to come to the college for 10 days. The batch would take the practical test at the end of the class. Similarly, students from the Commerce stream were asked to come for accounts classes in batches. College managements are struggling with the financial burden of having shut the institutions for nearly a year. A. Kanagaraj, chairman of the Jaya group of institutions said it had approached the government for relief from penalty on road tax. “Each college runs 20 to 100 buses. For the past 10 months, the buses have not been running. We have told the government not to penalise us for not paying the road tax. ” he added. Southern Railway sources have, however, said as of now, the Railway Board had not permitted relaxations for allowing students, except girls, to commute in the workmen specials.  (With inputs from   R. Srikanth)   Parents are a little apprehensive to send their wards A. Thomas Loyola College principal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/colleges-reluctant-to-have-all-students/article33772655.ece
07 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘State should attract more FDI to develop infrastructure’||Tamil Nadu should work towards attracting more foreign direct investment (FDI) to expand airports, roads and ports to provide necessary logistical support to industries, the 15th Finance Commission report tabled in the Parliament recently has said. The State also needs to establish cable-landing stations (such as those in Visakhapatnam and Mumbai) for increasing the bandwidth for high data speed and to create a digital ecosystem for industrial growth, it added. Currently, Tamil Nadu accounts for 7% of the FDI that comes into India, the report noted. The Finance Commission also noted that forestry and tourism were sectors with significant potential for the State. While Tamil Nadu was a pioneer in the production of renewable energy (wind and solar), grid management needed more focus, it pointed out. “Better grid management in renewables can generate substantial streams of future revenue,” the report said. The Commission also noted that Tamil Nadu needed to be cognisant of its power purchase costs, which have risen over 5% in the last two years, citing a newsletter on the UDAY scheme, by the Union Ministry of Power in 2019. It also noted that the State needed to upgrade its performance in the metrics set under the UDAY scheme, in terms of smart metering and distribution transformer metering in urban areas. Tamil Nadu needs a sustainable framework to ensure the management of freshwater as a critical resource, the report said. Citing the report of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India for the year ending March 2017, the Finance Commission noted that a turnover of 68 working public sector undertakings (PSUs) of the State government was equal to 8.54% of its Gross State Domestic Product, reflecting the important role played by them in the economy. However, it pointed out that the State should closely monitor outstanding liabilities and substantial budgetary support to State PSUs to avoid contingent liabilities imposing additional fiscal burden. The report also called for a time-bound programme for restructuring of State PSUs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-should-attract-more-fdi-to-develop-infrastructure/article33772071.ece
07 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No takers for Covaxin among frontline workers||On Saturday, a total of 9,084 persons were vaccinated against COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu, taking the total figure to 1,66,130. As many as 7,120 healthcare workers and 1,964 frontline staff were inoculated. While 7,044 healthcare staff received Covishield, 76 received Covaxin. None of the frontline workers chose Covaxin on Saturday. The vaccination drive was conducted in 563 session sites, with the day’s capacity being 76,100. With this, a total of 1,57,348 healthcare workers and 8,782 frontline staff have been vaccinated in the State. In Chennai, a total of 1,250 persons received the vaccines. Of these, only 85 were frontline staff. Of the day’s capacity of 1,100, 1,057 persons — 1,054 healthcare workers and three frontline staff — were vaccinated in Coimbatore. Some of the health unit districts — Aranthangi, Cheyyar, Dindigul, Kanniyakumari, Pudukottai, Ramanathapuram, Tiruvarur and Vellore — had no takers among frontline workers. Chengalpattu Collector John Louis took the jab at the upgraded primary health centre in Nandhivaram, Guduvancheri. A number of “black cat” commandos of the National Security Guard also received the vaccines. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan was present. The Health Secretary said: “There is no need for unnecessary fear about vaccination. Health staff and frontline workers have been prioritised due to the risks they face. We are expecting an approval soon from the Centre to start immunising elderly persons, those with co-morbidities and those in public life, in a week or two.” Vellore Collector A. Shanmuga Sundaram also got his shot at the Government Vellore Medical College Hospital. R. Selvi, dean of the college was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-takers-for-covaxin-among-frontline-workers/article33772648.ece
07 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Where does State stand after 2 investors’ meets?||Around 64% of memoranda of understanding (MoUs) signed during the first edition of the Global Investors’ Meet (GIM) 2015 and 30% of MoUs inked at the second GIM in 2019 with the Industries Department have fructified till date. A total of 98 MoUs, with an investment of Rs. 2,42,160 crore, were inked at the GIM in 2015, in the presence of the then Chief Minister Jayalalithaa. Data provided by Guidance Tamil Nadu shows that of this, 50 were with the Industries Department, of which 32 firms have commenced commercial production and 12 are still under the implementation stage. Six projects worth Rs. 11,700 crore, signed in 2015, have been dropped for various reasons. The firms that scrapped the MoUs are SPEL Semi Conductor Limited (Rs. 500 crore), Janar Resources SDN BHD (Rs. 700 crore), SPIC (Rs. 6,000 crore), MPL (Rs. 500 crore), Realify Properties (Rs. 300 crore) and Gopio integrated industrial township (Rs. 3,700 crore). The six firms had given a commitment to hire over 36,600 people. The second GIM, hosted at the Chennai Trade Centre by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami-led government in January, 2019, managed to bring in 147 MoUs to the Industries Department, entailing investments to the tune of Rs. 1,55,248 crore. And of this, only 30% have commenced commercial production. While 86 deals are still under various stages of implementation, six are yet to commence. Three projects signed during the 2019 GIM by Anuradha Cotton Mills (Rs. 45.30 crore), Moham Technopark Ltd (Rs. 150 crore) and RPP Blue Metals (Rs. 40 crore) have been dropped. Another eight deals, including an MoU worth Rs. 12,000 crore by Jasan Infra Pvt Ltd., have been put on hold. When asked for reasons for projects being dropped or not being started yet, Guidance Tamil Nadu said, “Details like project-wise investment and employment made so far and reasons why the project has not started/commenced, etc., cannot be provided as per Section 8(1)(d) of the RTI Act, 2005, which states that there shall be no obligation to give any citizen.” Apart from the Industries Department, MoUs were also signed with other departments including Information Technology, Agriculture, Energy, Housing, Tourism and MSME, among others.  Three projects signed during the 2019 GIM by Anuradha Cotton Mills (Rs. 45.30 crore), Moham Technopark Ltd (Rs. 150 crore) and RPP Blue Metals (Rs. 40 crore) have been dropped||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/where-does-state-stand-after-2-investors-meets/article33772063.ece
07 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Farmers’ bodies thank CM||Representatives of several farmers’ welfare groups from the delta region thanked Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami for announcing the waiver for farm loans, worth Rs. 12,110 crore, availed by 16.43 lakh farmers from cooperative banks. The Chief Minister met with Tamil Nadu Cauvery Delta Region Farmers’ Welfare Association general secretary Cauvery S. Ranganathan, Tamil Nadu Farmers’ Association co-ordinator P.R. Pandiyan, Cauvery Delta Farmers’ Association general secretary Delta V. Sathyanarayanan, Tamil Farmers’ Welfare Association president G. Sethuraman, Tamil Farmers’ Association Tiruvarur district president Payari S. Krishnamani, Tamil Farmers’ Association District secretary Semmangudi M. Rajendran, Kollida Keezhanai Delta Farmers’ Association president P. Vinayagamurthy, Cauvery Delta Farmers’ Association District president N.H. Haja Maideen and others on Saturday. The representatives said Mr. Palaniswami had taken a historic decision by announcing the waiver for farm loans, along with relief for those affected by cyclones like Nivar and Burevi and the economic distress caused by the COVID-19-induced lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-bodies-thank-cm/article33772070.ece
07 February 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Punjabi man on a mission to preserve Thirukkural||Kedayil vizhuchelvam kalvi oruvaruku, madalla matrai yavai — Learning is the only imperishable wealth, the others are not true riches. These words resonated with a 58-year-old in Chennai, 10 years ago. And that began his journey into learning the Thirukkural. Meet Jaswant Singh, a civil engineer by profession and a nature lover by passion. At his house in Mogappair, Mr. Singh stoops over a small table with an Ezhuthani (metal stylus), and his hand smoothly moves over palm leaves as he engraves words on it. He started writing the couplets on a palm leaf using the stylus towards the end of 2019. Using the COVID-19-induced lockdown to his advantage, he completed all the 1,330 couplets recently. A pagdi (turban) wearing Sardarji reading out couplets surprises many. “I am a native of Hoshiyarpur in Punjab, but I grew up in Chennai. During my school days, I studied in a Hindi-medium school and I realised the potency of the Tamil language much later in life. I started learning various forms of literature and 10 years ago, I started reading the Thirukkural. It is the only text that is applicable to all religions and races. It is applicable to mankind always and is not restricted to a particular time period,” he says. Mr. Singh then wanted to preserve the Thirukkural on palm leaves and embarked on the mission. “Though I started in 2019, I used the COVID-19 lockdown to my advantage as I was at home. I got some palm leaves from a tree without the nongu [ice-apple], put them in hot water along with some spices and papaya leaves for softening. After drying them in the shade, I started writing the Kurals on them,” he explains. To make the engravings clear, he applies a mixture of ash (from burning leaves of a variety of spinach) and lemongrass oil on the leaf. “This can be preserved for hundreds of years. Children should also start writing the names of family members and their ancestors on such palm leaves so that it can be passed on from one generation to another,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/punjabi-man-on-a-mission-to-preserve-thirukkural/article33772676.ece
07 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tribunal cuts accident compensation by 40%||The Motor Accidents Claims Tribunal, Chennai, has reduced compensation awarded to a family of road accident victim by 40% as he was found to be driving his motorcycle on the wrong side and not holding a valid driving licence. According to a petition, on July 13, 2012, Sabesan was riding his motorcycle on G.N. Chetty Road when he met with an accident involving a Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) bus. Sabesan was admitted in the hospital and he died on July 25, 2012. In its petition, the family of Sabesan alleged that the bus driver was responsible for the accident and sought compensation from the transport utility. In its response, the MTC said the bus was on its trip from Iyyappanthangal to Broadway. When the bus reached G.N. Chetty Road, the driver noticed that the traffic police had closed the main road and took a diversion to Bharathiraja Hospital Junction Road. The MTC alleged that the motorcycle was coming at high speed from the opposite direction, on the wrong side of the one-way, and despite best efforts by the driver the accident occurred as the victim did not slow down. After considering the records and evidence, the tribunal said the accident occurred due to the negligent act of the MTC driver as well as Sabesan. The rash and negligent act of the MTC driver was fixed at 60% and rash and negligent act of the victim was fixed at 40%, it said. The tribunal directed MTC to pay a compensation of Rs. 12.20 lakh, after deducting 40% from the original award of Rs. 20.33 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tribunal-cuts-accident-compensation-by-40/article33772662.ece
07 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ministers distorting my statement: Dhinakaran||The Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) general secretary, T.T.V. Dhinakaran, has stated that a few Ministers have “distorted” his observations for their convenience and have made statements contrary to facts. Pointing out that arrangements were under way to welcome back V.K. Sasikala, aide of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, to Tamil Nadu, Mr.Dhinakaran said that going by “concocted tales and repeated false complaints” of those in power to the Director General of Police, he developed the suspicion that they might do something to damage law and order but the blame would fall on “true followers” of Jayalalithaa. Later in the day, the AMMK leader claimed, in a statement, that the police had granted permission to his followers to welcome Sasikala in many places including Chennai. He called upon his followers to greet Sasikala, who would be coming from Karnataka, by standing on either side of the road from Athipalli on the inter-State border to Chennai. The arrangements should be made without causing inconvenience to people or the traffic and by adhering to “military discipline” and safety protocols for COVID-19, he added.  The police have granted permission to my followers to welcome Sasikala in many places T.T.V. Dhinakaran AMMK general secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ministers-distorting-my-statement-dhinakaran/article33772073.ece
07 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Suspend water release’||The Water Resources Department has represented to the Andhra Pradesh authorities to suspend release of Krishna water to Chennai till March-end. The five reservoirs that meet city’s water requirements are now filled up to 96.3% of their storage capacity of 11.75 tmc ft as on Saturday. Poondi reservoir, which is the city’s prime storage point, continues to receive 320 cusecs (cubic feet per second) of Krishna water through Kandaleru-Poondi (KP) canal. The department has urged Andhra Pradesh to resume Krishna water release from April after a short break. Officials of the WRD said all the lakes that support Chennai’s water supply were filled up. Krishna water received is distributed to other lakes from where it is supplied to Chennai. This has helped maintain the storage in the lakes as water drawal is avoided. “We have requested the Andhra Pradesh authorities to stop water discharge till March-end so that the surplus water does not get wasted. Nearly 1,100 cusecs of water is being released into KP canal for requirements of areas enroute such as Tirupati and Kalahasti and the remaining amount reached Poondi,” said an official. As on Saturday, the city has received 7.2 tmcft of Krishna water since September last year. About 500 mcft was discharged for a month from May last year and that accounts for nearly 7.7 tmcft so far in 2020-21. This was the highest quantum of water received since 2011-12 when Chennai got nearly 8.19 tmcft., the officials said. The department plans to start repair the slope along the 25-km stretch of KP canal between the State’s entry point and Poondi reservoir. “We plan to rectify the slope particularly between 4th and 10th km of the canal to prevent it from sliding. Tendering process is in progress and work will be started soon,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ap-urged-to-suspend-discharge-of-krishna-water-till-march-end/article33772110.ece
07 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai Metro benefits from branding strategy||After Nandanam and AG-DMS Metro stations, Koyambedu station has found a sponsor to its name and it’s viaduct wears new colours, as part of semi-naming rights initiative. According to officials of Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL), Baashyam Constructions has won the contract for semi-naming rights for Koyambedu station and now renamed Baashyam Koyambedu Metro station. The viaduct at the station have been painted yellow and blue. At present, two stations already have new names — Muthoot Nandanam station and AG-DMS Lalitha Jewellery station while Nandanam has been painted red, AGDMS walls have been given a new coat of blue. Two more in the line “Semi-naming rights, allowing a firm to prefix their brand to the station name has been done for increasing the revenue to manage expenditure. We started with one station sometime ago and now other stations are being gradually taken and companies see this as a different way of advertisement,” an official said. More stations like Shenoy Nagar and Saidapet too will be renamed shortly, said R. Anandakrishnan of Mark Metro, which has won the contract for many stations. “Billroth Hospitals and City Union Bank have got semi naming rights for Shenoy Nagar and Saidapet stations respectively. In a few weeks, the station walls of these two stations will get a fresh paint with new colours,” he said. Talks are on to rope in more companies for stations like Teynampet and Thousand Lights. This apart, Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL) has been trying to open more retail outlets and restaurants on the premises of its stations to see if it can pull crowds to this system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/branding-strategy-pays-off-for-metro/article33772661.ece
07 February 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Palani panchamirtham at your doorstep soon||Soon, you can get Palani panchamritham at your doorstep, with the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR and CE) Department tying up with India Post for delivery. The pack would contain half a kilo of panchamritham , 10 gm of vibhuthi and a 6x4 inch picture of Sri Dhandayudhapani in Raja Alankaram . Each pack would be would be priced at Rs. 250. Sources in the department said that logistics and packing would be handled by the department of posts. The temple authorities would provide the sealed panchamritham , v ibhuthi and picture. “During the lockdown there has been a lot of demand for the prasadam from devotees. Similarly, the temple also has a capacity of 30,000 kg of panchamritham daily, which we thought we could utilise,” said an official source. The department website would soon have a link that would provide a payment gateway. “We are also discussing with India Posts to provide facility for payment of cash at their counters. They have said that the delivery would be done within three days via speed post mode,” he said. The department sees a demand for this prasadam pack in Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Karnataka. The panchamritham , which is primarily made using bananas, palm jaggery, ghee, dates and cardamom, has a shelf life of 15 days if kept unopened and on opening can be kept under refrigeration for a longer period. Minister Sevvur Ramachandran, who issued the order, said that the department had over the last four years retrieved 1,198.40 acres of lands and buildings on 181 grounds that had been encroached upon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/palani-panchamirtham-at-your-doorstep-soon/article33772079.ece
07 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Road cavities, leaking sewers irk residents||Residents of Anna Nagar West Extension in Chennai are demanding a permanent solution to leaking sewers that frequently cause road cavity. On Friday, the drinking water pipeline was damaged during the work to repair the sewer network on 57th Street, TVS Colony.  Residents said this caused road cavity and now the water distribution network too had been damaged. R. Sridhar, a resident of 57th Street, said supply was affected as the water gushed out from the damaged pipeline. Residents said the work being carried out for over a month now must be completed quickly to restore regular traffic on the road. V. Rajagopal, president of Anna Nagar Western Extension Residents’ Welfare Association, said the ward did not have a dedicated engineer to supervise the operation and maintenance of the network for a year and it was difficult for the depot engineer to monitor such large localities. Officials of the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board said work was in progress to repair the sewer network on 57th Street and on Mahatma Gandhi Salai where road cavity was common. “We are repairing both water and sewer lines simultaneously,” an official of the board said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/damaged-roads-leaking-sewers-irk-residents/article33772827.ece
07 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PPE kits being given to sanitation workers||Over 4,000 sanitation workers in 21 urban local bodies (ULB) in nine districts of Tamil Nadu are being given personal protection equipment (PPE) kits, in a phased manner. According to a press release, Vistaar Financial Services Private Limited and the Indian Institute for Human Settlements have joined hands to distribute PPE kits to 4,589 sanitation workers in 21 ULBs in Chennai, Cuddalore, Chengalpattu, Coimbatore, Salem, Tiruppur, Madurai, Virudhunagar and Dindigul, to ensure the health and safety of the frontline workers. In the first phase, the kits were handed over to 675 sanitation workers in two ULBs in Chennai. The distribution is expected to be completed by February 20. Implemented through the Tamil Nadu Urban Sanitation Support Programme, the initiative will also educate the workers on the safe usage, storage and disposal of PPEs. Each kit contains three cotton masks, two pairs of gloves, a pair of wristband, headband and two bottles of liquid soap.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ppe-kits-being-given-to-sanitation-workers/article33772064.ece
07 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PMK, AIADMK hold talks on reservations||PMK’s representatives G.K. Mani, K. Balu and others met AIADMK leaders P. Thangamani, S. P. Velumani and K. P. Munusamy to discuss internal reservations for Vanniyars within Most Backward Classes category at Minister Thangamani’s residence on Greenways Road in Chennai on Saturday. Long way to go Sources aware of the discussions said that the State government was likely to agree to internal reservations but added that there was ‘still a long way to go’ before an agreement could be struck. “It will take another two or three days to find a suitable agreement,” said a source. The source also added that only the reservation issue was discussed and reiterated that alliance would be discussed once the agreement was finalised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pmk-aiadmk-leaders-discuss-quota-issue/article33772678.ece
07 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||2.32 kg of gold seized at airport, 1 held||A man was arrested for attempting to smuggle 2.32 kg gold worth Rs. 1.14 crore at Chennai airport. In a new modus operandi , Chennai Air Customs found that smugglers hid gold in an aircraft from Dubai and they deployed a domestic passenger, who would travel from enroute cities and then retrieve gold, according to a release. Officials intercepted Mohabath Khan, who travelled by a Chennai-Guwahati-Chennai flight, which earlier arrived from Dubai, and found 1.16 kg of gold tied to his waist in a cloth pouch. During questioning, he told the officials that he travelled in the flight from Chennai to Guwahati and then returned by the same flight to retrieve the gold. He said he was asked to retrieve gold from two seats in the aircraft but he could find gold only from one seat. He was then arrested. When officials checked the aircraft, they found five rectangular pieces covered in black tapes and tied to a thread along with a metal piece and concealed in a hollow pipe of a seat, the release said. Officials found 10 gold bars weighing 1.16 kg and worth Rs. 57.1 lakh in the package.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/232-kg-gold-seized-at-airport-one-passenger-arrested/article33772642.ece
07 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Retired SI, son arrested on murder charge||A father-son duo was arrested on Friday for allegedly murdering a member of their family in Saidpet police station limits. The police said the deceased was identified as V. Nesaraj, who had a shop providing broadband connections. His father, Vedanayagam, is a retired sub-inspector. Vedanayagam’s elder son Bhagyaraj worked in a private company. On Thursday, Nesaraj, who lived on the second-floor of the three-floor building in Venkatapuram, Saidapet, visited his elder brother’s family on the first floor to settle some family disputes. An argument broke out between them and in the melee, Vedanayagam and Bhagyaraj allegedly pushed Nesaraj out of the house and closed the gate. However, Nesaraj had fallen and lay unconscious. When he was taken to the hospital, doctors declared him as “brought dead”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/retired-sub-inspector-arrested-on-charge-of-murdering-son-during-spat/article33772641.ece
07 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||18 children rescued in special drive||Eighteen children were rescued from different parts of Chennai as part of “Operation Smile 2021”. All of them have been sent to children’s homes in the city. To reduce crime against women and children, “Operation Smile” the Greater Chennai Police, Social Defence and Labour Departments are conducting “Operation Smile 2021” between February 1 and 15. Shops checked From February 2 to 5, the teams checked several shops and establishments in Royapettah, Adyar, Thiruvanmiyur Nungambakkam and rescued 18 children. Action will be taken against the guilty under Child and Adolescent Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act, the officials said.  (Childline operates a toll-free helpline for children in distress -1098.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/18-children-rescued-in-special-drive/article33772650.ece
07 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hundreds of workers left in the lurch||When G.D. Naresh Babu, a conservancy worker employed by the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) in Shenoy Nagar, reported for work on January 11, his worst fear had come true. He, along with the other workers in his division who were engaged as contractual labourers under the National Rural Livelihood Mission (NULM), were asked not to come henceforth. “I had put in 10 years of work. They sent me out in two minutes and with no settlement,” he said. P. Srinivasulu, general secretary of the Red Flag Union of GCC workers, said at least 700 workers had been discharged in the first phase of lay-offs after privatisation. According to an enumeration done in March 2020, there were 9,257 conservancy workers employed under the NULM scheme by the GCC in the 12 zones where it was directly engaged in conservancy operations. “A small fraction of them have been absorbed by Urbaser Sumeet. The majority are staring at lay-offs,” he said. Mr. Srinivasulu said while these workers were earning Rs. 392 per day (around Rs. 12,000 a month), which is lower than the minimum wage, the salary paid to those absorbed by the private company was much less. ‘Bad precedent’ Va. Prabhu, founder of Thozhilalar Aikkiya Munnani Iyakkam, said the civic body had set a bad precedent by sending away these workers who were frontline warriors during the pandemic. The workers, who were hailed as saviours by the public, have been left jobless and without a proper settlement, he added. “After sacking the conservancy workers, the civic body now claims that they will take back only those who are not aged and against whom there are no complaints,” Mr. Prabhu said. A senior GCC official said the workers would be absorbed by the new dispensation based on manpower requirements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hundreds-of-workers-left-in-the-lurch/article33772043.ece
07 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TNCC chief to campaign against dumpyard||Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) president K.S. Alagiri will launch a signature campaign on Sunday demanding the closure of Kodungaiyur dumpyard. The Congress leader will launch the campaign from the main entrance of the dump on Sunday evening and the campaign would be headed by J. Dillibabu, president, North Chennai West Congress Committee, according to a statement.  A danger to people Mr. Alagiri said the dump had been causing pollution and health hazard to people living nearby. He alleged that the ruling AIADMK government and the Greater Chennai Corporation had not taken any steps to address the problems faced by residents of the locality in the last 10 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/alagiri-to-press-for-closure-of-kodungaiyur-dumpyard/article33772664.ece
07 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police hospitals to be upgraded||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday announced that police hospitals in Coimbatore, Madurai, Tiruchi and Avadi with inpatient facilities, and those in Chennai, Salem and Tirunelveli with outpatient facilities would be upgraded, with 36 beds, X-Ray, ECG, UltraSound and CT scan facilities and an operation theatre that will work 24X7. In a statement, Mr. Palaniswami said Governor Banwarilal Purohit had already announced this in his address. “Amma’s government is concerned about the well-being of the Police Department. The State Government continues to be at the forefront of securing the health of their families too,” the Chief Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-hospitals-to-be-upgraded/article33772065.ece
07 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Withdraw cases against other protesters too’||Manithaneya Makkal Katchi president M.H. Jawahirullah on Saturday said cases filed by the police against people who participated in protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), the National Register of Citizens (NRC), the National Population Register (NPR) and other important issues in Tamil Nadu should be withdrawn. In a statement, Mr. Jawahirullah welcomed Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s announcement that cases filed against jallikattu protesters, who had not indulged in violence, would be withdrawn. “Similarly, the State government must come forward to withdraw cases against those who participated in protests against the CAA, the NRC and the NPR, hydrocarbon and methane extraction [in Delta region], the Sterlite Copper plant in Thoothukudi and the Koodankulam nuclear plant as well,” he said. Mr. Jawahirullah said it was against democratic norms to threaten people by filing cases against them. “The cases that were filed against those who organised and coordinated the protests, participated in them, and those who spoke and wrote in support of the protests should be withdrawn,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/withdraw-cases-against-other-protesters-as-well-jawahirullah/article33772681.ece
07 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||IIF seeks vehicle scrapping centre in Coimbatore||The government should consider establishing scrapping centres for vehicles in foundry clusters such as Coimbatore, Rajkot and Kolhapur, according to Coimbatore chapter of the Institute of Indian Foundrymen (IIF). Policy welcomed Welcoming the vehicle scrappage policy announced by the Central Government recently, the Coimbatore president of IIF S. Balraj said the present proposal of 15 years for commercial vehicles and 20 years for cars for scrapping are reasonably fine considering factors such as emission generated from vehicle, engine efficiency, fuel efficiency and safety. However, since scrapping of vehicles involves the sentiments of the vehicle owners, the government should not force the users to scrap the vehicle. Instead, it should have more measures such as the Green Tax proposed. The government should consider GST benefits for those exchanging the old vehicles. Similarly, the resale /scrap value should be reasonably good so that owners will go in for scrapping of old vehicles. Interest-free loans or minimum interest should be extended for those exchanging the old vehicle for a new one. Similarly, mileage benefits should be introduced on diesel price which can be achievable only with new vehicles. The government should come out with a special policy for vintage cars as these are collected by many.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iif-seeks-vehicle-scrapping-centre-in-coimbatore/article33772111.ece
07 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Colleges gear up to resume classes for first, second year students||Following the State government’s announcement to reopen colleges for first and second year undergraduate students, arts and science colleges here have started making preparations. Though the colleges were open for final year students and following the COVID-19 safety protocol, the managements say the entry of first and second year students pose fresh challenges and that the State government will do well to address those.  100 % occupancy The first of the challenges is accommodating students while adhering to social distancing norm. A few management representatives The Hindu spoke to said though the emphasis on adhering to the norm works well on paper, practically it is impossible, what with the government allowing 100% occupancy in cinemas, buses and opening up shops and markets where people crowd. To overcome the problem, colleges will first ask either the first or second year students to attend classes, complete the lab/practicals wherever it is a part of the coursework and then ask the other year students to turn up for classes. The Bharathiar University has also planned something on similar lines, says Vice Chancellor P. Kaliraj. The University will first ask the first year students to attend colleges as the university and its affiliated colleges have not yet seen the students, have to verify their credentials and then ask the second years to return. Even as one batch attends class in classroom the other batch can attend classes online, he says and suggests that the University may continue with online examination system, at least for now. The University will decide on this after holding a meeting with the management representatives and principals, he adds. ‘Gallery’ classrooms At the Government Arts College, student strength is not much of a problem in most of the disciplines, says a faculty, adding that wherever there are more students, the College will hold the classes in ‘gallery’ classrooms that have enough space to accommodate all students. There are other attendant issues that the colleges face and the government and University must intervene like the issue concerning college buses, says Ajeet Kumar Lal Mohan, president, Association of Self Financing Arts, Science and Management Colleges of Tamil Nadu. Transportation The government is silent on bus transport, particularly inter-state operation of buses as in border district like Coimbatore many students and even faculty are from Kerala. CCTV cameras Likewise, the government has asked colleges also to install vehicle tracking equipment and CCTV cameras in buses while a Madras High Court in this regard was only for schools. This additional cost has come at a time when colleges are short of funds because of lockdown, he says and adds that the Government order has come at a time when the colleges have little time to implement the order. The other challenge is of colleges with hostels. The government order that managements should allow only one student in a room poses is difficult and it should do something about it, says a college principal. Conceding that accommodating students in keeping with the COVID-19 safety protocol is a challenge, Mr. Kaliraj says the University will work with the colleges to arrive at a solution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/colleges-gear-up-to-resume-classes-for-first-second-year-students/article33772684.ece
07 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Elephants to start arriving today for Thekkampatti annual rejuvenation camp||Temple and mutt elephants from across the State will start arriving at Thekkampatti, near Mettupalayam, on Sunday for the annual rejuvenation camp, which will begin on Monday. Officials from the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department said that 28 elephants will participate in the 48-day camp, which was postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The elephants will arrive at the camp site on the banks of River Bhavani near the Vanabadrakali Amman temple. Of the 28 elephants, around 25 are expected to arrive by Sunday, the officials said. As part of the COVID-19 safety protocol, all the mahouts and other workers accompanying the elephants must submit COVID-19 negative certificates and that the vehicles used to transport the elephants must be thoroughly disinfected. Decision on allowing visitors to the camp is yet to be announced. Works such as erection of pandals and electric fences at the camp site have almost been completed HR&CE Department Minister Sevvoor S. Ramachandran, Minister for Municipal Administration S.P. Velumani and Commissioner of HR&CE Department S. Prabhakar will participate in the inauguration of the camp, according to the officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephants-to-start-arriving-today-for-thekkampatti-annual-rejuvenation-camp/article33772112.ece
07 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Corporation starts repairing damaged roads||Coimbatore Corporation has started repairing roads damaged while executing underground drainage and water supply improvement work. To mark the inauguration of the project, Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani participated in a ground-breaking ceremony held in East Zone on Saturday. A release from the Corporation said the work in the East Zone included laying new road in Wards 32 and 37 – Codissia Road, Kumutham Nagar Main Road, Vilankurichi Road from Maheshwari Nagar to the city limit and a few other roads. Sources said the Corporation, under Special Road Project had received Rs. 51 crore from the State Government. Likewise, the Corporation would also repair stretches of all city roads that had potholes. Towards this end, the Corporation had prepared 161 estimates for Rs. 28 crore and awarded contract as well. A few of the contractors, who won the bids, had not yet started the work and to those contractors the civic body had issued notices – 90 notices in all seeking explanation for the delay, the sources said adding that the civic body had asked all contractors to complete the work in time.  A few of the contractors, who won the bids, had not yet started the work||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-corpn-starts-repairing-roads/article33772103.ece
07 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Reply sought from TNSTC on complaints of excess bus fare||Amid complaints of excess ticket fare collection in ‘Deluxe’ semi-low floor buses by the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC), Joint Transport Commissioner of Coimbatore Zone K. Umasakthi said on Saturday that the Transport Department has sought the explanation from TNSTC on this issue. A check report was filed recently following the complaints, he said. Further action will be taken based on the reply from TNSTC, Mr. Umasakthi said. He denied claims made by media reports that action was taken against a driver and a conductor for charging excess ticket fares in Sulur. When contacted, a TNSTC official from Coimbatore asserted that no excess fares were charged from passengers in the red-coloured town buses. The fares are being charged as per the government order issued by the State government, he claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reply-sought-from-tnstc-on-complaints-of-excess-bus-fare/article33772688.ece
07 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district reports 65 cases||Coimbatore district reported 65 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the overall tally to 54,753 cases. The Health Department did not report any deaths as the district’s death toll remained as 673. The district saw 53,606 recoveries and 474 patients were active cases. A total of 49 patients were discharged from various treatment centres in Coimbatore district on Saturday. Tiruppur district reported 16 fresh cases, taking the tally to 18,014 cases. No deaths were reported in the district. As many as 17,619 patients have recovered and 174 were active cases. Tiruppur district reported 221 deaths overall. On Saturday, 35 patients from the district were discharged from various treatment centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district-reports-65-cases/article33772691.ece
07 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Awareness on govt. training scheme should improve among industries||Industries in need of skilled workforce get support from the Central and State governments through various schemes to train the workers. However, shortage of labourers and lack of awareness among industries are challenges, say sources here. Under the Amma Skill Training and Employment Scheme, the district is looking at training 1,200 candidates this financial year. The candidates should have passed class VIII and aged less than 45. They should be residents of Tamil Nadu with a family card. The trainees get stipend of Rs. 5,000 a month during the six month training. Of this, the government gives Rs. 2,000. Industries can recruit and train candidates under this scheme. However, according to industry sources, one of the challenges under the scheme is workers with a family card here. Industries largely employ guest workers from other States in the shop floor and they do not have family cards here. Also awareness about the scheme should improve among industries. The Coimbatore District Small Industries Association's proposal under the Skills Strengthening for Industrial Value Enhancement was recently approved by the government. The Association is tying up with institutions for the training for the three year project. About 40 units have evinced interest in the project and they have to identify the trainees, says M.V. Ramesh Babu, president of the Association. P. Nallathambi, president of Coimbatore SIDCO Estate Manufacturers’ Welfare Association, adds that a couple of industries at the Estate had tried training workers under the government schemes. However, identifying workers is a challenge and guest workers tend to move from one unit to another in a short period. It is difficult to train them, he says. Official sources say that though there are several skill development programmes, various issues slowdown these schemes. While it is difficult to identify workers, sometimes, the training for a specific skill that a worker looks out for in a particular locality is not available in that area. Also, if a worker enrols for training for a skill, he will not be able to get trained in another skill after that. Further, industries need to absorb the trained workers when the training period ends and should pay higher wages for the skilled workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/awareness-on-govt-training-scheme-should-improve-among-industries/article33772696.ece
07 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||DMK stages protest||DMK workers led by Singanallur MLA N. Karthik staged a protest near the Thanneerpandal Road ‘S’ bend condemning the AIADMK government for ignoring elected representatives in government events. Mr. Karthik said Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani had participated in an event on Saturday morning – a ground-breaking ceremony – to mark the Coimbatore Corporation taking up road repair work. As a government event, the government and Corporation ought to have invited him as he was the elected representative of the area. For the past years the government was in the habit of ignoring elected representatives, Mr. Karthik said. The police removed the protesters from the place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-stages-protest/article33772685.ece
07 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Hindu Munnani functionary arrested for remarks on Prophet Muhammad||The Singanallur police on Saturday arrested a Hindu Munnani functionary on the charges of making remarks insulting Prophet Muhammad during a public meeting. According to the police, M. Jaishankar (42), district general secretary of Hindu Munnani, made these remarks during the meeting held near Singanallur Bus Terminus on February 1. Based on a complaint lodged by Uppilipalayam Village Administrative Officer Banumathi, the Singanallur police registered a case against him under sections 143 (Punishment for unlawful assembly), 341 (Punishment for wrongful restrain), 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 153 A (Promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) of the Indian Penal Code against Jaishankar. He was absconding since the meeting and was nabbed on Saturday evening, according to the police. The accused was remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hindu-munnani-functionary-arrested/article33772108.ece
07 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Action sought against fake M-sand manufacturers||The Coimbatore Corporation Contractors’ Association has sought action against those producing fake M-sand. In a petition to the various departments of the State government and the district administration, the Association president KPC Chandra Prakash said M-sand is mixed with crusher powder and sold as M-sand and some mix gravel sand and sell it as M-sand. Use of the fake M-sand affects the quality of the building and poses risk to the building users. Structures that use poor quality M-sand will start developing cracks within months. Only the M-sand manufactured by those who get certificate from the PWD for quality should be permitted for use in construction activities. The other M-sands should be seized and action should be taken against the manufacturers. There should be inspections of units that make M-sand to identify those who make such sand, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/action-sought-against-fake-m-sand-manufacturers/article33772107.ece
07 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Bharathiar University observes formation day||Bharathiar University recently observed the 39th formation day. A release from the University said R. Subbayan, the first Vice Chancellor, who spoke at the event, emphasised on the importance of science, technology, engineering and mathematics in developing key skills. In his presidential address Vice Chancellor P. Kaliraj spoke about the University’s ranking in the National Institutional Ranking Framework and detailed the steps taken to introduce outcome-based education framework. The University honoured its senior scientists, those from affiliated colleges and faculty who had worked for improvement in rankings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bharathiar-university-observes-formation-day/article33772686.ece
07 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Retired TNSTC staff stage demonstration||Retired employees of Tamil Nadu State Transport Commission (TNSTC) staged a demonstration demanding payment of pending dearness allowance (DA) at the head office on Mettupalayam Road on Saturday. A release said that the DA payment has been pending for 63 months. The demonstration was organised by the Coimbatore Branch of the TNSTC Retired Employees’ Welfare Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/retired-tnstc-staff-stage-demonstration/article33772689.ece
07 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Charred body of man found near forest area||The charred body of a man was found within a forest area near Kallar in Mettupalayam on Friday. The police said that an anti-poaching watcher spotted the burning of the body at around 5.30 p.m. on Friday, following which the information was sent to Odanthurai Village Administrative Officer Senthilkumar and Mettupalayam police station. Based on the complaint lodged by Mr. Senthilkumar, the Mettupalayam police registered a case. The body appears to be that of around 40 years old and the identity of the man and the cause of death are yet to be ascertained, according to the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/charred-body-of-man-found-near-forest-area/article33772690.ece
07 February 2021||Coimbatore/Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||World Wetlands Day observed in districts||The ENVIS Centre on Forest Genetic Resources and Tree Improvement at the Institute of Forest Genetics and Tree Breeding (IFGTB), Coimbatore, observed World Wetlands Day 2021 and the 50th anniversary of the Ramsar Convention digitally by organising an awareness event through Facebook live recently. A mobile photography contest was also conducted for students and public on the topic - wetlands and their significance. Both events were registered in the worldwide events organised by the World Wetlands Authority. Director of IFGTB C. Kunhikannan said in his address that wetlands are rich with biodiversity and are habitats for a dense variety of plant and animal species. Kannan C.S. Warrier, Senior Principal Scientist and ENVIS Coordinator, said that World Wetlands Day marks the date of the adoption of the convention on wetlands in the Iranian city of Ramsar on 2 February 1971. Results of the photography contest were declared by John Prasanth Jacob, Chief Scientist. A total of 79 persons took part in the contest from different States. Prizes were awarded to the winners and e-certificates to all the participants. An awareness poster and a video highlighting the importance of conservation of wetlands were also released. S. Vigneswaran, programme officer of ENVIS, also spoke. Anamalai Tiger Reserve, Tiruppur Forest Division in collaboration with Nature Society of Tiruppur organised an awareness event to mark the World Wetlands Day at Nanjarayan Tank on the outskirts of Tiruppur. Assistant Conservator of Forests (Forest Extension Centre, Tiruppur) M. Krishnasamy, said that the event focussed on raising awareness among the residents of Koolipalayam living near the Nanjarayan Tank on the importance of wetland conservation. “Usually we conduct this event every year in different colleges, but this year we held the event [in Nanjarayan Tank] due to the pandemic,” he said. Wetlands are ecosystems that are flooded by water either permanently or seasonally. Tiruppur Forest Range Officer S. Senthil Kumar said that the awareness event was held based on the theme of this year’s World Wetlands Day, which was ‘Wetlands and Water’. Students in National Service Scheme from Chikkanna Government Arts College also participated in the awareness event, he said. President of Nature Society of Tiruppur K. Ravindran said that tank was chosen because it is “the most prominent wetland in Tiruppur district” due to the arrival of migratory birds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/world-wetlands-day-observed-in-districts/article33772682.ece
07 February 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Two children drown in pond||Two siblings drowned in a pond in Sogathur panchayat here on Saturday. The victims, Iniya (10) and Sivani,(7), daughters of Murugan of Sirupillai village in the panchayat, had stepped out of their home for fishing in a nearby pond. Their bodies were later found in the pond. The bodies were recovered and sent for autopsy. The Dharmapuri police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-children-drown-in-pond/article33772100.ece
07 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. to handover maintenance of Ellapalayam Lake to Olirum Erodu Foundation||With Olirum Erodu Foundation, a social organisation in the district, being the only applicant expressing interest to maintain Ellapalayam Lake in Villarasampatti in Ward 31 free of cost, the Corporation is expected to hand over the orders to the Foundation next week. Seepage from Lower Bhavani Project (LBP) canal is the main source of water for the lake located at a sprawling 26.55 acre. Due to poor maintenance, the lake lost its glory and hence the civic body took restoration work at Rs. 11 crore. Constructing retaining wall, strengthening the weir, creation of a park with lawn, play materials for children, ornamental water foundation, arch, solar lighting, beautification and planting of saplings, provision for drinking water and culverts were done. Work began in June 2017 and was completed in 2019 and was opened for the public. Though boats were purchased and available for riding, the civic body did not operate the boats in the past two years. The Corporation’s aim to convert the park and lake as a famous spot for the residents did not yield any result as it was not maintained properly. With only a few visitors turning up every day, the civic body decided to invite private organisations to maintain the park free of cost. Interested organisations were asked to apply to the civic body and it received only one application. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu that Olirum Erodu Foundation was involved in various restoration and maintenance works of water bodies and the orders to maintain the lake would be given to the Foundation soon. Regarding operation of boats, the Commissioner said a decision would be taken only after discussions with the Foundation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-to-handover-maintenance-of-ellapalayam-lake-to-olirum-erodu-foundation/article33772105.ece
07 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘Create additional platform at Erode Railway Junction’||The District Congress has urged the railways to create an additional platform at the Erode Railway Junction and also wanted the passenger train services resumed at the earliest. In a petition submitted to John Thomas, General Manager of Southern Railway, during his visit to Erode recently, K.N. Basha, vice-president of the Erode District Congress Minority Wing and former member of Zonal Railway User’s Consultative Committee, said there were only four platforms in the junction and they failed to cater to the needs of all incoming trains during a particular time. The letter said trains were forced to wait outside the station when the existing platforms were occupied, causing inconvenience to passengers. “It delays water refilling for trains,” he said. Mr. Basha said other major stations in the division had two entry points with booking counters. But the Erode Junction had only one entry point and the passengers coming from the Railway Colony side could not obtain the tickets. Hence, it was necessary that a booking counter should be established at the other entrance, he added. Passenger train services The letter also said that most of the passenger trains were stopped in March, 2020 during COVID-19 pandemic. As COVID-19 cases had reduced significantly, the railways should resume the operations of the passenger trains immediately, he added.   There are only four platforms in the junction and they fail to cater to the needs of all incoming trains||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/create-additional-platform-at-erode-railway-junction/article33772106.ece
07 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||IMA takes out bike rally against mixopathy in Erode||Urging the Central government to withdraw the notification that allows Ayurveda doctors to conduct 58 surgeries, members of Indian Medical Association (IMA), who started their motorcycle rally at Krishnagiri, reached Erode on Saturday. The rally that began at Hosur passed through Krishnagiri, Dharmapuri, Salem, Namakkal and reached the city. C.N. Raja, National vice-president, IMA Headquarters and S.T. Prasad, president, Erode IMA, flagged off the rally on Perundurai Road that passed through GH Roundabout, Railway Station, Kollampalayam, Solar, Kodumudi and reached Karur. Members said rallies started from four zones and they would meet in Tiruchi and proceed to Chennai on February 7. They said the purpose of the rallies was to create awareness among the public that mixing modern medicine with traditional medicine would affect them. They said that they continued to observe a fast for the past five days and wanted the notification withdrawn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ima-takes-out-bike-rally-against-mixopathy-in-erode/article33772089.ece
07 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power loom units to halt production from February 11||Unable to cope with the rising price of yarn, over 40,000 power loom units involved in producing rayon fabrics have decided to stop production from February 11 to 21 in the district. Members of Erode Erode Power Loom Owners Association said a consultation meeting was held with power loom owners in Erode, Chithode, Lakkapuram and Veerappanchatiram over the issue of continuous rise in yarn price. The members said they were unable to sell the produced fabric and they were incurring heavy loss in the past one year. Hence, it was decided to halt production for 11 days during which they would seek government’s intervention to reduce the prices of yarn. B. Kandavel, coordinator, Tamil Nadu Federation of Power Loom Association, said there were over 55,000 power loom units in the district, of which 40,000 units were involved in producing rayon fabrics. About 24 lakh metres of rayon fabrics were produced every day in these units and about 60,000 workers were involved. The price of yarn that stood at Rs. 150 a kg in November, 2020, rose to Rs. 230 a kg during Pongal and remained the same. “We incur a loss of Rs. 5 per metre and halting production is the only option left for us,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-loom-units-to-halt-production-from-february-11/article33772095.ece
07 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Handicrafts exhibition at Poompuhar||Handicrafts from across the country including idols and paintings are on display at the special handicrafts exhibition that commenced at Poompuhar showroom on Mettur Road here on Saturday. Assistance The exhibition by the Tamil Nadu Handicrafts development Corporation Limited is to provide marketing assistance to craftsmen and improve their livelihood. Brass oil lamps, bronze icons, wood carvings, Thanjavur painting, Thanjavur art plates, artificial jewellery, rosewood inlay panels, incense, perfumery, jute products, brassware items, wood carving and dolls are on display. Also designer saris, anklets, bangles, American diamonds, Jaipur oil paintings and other handcrafted products are displayed. Price of products ranges from Rs. 50 to Rs. 1 lakh and a special discount of 10% are offered for all the purchases. Also, debit and credit cards are accepted without any service charge. The exhibition is open from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. on all days till February 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/handicrafts-exhibition-at-poompuhar/article33772093.ece
07 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Excavations at Kodumanal to begin soon||Excavations at Kodumanal village in Chennimalai Union by the Department of Archaeology are expected to commence soon and continue till the end of September. Sources in the department said a team led by J. Ranjith, Archaeology Officer, Chennai, and Project Director for Kodumanal Excavation would commence the digging at the sites that were already identified during the excavations carried out last year. “The government has issued the work order and the team is waiting for the funds to be released,” they added. During the four-month-long excavation that ended in September, 2020, the team unearthed potsherds with over 130 Tamil-Brahmi scripts near the Noyyal Riverbed and also over 1,500 graffitis in potsherds. Also, other artefacts, including Roman coins, unearthed confirmed that Kodumanal served as an important industrial-cum-trade centre as it was located along the river. Hence, excavations are planned near the riverbed. Also, over 300 burials were visible on the five-acre burial site of which only 27 were opened during the last excavations. It revealed three types of burials - cairn circle, urn burial, urn burial with cists and without cists. Also, excavations revealed more ornaments and ceremonial pottery in the burials. Hence, digging more burials would throw light on the megalithic period and further facts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/excavations-at-kodumanal-to-begin-soon/article33772092.ece
07 February 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||20 COVID-19 cases in Erode||Erode reported 20 new COVID-19 cases, taking the district’s tally to 14,487. While 20 persons were discharged, 173 persons continue to be under treatment. Salem reported seven cases, taking the district’s tally to 32,486. While 17 persons were discharged, 104 persons are under treatment. Namakkal saw one case, taking the district’s tally to 11,678. Five persons were discharged, while 76 persons are under treatment. Krishnagiri saw one new case and six persons were discharged. The district’s tally stood at 8,089. Dharmapuri reported two cases and two persons were discharged, the overall tally being 6,600.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/20-covid-19-cases-in-erode/article33772087.ece
07 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Collector inspects job fair venue||Collector C. Kathiravan on Saturday inspected Gobi Arts and Science College at Karattipalayam where a mega private job fair is scheduled to be held on February 9. The District Employment and Career Guidance Centre will conduct the fair in which 10,000 vacancies are to be filled in over 200 companies. Mr. Kathiravan said registration with Tamil Nadu Skill Development Corporation, registration for getting jobs in foreign countries, counselling for entrepreneurs who wish to start their own units through District Industries Centre and various loans available from banks would also be held on the occasion. Superintendent of Police P. Thangadurai, Gobichettipalayam RDO Jayaraman and other officials were present.     Members of the Congress party staged a demonstration at Nasiyanur here on Saturday in support of the protesting farmers in Delhi. The members of Erode Urban and Erode North District Congress Committee led by its presidents E.P. Ravi and S.V. Saravanan respectively along with cadre staged the protest and raised slogans against the BJP government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-inspects-job-fair-venue/article33772091.ece
07 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||As Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board is undertaking maintenance work at the Erode sub-station – Karungalpalayam electric line, power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on February 8 on E.V.K. Sampath Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article33772094.ece
07 February 2021||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||Training programme||A three-month skill training programme in knitting and sewing for the posts of knitting and sewing operators is being conducted by the Government Industrial Training Institute here. The programme envisions training for those between 18 and 40 years of age, with any educational qualification of 8th class and above. The trainees will be absorbed through placements in companies. The programme has 40 vacancies and classes will be conducted from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. The training is free except for a token amount of Rs. 100 as entry fee. Applications can be procured at Rs. 50. Those interested can approach the Deputy Director, Government ITI, Hosur. For details, call 04344-262457.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/training-programme/article33772099.ece
07 February 2021||Kancheepuram,TAMIL NADU||Mishap averted after LPG vehicle develops leak on Chennai-Tiruchi NH||A major fire accident was averted on Saturday evening when an 18-tonne liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) bullet tanker, proceeding towards Puducherry on the Chennai-Tiruchi National Highway, developed a leak and was safely escorted to a nearby LPG plant. According to the police, the incident took place at around 5.30 p.m., when the driver of the bullet (a large truck that carries cooking gas in a pressurised state) hit the brakes to avoid a head-on collision. Due to the force, the vehicle climbed onto the median. As the traffic began to pile up on the highway, the police stepped in to move the vehicle using a crane. One of the pressure valves was minimally damaged and led to a negligible leak in the gas. Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services (TNFRS) personnel and the oil company’s fire safety team rushed to the spot and safely escorted the vehicle to the Chengalpattu LPG plant, where the vehicle was weighed and unloaded at around 8 p.m. “Vehicles from Mahindra World City and Chengalpattu with around 20 personnel were rushed to the spot. Our men sprayed water and ensured that the leak was kept under control by diluting the LPG,” said K. Kumar, District Fire Officer, Kancheepuram. A police vehicle and an ambulance also accompanied the tanker, he added. The movement of traffic was affected due to the accident. Vehicles proceeding towards Tiruchi were diverted to the other side.  Our men sprayed water and ensured that the leak was kept under control by diluting the LPG   K. Kumar District Fire Officer, Kancheepuram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gas-tanker-develops-leak-major-fire-averted-in-kancheepuram/article33772667.ece
07 February 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Attack against Dalits on the rise’||The State government should deal with an iron hand against people who attack Dalits as such incidents were on the rise in the delta region, said A. Kathir, Executive Director of Evidence, a Madurai-based non-governmental organisation Speaking to reporters here on Saturday, he said following a complaint that Rahul, a 22-year-old Dalit youth, was beaten up by a group of men at a village in Thanjavur district on February 1, a fact-finding team from Evidence visited the victim in the hospital and spoke to his parents, friends and relatives. According to Rahul, under treatment in Government Hospital in Thanjavur, he had been living in Konur with his relative Lakshmanan for the last three months. His parents lived at Poondi near Ammapettai. He worked as a daily wager along with Lakshmanan. Their job was to load sand from the riverbed to trucks and tractors belonging to Vikky. He went to Vikky’s house on February 1, along with other workers, to ask for his wage dues of Rs. 8,000. An annoyed Vikky and a few others took him to a secluded place near Konur burial ground, and assaulted him with a log. As per FIR, he was taken in a car to Vikky’s farm at Kulichapattu and was beaten up. He was videographed while being beaten up. Vikky and his Caste Hindu accomplices forced him to admit that he had stolen Rs. 50,000 from his relative Lakshmanan’s house. In a bid to escape from their clutches, he admitted to have stolen the money. His father Gunasekaran lodged a complaint with the Ammapettai police. After speaking to Rahul, the police arrested Vikky and six others. When Rahul came to know that Vikky’s friends had posted the video of the atttack on social media, he was dejected and consumed poison. His parents rushed him to the hospital. The Ammapettai police said they had not received any complaint from Vikky or others that Rahul had stolen Rs. 50,000 from the house of Lakshmanan. “If it was true, they should have made the complaint on February 1 itself,’ Mr. Kathir said. Crime against Dalits in delta districts were on the rise as caste Hindus pose themselves as ‘zamindars’ and ‘pannaiyars.’ The government must give a compensation of Rs. 10 lakh to Rahul, and the police must secure the rest of the accused who are at large, Mr. Kathir said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/attack-against-dalits-on-the-rise-in-delta-districts/article33772770.ece
07 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Court comes to medico’s aid||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has disposed of a petition filed by a medical aspirant after the court was informed that she was allotted a medical seat in the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital. She was allowed to participate in the second phase of the medical counselling after she missed the first phase due to lack of communication. The court was hearing the petition filed by S. Gowsalya of Sivaganga district. She moved the court seeking a direction to the State to allot her a medical seat. Despite her eligibility for the selection she could not attend the first phase of the counselling. Hailing from a remote area, she could not get the communication on time due to network connectivity issues. Taking into account her plight, the High Court had asked the State to permit her to attend the second phase of the medical counselling and pursuant to the direction by the High Court, the petitioner was allowed to attend the counselling. She secured the medical seat under the 7.5 % horizontal reservation for the government school students. Justice V. Parthiban observed that once the petitioner had earned the seat on the basis of her performance and ranking, she must be allowed to enjoy the fruits of the outcome in the selection. When the government had brought in a government order, the lofty policy of the government must be allowed to reach all the beneficiaries of the policy. Such benefit ought not to be denied to a deserving student like the petitioner who hails from a remote rural area merely for the reason that she could not attend the first phase of the counselling. Whatever be the reasons for her absence at the first phase of the counselling, the same cannot be held against her, denying her the most valuable and a lifetime opportunity of pursuing her dream of becoming a doctor. In the realm of a beneficial public policy of this nature, a liberal and equitable dispositions are to be preferred than adopting a pedantic and inflexible approach, in the larger interest of the recipients of the policy benefits, in order to subserve the ends of justice, the judge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/court-comes-to-the-aid-of-medical-student/article33772082.ece
07 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||PIL plea challenges consent given to thermal power plant in Thoothukudi||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court has ordered notice to the Centre and the State in a public interest litigation petition that challenged the order of ‘consent to operate’ granted by the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board in favour of the SEPC Thermal Power Plant in Thoothukudi district. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi ordered the notice in the petition filed by S.P. Muthu Raman of Tirunelveli district. The court has already ordered notices to the authorities concerned in another petition filed by the same petitioner who sought an inspection of the thermal plant site. In the present petition, the petitioner said that SEPC Thermal Power Plant was extending its construction to the adjoining survey numbers. This was not mentioned in the application that sought a ‘consent to establish.’ It was illegal and the plant could be established only within the survey numbers mentioned in the application, he said. The petitioner, in his earlier PIL petition, had sought a direction to the Tamil Nadu Coastal Zone Management Authority and the Deputy Director General of Forests to inspect the site of the thermal power plant. He complained that the thermal power project was taking place in close proximity to eco-sensitive zones. The authorities concerned must inspect the site and submit a report. The construction was going on at a fast rate and if the plant was allowed to operate, it would harm the public, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/consent-given-to-power-plant-challenged/article33772775.ece
07 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||4,039 ha of crop damaged in rains in Madurai district||The Agriculture Department has identified around 4,039.83 hectares of irrigated and rain-fed crops that were damaged due to unseasonal and heavy rains in the district during December and January. The officials have submitted the details to the State government seeking financial assistance worth Rs. 802.41 lakh under the State Disaster Response Fund. The heavy and unseasonal rains resulted in lodging of crops which were on the verge of harvest. At many places, the crops had started sprouting after being submerged in water for long. Joint Director of Agriculture T. Vivekanandan said paddy, kodo millet ( varagu ), blackgram and groundnut were the major crops that were damaged in the rains, mostly in Madurai East, Madurai West, Chellampatti, Melur, Alanganallur and Vadipatti blocks. As many as 7,462 affected farmers had been identified through the evaluation process. “Their bank account details have been submitted to the State government. Once the fund is sanctioned, it will be directly deposited into their accounts,” said Mr. Vivekanandan. Each farmer would get a compensation of Rs. 20,000 per hectare for paddy which was raised through assured irrigation, and Rs. 10,000 per ha for rainfed crops - kodo millet, black gram and groundnut. “This brings the total sum of compensation for the district to Rs. 8.2 crore,” he said. Farmers who have insured their crop will get the insurance money apart from the financial assistance from the government. But the financial assistance of Rs. 20,000 per hectare would be insufficient to cover the losses incurred by the farmers, said N. Palanichamy, president of a farmers’ association. “The farmers demand at least Rs. 30,000 per acre as compensation to meet the losses caused by the rains,” he said. Concurring with his viewpoint, G. Murugan, a farmer from Vadipatti block, said farmers had poor yields due to the damage caused by the rains. “Farmers who are harvesting paddy now are able to get only 13 or 14 bags of rice for an acre. This is extremely low as usually farmers get 30 to 40 bags. Hence, the financial assistance should be substantial so as to cover the losses,” he added.  Compensation  Rs. 20,000 per ha for paddy raised through assured irrigation  Rs. 10,000 per ha for kodo millet, black gram and groundnut||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/4039-hectares-of-crop-damaged-in-unseasonal-rains/article33772773.ece
07 February 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Attack against Dalits on the rise in delta districts, says NGO||The State government should sternly punish people who attack Dalits as more reports of attacks are coming in from the Cauvery delta region, said A. Kathir, executive director, Evidence, an NGO, on Saturday. Speaking to presspersons, he said that following a complaint that Rahul, a 22-year-old Dalit youth, was beaten by an armed gang on February 1 in Thanjavur, a fact-finding team from Evidence visited the victim in the hospital and also spoke with his parents, friends and relatives. According to Mr. Rahul, now under treatment at the Government Hospital, Thanjavur, he had been living in Konur village with his relative Lakshmanan. His parents lived in Poondi village in Ammapet. Along with his relative, Mr. Rahul worked as a daily wage earner under the employment of Vikky. On February 1, when he, along with a few co-workers went to Vikky’s house to ask for the wage arrears of Rs. 8,000 due to them, Vikky got annoyed. After taking the victim to a secluded place near the Konur burial ground, Vikky and a few others assaulted him with iron rods and wooden logs, he told the fact-finding team. According to the FIR, he was taken in a car to Vikky’s private farm in Kulichapattu village and beaten. The attackers had made him strip and recorded it on video, Mr. Rahul claimed. He added that to set him free, Vikky and his accomplices, all caste Hindus, urged him to confess that he had stolen Rs. 50,000 from his relative’s house. In a bid to escape from the beating, he agreed to confess, only after which the attackers had let him go. As the information reached his parents, Gunasekaran, his father, informed the Ammapet police. Even as the police arrested Vikky and six others, Mr. Rahul was upset over the video being released on social media and consumed rat poison. He was rushed to a hospital. A police officer in the Ammapet police station said they had not received any complaint from Vikky or others saying Rahul had stolen the Rs. 50,000.  Demanding that the State give Rs. 10 lakh as compensation to Rahul, Mr. Kathir urged the police to secure the accused at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/attack-against-dalits-on-the-rise-in-delta-districts-says-ngo/article33772671.ece
07 February 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Minister takes issue with Stalin’s comment on farm oan waiver||It appears to be a routine affair now for the Opposition parties in Tamil Nadu to pick a hole in the initiatives taken by the State government, said Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar here on Saturday. Speaking to reporters at Thirumangalam, after distributing computers to part-time teachers from the Amma Charitable Trust, he said when the entire State had welcomed the move to waive the Rs. 12,110 crore worth farm loans in the cooperative societies as it benefited over 16 lakh farmers, the Leader of Opposition, M.K. Stalin had stated that Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had done it with an eye on the ensuing elections. The AIADMK never expected Mr. Stalin to shower encomiums or present bouquets, but unable to stomach the ever-increasing popularity of the AIADMK, his outbursts only showed his anger, Mr. Udhayakumar said. Modalities checked The government, he said, had to examine the modalities on the waiver issue, which was sought by farmers across the State, before it made an announcement. There are laid-out procedures to be followed in the administration on a waiver by the government, he said. As the Chief Minister had been touring the State since the pandemic, he was well aware about the problems faced by the people. Financial implications Though the farmers were making appeals, there were procedures to be looked into by the government before a decision was taken as the financial implications had to be studied, Mr. Udhayakumar clarified. The handling of COVID-19 pandemic, the floods, the cyclones and the announcement of Rs. 2,500 as Pongal gift to 2.06 crore ration card holders were welcomed and appreciated by all except Mr. Stalin, the Minister said.  The handling of the pandemic, the floods and the cyclones and the announcement of Rs. 2,500 as Pongal gift to 2.06 crore ration card holders have been welcomed and appreciated by all except Mr. Stalin R.B. Udhayakumar Revenue Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-takes-issue-with-stalins-comment-on-farm-loan-waiver/article33772060.ece
07 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Pay increased DA, say TNSTC retired staff||Members of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation Retired Employees’ Welfare Association staged a demonstration here on Saturday demanding immediate payment of Dearness Allowance (DA) arrears to all employees. This was part of the State-wide protest that took place at 21 zonal headquarters on Saturday. R. Devaraj, district general secretary of the association, said around 83,500 retired transport staff had not received the DA since November 2015. “The TNSTC officials say they are short of funds to pay the DA arrears to the retired staff,” he said. But, during a discussion with the Labour Commissioner, he had instructed the TNSTC officials to pay DA with a 164% increase to retired transport staff from January. The Commissioner had said that the settlement of arrears for 62 months could be discussed later. “The transport department officials had also accepted these terms,” said Mr. Devaraj. However, the transport department did not pay the increased DA to the employees from January, which led to the State-wide protest on Saturday, he said. If the increased DA was not paid to the retired staff, a large-scale demonstration would be staged in front of Transport Minister M.R. Vijayabhaskar's office in Karur. “As a final resort, a massive protest will be held in Chennai during the budget session,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pay-da-arrears-say-tnstc-retirees/article33772084.ece
07 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Crop damages identified||The Agriculture Department has identified around 4,039.83 hectares of irrigated and rain-fed crops that were damaged due to unseasonal and heavy rains in the district during December and January. The officials have submitted the details to the State government seeking financial assistance worth Rs. 802.41 lakh under the State Disaster Response Fund. The unseasonal rains resulted in lodging of crops which were on the verge of harvest. At many places, the crops had started sprouting after being submerged in water for long. Paddy, kodo millet, blackgram and groundnut were the major crops that were damaged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crop-damages-identified/article33772886.ece
07 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Reschedule CBSE exams’||Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan wrote to Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank and Joseph Emmanuel, the Director of Academics at the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), urging them to reschedule the CBSE board examination scheduled for May 13 and 15, citing that the Ramzan festival is to be celebrated during that period. In his letter, Mr. Venkatesan said Ramzan, an important festival for the Muslims, falls on May 14 this year, according to the holidays announced by the State and Union governments. “But the date of Ramzan might change depending on the sighting of the crescent. So, there is a possibility that Ramzan may fall by a day earlier or later than the date that has been fixed now,” he said. Without taking this possibility into consideration, the CBSE has declared board examinations for Classes 10 and 12 on May 13 and 15. Mr. Venkatesan urged the Union Minister to reschedule the dates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reschedule-cbse-examinations/article33772076.ece
07 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Walkathons taken out to lay emphasis on nutrition security||DHAN Foundation organised walkathons at several places in the city on Saturday focusing on nutrition security. A press release from DHAN Foundation said Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan spoke at a programme organised at the main office. He lauded DHAN Foundation for conducting walkathons and related events in more than 500 locations across the country. He said a memorandum of understanding will be signed soon between DHAN Foundation and Corporation. He said it was everyone’s duty to protect the Vaigai. DHAN Foundation’s Executive Director M.P. Vasimalai spoke on their collaborative efforts with government agencies and private institutions. R. Rajapandian, CEO of SUHAM Trust, said high prevalence of anaemia among women and adolescent girls was a major concern which needed to be addressed. B. Thirumalai, senior journalist, spoke on how women were mentally affected during the pandemic. Cultural events were performed by the nursing students of SUHAM Institute of Health Sciences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/walkathons-taken-out-to-stress-nutrition-security/article33772776.ece
07 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||PIL for more archaeological excavations in the State||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday ordered notice to the Centre and the State in a public interest litigation petition that sought direction to the authorities to carry out archaeological excavations in Thoppamadai, Karur district, and Keelasevalpatti, Sivaganga district. The petitioner claimed that cairn circles were identified in these places. A Division Bench of Justices M. M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi ordered notice in the petition filed by S. Ramesh Kumar of Sivaganga district. The petitioner claimed that cairn circles had been identified in Thoppamadai and Keelasevalpatti. Therefore authorities must carry out an archaeological excavation in these areas, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pil-seeks-more-excavations/article33772054.ece
07 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||water||The water level in Periyar dam stood at 130.90 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 335 cusecs and a discharge of 600 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 68.86 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 535 cusecs and a discharge of 819 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 7,569 mcft. There was no rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water/article33772086.ece
07 February 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||More DPCs will be opened: Minister||The government was prepared to open more direct purchase centres (DPCs) to procure paddy from farmers depending on the need, O.S.Manian, Minister for Handlooms and Textiles, said here on Saturday. So far, 146 DPCs have been opened in this district and 1,000 bags of paddy were procured from each DPC every day, he said after inspecting the DPC at Thirumarugal panchayat union and Thirukannapuram panchayat. He verified the procurement record and weight of the paddy procured at the DPCs. Citing sanction of relief for crop damages caused by cyclone Burevi, he asserted that the government has always stood by farmers to protect their interest. Additional Collector M.S.Prasanth was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-dpcs-will-be-opened-minister/article33772058.ece
07 February 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Throw out the AIADMK govt., says Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin has appealed to voters of Tamil Nadu to throw out the AIADMK government, which is being “manoeuvered by the BJP at the Centre to execute its anti-Tamil agenda”. Addressing a “Stalin in your constituency” meeting here on Saturday, he said the AIADMK could not take any decision on its own and was being controlled by the BJP, which was pushing all its anti-Tamil agenda in Tamil Nadu. Though the Cabinet could pass resolutions against NEET, seek the release of seven Rajiv Gandhi assassination convicts and funds from the Union Government for the early establishment of AIIMS (All-India Institute of Medical Sciences) in Madurai, there was no progress as the BJP was controlling the government, he said. “Mr. Palaniswami’s deputy [O. Panneerselvam] and the Ministers don’t respect the Chief Minister as they are not under his control. The entire government is under the BJP’s control,” Mr. Stalin said. The DMK president said his party never wanted to utilise the commotion prevailing in the ruling AIADMK, after the demise of Jayalalithaa, to come to power. “Even though the DMK was getting feelers from the ruling party members, we were firm in our decision that the DMK should return to power only after getting the people’s mandate. We will win all the 234 Assembly segments with the overwhelming support of the people,” Mr. Stalin said. He promised to bring in industrial investments to Kanniyakumari to provide employment opportunities to the skilled workforce. “The Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission, which was created with the objective of providing employment to our youths, is giving employment to candidates from other States. Instead of bringing to book those involved in the recruitment scam, this government has arrested only drivers and lower-level employees, while sparing a big fish in the Department of Fisheries,” Mr. Stalin said. The Opposition leader also vowed to revive and invigorate the 12,500-odd rural libraries created during the DMK regime between 2006 and 2011 to help rural youth preparing for competitive examinations. When a woman participant submitted a petition seeking his intervention to locate her husband who left for Saudi Arabia in 2013, Mr. Stalin assured her that he would initiate steps. Later, he participated in a meeting held in Veeravanallur, Tirunelveli district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/throw-out-the-aiadmk-govt-says-stalin/article33772075.ece
07 February 2021||Periyakulam,TAMIL NADU||Training programme in landscaping held at horticultural college||Students of Horticultural College and Research Institute had hands-on training in landscaping and flower arrangements. A release said Dean T, Arumugam inaugurated a five-day programme, organised by EDII Periyakulam Horti Business Incubation Forum. Conducted in association with the Indian Council of Agricultural Research with funding support from Institutional Development Programme - National Agricultural Higher Education Project), that concluded on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/training-programme/article33772059.ece
07 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||3,601 healthcare and frontline staff get COVID-19 vaccine in U.T.||The Union Territory has so far vaccinated 3,601 healthcare and frontline workers after the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination programme kicked off on January 16. While the vaccination for healthcare workers started on January 16 in Puducherry, frontline workers were only given the jab from February 5. As on February 6, the Health Department had administered vaccines to 3,557 healthcare and 44 frontline workers in the Union Territory, the available data revealed. The department is planning to vaccinate around 24,000 healthcare workers in the region. Meanwhile, Puducherry reported 35 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday from 2,015 tests conducted. Of the total new admissions, 25 are from Puducherry, 7 from Karaikal and 2 from Mahe. Currently, there are 317 active cases, including 205 under home isolation. In Puducherry alone, there are 22 patients under treatment at the Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research and 48 at the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Research Institute. While the case fatality stood at 1.67 %, the recovery rate stood at 97.53%. On Saturday alone, 32 patients were cured and discharged, data revealed. The latest number of testing had taken the figure of total number of people screened in Puducherry to 5,88,451. The overall tally in the region is 654 deaths, a total of 39,270 cases and 382,99 recoveries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3601-workers-get-covid-19-vaccine-in-puducherry/article33772651.ece
07 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||ECI must intervene on nominated MLA issue, says DMK||The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) has sought the immediate intervention of the Election Commission of India (EC) on the issue of appointment of three nominated MLAs. DMK leader in Assembly and convenor (South) R. Siva, in a statement on Saturday, said the direct appointment of three nominated legislators and decision of the Supreme Court to accord voting rights to them had deprived the rights of political parties in the Union Territory. The ruling party in Centre could change the power equation in the 30-member Legislative Assembly by having the right to appoint three nominated legislators. ‘Change equation’ The nominated legislators could change the power equation if the government in power had only a razor-thin majority, he said. The EC should either impose a ban on the direct appointment of nominated MLAs by the Centre or they should not be given the right to vote in the Assembly. The Commission should otherwise ensure that the elected government had the right to choose two persons as nominated legislators and leave the appointment rights of one MLA to the Centre, the statement said. The Election Commission’s intervention could only ensure a level-playing field to all political parties in the Union Territory, Mr. Siva added.  The Election Commission’s intervention could only ensure a level-playing field to all political parties in the Union Territory||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-seeks-ecs-intervention-in-nominated-mla-issue/article33772672.ece
07 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Two held for stealing Rs. 24 lakh in Puducherry||Personnel from the Grand Bazaar police station on Saturday arrested Kollanjiyappan and Mubarak Ali for misappropriating Rs. 24 lakh meant to be loaded into ATMs. They used to work at a private firm involved in the transportation of money to ATMs and misappropriated the money while transporting it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-24-lakh-atm-money-stolen-duo-arrested/article33772656.ece
07 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Union Minister Arjun Ram Meghwal calls on L-G Kiran Bedi||Union Minister of State Arjun Ram Meghwal on Saturday called on Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi at Raj Nivas. Ms. Bedi in a WhatsApp message said it was a fruitful meeting. The Union Minister was accompanied by nominated legislator and BJP local unit president V. Saminathan during his visit to Raj Nivas. Mr. Meghwal, who has been made election in-charge for the Union Territory by the BJP leadership, is on a two-day visit to the region. A communication from the BJP office said Mr. Meghwal was accompanied by industrialist and MP Rajeev Chandrasekhar. During their stay, the leaders are set to hold several round of consultations with party workers, besides holding an interactive session with members of the Chamber of Commerce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/arjun-ram-meghwal-calls-on-lt-governor/article33772825.ece
07 February 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Over 500 tamers take part in jallikattu at Thammampatti||Over 500 tamers and 700 bulls took part in the jallikattu held at Thammampatti in Gangavalli block here on Saturday. The traditional sport is held every year on the two-acre sports ground and the ground was filled with sufficient coir pith to ensure the safety of both the tamers and the bulls. Collector S.A. Raman flagged off the sport in the presence of R. Elangovan, chairman of Tamil Nadu State Cooperative Bank, R.M. Chinnathambi, Attur MLA, and S. Deepa Ganiger, Superintendent of Police. The tamers were administered pledge before the jallikattu and the bulls were released through vaadivasal . Bulls that were certified fit by the veterinarians from the Department of Animal Husbandry were allowed for the event. Bulls from Salem, Thammampatti, Attur, Thuraiyur, Tiruchi, Thanjavur, Pudukottai and Perumbalur took part. Tamers with COVID-19 negative certificate alone were allowed to participate and the winners were given gifts. The event went on till 4 p.m. after which prizes were given to the overall winners. Police personnel were posted in large numbers to prevent any untoward incidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-500-tamers-take-part-in-jallikattu-at-thammampatti/article33772097.ece
07 February 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Weavers protest demanding reopening of cooperative mill||Weavers, who were part of Salem Cooperative Spinning Mills near Ammapet, staged a protest in front of the Collectorate recently demanding that the State government take measures to reopen the mill. The weavers said the mill offered employment to 252 employees. They alleged that due processes were not followed in the closure in 2004 and funds allocated for development of the mill were not used for the purpose. The protesters said parts of the funds were also used for providing voluntary retirement to the employees then. They demanded that the mill should be reopened and jobs provided to all the permanent employees.  Pending salaries They also urged the government to give the pending salaries and other benefits to the employees. About 150 protesters were arrested and removed by the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/weavers-protest-demanding-reopening-of-cooperative-mill/article33772101.ece
07 February 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Members of transgender community clash in Salem||A dispute over collecting money from the public led to a clash between two groups of transgender community in front of the Collectorate here on Saturday. A group of transgender community members are residing at the Five Road Junction area while another group is residing at Reddiyur area. They have been involved in collecting money from passengers on the New Bus Stand premises during night hours. On Friday night, the Five Road Junction members were collecting money from passengers in the bus stand to which the Reddiyur group opposed. An altercation broke out between the two groups and the Pallapatti police pacified them. On Saturday, the Five Road Junction group came to the Collectorate to submit a petition regarding the issue when the members from Reddiyur also came there. Both entered into an altercation and soon a clash broke out between them. Salem Town Police personnel rushed to the spot and pacified them. They received the petition from the Five Road Junction group and promised to initiate action. Likewise, they also warned the members from Reddiyur not to involve in such acts and asked them to lodge a complaint in their police station limits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/members-of-transgender-community-clash-in-salem/article33772098.ece
07 February 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Farmers asked to use zero tillage planting machine for sowing seeds||The Tamil Nadu Rice Research Institute, Aduthurai, has urged farmers to use the zero tillage planting machine for sowing seeds of rice fallow crops. The machine is being used by farmers in northern States for sowing rice and wheat fallow crops for the past four decades, said Assistant Professor of Agronomy, S.Elamathi, at a field demonstration of this machine held at the institute’s research farm at Aduthurai on Saturday. The machine would be ideal for sowing rice fallow crops in delta districts as well as in other districts, said Dr.Elamathi who presented a brief note on crop production methods of rice fallow pulse crops. Inaugurating the field demonstration, the TRRI director, V.Ambethgar, stressed the need for adopting mechanised sowing of pulses in delta districts in view of the labour shortage. Narrating the bottlenecks in the existing practice for broadcasting black gram seeds in the standing crop just seven or 10 days before the harvesting samba paddy, Dr.Ambethgar urged farmers to use the ZTPM since it helps maintain crop population, a key factor for higher yield in pulses. While the use and advantages of using ZTPM was highlighted by senior scientist R.Senthil Kumar, a brief note on the available high yielding varieties of pulses and weeding practices in pulses production were presented by the Associate Professors, R.Manimaran, and Uma Maheswari, respectively. Principal Scientist, Coimbatore Central Institute of Agricultural Engineering, M.Muthamil Selvan said the machine was capable of sowing in desired levels of row spacing, intra-row spacing and depth of sowing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-asked-to-use-zero-tillage-planting-machine/article33772045.ece
07 February 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||41 injured in jallikattu||Forty-one persons were injured in a jallikattu organised by the Our Lady of Lourdes Jallikattu Peravai at Madhakottai near here on Saturday. A total of 290 persons participated in the event to tame 584 bulls that were brought to the venue by bull owners from Thanjavur, Tiruchi, Pudukottai and nearby districts. Tamers and bull owners numbering 41 sustained injuries during the event and 15 out of 41 injured persons were rushed to the Thanjavur Medical College hospital while others were treated at outpost set up at Madhakottai. Collector M.Govinda Rao flagged off the event on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/41-injured-in-jallikattu/article33772046.ece
07 February 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Awareness programme on POCSO Act held||An awareness programme on Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act was organised at BMC Matriculation Higher Secondary School here on Saturday. Addressing the Plus Two students, Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar explained in detail about the Act enacted with the objective of protecting girl children from sexual offences and appealed to the students to inculcate noble qualities without getting distracted by external factors, particularly communication gadgets. He, while explaining about ‘child marriage’, urged the girl students to acquire educational qualifications before attaining the permissible age for marriage. The SP told the students that anyone below the age of 18 should not ride two-wheelers and cars, which are punishable under Motor Vehicle Act. “Moreover, the students should tell their parents to wear helmets without fail whenever they ride bikes and fasten seat belts while travelling in car,” Mr. Jayakumar said. Administrative Officer, BMC Schools, John Kennedy, Principal Paulkani and others participated in the awareness meet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/awareness-programme-on-pocso-act-held/article33772884.ece
07 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||BHELSIA awaits finer details of big LCA Tejas contract to HAL||Hundreds of heavy engineering fabrication units in Tiruchi region are awaiting finer details of the Defence Ministry’s plan to award the largest ever Rs. 48,000 crore defence contract for 83 Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) Tejas to Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) for indigenous manufacture. The Defence Ministry’s significant step to provide the impetus to indigenous fighter aircraft capability of the nation could mean much to the Tiruchi Engineering Cluster which has abundant spare production capacity, Rajappa Rajkumar, president of BHEL Small Industries' Association said. The Defence Ministry anticipates delivery of all 83 aircraft in eight years. It is the first “Buy (Indian-Indigenously Designed Developed and Manufactured)” category procurement of combat aircraft with an indigenous content of 50% which will progressively reach 60% by the end of the programme and about 250 out of 344 systems fitted in the aircraft will be indigenous, according to a Defence Ministry communication. The BHELSIA is looking forward to creating common hubs for manufacture of high-value components required for the LCA, Mr. Rajkumar said. As per the estimate of the Defence Ministry, about 500 Indian companies, including MSMEs, will be working with HAL in the procurement. “BHELSIA units have the expertise to deliver components in the area of electronics as well,” Mr. Rajkumar said, urging the Central and State governments to create the required hubs in Tiruchi for the specific purpose. Logistics-wise, heavy engineering units in Tiruchi region could derive advantage. Since high-value components have been planned, the cost of transportation at the rate of Rs. 1,500 per tonne was negligible, he said.  BHELSIA is looking forward to creating common hubs for manufacture of high-value components required for the LCA  Rajappa Rajkumar  President, BHEL Small Industries' Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bhelsia-awaits-finer-details-of-big-lca-tejas-contract-to-hal/article33772878.ece
07 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Water supply to be revamped||The Tiruchi Corporation has planned to revamp the water distribution system in Woraiyur under the Smart Cities Mission. The work, which is valued at Rs. 7.03 crores, involves relaying of old and worn out pipelines. Officials said a tender has been called for the work and the project will commence soon. The work is being undertaken to implement water supply round the clock as part of area-based development of the Smart Cities Mission. The area identified is a seven-km area around Rockfort. The project has been taken up where an existing tank of 10 lakh litres capacity will provide water to four wards of 57, 58, 59, and 60 through new pipelines and new house connections. A total of 24.058 km of pipelines is to be laid with 7,787 new connections. While it had been conducting regular maintenance works on these pipelines, it was recognised that it had experienced severe wear and tear. ‘They were laid at least 50 years ago so that their life is over. We need to account for increasing urbanisation and provide bigger pipelines and ensure that all houses are connected to it so that they receive round-the-clock water supply, an official said. The project includes setting up of smart meters in water connections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-supply-to-be-revamped/article33772047.ece
07 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Farmers stage protest in delta region||Farmer staged protests in different parts of Tiruchi, Perambalur, Pudukkotai and Thanjavur districts on Saturday. A group of farmers led by P.Ayyakannu, president of Desiya Thennindiya Nathigal Inaippu Vivasayigal Sangam, blocked the traffic at Salai Road-Sastri Road junction here. Some of them carried ploughs. They raised slogans against the Centre. The police detained 54 persons. The protest disrupted the traffic for about 45 minutes. Twenty farmers were taken into custody when they staged a road roko at Manaparai. V. Chidambaram, district secretary, Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam, led the protest. Terming the farm laws anti-farmers, they urged the Centre to withdraw them immediately. Pudukottai About 100 farmers participated in the road roko held near the bus stand here. Extending their support to the farmers in New Delhi, they said they would continue their strike until repeal of the laws. Perambalur Members of the Tamizhaga Vivasayigal Sangam staged a demonstration here. They clapped their hands to draw attention of the government. They demanded adequate relief for damages caused to paddy, maize, cotton, onion and other crops by the unseasonal rain in Perambalur and Ariyalur districts. All farmers, who had insured their maize, cotton and onion crops should be given compensation. They demanded waiver of crop loans sanctioned by nationalised banks also. Led by R.Raja Chidambaram, State secretary of the association, they urged the Tangedco to restore three- phase power supply to farm connections in two shifts of 6 a.m. to noon and noon to 6 p.m. Thanjavur Addressing the media here on Saturday, Sami Natarajan, State executive committee member, All India Kisan Sangarsh Coordination Committee, criticised the State government for its double standards on issues concerning farmers. While extending support to farm laws, it had announced waiver of crop loans extended through cooperative institutions. Urging the government to persuade the Centre to repeal the farm laws, he said farmers could not be duped and demanded cases filed against those arrested in Tiruvarur district in connection with the Republic Day tractor rally, under non-bailable sections, be withdrawn. Stating that the Centre was waging a war on farmers, he said members of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, Bharatiya Janata Party and the police had spoiled peaceful and democratic protests in New Delhi. Intentions of the Centre would not fructify, he said and added that farmers cutting across party lines had come together to achieve their goal. Earlier, they demanded withdrawal of the Electricity Amendment Bill. The AIKSCC Thanjavur district coordinator, N.V.Kannan, office-bearers P.Senthilkumar, B.Balasundaram, Veeramohan, Pazhanirasan, Arunachalam, Arunchori, CITU district deputy secretary, K.Anbu, Student Federation of India district secretary, G.Aravindasamy, CPM town secretary, N.Gurusamy, Makkal Adhikaram Deva, Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam district deputy secretary, K.Muniyandi participated in the demonstration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-stage-protest-in-delta-region/article33772049.ece
07 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Man accused of marrying minor ends life in police station||A 27-year-old man, brought to the police station for inquiry, allegedly jumped to death from the Jambunathapuram police Station, near Thuraiyur, on Saturday. According to sources, M. Prasanth, of Thathampatti, near Musiri, had “married” a 16-year-old girl in 2018 and they were living in Tiruppur. Objecting to their minor daughter’s marriage, the girl’s parents lodged a complaint against Prasanth in 2018 alleging that he abducted and sexually assaulted their daughter. POCSO Act The Musiri All-Women police had brought him to the police station for inquiry on Saturday. Since the girl was said to be a minor when she was allegedly abducted, the police decided to arrest him under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO Act). As he was being detained in the police station, Prasanth climbed up to the top of the building and jumped. He was rushed to the Government Hospital in Thuraiyur and then referred to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in Tiruchi, where doctors declared him brought dead. His body was sent for a post-mortem examination. On information, Inspector General of Police H.M. Jayaram and senior officials conducted an enquiry. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-accused-of-marrying-minor-ends-life-in-police-station/article33772669.ece
07 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Centre trying to tire out farmers protesting in Delhi: AICC secretary||The Centre is resorting to delaying tactics by conducting talks with the farmers protesting in New Delhi against the three new farm laws, said All India Congress Committee Secretary Sanjay Dutt here on Saturday. “The government wants to tire out farmers. But it does not know that the farmers have declared that, if needed, they can continue their struggle till 2024 to see the ouster of the Narendra Modi government,” Mr. Dutt said speaking at a plough rally at Musiri in Tiruchi district. “In a democracy all that matters is what the people want. The farmers do not want anti-farmers’ laws brought in without proper discussion in Parliament. But the Centre wants to abolish the mandi system and the Minimum Support Price given to farmers,” he said. Instead of wiping tears of farmers, the government was attacking them with tear gas, he said alleging that such brutal actions were aimed at protecting business interests of crony capitalists. Mr. Dutt wondered why Chief Minister Edappadi K.Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O.Panneerselvam, who claimed to be pro-farmer leaders, had not lent their voice in support of the farmers struggling against the three farm laws. The waiver of crop loans, sanctioned by cooperative institutions, had been announced now as the State government knew it was on its way out, he said. Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S.Alagiri said farmers would not be able to sell their produce anywhere as they wish due to the new farm laws. “They can sell their produce only through contracts, which will benefit only corporates and big businessmen,” he added. The farmers, who were agitating in New Delhi, did not belong to any political party. But even an ally of the BJP, the Shiromani Akali Dal, had walked out of the alliance opposing the farm laws. Referring to the crop loan waiver announced by the Chief Minister, Mr. Alagiri said the decision had been taken with an eye on the elections and not out of concern for the farmers. “The Opposition parties in the State have been demanding crop loan waiver for more than a year. Farmers’ organisations and political parties have staged series of agitations pressing the demand. The Chief Minister has come up with the announcement now after the DMK president M.K.Stalin declared that he would waive crop loans as soon as the party is voted to power,” Mr. Alagiri said and added that farmers of the State were realising that the waiver was politically motivated. The Tamil Nadu Congress, he said, would play a supportive role in ushering in a change of government at the State and the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-trying-to-tire-out-protesting-farmers/article33772078.ece
07 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||40 cases in central region||All districts in the central region on Saturday reported 40 fresh cases of COVID-19, a substantial decline from Friday’s count of 61. No death was reported. Perambalur reported no fresh case for the third consecutive day. Tiruchi and Thanjavur reported 10 fresh cases each. Most patients who tested positive were local index cases, asymptomatic patients and their contacts. Ten patients who had been undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital were discharged. In Nagapattinam, nine patients tested positive while in the other five districts, less than five fresh cases were reported. Karur reported five new cases and Tiruvarur three. Among the patients who tested positive were residents from Aravakurichi, Gandhigramam and Kovilur. In Pudukottai district, two patients tested positive while in Ariyalur, one fresh case was reported. The patients were all isolated cases or primary contacts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/40-cases-in-central-region/article33772050.ece
07 February 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||CM never supported agriculturists: Stalin||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, who proudly calls himself as ‘farmer,’ never supported the agriculturists protesting against the controversial farm laws in Delhi and nor did he back the Tamil Nadu farmers when they were protesting in the national capital, DMK president M. K. Stalin has said. Addressing a meeting held at Veeravanallur near Cheranmahadevi in the district on Saturday evening, Mr. Stalin said Mr. Palaniswami, though he calls himself as ‘farmer’, had never supported the lakhs of agriculturists protesting in Delhi against the farm laws, braving hostile weather conditions and police brutality. Recalling the case registered against him, the DMK president said ten flyovers were constructed in Chennai to alleviate the perennial traffic congestion in the State’s capital and involved private firms in solid waste management when he was the Mayor of Chennai Corporation. “After an AIADMK functionary, accusing irregularity in these works and filed a complaint, I personally went to the Office of the Director General of Police to ask the law enforcers to arrest me if I had committed any illegality. However, the present Chief Minister is continuing in the post after obtaining a stay in the Supreme Court on an investigation in a case filed against him,” he said. On the impending arrival of Jayalalaithaa’s aide V. N. Sasikala’s from Bengaluru on February 8 after being released from the prison, he, without naming her, said: “Let’s see what is going to happen in next two days… Processions have been banned and (Jayalalithaa’s) mausoleum locked. Let’s be a spectator”. When a woman participant from Idinthakarai drew his attention towards the cases pending against the anti-Kudankulam Nuclear Power Project (KKNPP), Mr. Stalin said all the cases against the protesters would be removed. He promised to consider the appeal from a woman from Manjuvilai near Kalakkad, known for banana production, on establishing a banana chips manufacturing unit there. When farmer Diraviam Ponraj from Thisaiyanvilai sought Mr. Stalin’s attention to the inordinate delay in completing Tamirabharani – Karumaeniyar – Nambiyar linking projects which was started in 2009 when the DMK was in power, he assured that the work would be completed to take the surplus water of the Tamirabharani to the dry regions of Thisaiyanvilai and beyond.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-says-chief-minister-never-supported-farmers/article33772882.ece
07 February 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||water T||The water level in Papanasam dam on Saturday stood at 135.85 feet (maximum level 143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 453.43 cusecs and 1,238.50 cusecs of water was discharged. The level in Manimuthar dam stood at 114.60 feet (maximum level 118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 148 cusecs and 475 cusecs of water was discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-t/article33772887.ece
07 February 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Events mark road safety month in Tiruppur||Officials from the Highways Department organised an awareness event to mark the 32nd road safety month on Palladam Road within Tiruppur Corporation limits recently. A release said that the Tiruppur South Sub-division of the Construction and Maintenance Wing conducted the awareness event by issuing pamphlets to motorists at the traffic signal in Thennampalayam. National Service Scheme students from Chikkanna Government Arts College also conducted an awareness event near the Tiruppur Corporation office on Mangalam Road. The students staged a play on the importance of road safety, the release said. Assistant Commissioner of Police (South Range) J. Naveenkumar took part in the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/events-mark-road-safety-month-in-tiruppur/article33772695.ece
07 February 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Segregate waste, win gold and silver coins||Segregate waste and get a chance to win gold and silver coins. This is the latest initiative taken by the Vellore City Municipal Corporation, along with a social activist, to promote source segregation. On Saturday, four residents who consistently segregated waste as biodegradable and non-biodegradable were awarded gold and silver coins respectively. There are four zones in Vellore City Municipal Corporation and a total of 168 metric tonne of waste is generated daily. Though most of the residents segregate the waste and dispose of it, they do not do it consistently. “Around 45 days ago, we along with social activist Dinesh Saravanan, created awareness about segregating waste in ward 24 in Zone 2. We announced that those who do it consistently will be getting gold and silver coins,” said N. Sankaran, Commissioner, Vellore Corporation. Officials said Mr. Dinesh Saravanan also handed over green and blue dust bins to the residents. Draw of lots “There are 2,200 residents in the ward. Most of the residents did it well. So we had to select them by drawing lots. Two of them were provided a half-gram gold coin each and two others a five-gram silver coin each,” said K. Siva Kumar, sanitary officer, Zone 2, Vellore Corporation. S. Chitrasena, city health officer, said similar initiative was being planned in other wards too. “We have been creating awareness regularly. It is the job of the residents to segregate the waste they generate. Though people do it sometimes, we are trying to make them consistent,” she said. Mr. Dinesh Saravanan said he sponsored the gold and silver coins. “In the last 45 days, we could see a great difference in the ward,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/segregate-waste-win-gold-and-silver-coins/article33772674.ece
07 February 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore reports 10 fresh COVID-19 cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 20,795 with 10 new cases reported on February 6. While a total of 20,362 have been discharged, the active cases in the district stands at 85. The district’s death toll now stands at 348. Ranipet and Tirupattur districts reported one new case each on Saturday, taking the total to 16,144 and 7,593 respectively. In Tiruvannamalai, two new cases were reported, taking the total to 19,394. Out of this, 19,066 have been discharged and the numbder of active cases is 45.  Ranipet and Tirupattur districts reported one new case each on Saturday, taking the total to 16,144 and 7,593 respectively||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-district-reports-10-fresh-covid-19-cases-85-remain-active/article33772826.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Raising a stink: Chennai’s conservancy woes||Process this - It is estimated that Chennai generates between 5,000 and 5,400 tonnes of garbage a day, as per official statistics. This is among the highest quantums of garbage generated by Indian metropolises. The collection, transfer and processing of this waste is certainly a herculean task. The city managers spend sleepless nights trying to ensure the system works without raising a stink. Several hurdles lie in their path, which have the potential to frustrate the introduction/efficient implementation of source segregation, which is the only way forward. As Chennai opens yet another chapter in conservancy operations, there are questions from the past that need to be answered, in addition to anticipating future needs. On Wednesday afternoon, in an air-conditioned conference room at the office of Urbaser Sumeet in Nungambakkam, a brain-storming session is under way. I. Selvaraj, an Information, Education and Communication (IEC) executive at the company, is narrating a story for a short film to create awareness on segregation of waste at source. The company was recently given a contract to carry out conservancy operations in seven zones of the city. Five kilometres away, in the thickly-populated Rotary Nagar near the Light House MRTS station, a street-level campaign is under way. A group of conservancy workers carrying red flags goes street to street to foster solidarity among the workers to fight against job losses. The two scenes, disparate yet connected, represent the churn happening in the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) due to the privatisation of a major part of solid waste management operations in the southern metropolis. The GCC, which was earlier directly managing conservancy operations in 12 of its 15 zones, would now be handling them in only four zones. The operations, primarily involving the sweeping of streets and the collection and transportation of garbage, have been handed over to two private players in the remaining 11 zones. Urbaser Sumeet, a joint venture between Spain-headquartered Urbaser and India’s Sumeet Group, bagged the contract for seven zones (zone 9 to zone 15) for a period of eight years. On its website, Urbaser, which was acquired by a Chinese firm in 2016, said this was its largest-ever contract. The contract for similar operations in zones 1, 2, 3, and 7 have been awarded to Chennai Enviro Solutions Private Limited, a part of the Ramky Group, which has been handling the operations in zones 9, 10 and 13 for the past eight years, and has occasionally faced criticism for its work. While Urbaser Sumeet has taken over the operations in the seven specified zones, the Ramky Group is yet to do so. R. Rama Mohan Rao, president, Ramky Group, said a micro-level plan had been worked out. It involves a fleet of more than 900 vehicles of different types, including battery-operated vehicles, compactors, mechanical sweepers and light motor vehicles, which would be deployed to keep the oldest parts of the city clean. As a result of privatisation, at least 700 conservancy workers, hitherto engaged by the GCC, have already lost their jobs, and hundreds more are staring at imminent loss of employment. The residents, meanwhile, are waiting to see whether the new wave of privatisation would bring a sustainable change in the handling of solid waste or fizzle out like similar attempts in the past. After all, Chennai’s tryst with private players started way back in 2000 with CES Onyx, followed by Neel Metal Fanalca, REE, and now Urbaser Sumeet. This time, a key difference projected by the government is a shift from paying the contractor based on the tonnes of waste collected to payment based on the evaluation of their work on the basis of 34 key performance indicators (KPIs). A proposal to levy user charges for the collection of garbage from this year onwards has been put on hold, following backlash from the public and Opposition parties. The initial feedback from residents in some pockets where Urbaser Sumeet is operating appears to be positive, at least in terms of the visible indicators. “The cart (battery-operated vehicle) that comes for collecting garbage door-to-door can be seen regularly. The bins on the streets are cleared daily,” S. Vanaja, a resident of Kotturpuram, said. The 3,000 battery-operated vehicles (BOVs) used by the company have become ubiquitous in the city. Loaded with eight bins for separately collecting three different kinds of waste — wet, dry and hazardous — the BOVs are being operated in two shifts to collect waste from households and shops (excluding bulk waste generators). The collected waste is either taken to micro-composting centres (MCCs), material recovery facilities (MRF) or resource recovery facilities (RRF), or dumped in two separate bins kept for wet and dry waste on the streets. A total of 130 compactors work during the night to clear these bins. Radio-frequency identification devices (RFIDs) are attached to the bins and the compactors to remotely check whether every bin is cleared daily. Whither source segregation? V.R. Hari Balaji, head of the Information, Communication and Education division at Urbaser Sumeet, said the key challenge remained the garbage collection point, where the waste was not segregated at source. “There are certain areas in which the residents’ associations or apartments are segregating waste properly. But in most other areas, we are working extensively on creating awareness,” he said. He added that special focus was being given to the Tamil Nadu Housing Board and the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board tenements. The reverse side of the pamphlets distributed by the company to create awareness on waste segregation lists the penalty for non-segregation of waste and other violations of the Solid Waste Management (SWM) rules formulated by the government. However, the GCC has not yet begun implementing the penal provisions widely. While getting people to segregate waste remains a key challenge, a section of residents, who have already been doing it, have raised concerns over how the waste is being handled after collection. K.L. Balasubramanian, a social entrepreneur and a member of the R.K. Nagar Residents’ Association, said that though the streets were looking clean, he was concerned about how the waste was being handled. Pointing out that his association was already engaged in micro-composting and selling dry waste to recyclers, he noted that the segregated waste was often getting mixed up post-collection under the new arrangement. “We see that happening sometimes in the BOVs itself. It is also happening at the bins kept on the streets,” he said. Arguing that the city was supposed to work towards becoming bin-less as per the SWM rules, he said the placement of bins can be counter-productive as it provided an opportunity for residents and business establishments to dump unsegregated waste in them. “Then, the waste picked up by compactors from these bins can only go to landfills, as the waste is all mixed up,” he added. He said the GCC should organise review meetings with residents’ associations and make the KPIs public so that there is transparency in monitoring performance. Vamshi Shankar Kapilavai, who is part of the urban governance team at Citizen Consumer and Civic Action Group, expressed similar concerns. Agreeing that it was a little early to comment on the new arrangement, he stressed the need for increasing capacity and for proper utilisation of decentralised composting units and waste recovery facilities to prevent waste from going to landfills. Jayaram Venkatesan of Arappor Iyakkam, which has been raising concerns over the contracts awarded for the service, said the primary goal of the SWM rules was to prevent waste from going to landfills. Pointing to Tamil Nadu’s 2019-20 Budget, in which nearly Rs. 7,000 crore was allocated towards solid waste management in Chennai, he said that of the total amount, Rs. 5,259 crore was supposed to go towards building infrastructure to reclaim landfills at Perungudi and Kodungaiyur and prevent waste from going there. While the precise value of the contracts awarded to the two private players was not yet available in the public domain, Mr. Venkatesan said it was possible that the GCC had spent the bulk of the allocation on these two contracts for garbage collection and transportation. Concerns dismissed Dismissing such concerns, officials of the civic body said it was committed to a holistic approach to solid waste management, and a number of projects had been initiated for reclaiming landfills. Citing a lack of support from the public as a key reason for the failure of segregation of waste, a senior official of the civic body said the private players had been asked to use the compost well rings created in parks and open space reservation lands for converting wet waste segregated at collection points into manure. Regarding complaints about poor segregation, the official said there was a proposal to appoint service providers for segregating wet and dry waste in two phases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/raising-a-stink-chennais-conservancy-woes/article33772042.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Bio-mining project at dump yard makes steady progress||The bio-mining project at Ariyamangalam dump yard has gained momentum, thereby raising the hope of putting an end to the decades-long ordeal faced by people of Ariyamangalam and Kattur in the city. The project that began in February 2020 is scheduled for completion in 2022. A sum of Rs. 49 crore was sanctioned for the project by the Tiruchi Corporation. It is aimed at removing the entire garbage accumulated over five decades in 48 acres of the land. There were hardly any residential colonies when the erstwhile Tiruchi Municipality set up the dump yard at Ariyamangalam. It is now surrounded by a number of residential areas. The mounting garbage, accumulated over the years, has been affecting the residents very hard. There were a number of vociferous protests by the residents in the past to remove the dump yard. Heeding to their demand, the Corporation planned a land reclamation project through biomining. It subsequently handed over the project to an Erode-based company. Waste segregation Segregation of waste into usable, recyclable, debris, non-recyclable ones, and processing and transporting them to the needed areas or industries are the major components of the project. Plants have been set up to process biodegradable waste so as to produce organic manure. While the recyclable wastes are segregated and sent for various purposes, the plastics are being sent to private cement factories to be used as fuel for their kilns. After initial hiccups, the project is claimed to be making a steady progress. Out of 7.4 lakh tonnes of waste accumulated over several years, about 3 lakh tonnes have been processed and removed from the dump yard till January. Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian said that the bio-mining project had been making a steady progress. About 1,000 cubic metres of waste was being cleared a day. About 50% of the garbage had been processed and removed from the dump yard. Conveyers and trommel machines installed at the yard were being operated round-the-clock to filter and separate the garbage into stones, combustible and plastic waste. Stones and debris were transported to lay roads and fill up low-lying areas. The soil recovered from the waste was used for landfill. Going by the current pace, Mr. Sivasubramanian said that the project would be completed within the scheduled time. The entire 48 acres of land would be reclaimed in 2022.  Dump details  1,000 cubic metres of waste was being cleared a day  Entire 48 acres of land will be reclaimed in two years  Soil recovered from waste being used for landfill||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bio-mining-project-at-dump-yard-makes-steady-progress/article33772880.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Sasikala, TTV may incite violence: AIADMK to DGP||Mr. Shanmugam said Dhinakaran issued a major threat, which would cause law and order problems in the State. To incite violence, Ms. Sasikala, Mr. Dhinakaran and their men have hatched a “major conspiracy”, he said. “Ms. Sasikala, who has come out of prison, claims she is the AIADMK leader and has been acting in contempt of the Supreme Court orders. They are planning to incite violence and blame the AIADMK,” Mr. Shanmugam said.  Immediately after the Ministers and AIADMK leaders lodged the complaint, the office of DGP issued a warning to those withintent to disrupt law and order. A press release from the DGP’s office said: “We have received information that a specific group, with a political motive, is pretending to be some other organisations and are planning to cause law and order problems. The Police Department requests people not to indulge in such activities and it also warns of taking stringent action against those indulging in such unlawful acts.”  We have received information that a specific group, with a political motive, is pretending to be some other organisations and are planning to cause law and order problems Press release from DGP’s office||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sasikala-ttv-may-incite-violence-aiadmk-to-dgp/article33772061.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Did not discuss Sasikala’s return at meeting: AIADMK||With V.K. Sasikala, aide of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, set to return to Chennai on Monday, the AIADMK on Saturday evening took stock of the party’s preparations for the Assembly election. However, senior leaders said those present at the meeting, which took place at the party headquarters and lasted nearly an hour, “did not at all discuss Sasikala’s return”. Among those who attended the meeting were Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami; Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam; K.P. Munsamy and R. Vaithilingam, deputy coordinators of the party; and E. Madhusudanan, chairman of the presidium. Ministers and Secretaries of the district units of the party were also present. The meeting focused on how to propagate the “achievements” of the government and contrast them with the performance of the DMK, the principal Opposition party, when they were in power, the leaders added. Asked whether the submission of complaints by a delegation of Ministers and senior leaders to the police against Sasikala should have been made a “high profile” event, the leaders said such an approach was needed to spread the “right message” among the party workers, who would otherwise get confused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/election-plan-discussed-not-sasikala/article33772679.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Walkathons organised||DHAN Foundation organised walkathons at several places in Madurai on Saturday focusing on nutrition security. A release from DHAN Foundation said that Madurai Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan spoke during a programme organised at the main office. In his speech, Mr. Visakan lauded the efforts of DHAN Foundation for conducting walkathons and related events in more than 500 locations across the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/walkathons-organised/article33772885.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Attendance is optional’||At the inauguration of the Government High School in Mangalam that was upgraded from middle school, Mr. Sengottaiyan said the school was upgraded to ensure that Muslim girls living in Mangalam did not miss education.   On allegations of private schools demanding excess fees, he said action would be taken if the Department received complaints, in writing. He also inaugurated the Government Girls Higher Secondary School in Perumanallur, which was upgraded from a high school.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/attendance-is-optional/article33772646.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Safe zone||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/safe-zone/article33772830.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Kaduvettipalayam sub-station - February 8-(9 a.m. to 4 p.m.)  Kaduvettipalayam, Nallagoundanpalayam, Chandrapuram, Selambarayampalayam, Molakalipalayam, Valaiyapalayam part, Ganapathypalayam, part of Moopripalayam, Vagarayampalayam, Salaiyur, and part of Karuvalur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article33772687.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||ERODE||RD National College of Arts and Science: Webinar on Debut to JavaScript by Avinash Jadhav, Senior Software Developer, Excel Business Solutions, resource person, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode/article33772090.ece
07 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Farmers block highways across Karnataka||Thousands of farmers blocked major highways and crucial roads across the State around 170 points on Saturday afternoon as part of a national ‘chakka jam’ call given by Samyukta Kisan Morcha, a coalition of farmers’ unions protesting against the three new farm laws. Police detained protesters at most places where roads were blocked. In Bengaluru, farmers and Kannada organisations blocked roads at two critical junctions – Yelahanka and Mysore Bank Circle – but were detained minutes later. Vehicular movement in these areas was not affected, said the police. Farmers’ leader Kuraburu Shantakumar, who led the road block protest at Yelahanka, said the police detained three groups of farmers who tried to block roads one after the other. “Our only demand is that the Union government withdraw the three farm laws. But today's protest is also against how the Union government is treating farmers, booking false cases and using brute force of the police against protesters,” he said. Cooked on roads Farmers blocked Bengaluru-Mysuru highway at Mysuru, Mandya and Ramanagaram, Ballari Road at Devanahalli and Chikkaballapur, Bengaluru-Chennai highway at Kolar, Bengaluru-Bidar highway at Kalaburagi and Shahpura, and several key junctions on Tumakuru Road and in Belagavi, Davanagere, Raichur and Koppal, among other places. At several roadblock points, farmers came with bullock carts and cattle, and in many places even cooked on roads. A statement from Samyukta Horata - Karnataka, a coalition of farmer, Dalit and progressive organisations, termed the protests in the State a success. They demanded that the Centre immediately stop harassing protesting farmers at the Delhi borders, and heed their demands and withdraw the three farm laws. Meanwhile, senior Kannada activist Vatal Nagaraj condemned Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa for ‘blindly following the diktat of the Centre’.  The protest is also against how the Union government is treating farmers, booking false cases and using brute force of the police against protesters Kuraburu Shantakumar, farmers’ leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-block-highways-across-karnataka/article33772627.ece
07 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bengaluru’s caseload now over 4 lakh||Bengaluru Urban, a major contributor of COVID-19 cases in Karnataka, breached the four-lakh mark on Saturday with 318 new cases. With a total of 4,00,315 positive cases, Bengaluru is now the second city in the country, after Delhi, to have crossed this mark. It has surpassed Pune, which had the second-highest number of cases till November. At present, Bengaluru’s caseload accounts for 42.5% of the total 9,42,031 cases in the State. The number of cases in the capital city started spiralling from the first week of July 2020. From 4,555 cases on June 30, the number rose to 22,944 till July 15. By July 31, it had touched 55,544, and subsequently doubled to 1,02,770 by August 21. After this, the city added over 47,753 cases to its tally in 17 days, taking the total number of cases to 1,50,523 on September 7. And, in another 15 days, the tally crossed the two-lakh mark. Since then, there has been a slowdown, and the doubling rate reduced to 12 days till the number of cases crossed three lakh on October 16. Subsequently, the number of days taken for cases to double increased to 24 days till the cases touched 3.5 lakh on November 9. After that, it has taken nearly three months for the case count to breach the four-lakh mark. With 3,937 active cases, Bengaluru is now second in the country behind Pune (5,522). With the total number of people discharged standing at 3,91,975, the recovery rate in Bengaluru is 97.91%. As many as 213 patients were discharged in Bengaluru on Saturday. With one new death on Saturday, the toll in this district rose to 4,402, which is 35.9% of the State’s total toll of 12,233. With a total of 70,35,878 tests conducted in the city so far, the total test positivity rate (TPR) now stands at 5.69%, while the total case fatality rate has touched 1.1%. According to the findings of the first round of seroprevalence survey done in September in the State to estimate the COVID-19 burden, the overall prevalence in Bengaluru conglomerate (Bengaluru Urban and BBMP zones) was 29.8% of the total 3,617 samples surveyed. This included 22% who had developed antibodies and 9.2% who had an active infection. An estimated 1.4% of the population had both antibodies and active infection. Bengaluru West had the highest percentage of population that had developed Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies. An estimated 35.1% of the 405 samples of individuals surveyed in the West zone were shown to have antibodies. With 13.2% of the surveyed population having had an active infection, Bengaluru West alsohad the highest overall prevalence (45.6%).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bengalurus-caseload-now-over-4-lakh/article33772130.ece
07 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||IFS officer accused of dowry harassment by IPS officer||An IPS officer from Karnataka, Vartika Katiyar, has filed a complaint with the police alleging that she was a victim of dowry-related harassment and physical torture perpetuated by her husband, an Indian Foreign Services (IFS) officer, and his family. Based on her complaint, the Cubbon Park police on February 1 registered a case against IFS officer Niteen Subhash Yeola and his family members under the Dowry Prohibition Act, and also for assault, cheating and criminal intimidation. Yeola is currently serving in New Delhi. In her complaint, Ms. Katiyar said she tied the knot with Yeola in November 2011 at Bhusaval in Maharashtra. The entire expenses of the engagement and marriage were reportedly borne by her parents. She alleged that even at the time of their marriage, her husband and his relatives demanded and forced her parents to give them gold ornaments. “After three months of marriage, the complainant’s husband and his family members demanded money from her and threatened to end the marriage if she failed to give them Rs. 3 lakh. She transferred Rs. 3 lakh to their account,” said a police officer. However, the blackmail and abuse allegedly continued. In 2012, Yeola reportedly went to her grandmother’s house in Uttar Pradesh and borrowed Rs. 5 lakh, which was not returned. She also cited instances of physical and mental torture. One such alleged instance took place in 2016 during a visit to Colombo, Sri Lanka, she told the police. He allegedly hit her with a marble box as a result of which she suffered a fracture on her hand. On many occasions, her in-laws allegedly demanded Rs. 35 lakh as dowry to purchase a house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ifs-officer-accused-of-dowry-harassment-by-ips-officer/article33772632.ece
07 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||IISc study looks at ways to stop HIV from replicating||An interdisciplinary team of researchers at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) has used computer simulations to understand how the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) that causes AIDS fuses with the host cell membrane. According to an IISc release, the study, published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling , focusses on a process called gp41–mediated membrane fusion. gp41, a core component of the HIV envelope protein (Env), is essential for the viral membrane to fuse with the cell membrane of the host’s immune cell, called T cell. This step is critical for HIV to invade and subsequently replicate within the host cell, the release said. “If gp41 fusion is blocked, then the whole invasion can be blocked there,” explained Biswajit Gorai, a former postdoc at IISc and first author of the study, indicating that understanding the membrane fusion process may help researchers in developing effective antiviral strategies. The release elaborated that though a lot is known about the molecular details of viral entry, the balance of components required for infection has remained uncertain. “The HIV envelope protein assembles into a three-part structure such that each unit comprises one gp41 protein. At the time of fusion, gp41 appears to fold into a six-helix bundle structure, which is thought to be necessary for membrane fusion,” it said. In another first, the team built models of HIV and host membranes with lipid compositions nearly identical to biological membranes, the release said. At present, the team is working on identifying mutations that can be introduced in gp41 to block the fusion. They are also hoping to develop antibodies that can prevent infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/iisc-study-looks-at-ways-to-stop-hiv-from-replicating/article33772136.ece
07 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Need pedestrian safety commissioners’||The Citizens for Bengaluru (CfB) has demanded that the civic body appoint pedestrian safety commissioners at the zonal and city levels, who should be tasked with monthly coordination meetings with all parastatals and traffic police. The organisation, which had recently launched a campaign for better footpaths in the city, held a walkathon in Seshadripuram and Malleswaram on Saturday to highlight the problems pedestrians face. Both areas have been ravaged by several road and drain works making walking on footpaths a hazard. Differently abled sports person Venkatesh Ethiraj and actor Sruthi Hariharan also participated in the event. “Footpaths have multiple stakeholders but no ownership. Footpaths become dumping grounds during all road works taken up by several agencies in the city, while it is also prone to illegal encroachments including parking, posing a threat to life and limb of pedestrians,” CfB said in a statement. With 279 fatalities in 2019, Bengaluru recorded the highest number of pedestrian deaths in accidents in the country. Lack of coordination between agencies leading to chaos on streets and footpaths has been a long-standing problem in the city, said activists. “Appointing pedestrian safety commissioners would certainly mitigate the coordination issues and improve the quality of footpaths. While coordination between agencies won’t solve all footpath problems overnight, we can be certain that lack of coordination is only costing our lives and limbs. Moreover, this structure would also provide a platform for local citizen inputs from ward committees to be rolled up to the zonal and city levels,” said Tara Krishnaswamy of CfB. Actor Shruthi Hariharan who participated in the event said she used to walk to school entirely on the footpath, and now it was impossible. “I joined this campaign to ask the government to take responsibility for pedestrian safety and ensure coordination and ownership among agencies”, she said.  While coordination between agencies won’t solve all footpath problems overnight, we can be certain that lack of coordination is only costing our lives and limbs Tara Krishnaswamy, CfB||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/need-pedestrian-safety-commissioners/article33772625.ece
07 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rangoli festival for Swachh Survekshan||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike on Saturday held a Rangoli festival that saw over a hundred people draw rangolis below the Veeranna Palya flyover, which was earlier a blackspot dumped with debris and garbage. The event was part of the Swachh Survekshan Abhiyan 2021. The city secured 214th rank in 2020 and aims to get a better ranking this year. D. Randeep, Special Commissioner, Solid Waste Management, BBMP, said one of the key parameters for the ranking was citizen feedback. He appealed to citizens to record their honest feedback on the portal. “Till date over 65,000 citizens have given their feedback,” he said, urging more citizens to record theirs at the Swachh Bharat portal (http://bit.ly/36KBD2w).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rangoli-festival-for-swachh-survekshan/article33772634.ece
07 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State seeks Rs. 470 cr. from Centre for sports infra||The State government has sought Rs. 470 crore grant from the Centre for developing sports infrastructure under the Khelo India (Rs. 160 crore) and the Fit India (Rs. 310 crore) campaigns. Minister for Sports and Youth Empowerment K.C. Narayana Gowda said both the proposals have been submitted to the Centre for financial support for developing sports infrastructure in the State. The Minister said 32 Khelo India centres would be opened in different districts for encouraging the youth and students in universities. Under the Fit India campaign, he said open gyms would be established at gram panchayat level. Taluk-level stadiums would be established in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, and Vijayapura districts, the Minister said in a press release.  National-level event Officials of Khelo India sought the support of the State government for conducting a national-level sports meet of universities in Bengaluru in 2022. About 4,000 sportspersons of more than 150 universities would participate in 17 events.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-seeks-rs-470-cr-from-centre-for-sports-infra/article33772142.ece
07 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Order on caste certificate targets some: Ex-CM||Congress leader Siddaramaiah has written to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa taking exception to a recent order by the Social Welfare Department that has roped in the Directorate of Civil Rights Enforcement to “verify facts” before issuing caste certificates to claims made from people of 29 communities. The State government has cited a 2019 Supreme Court order that directed verification by a vigilance cell before issuing caste certificate, in the January 16 order. However, Mr. Siddaramaiah has argued that the apex court order was for all communities but the State government was “selectively targeting” only 29 communities. Demanding a withdrawal of the order, Mr. Siddaramaiah alleged that it was only further proof that “SCs, STs, and OBCs are targeted and unprotected under the BJP regime”. The list of 29 communities include Kadu Kuruba, Jenu Kuruba, Gond, Rajgond, Kammara, Pariwara, Talawara, and others among the Scheduled Tribes and Beda Jangama, Budaga Jangama, Bhovi, Handi Jogis, and others among the Scheduled Castes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/order-on-caste-certificate-targets-some-ex-cm/article33772139.ece
07 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Kempe Gowda statue work inspected||Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan and Nirmalanandanatha Swami of Adichunchanagiri Mutt on Saturday visited the worksite in Noida near New Delhi to review the progress of the preparatory work related to the erection of 108-ft statue of Nadaprabhu Kempe Gowda at Bengaluru international airport. Dr. Narayan and the seer visited the studio of sculptor Ram Sutar in Noida and reviewed the work on the statue being installed at an estimated cost of Rs. 65 crore. “The statue will be installed next year” he said. The seer said earlier the plan was to mount the statue at the designated place in June 2021. But owing to COVID-19 the work was delayed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kempe-gowda-statue-work-inspected/article33772140.ece
07 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Last date extended||The government, on Saturday, announced that it would extend the date for admissions to schools and second pre-university colleges to February 20. Earlier, February 6 was fixed as the last date. In a release, the Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar cited the pandemic and delay in on-campus classes resuming as the reasons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/last-date-extended/article33772148.ece
07 February 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown||There will be no power supply in the areas serviced from Khodays substation on February 8 between 10 a.m. and 5.30 p.m. for taking up conversion and cable works. According to a Bescom release, the areas that will be affected are: F4 Shreenidhi Layout: Soap factory Hariharanagar, Nanjaiah TC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown/article33772628.ece
07 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Families pay homage to accident victims||The families of victims of the tragic accident on Hubballi-Dharwad bypass last month, who are yet to come to terms with the loss of their dear ones, marched to the accident spot on Saturday, to pay homage to the departed souls and thereby remind the authorities of their responsibility. The accident near Itigatti Cross on January 15 had taken away the lives of 12 persons. Barring two young girls, driver and cleaner of the mini-bus, the rest were alumni of St. Paul’s School in Davanagere, who were proceeding to Goa for a get-together. On Saturday, the family members paid homage to their victims by keeping their photographs and paying floral tributes, in what was an attempt to send a message that they did not want other families to suffer like them and highlight the need for road widening. The families, who had come from Davanagere, turned emotional on reaching the accident spot. They demanded immediate steps for road widening so that accidents were averted in future. Ravikumar, who lost his wife Preeti in the accident, said as they reached the accident spot, they felt as if they had entered a death trap. “Please do whatever it takes to widen the road,” he said. As the family members, accompanied by members of various organisations including leaders of the Congress congregated at the spot to pay homage, vehicular movement was blocked for nearly an hour. Those who were passing by also joined the event. KPCC media analyst P.H. Neeralakeri, who coordinated the event, said that despite repeated attempts to highlight the need for road widening, nothing had happened so far. Sister of former Chief Minister J.H. Patel, Anasuyamma, who also lost a family member, blamed the officials and elected representatives for the bad shape of the road. The participants at the event urged Additional Deputy Commissioner Shivanand Karale, who visited the spot, to initiate measures to get the road widened at the earliest. He was also urged to put up signboards to warn the motorists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/families-pay-homage-to-accident-victims/article33772121.ece
07 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Rasta roko’ in many districts||In response to the call for nationwide ‘chakka jam’ given by farmers protesting in New Delhi, members of various farmers’ and progressive organisations staged rasta roko on national highways in the districts of Haveri, Gadag, Belagavi, Vijayapura, Bagalkot, and Dharwad on Saturday. The protesters blocked roads, staged dharna, and condemned what they termed as the apathetic attitude of the Centre. Consequent to the rasta roko on various road stretches, traffic was affected ranging from several minutes to few hours at different protest venues. At Yarikoppa, farmers under the aegis of Raitha Karmikara Sanghatane and Samyukta Horata Vedike blocked the Hubballi-Dharwad bypass road of NH 4 for three hours. Lambasting the Centre, district secretary of SUCI(C) Ramanjanappa Aldalli said the three farm laws are detrimental for the progress of farm sector. The implementation of the laws would mean threat to food security and farmers becoming slaves of crony capitalists, he said. ‘Corporate farming’ On the pretext of doubling farm income, the Union government was bent on snatching farmlands and introducing corporate farming, he alleged. Taking exception to the cases booked on protesting farmers, he said the Centre should immediately withdraw them and return all their vehicles. At Narendra toll-gate, a group of farmers led by Gangadhar Patil Kulkarni staged rasta roko for one-and-a-half hour. On NH 218 (Vijayapura Road), near Malaprabha Right Bund Canal, farmers staged another protest under the aegis of Kalasa Banduri Horata Samanvaya Samiti and other farmers’ organisations. Similar protests were reported from the districts of Belagavi, Haveri, Gadag, and other places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rasta-roko-in-many-districts/article33772126.ece
07 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Make students learn and lead’||Basavaraj Banakar, Vice-Chancellor of Davangere University, has said it is important for students to learn to extend to their mental horizons and learn to lead others. He said teachers had a great role in facilitating this. Inaugurating a two-day leadership worksop for the faculty members of GM Group of Institutions in Davangere on Saturday, Prof. Banakar said that it was imperative for teachers to develop all the qualities of a leader in order to teach their students to lead others. “In these days of competition, the graduates need to develop leadership qualities along with achieving proficiency in their respective streams. Only then will they have a bright future,” he said. Principal of GM Institute of TechnologyY. Vijayakumar elaborated on the changes witnessed from the days of first industrial revolution to the fourth phase of the industrial revolution (Industry 4.0) and spoke on the need to cope with the advances in the field.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/make-students-learn-and-lead/article33772135.ece
07 February 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Activists block NH in Kalaburagi||Responding to the nationwide ‘chakka jam’ call given by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, a joint front of farmers’ organisation that was leading the farmers’ agitation in Delhi opposing the three farm laws, hundreds of activists blocked National Highway 50 at Ram Mandir Circle in Kalaburagi for three hours on Saturday. Activists of different mass organisations of Communist Party of India, Communist Party of India (Marxist), Socialist Unity Centre of India (Communist), and other left parties as well as those from Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha and Dalit and women organisations blocked the circle by noon. A few Congress leaders, including B.R. Patil and Allam Prabhu Patil, and medical students from various colleges participated in the agitation supporting farmers’ cause. The agitation disrupted the traffic movement on the highway and the Kalaburagi Ring Road. The police had put barricades in all roads to divert traffic. “All those who raise their voices supporting the cause of the agitating farmers are being suppressed. When singer Rihanna extended her support to the agitating farmers, the government asserted that it was India’s internal matter and outsiders need not intervene in. But, it is a matter of human rights and everybody has the right to raise their voice. When Nelson Mandela was pushed behind the bar, the world had condemned it. The Narendra Modi government is showing its dictatorship over farmers. As many as 170 farmers have lost their lives in the agitation and yet the government is not heeding,” Mr. Patil said. “If the farmers are in trouble, the country will be in trouble. Farmers who feed the nation are facing serious problems. We are participating in the agitation because we felt it was our duty to express our solidarity with them. We demand the government to consider farmers’ demands,” A.D. Guttedar, an MBBS final year student, told The Hindu.  Addressing the crowd, H.V. Diwakar of SUCI said the implementation of the controversial farm laws would make farmers slaves on their own farmlands. “The farm laws in question are amended to help the corporate class and not the farming community. Many essential commodities are removed from the Essential Commodities Act to allow the corporate companies to stock them and cause artificial scarcity so that they could make huge profits by raising the prices,” Mr. Diwakar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/activists-block-nh-in-kalaburagi/article33772123.ece
07 February 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||With no members, KK development board remains non-functional||The ongoing legislature session has had the Opposition Congress repeatedly slamming the government for “neglecting” the Kalyana Karnataka region, while Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has reeled out figures about funds sanctioned. However, inordinate delay in setting up an administrative machinery crucial to liaise between agencies has gone under the radar. To this day, the Kalyana Karnataka Region Development Board (KKRDB), which was formed under Article 371(J) of the Constitution that offered Special Status to the region, remains paralysed, with no members appointed, except for its chairman.  Languishing action plans As a result, even the action plans that are supposed to be approved by the board are now going to the State government for approval. As per the regulations in force, the in-charge Ministers of Kalyana Karnataka districts, eight MLAs representing constituencies in the region, two MLCs representing the areas in the region, an MP representing a constituency in the region, the zilla panchayat president of a district in the region and a president or a Mayor of an urban local body would be nominated as members of the board on rotation for a specific period. During the H.D. Kumaraswamy-led coalition government, the boardhad all its members and the chairman nominated. However, the board got dissolved after the BJP government took over. But the new board is not yet constituted. Chandrashekhar Patil Revoor, MLA for Kalaburagi South, was nominated as its chairman in July 2020, exactly a year after the new government came to power. However, members are yet to be named. “The board is an independent and autonomous statuary body that makes decisions on its own and obtains consent from the Governor. The government doesn’t have any role to play after the constitution of the board. Now, without the members, the chairman alone cannot take any decision and approve any action plan. That is why all the action plans are being directed to the Planning Department for approval. This goes against the spirit of hard-earned Special Status under Article 371(J),” Razak Ustaad, a leader of the Hyderabad Karnataka Horata Samiti, which was on the forefront of the people’s movement to seek the special status, told The Hindu . Delay in getting funds Meanwhile, inordinately delayed approval of the action plans and the resultant delay in obtaining funds from the government and implementation of the projects are widely attributed to the defunct board. Chittapur MLA and former Minister Priyank Kharge has raised this issue several times. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah has written to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on this, but to no avail. Till the end of December 2020, the government had approved only Rs. 1,131.86 crore for release against the budgetary allocation of Rs. 1,500 crore to the board. Of the approved amount, it released only Rs. 544.03 in two instalments. The KKRDB submitted the action plans for Rs. 952.22 crore, though the allocated amount was Rs. 1,500 crore, at the end of the third quarter of the financial year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/with-no-members-kk-development-board-remains-non-functional/article33772146.ece
07 February 2021||kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Boy drowns in tank||A 16-year-old boy drowned in Sharanabasaveshwar tank at Kalaburagi city on Saturday evening. A rescue team rushed to the site of the incident and retrieved the victim’s body. The police are yet to identify the deceased. The victim is believed to have come along with his friend to catch fish, but his friend fled the scene after the victim lost his ground and slipped into the deep tank. According to sources, passers-by noticed him struggling to stay afloat in the water and tried to rescue him, but in vain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/boy-drowns-in-tank/article33772134.ece
07 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Class 7 student skips her way to Golden Book of World Records||Class 7 student Tanushree Pithrody from Udupi on Saturday set a record by performing 55 backward body skips in a minute. A provisional certificate of the Golden Book of World Records was handed over to her. Ms. Pithrody performed the act at St. Cecily’s Higher Primary School. Vaishnav Manish, the adjudicator from the Golden Book of World Records, handed over the provisional certificate. Ms. Pithrody told reporters that she first saw a boy from Tamil Nadu perform backward body skips. After a lot of practice, she initially did 20 skips a minute. She gradually increased that number. Mr. Manish said a boy from Dubai holds the record of doing 47 forward body skips in a minute. Earlier records It was in April 2018 that Ms. Pithrody created a record by performing 42 full-body revolutions in a minute at Ammanni Ramanna Shetty hall in Udupi. She then broke the record held by 13-year-old Mohammed Alsheikh of Palestine. She also created a record in November 2017 at Lions Bhavan in Udupi by doing “Niralamba Poorna Chakrasana” 19 times in a minute. Ms. Pithrody’s father, Uday Kumar, is an electrical contractor, while her mother, Sandhya, is a homemaker. Ms. Pithrody rigorously practices yoga and received the Yoga Rathna award from D. Veerendra Heggade, Pattadhikari of Sri Kshetra Dharmasthala, in June 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/class-7-student-skips-her-way-to-golden-book-of-world-records/article33772797.ece
07 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||BJP leader in the dock for remark||BJP district vice-president Jagadish Adhikari’s statement allegedly defaming senior Congress leader B. Janardhana Poojary, and his comments about Billavas and the revered twins Koti Chennayya, has put him in the dock. Though Mr. Adhikari apologised for his statements, the Congress and other organisations have demanded disciplinary action against him. BJP district president Sudhershan Moodbidri said a notice was issued asking Mr. Adhikari’s explanation and he was directed to seek an apology of Billavas and Mr. Poojary. In a meeting of the association of hereditary trustees of temples and other religious institutions held five days ago, Mr. Adhikari reportedly spoke about continued tradition of giving respect to religious institutions. He said he was against the practice of touching the feet of leaders like Mr. Poojary for seeking blessings for political career. He reiterated this during a conversation with his friend on phone a couple of days ago. wherein he is heard speaking about Billavas and Koti Chennayya. “I apologise for my conduct which has hurt Billavas and Mr. Poojary’s followers. My statement has been trolled out of context and I did not in any way demean Billavas, with whom I continue to work and Mr. Poojary, whom I continue to hold in high esteem. There is no question of speaking about Koti Chennayya in a demeaning way,” Mr. Adhikari told The Hindu.  Congress district president K. Harish Kumar said Mr. Adhikari should apologise in public within the next one week. If he failed to do so, the Congress would be forced to launch an agitation. Condemning the reported statement of Mr. Adhikari about Billavas, Vishwa Hindu Parishad Mangaluru Divisional Secretary Sharan Pumpwell said by doing so Mr. Adhikari has insulted the Hindu community. Mr. Adhikari should tender public apology. The Akhila Bharatha Hindu Mahasabha too made the same demand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-leader-in-the-dock-for-remark/article33772785.ece
07 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Schemes launched at varsity||Several schemes and a projectwere inaugurated at Mangalore University’s Mangalagangothri campus here on Saturday. Bank of Baroda’s Mangaluru regional manager Sunil K. Pai inaugurated the Vatsalya Nidhi scheme of the university. He also launched a midday meal scheme for eligible varsity students, the first of its kind, and handed over the attendance register to committee head B.K.Sarojini. V-C’s contribution On the occasion, Vice-Chancellor P. Subrahmanya Yadapadithaya handed over a cheque for Rs. 1 lakh as his personal contribution for the midday meal scheme. The dignitaries launched National Service Scheme activities for 2021-22 by administering oath to students . Later, Mr. Yadapadithaya, Registrar Raju Mogaveera, Registrar (Evaluation) P.L. Dharma, executive engineer Y. Umesh Bhat, Konaje Gram Panchayat PDO Savitha and others inaugurated a public toilet complex at Konaje bus stand. The toilet complex, which was an initiative of the university, was built with funds under Corporate Social Responsibility of the Bank of Baroda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/schemes-launched-at-varsity/article33772794.ece
07 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Dead mammal at Mogaveerapatna was False Killer Whale: Scientists||Scientists have said that the 10-ft long whale that was washed ashore at Mogaveerapatna in Ullal, off Mangaluru, on Thursday was a False Killer Whale (Pseudorca Crassidens). According to Prathibha Rohit, principal scientist and head of Indian Council of Agricultural Research’s Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute, Mangaluru, this is the first time a False Killer Whale was found stranding on Karnataka coastline. The earlier incidents of stranding of this mammal was reported in Kerala, Tamil Nadu, and Andaman and Nicobar Islands. In a statement, Ms. Rohit said False Killer Whales were the largest species of the family of Delphinide that includes dolphins, killer whales, and pilot whales. This species of oceanic dolphin are common in deep tropical to warm temperature seas. They visit coastal waters but prefer remaining deep waters. They are found throughout the Atlantic, the Pacific and the Indian Oceans. The False Killer Whale, she said, was actually a dolphin. These dolphins have similarities with killer whale in the form of shape, number of teeth, skull shape, and size. This species is often mistaken for bottlenose dolphins, short-finned pilot whales, or long-finned pilot whales. These species are black or dark grey with while blaze on their ventral side. Adult males range between 3.7 and 6.1 meters in length, while adult females range between 3.5 to 5 meters. They are carnivores and primarily eat fish and squid and have an average lifespan between 57.5 and 62.5 years. These dolphins are classified as Data Deficient on the IUCN Red List. The ICAR-CMFRI has been monitoring mammals stranding along the Indian Coast for the last 25 years. Recently, a research project funded by Marine Products Export Development Authority was taken up under senior scientist R. Jeybaskaran to assess the status of marine mammals and species of sea turtles in Indian waters.  This species of oceanic dolphin are common in deep tropical to warm temperature seas. They visit coastal waters but prefer remaining deep waters. They are found throughout the Atlantic, the Pacific and the Indian Oceans||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dead-mammal-at-mogaveerapatna-was-false-killer-whale-scientists/article33772790.ece
07 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Social activist Sharada Acharya dead||Social activist Sharada Acharya(in picture), 89, passed away at her house in Mangaluru on Saturday. Ms. Acharya was the member of the Manglauru City Municipal Council for three terms. She was the vice-president of the Karnataka unit of Jan Sangh for nine years and was in the prison during Emergency. She was the Janata Party candidate from the Mangalore Assembly Constituency in the State Assembly elections in 1978. She was active in Bharat Scouts and Guides and was the treasurer of the Siri Horticulture Association. She leaves behind two sons, including RSS Mangaluru City Corporation unit joint convenor Sunil Acharya, and a daughter. In his condolence message, State BJP president and Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel remembered the work of Ms. Acharya in various capacities in Mangaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/social-activist-sharada-acharya-dead/article33772787.ece
07 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: 35 new cases reported in DK, Udupi||With 28 new COVID-19 cases and 19 patients discharged, the active COVID-19 cases in Dakshina Kannada on Saturday stood at 313. A fine of Rs. 31.67 lakh has been collected so far from 30,476 cases of not wearing masks, the district administration said. In Udupi, seven new cases were reported and seven patients discharged on Saturday. The active cases in district stood at 48. A fine of Rs. 23.17 lakh has so far been collected from 21,585 cases of not wearing masks and violation of social distance norms, the Udupi district administration said.  As many as 1,426 of the 5,944 health workers received COVID-19 vaccine jab during the 46 vaccination sessions in Dakshina Kanada, while 1,568 of the 4,530 health workers received the jab during the 39 vaccination sessions held in Udupi on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-35-new-cases-reported-in-dk-udupi/article33772788.ece
07 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Centre not concerned about farmers: ex-MLA||The Union government is concerned more about five or so corporate firms than about the farmers of the country, said senior Congress leader and former MLA for Bantwal B. Ramanath Rai on Friday. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Rai said that despite it being 72 days into the agitation by farmers on the borders of New Delhi, the Centre had failed to engage in meaningful dialogue with the agitating farmers. Instead, the government has built walls, placed nails, and even stopped Internet at and around the protest area, he said. “This is an unprecedented action by the Union government, which has acted against democratic principles to curb the farmers’ protest. The government is more concerned about five or so corporate firms than the issues concerning farmers,” Mr. Rai said. Dismissing allegations that the Congress had failed to take any effective action in support of the agitating farmers, Mr. Rai asked the State and central BJP leaders to stop talking about the earlier Congress governments failing to take action in the interest of farmers. “It is for our reported failure that you [the BJP] have come to power. BJP leaders should not continue to harp on our failures but work to properly address the issues concerning people. We will continue to point out your mistakes,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/centre-not-concerned-about-farmers-ex-mla/article33772791.ece
07 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Jobs for sexuality minorities||Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha has told officials to collect data on the academic qualifications of sexuality minorities and offer employment to those interested whenever there is an opportunity in outsourced jobs. Asking officials to give special consideration to sexuality minorities for such jobs in all offices, he asked the Women and Child Development Department to offer self-employment training to those interested in entrepreneurship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jobs-for-sexuality-minorities/article33772800.ece
07 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Itsy Bitsy opens outlet in Mangaluru||Itsy Bitsy, a hobby, arts and crafts group with 30 stores and an e-commerce site across the country, opened an outlet in Mangaluru on Saturday. Artist Shanta Prabhu inaugurated the shop at Bejai New Road, near Bharat True Value Cars, Kodialbail. A release said Its Bitsy is a venture that manufactures, retails and e-tails craft items. It focusses on creating an ecosystem that empowers rural women by providing mass rural employment and has provided jobs to over 3,000 such women, the release said. At present, it carries more than 15,000 products under various categories, including paper crafting, mixed media, candle and soap making, clay craft, kids’ crafts, DIYkits, and stationery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/itsy-bitsy-opens-outlet-in-mangaluru/article33772795.ece
07 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Karjol’s visit||Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol, who is also in charge of the Public Works Department, will be in Dakshina Kannada on Sunday to attend various programmes. He is scheduled to inaugurate a 3-km four-lane road at Dharmasthala, built at a cost of Rs. 15 crore, and lay the foundation stone for circuit house at Belthangady at 10.30 a.m. at Dharmasthala. Later, he will arrive in Mangaluru and lay the foundation stone for the four-laning project on a 2-km stretch of Mangaluru-Athradi SH-67 (Airport Road) at Maravoor at 5 p.m., said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karjols-visit/article33772799.ece
07 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Committed to ensuring Koraga welfare’||Minister for Backward Class Welfare Kota Srinivas Poojary on Saturday said the government was committed to bringing the Koraga community to the mainstream and ensuring its all-round development. Speaking at a sports meet organised for members of the community from Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts at Udupi, Mr. Poojary urged members of the community to make use of all the opportunities made available by the government for their development. The government is also considering providing a separate reservation matrix for Koragas, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/committed-to-ensuring-koraga-welfare/article33772792.ece
07 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||briefly/ bits||Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) and the Board for IT Education Standards, in association with IT industries and educational institutions, announced that the 12th edition of TCS TechBytes – an Engineering IT Quiz, will be digital. The quiz is open to engineering students (BE/BTech) of all streams and semesters in Karnataka. For details,www.bites.org.inor call 80-41235889.    The Railways has extended the periodicity of Bengaluru-Mangaluru-Bengaluru tri-weekly special express (via Mysuru till March end. A release from Palakkad Division of Southern Railway here said Train No.06517 KSR Bengaluru-Mangaluru Central Tri-Weekly Special (on Sundays, Wednesdays and Fridays) will be extended to run till March 28. Train No.06518 Mangaluru Central-KSR Bengaluru Tri-Weekly Special (on Thursdays, Saturdays and Mondays) will be extended to run till March 29, said the release.     The Tourism Department has asked entrepreneurs operating guesthouses, hotels, lodges, resorts and other tourist facilities to register their venture withhttps://nidhi.nic.in,the National integrated database of hospitality industry and obtain self certification throughhttps://saathi.qcin.org/of Union Ministry of tourism.      Bidar-based Shaheen Group of Educational Institutions will hold entrance exam for meritorious students from class 8 to degree courses from February 8 to 11. For registration and details, visitwww.shaheengroup.org.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly-bits/article33772784.ece
07 February 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Farmers block highways||Farmers gathered in large numbers and blocked the highways leading out of Mysuru to Bengaluru and Nanjangud on Saturday to express solidarity with their brethren who had gathered on the outskirts of Delhi, demanding the repeal of the controversial farm laws. Several farmers gathered at the junction of the Outer Ring Road and Mysuru-Bengaluru highway near Columbia Asia hospital under the leadership of Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS) leader Badagalapura Nagendra while another section of farmers turned up at the Outer Ring Road junction of Mysuru-Nanjangud road near the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) yard at Bandipalya. Movement of traffic on both the highways was disrupted during the blockade. However, police said alternative routes had been provided for the vehicular traffic during the blockade, which started around noon. The farmers sat on the Mysuru-Bengaluru highway, holding aloft placards against the “anti-farmer” policies of the Centre and shouting slogans against the BJP government at the Centre. Mr. Nagendra addressed the gathering before the police took them into custody and shifted them to CAR parade grounds. Meanwhile, farmers descended on the Mysuru-Nanjangud highway with bullock carts, sheep and goats as part of the road blockade. The farmers led by Organizing Secretary of Karnataka Sugarcane Growers’ Association Attahalli Devaraj and others were opposing not only the Central farm laws, but also the amended to Karnataka Land Reforms Act 2020. The farmers shouted slogans against the government while blocking the highway. Meanwhile, the farmers who had brought rice and other grains to cook on the highway, were stopped by the farmers from using a LPG cylinder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-block-highways/article33772246.ece
07 February 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||‘Hunar Haat’ begins in Mysuru||Hunar Haat, an exhibition of traditional crafts and culinary skills organised by the Ministry of Minority Affairs, New Delhi, was inaugurated at Maharaja’s College grounds here on Saturday with Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilizers D.V. Sadananda Gowda calling for a global market for indigenous handicrafts. Mr. Gowda said a large number of employment opportunities will be created by strengthening these indigenous, local industries. Apart from providing publicity to these handicrafts, Mr. Gowda said there was a need to promote them commercially also. Minister for Youth Empowerment and Sports K.C. Narayana Gowda, who was also present on the occasion, regretted that people here patronised Chinese toys at the cost of superior quality Channapatna toys that were manufactured in our own backyard. Ironically, there is a huge demand for Channapatna toys abroad, he said Mysuru Lok Sabha MP Pratap Simha, Vice-Chancellor of University of Mysore G. Hemantha Kumar and Karnataka Exhibition Authority (KEA) Chairperson Hemanth Kumar Gowda were present. More than 100 stalls and more than 225 artisans are participating in the 25th edition of Hunar Haat, scheduled to end on February 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hunar-haat-begins-in-mysuru/article33772248.ece
07 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Yaduveer files police complaint over fake Twitter account||Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar, the titular head of the erstwhile royal family of Mysuru, has lodged a complaint with the cybercrime police against a fake Twitter account opened in his name. The fake Twitter account, which had stumped social media users on an earlier occasion also, on February 4 tweeted on the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the controversial new farm laws. But Mr. Yaduveer, who clarified that he does not have a Twitter account, told reporters in Mysuru on Saturday that it was the same account that had tweeted in his name a couple of months ago. “Last time, it could not be tracked,” he said, adding that this time Twitter has been involved to ensure the fake account is deleted. By Saturday evening, the fake account had disappeared. He said fake accounts had been opened on different social media platforms in his name during the last two or three years. The same Twitter account had conducted a poll in August 2020 seeking public opinion on Mr. Yaduveer joining politics. Mr. Yaduveer had quickly taken to Instagram to clarify that the account was fake. Meanwhile, fielding reporters’ queries on his stand on the farmers’ stir, he said he did not find it appropriate to elaborate on the issue publicly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yaduveers-complaint/article33772127.ece
07 February 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Public told not to use ORR as dumping yard||The cleaning up and removal of accumulated debris and garbage on both the sides of Outer Ring Road, is turning out to be far more difficult than imagined. For, despite the recent exercise to clear the debris and remove the garbage, there were certain stretches where fresh dumpng had taken place overnight. This was stated by Mysuru MP Pratap Simha on Saturday while launching the garbage clearance on another stretch of the ORR linking it with Hunsur Road. Fresh dumping He said the ORR-H.D.Kote Road junction and surrounding areas were cleaned just a few days ago but on Saturday morning there were fresh dumping of uncleared garbage on the roadside. “We appeal to the public to help keep the city clean failing which the authorities will be forced to penalise you’’, said Mr. Simha. The ORR had emerged as a major eyesore and dumping yard for uncleared garbage, building debris and poultry waste. Hence it was decided to launch a clearing exercise as a joint effort of various departments including the Mysuru Urban Development Authority, Mysuru City Corporation, PWD etc. Mysuru MP Pratap Simha said the NHAI is asphalting the entire ORR at a cost of Rs. 162 crore and it was decided to take up the road cleaning work before the asphalting work could start. The pushcarts dealing with fast food, fruits and vegetables were also cautioned against dumping vegetable waste along the ORR. Responsibility G.T. Deve Gowda, MLA, said people have an equal responsibility in keeping the city clean and warned of stringent action in case of violations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/public-told-not-to-use-orr-as-dumping-yard/article33772251.ece
07 February 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Roots and tubers mela begins||A roots and tubers mela got underway in Mysuru on Saturday. Organised by Sahaja Samruddha and Rotary Club of Mysore (West), the two-day event has farmers from across the State showcasing Elephant foot yam (Suvarnagadde), Fresho Yam (Aanepaada Genasu), Lesser Yam (Sannagadde), to name a few. There are scores of varieties like purple yam which is used in ice cream and cakes though many varieties have not yet been documented, said Krishnaprasad of Sahaja Samruddha. Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar, of the erstwhile royal family, inaugurated the mela.  The University of Horticultural Sciences, Bagalkot, showcased tubers and roots on which it was conducting researc.h Among the exhibits was a 98kg tuber cultivated by farmer Pandurang Ram Gawada from Joida, Uttara Kananda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/roots-and-tubers-mela-begins/article33772250.ece
07 February 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Bharat Ratna sought||Veena Achaiah, MLC, urged the President to confer posthumously the Bharat Ratna on Field Marshal K.M. Cariappa and General K.S. Thimayya. In a memorandum, she recalled that Gen. Thimayya was the only Indian to command an infantry brigade in the battle during the Second World War and after the Korean war, headed a U.N. unit to deal with the repatriation of prisoners of war. She said Field Marshal Cariappa belonged to a family of farmers and is one of the only two Indian Army officers to hold the highest and five-star rank of Field Marshal and wanted the Bharat Ratna to be conferred on the two for their outstanding services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bharat-ratna-sought/article33772147.ece
07 February 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||State highway in Raichur blocked for two hours||To express solidarity to the ongoing protest by farmers against the Centre’s farm laws, the farmers’ organisation blocked the State highway near Askihal village in Raichur taluk on Saturday for two hours. The protesters alleged that the Central government was trying to suppress the farmers’ protest since over 70 days. They said farmers had come with more strength against actions by the Centre and as part of further agitation, the Akhila Bharat Kisan Sangarsh Samiti called a nationwide highway blockade. “We expressed our support for the farmers’ organisation and will continue till the farm laws are repealed,” they warned. Police made alternative routes for traffic movement due to blockage of highway and arranged elaborated security.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-highway-in-raichur-blocked-for-two-hours/article33772124.ece
07 February 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Second phase of vaccination tomorrow||The second phase distribution of Covishield vaccine will be carried out in Raichur and Yadgir on Monday. Staff of the Police and Revenue Departments, Fire and Emergency Services, zilla panchayat, tahsildar’s office, and pourakarmikas will get vaccinated. As many as 10,088 staff members have been administered vaccine in the first phase and around 6,000 have now registered for the second phase in Raichur. In Yadgir district, 6,213 staff members were administered the vaccine in the first phase, while 4,113 have now registeredfor the second phase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/second-phase-of-vaccination-tomorrow/article33772133.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Medical student comes under wheels of truck||A 19-year-old medical student came under the wheels of a BBMP truck while she was negotiating a bad stretch on Hennur Main Road on her two-wheeler. The incident occurred around 11.45 a.m. on Saturday. Tasdeeq Bushra died on the spot following which locals staged a protest demanding action against the civic body. “The deceased was a first-year MBBS student and a resident of Lingarajapuram. She was returning home after attending class,” a police officer said. While she was approaching St. Charles High School on Hennur Main Road, she came across a pothole-ridden stretch. She was trying to negotiate the potholes when the truck coming from behind hit her scooter. “On impact, she fell from the two-wheeler and came under the wheels of the truck,” the officer added. The Pulakeshi Nagar police arrested the driver Palani Muniswamy, 50, and booked him for reckless driving and death due to negligence. “We are also charging the BBMP officials concerned for not maintaining roads and not filling potholes,” said M. Narayan, DCP Traffic (East). For the past several months, motorists and pedestrians have been up in arms against the sorry state of roads not just in the Central Business District (CBD), where many stretches are being developed under Smart City, but also in outer zones where roads have been dug up for laying of utilities. Motorists and cyclists allege that the dug-up roads are a safety hazard. Civic Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad said, “I have asked senior engineers to visit the accident site and submit a report with photographs of the road. If the accident is found to have been caused by a bad stretch, stringent action will be taken against the officers responsible.”  I have asked senior engineers to visit the accident site and submit a report with photographs of the road. If the accident is found to have been caused by a bad stretch, stringent action will be taken against the officers responsible N. Manjunath Prasad, Commissioner, BBMP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/medical-student-comes-under-wheels-of-truck/article33772633.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||After HC rap, BDA sets up mechanism to implement court directives||After being repeatedly pulled up by the Karnataka High Court for enormous delays in implementing its directions, the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) has set up an exclusive team of officers to implement the orders in a time-bound manner. As the BDA said that it has now set a deadline of three months to adhere to the orders, a division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum directed the BDA to identify all the cases in which directions were issued and take steps to implement the orders. In his affidavit, BDA Commissioner H.R. Mahadev has said that the Board has granted permission for appointment of two law officers and five lawyers as nodal officers to exclusively assist officers and staff comply with around 500 orders passed by the court. The Commissioner has stated that steps are being taken to ensure that litigants are not further pushed to approach the court under the Contempt of Courts Act against the BDA for not adhering to the directions issued in their favour. The affidavit was filed in response to the court’s earlier direction to the BDA to put in place a mechanism to ensure compliance of court orders. Recently, the court was awarding cost on BDA’s officials for delay in adhering to its directions. Terming the machinery created by the Commissioner as “a step in the right direction that shows intent to take positive steps”, the bench directed the BDA to submit the steps taken to comply with the court’s orders by systematically implementing the machinery. The bench had pointed out that the BDA was not adhering to the court’s directions for executing sale deeds and to allot alternative sites to successful litigants within the given time frame, and such directions were not implemented even after litigants initiated contempt proceedings for breach of the orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/after-hc-rap-bda-sets-up-mechanism-to-implement-court-directives/article33772630.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Vaccination of frontline workers from February 8||The State will take up the first round of COVID-19 vaccination for frontline workers for three days from February 8. A targeted 2,74,374 frontline workers from the departments of Home, Police, Urban Development, RDPR and Revenue are scheduled to be covered during these three days. In a circular issued on Saturday, Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare) has directed all health officials in the districts and BBMP to set up more vaccine session sites and schedule more number of beneficiaries for each session site. This is to ensure that all are covered during these three days. Health officials said the State has adequate number of vaccine doses available to cover both healthcare and frontline workers. So far, the State has received 16,98,400 doses of Covishield and 3,56,340 doses of Covaxin. Health officials said only Covishield will be used to vaccinate frontline workers. “As the second dose for healthcare workers will start soon (28 days after the first dose), we do not have facilities to have two types of vaccines at the same time,” a top official told The Hindu . Meanwhile, healthcare workers who have missed or have not yet been vaccinated will also be scheduled, and vaccination for them will be carried out simultaneously. 3.81 lakh vaccinated So far, a total of 3,81,555 healthcare workers of the targeted 8,02,101 have been vaccinated in the State taking the overall coverage to 45%. On Saturday, the 22nd day after vaccination began on January 16, the State achieved a coverage of 24% with 22,787 of the day’s targeted 96,872 persons coming forward to take the jab. 531 new cases The State on Saturday reported 531 new cases, taking the total to 9,42,031. With three deaths, the toll rose to 12,233, while 434 persons were discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccination-of-frontline-workers-from-february-8/article33772623.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Wrapping up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/wrapping-up/article33772132.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Highs and lows||In the past 10 days, Bellandur, Doddanekundi, Begur, Banaswadi, Koramangala, Horamavu, Hagadur, Konena Agrahara, HSR Layout, and Puttenahalli areas have reported the highest number of cases in Bengaluru city. Kushalnagar, Muneshwaranagar, Lingarajapuram, Jogupalya, Okalipuram, Vrishbhavathinagar, Kempapura Agrahara, Padarayanapura, Gurappanapalya, and Hongasandra did not report any cases in this period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/highs-and-lows/article33772137.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Cart ride||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cart-ride/article33772144.ece
07 February 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Art expo in Alappuzha, Kochi||An art exhibition titled ‘Lokame Tharavadu’ featuring Malayali artists from across the world will be conducted in Alappuzha and Kochi from March 1 to 31. Organised under the aegis of Kochi Biennale Foundation, it will showcase works of 250 artistes, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac and Biennale Foundation president Bose Krishnamachari, said here on Saturday. The exhibition will be held across six venues in Alappuzha and Durbar Hall Art Gallery in Kochi. Artists A. Ramachandran, Akkitham Narayanan, Paris Viswanathan, Balan Nambiar, T. Kaladharan and others will attend the exhibition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/art-expo-in-alappuzha-kochi/article33772202.ece
07 February 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Let SC decide on Sabarimala: Isaac||Let the Supreme Court decide on women’s entry into the Sabarimala temple, Minister for Finance and Coir T.M. Thomas Isaac has said. He was speaking to reporters here on Saturday. “Let the court decide on the matter. Once the Supreme Court announces its verdict, we will discuss it with the people. The Congress party is raking up the issue as they have nothing to do or talk about. The people have rejected the United Democratic Front (UDF) in the local body polls and they are trying to regain the lost ground by raising the issue. ,” Dr. Isaac said. He said that no illegal appointments had been done in the Coir Corporation. “Employees who were recruited 10 and 20 years ago have been made permanent to deal with the shortage of staff and based on human consideration. ,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/let-sc-decide-on-sabarimala-isaac/article33772204.ece
07 February 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Coir expo in Alappuzha from Feb. 16||Coir Kerala, an expo on coir and natural fibre products, will be held in Alappuzha albeit virtually from February 16 to 21, Minister for Finance and Coir T.M. Thomas Isaac has said. It will be inaugurated by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on February 16 at 11.30 a.m. Seminars, debates, exhibition of various coir products will be organised as part of the Coir Kerala. Dr. Isaac said that the orders worth Rs. 70 crore for coir geotextiles had already been received from local bodies in the State. “We expect to receive orders for a total of Rs. 125 crore in Coir Kerala,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/coir-expo-in-alappuzha-from-feb-16/article33772205.ece
07 February 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||410 cases in Alappuzha||The district logged 410 COVID-19 cases and 366 recoveries on Saturday. Of the fresh cases, 403 patients contracted the disease through local transmission. The source of infection of five persons remains unknown. Two persons who came from abroad also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/410-cases-in-alappuzha/article33772206.ece
07 February 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Vattavada adds big onion to its vegetable kitty||Vattavada, the largest cool season vegetable cultivating village in the State, has added one more crop to its kitty with the successful trial cultivation of big onion. The trial cultivation was done in 1.5 acres in September-October and the crop is nearing harvest, Principal Agriculture Officer V.T. Sulochana told The Hindu . She said the pH level of the soil was 5.5 at Vattavada and onion required pH level of below six for congenial growth. Usually, farmers in Vattavada cultivated traditional crops such as potato, cabbage, cauliflower, carrot, and beans. This was the first time big onion was successfully tried there. She said onion required mild climate free of heavy rainfall. It was possible to cultivate two seasonal crops there. The next sowing season is April-May. The soil condition and climate were suited for onion, she said adding that there was comparatively slow growth during the nursery stage. The growth picked up after transplanting and once nutrients were added. Seeds from Maharashtra The trial cultivation of big onion was launched under the Subhiksha Keralam scheme. Seeds of the Panchagavya and Prema varieties were arranged from Maharashtra, one of the main onion cultivating areas in the country. Onion required 80 to 150 days of growth depending on soil and climatic conditions. Officials said unexpected rain in January and continuing mist had affected trial farming and the yield was expected to be better in future. The adverse weather spell had affected all crops in the villages of Vattavada and Kanthallur. Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar said the department had plans to expand the cultivation of big onion as it had been found successful at Vattavada. The seeds suitable for the climate would be arranged from the National Seed Production Centre. Garlic is a major crop at Kanthallur and Vattavada and it is hoped that onion will also become one of the main crops at these places. The State produces 15 lakh tonnes of vegetables and the government is set to open a seed nursery to ensure distribution of vegetable seeds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vattavada-adds-big-onion-to-its-vegetable-kitty/article33772224.ece
07 February 2021||KALPEETA,KERALA||Green activists seek govt. help to stop felling of rosewood trees||Environmental organisations in the district have sought government intervention to foil attempts by a saw mill lobby to fell centuries-old Indian rosewood, ‘Veeti’ or ‘Eeti’ in local parlance, by flouting all norms from private plantations in Muttil South village in Wayanad district. In a letter addressed to the Chief Minister, Forest Minister, Chief secretary, and the Wayanad District Collector, N. Badusha, president, Wayanad Prakriti Samrakshana Samiti, said the lobby had axed more than 200 huge rosewood trees with 25 land owners, including small-scale and tribal farmers at Vazhavatta, Avalattukunnu, and Karimkannikunnu within the Muttil South village office limits at a low price. Though the Meppadi forest range office had denied issuing of pass to transport the wood, the lobby had been continued to fell the huge trees for the past two weeks with the support of Revenue officials, Mr. Badusha added. However, the district administration, which is the custodian of reserved trees like rosewood, teak, and Sandalwood, is yet to take any action against the illegal mass felling of trees, he alleged. Revenue officials are supporting the lobby by misinterpreting an order issued by the department on October 20, 2020. According to it, farmers having title deeds can cut all categories of trees, except sandalwood, grown on the plot. But it does not allow them to cut royal trees such as rosewood and teak which had existed on the land before they got the title deeds, Mr. Badusha said. Request for passes The issue came to light when farmers in the area had submitted separate requests to the Meppadi forest range officer to issue passes to transport rosewood on their plantations after cutting it. They also produced NOC and location sketch from the village office as well as the xerox copy of their land deeds, apart from a report of the section forest officer for the purpose. However, the forest range officer refused to issue permission after he found that the trees belonged to the reserved category. Later, he brought the issue to the attention of the Vythiri tahsildar, but the later was yet to take any action on the issue, Mr. Badusha said. Threatened species According to a study by the Kerala Forest Research Institute (KFRI), Peechi, the high demand for valuable timber and the irrational felling and extraction from the natural area has turned the tree into a most threatened species. The IUCN (International Union for Conservation of Nature) List of Threatened Species or Red List, or Red Data List, declared this species as vulnerable in 1998. However, Wayanad District Collector Adeela Abdulla told The Hindu that the Additional District Magistrate had visited the site on her direction on Friday and booked a case against defaulters under various sections of the Kerala Land Conservation Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/green-activists-seek-govt-help-to-stop-felling-of-rosewood-trees/article33772161.ece
07 February 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||LDF’s protest in Wayanad today||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) district committee will stage road blockades at four places in the district on Sunday in protest against the draft notification of the Ministry of Environment, Forest, and Climate Change (MoEFCC) that envisages a buffer zone around the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary. Farmers’ lives The committee said in a release here on Saturday that the notification would affect the lives of thousands of farmers on the fringes of the sanctuary spread over six villages under Mananthavady and Sulthan Bathery taluks. The MoEFCC had issued the notification by neglecting the suggestions of the State government. Hence it should be repealed. Invite to UDF The one-hour road blockade would be held at Kattikulam, Pulpally, Sulthan Bathery, and Kallur in the district at 11.a.m. on the day. The committee also asked the United Democratic Front (UDF) to get ready for a mass agitation against the move of the Union ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldfs-protest-in-wayanad-today/article33772219.ece
07 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Police app ensures instant help to women in distress||For women in distress, emergency help may now be a five-second-long press away on their mobile phones, thanks to an app developed by the Kerala Police under Nirbhayam, an initiative for enhancing women’s safety. The Nirbhayam app is compatible on iOS and Android platforms and can be downloaded freely from the App Store and Google Play Store. Since its rollout on Friday, more than 2,000 people have downloaded it and many of them have tried it out of curiosity. “The app is extremely user-friendly and the ‘press-and-hold’ button is easy to find and operate. It can be activated when women sense imminent threat and without drawing the attention of potential assailants. Most importantly, it automatically sends the location of the user to the nearest police control room/police station from where the distress signal is transmitted immediately to the police mobile available closest to the location,” said Vijay Sakhare, ADGP, Law and Order. The almost instantaneous transmission of the alert message ensures swift police response and immediate neutralisation of the threat. That it works even without internet connectivity on the mobile of the user in distress makes the app more effective. It also enables the woman in distress to send text and audio messages, pictures and videos with minimal effort, thus giving additional information to the police team. The pictures and videos are also expected to be useful in the quick identification of the assailant. The police remain confident that the alert signal and the messages from the user will be extremely valuable evidence in a court of law, ensuring prosecution of the offenders. The app also has the facility to alert multiple persons as well. With relatives too instantly made aware of the danger faced by their dear one, they could also alert the police. The police have made several videos featuring actor Manju Warrier to popularise the app.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-app-ensures-instant-help-to-women-in-distress/article33772756.ece
07 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Kochi Corpn. won’t foot legacy waste biomining expenses||UDF councillors in the Kochi Corporation raised issues about the consortium that qualified in the technical bid for biomining of legacy waste at Brahmapuram, saying that the cost quoted was too high for the civic agency to pay, and that the consortium did not have the necessary experience to take up biomining. Mayor M. Anilkumar agreed that the civic body does not have the funds to shell out Rs. 54 crore for biomining, the financial bid submitted by the consortium that won the technical bid. The corporation has only handed over the task of quantifying the waste to NIT-Kozhikode, he said. UDF councillors opposed the tender process initiated by the Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC) for biomining. “The company that qualified, Zonta Infratech, has not carried out biomining anywhere else, though the criteria in the request for proposal specifies that they should have executed a similar project, along with at least one similar project worth Rs. 10 crore. But they have only taken up capping of waste, and have requested that the financial criteria be reduced from Rs. 10 crore to Rs. 8 crore,” said Antony Kureethara, Opposition Leader. Opposition councillors said the company had submitted evidence of having taken up a project worth around Rs. 8 crore, and only a few bills adding up to the remaining amount. Besides, three companies had participated in the process, and Zonta Infratech quoted the highest figure of Rs. 54 crore, said UDF councillor Minimol V.K. “A lower bid of Rs. 32 crore was also put forth by another company,” she added. “The company had taken up work in Bengaluru, including the setting up of around 200 underground bins, at Rs. 54 crore, but a probe was initiated against it for non-completion,” she said. The consortium of Zonta Infratech Pvt. Ltd. and Bauer GmbH, Germany, had qualified in the technical bid for biomining. The project is a huge liability for the corporation that is already struggling to manage its finances, said Aristottil M.G., UDF councillor. “If the amount is deducted from the civic agency’s Plan fund, it would be a blow to the corporation’s finances,” he added. Mr. Anilkumar said the corporation had made no commitment yet towards paying for biomining.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kochi-corpn-wont-foot-legacy-waste-biomining-expenses/article33772763.ece
07 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Part of Muziris to be restored by March||Bulk of the conservation work undertaken as part of the Rs. 110-crore second phase of the Muziris Heritage Project (MHP) over the past four years may near completion by March. The remaining work will be completed by year end. The project is expected to reignite the interest of heritage enthusiasts, students and tourists in what was once a port, considered a hub of civilisation and trade. Monuments, including synagogues, churches, mosques, temples, palaces, and markets that buzzed with activity even before Christ and were an inalienable part of a prominent port town of yore, are being restored to their past glory under the project. Cleopatra’s beads Few know that the beads of a chain that the legendary Cleopatra wore were taken from Muziris, located over 150 sq km area in the North Paravur-Kodungaloor belt, says P.M. Noushad, managing director of the heritage project. “This was sometime in BC 729 during the time of King Solomon, even before it was proved that the earth was round. The history of the famed port, which is said to have faded into oblivion following intense floods, dates back over 2,500 years.”  Mr. Noushad speaks of an innovative venture wherein heritage enthusiasts will be able to cycle 660 km from the Vizhinjam port to the Bekal fort, for which a bicycle track is being readied largely parallel to the upcoming Coastal Highway. This is aimed at people who want to leisurely check out heritage locales in ports such as Vizhinjam, Anjhuthengu, Kollam, Muziris, Kozhikode, Ponnani, Bekal, etc., while on the cycle trail. Part of the Spice Route project, which involves 31 countries, this Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board-funded cycle-track venture will link as many as 10 ports. Hop-on boats The MHP has inked a pact with Kochi-based Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation to procure four hop on, hop off boats to augment its fleet of 11 boats that ferry visitors through historic waterways in the Muziris region, most of which are now part of National Waterway III. Crafts village Mr. Noushad says the MHP shows how heritage conservation and tourism could converge to create a sustainable development model, ushering in long-term benefits to the local community. Traditional industries and artisans too will get a fillip. A crafts village will shortly come up for artisans to work and sell their wares while a waterfront-facing maritime museum near the Pattanam excavation site is also being planned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/part-of-muziris-will-come-back-to-life-by-march/article33772221.ece
07 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Rural police to ramp up action under Operation Dark Hunt||Buoyed by its impact on crime rate and containing fights between rival gangs, the Ernakulam Rural Police are set to ramp up action under Operation Dark Hunt, its ongoing campaign to crack down on anti-social elements. So far, reports have been submitted to various Revenue Divisional Officers (RDOs) on 321 persons with criminal antecedents by invoking relevant provisions of the Kerala Anti-social Activities (Prevention) Act (KAAPA) along with a request for initiating security proceedings under the Criminal Procedure Code to ensure peace, tranquillity, and maintenance of law and order in their respective jurisdictions. Bond for good behaviour RDOs will convene a hearing and if satisfied with the police reports, the persons concerned will be asked to execute a bond for good behaviour. If they are found violating it and getting involved in criminal acts during the bond period, they will be arrested. “We are drawing up a list of more persons seeking similar action, as the invocation of KAAPA has been found to have a deterrent effect,” said K. Karthik, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural). The Rural police have perhaps invoked KAAPA the most number of times in the State, with 23 having been arrested and 25 banned from entering its limits under Sections 3 and 15 respectively in the last two years. KAAPA can be invoked based on the District Police Chief’s report against those accused in three different cases in seven years. Data of criminals in all the 34 stations across three sub-divisions are being vetted, and 115 with criminal antecedents remain under the scanner. The Kuruppampady police have arrested five persons under KAAPA, the most by any police station, followed by the Kalady police who arrested four. Angamaly, Perumbavoor, North Paravur and Munambam police have arrested two each, and Njarakkal, Vadakkekara, Aluva and Nedumbassery police have arrested one each. Those arrested include notorious criminals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rural-police-to-ramp-up-action-under-operation-dark-hunt/article33772757.ece
07 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Three stage veterans from Ernakulam bag honours||Three veterans from Ernakulam, with a combined experience of around 150 years among them and who continue to play a central role in the popularity of dramatic arts, have been recognised by the Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Akademi for their contributions to stage art ranging from bringing together artistes and training them to promoting and acting. K.M. Dharman, 88, from Palluruthy is not new to honours from connoisseurs of stage arts. But this year’s honour, the SL Puram Award for his massive contributions to the drama movement, is something special. “I was pleasantly surprised,” he said on Saturday, recalling his association with his dear friend S.L. Puram Sadanandan, in whose name the award has been instituted. He went down the memory lane, recalling his first association with the stage as a 14-year-old taking part in mono acts. It was a period of getting to know the ropes between 1937 and 1947, he said about his days as an amateur who participated in plays and stage shows organised under the then rapidly growing village libraries. He made his presence felt on the drama scene in 1947 with Jeevitham , written by Vidwan K. Shankaran. Then came the greatest association and collaboration of his life with Bharat P.J. Antony. Over 18 years from around 1954, “I associated myself with the actor, director, and writer and learnt everything about stage arts,” he said. For Cochin Hassanar, again an original resident of Palluruthy, a fertile ground for great dramatists, life has come full circle. Starting as a young boy to becoming the “guru” of youngsters seeking to learn the art of drama. The veteran, whose associates go back to N.N. Pillai, Saitan Joseph, and Balan Ayampilly, does not rest on his laurels. When the pandemic locked us all in, he started on a one-man stage performance. At the age of 66, he has more than 50 years of stage experience. The one-man show “Innu”, played over an hour, has completed nearly 60 performances and is growing in popularity, he said. Cherai Suresh, 68, who has also been honoured with the Guru Pooja Award by the Aacdemy, recalled his past association with the likes of Kanmani Theatres and KPAC. “I have worked with all major troupes in the State and travelled widely to stage plays, he said, proudly underlining names like Poonjar Navadhara, Pala Communications, Aluva Maithri, Cherthala Tapasya, Vaikom Malavika, and Thiruvananthapuram Akshara Kala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-stage-veterans-from-ernakulam-bag-honours/article33772760.ece
07 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Notified street vending zones soon, says Mayor||A complete list of street vendors will be prepared soon by the Kochi Corporation, and vending zones will be notified, Mayor M. Anilkumar said at the council meeting on Saturday. The welfare and town planning standing committees will scrutinise the matter. Identifying street vendors is crucial before areas could be demarcated for vending, he said. It was decided at a meeting with the District Collector and the District Police Chief (Kochi City) on Saturday that an inspection of pavements along the city’s main roads would be done to get rid of encroachments, stray cables, and vehicles. The inspection will be conducted by corporation officials in collaboration with the Public Works Department and the city police in central areas like M.G. Road and Abraham Madamakkal Road, he said. Road work While some road work was mentioned in the State Budget, a discussion will be sought with the State government on the implementation of the work, he said. All agencies, including RBDCK and KMRL, will have to be roped in for such a discussion, and it will be brought to the attention of the State government. Houses for the landless The corporation will also request the State government for help with identifying land for housing projects for landless beneficiaries under the LIFE Mission. While around 4,000 beneficiaries have been identified, the corporation does not have the land to implement a housing project, the Mayor said. There is vacant land that is being held by various other agencies, including the GCDA, and a request will be made to the government to make areas available for housing projects, Mr. Anilkumar informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/notified-street-vending-zones-soon-says-mayor/article33772765.ece
07 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||When a deluge brought together a band of volunteers||When an unprecedented deluge hit the State in 2018, 150-odd volunteers, most of them unknown to each other, rushed to a relief camp at the Thripunithura Boys Higher Secondary School. For the next eight days, they worked tirelessly, serving over 800 flood-hit people. By the time the camp was wrapped up, they were united by a common cause. Thus was born the Thripunithura Volunteer Service (TVS), which also inspired the formation of Kanivu Palliative Care, which has been doing commendable work for seriously ill persons, even during the pandemic. “We followed it up with similar relief work for the flood-hit in 2019 and a blood donation camp. In fact, blood donation is an annual affair and this year’s camp will be held shortly. We were active during the outbreak of the pandemic last year, distributing 1,000-odd masks and sanitisers,” said TVS coordinator E.S. Rakesh Pai. An innovative campaign called Prakruthi Gramam was also organised, aimed at preserving nature and promoting indigenous food habits. It featured revival of waterbodies, showcasing of 80-odd traditional food items, and an awareness class on the significance of preserving nature and containing the emission of greenhouse gases. “We have over 600 volunteers who can be readily mobilised over social media in the event of an emergency,” said Latha Suresh, assistant vice president of Kanivu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/when-a-deluge-brought-together-a-band-of-volunteers/article33772761.ece
07 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Govt. not to bear burden of postings||The government has declined to bear the financial burden arising out of the appointment of 102 faculty members and 67 non-teaching staffers at the School of Engineering of the Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat). An order issued by the Department of Higher Education on February 4 said that all financial commitments (including salary and pension) should be met from the internal revenue of the School of Engineering. However, the government has ratified the varsity Registrar’s decision to open self-financing schools without the State’s concurrence and create 102 teaching and 67 non-teaching posts. Since the School of Engineering remains a self-financing institution (a separate entity), staff selection has to be done separately. Periodic hike in fee should be effected as it is done in other self-financing engineering colleges. The present practice of maintaining separate accounts for these schools should continue, according to the order. The Cusat Vice Chancellor in a letter dated November 16, 2016 had sought government support and concurrence for permanent posting of teachers. The Syndicate had created teaching and non-teaching posts, and appointments were made under the varsity’s statutes without government approval. The first appointment of a teacher was made in 1999, it said. The order has come as a blow to faculty members, who had expected that the government would extend financial support as was done in the case of teacher recruitments in its regular departments as per the norms prescribed by the University Grants Commission / All India Council for Technical Education and provisions of the Cochin University of Science and Technology Act, 1986. The university authorities had submitted that the appointments had been made to the common pool of teachers using the same communal rotation register for permanent / regular teachers. Meanwhile, Vice Chancellor K.N. Madhusoodanan said on Saturday that the varsity would approach the government again seeking to reconsider its decision. “We are no longer in a position to continue meeting financial requirements from the internal revenue of the School of Engineering in view of the increasing gap in revenue and expenditure,” he added.  IN A FIX 102 faculty members and 67 non-teaching staffers to be appointed at the School of Engineering under Cusat Govt. has ratified Cusat Registrar’s decision to open self-financing schools without State’s concurrence Since the School of Engg. is self-financing, staff selection has to be done separately, says govt. order||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-not-to-bear-burden-of-postings-at-cusat/article33772163.ece
07 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Navy officers win honour||Sub Lieutenant Raghav Kumar Pandey of the Navy undergoing B.Tech course at Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) has won the Class NK Best Project Award for designing a ‘High Speed Military Wing in Ground Effect Craft’. Lieutenant Abhinav Aravind, Sub Lieutenant Anupam Pathak, and Sub Lieutenant Aspin Raj, also undergoing the course, jointly secured the Class NK 3rd Best Project Award for the year 2020. Classification society Nippon Kaiji Kyokai, known as Class NK, is the commercial ship Classification Society of Japan. This society is the largest classification society in the world in terms of tonnage. Services It is actively engaged in a growing range of commercial ship related activities aimed at promoting protection of human life and property at sea. The society also works for the protection of the marine environment, according to a defence communication.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/navy-officers-win-project-awards/article33772753.ece
07 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Ernakulam registers 898 positive cases||On Saturday, 898 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district, and 690 recoveries were recorded. Four health workers tested positive. While 41 people were infected from Karukutty, 29 cases were recorded in Kalady, 23 in Elanji, and 21 each in Thripunithura and Mookkannoor. A total of 24,380 people remain in quarantine. For testing, 9,161 samples were sent. The district’s active case load stands at 10,620. As many as 8,340 people are recovering at home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-registers-898-positive-cases/article33772751.ece
07 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||New building of AMMA inaugurated||Actor Mohanlal refused to comment on the farmers’ protest here on Saturday. “I will comment about it later. This is not the occasion for making a response,” he said at a media interaction held after the inauguration of a new building of the Association of Malayalam Movie Artistes (AMMA) here on Saturday. The president of the association evaded the question on why only a few actors in the Malayalam film industry had come forward to respond to the issue. The headquarters of the association has facilities for organising meetings and script reading sessions for the members. It was set up at a cost of nearly Rs. 10 crore. Mr. Mohanlal, who inaugurated the facility along with actor Mammootty, said the association would take the lead in making a movie similar to its earlier venture ‘Twenty 20’ to help the artistes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-building-of-amma-inaugurated/article33772239.ece
07 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||‘UDF for protection of rituals‘||KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran has said the issue of tradition and customs pertaining to the Sabarimala temple will figure prominently in the UDF’s election manifesto. If voted to power, the UDF will legislate to protect the rituals and tradition of the Sabarimala temple, he said here on Saturday. He said it was wrong to say that the State could not legislate on the issue as per the existing laws. He accused the LDF of trying to appease the majority and create factions among minorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-for-protection-of-rituals-says-mullappally/article33772766.ece
07 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Protest against ‘non-registration’ for vaccine||A group of 27 ASHA workers protested in front of the Binanipuram Family Health Centre in Kadungalloor panchayat on Saturday, on the grounds that their names were not registered for the COVID-19 vaccination drive. “Some ASHA workers from the Varapuzha block were not registered for vaccination. ASHA and anganwadi workers and staff at health facilities in nearby panchayats have all taken the vaccine. Some of us have only received a message confirming registration, which means that we will have to wait much longer for the vaccine,” said Prajitha R., an ASHA worker. “The answer to who should have registered the names remains unclear, but it looks like our registration was forgotten,” she added. Dr. Sivadas M.G., Reproductive and Child Health Officer and nodal officer for vaccination, said registrations were completed after the issue was brought to the notice of health officials. The first dose of the Covishield vaccine has been administered to 48,000 health workers in the district, Dr. Sivadas said. Another 10,000 health workers will be given the shot before February 10. Vaccination for frontline workers is likely to begin by February 11, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protest-against-non-registration-for-vaccine/article33772767.ece
07 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Container transit to resume this month||The transportation of containers through the Kottayam-Kochi National Waterway (NW) corridor will resume in a fortnight after a two-year lull, decongesting roads and at the same time ushering in an economical, eco-friendly and energy-efficient mode to ferry cargo. A 240-tonne barge capable of carrying up to twenty 20-feet containers had conducted four trips in the corridor, which is part of NW IX and NW III, in March 2019, carrying export / import cargo. The transit time along the 85-km waterway is around seven hours. “The vessel will shortly be dry-docked and put into service later this month, this time to ferry wheat, rice, and tiles. Efforts will be made to procure a second bigger barge to operate on the under-utilised route which holds tremendous potential. Waterway transport of cargo is 30% cheaper as compared to the road route, while materials like tiles can be transported without the risk of them cracking when being taken through ill-maintained roads,” said Abraham Varghese, managing director, Kottayam port. Between 250 and 270 container loads of wheat and rice arrive every month at the Kottayam port. Transporting them through narrow and congested roads will worsen traffic hold-ups and pollution. A shift to waterway transport will considerably help lessen the carbon footprint of transporting such a volume of cargo. The Kottayam port will become an even busier hub for cargo transit in central Kerala, once the Vizhinjam port is commissioned, it is learnt. Hazardous cargo “Transportation of fuel and other hazardous goods too must be shifted to waterways, since tanker lorries pose safety hazard to road users. The State government can step in by providing incentives to woo cargo operators to inland waterways that abound in Kerala. On their part, personnel of Customs, Inland Waterways Authority of India (IWAI), and Cochin Port Trust were of tremendous help in incorporating the Kottayam port, the sole inland container depot in Kerala which was accorded the status of a minor port by the State government, in the system,” Mr. Varghese said. “We will provide all assistance for barge operators on the route,” said Mathew George, Director, IWAI. The agency had cleared weeds and arranged pilotage to the vessel which operated the first trip, in 2019. The cost savings will increase when cargo is ferried over longer distances, he added. From Kottayam, the barge will transit through Alappuzha, Muhamma, Thannermukkom, Vaikom, and Aroor, following which it will reach the Vallarpadam container transshipment terminal, Mr. George said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cargo-ferry-via-waterway-soon/article33772196.ece
07 February 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Fishers opting for juveniles||As the fisheries sector enters another annual lean season, fishers in many parts are opting for juvenile harvesting, a dangerous and illegal practice that invariably leads to the depletion of marine stock. Apart from affecting aquatic biodiversity, boats targeting shoals of edible juveniles also risk the growth of seafood industry. According to fishers, the current dry spell will continue for a couple of months and they are forced to net whatever is available. “Fishing days started to shrink after Ockhi and in 2020 we got minimal working days. Till January end there was a marginal increase in catch, but now we are going through a very difficult phase. We know the practice is unethical and harmful in the long run, but right now we can’t survive without indulging in juvenile fishing,” says Surendran, fisher. Despite Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) warning the fishers not to harvest oil sardines, many of the boats return with the fish staple that had hit the lowest catch volume in 2019. After CMFRI researchers found scattered sardine shoals along Kerala coast in January 2021, fishers were advised not to catch them for three or more months even if they fall above the Minimum Legal Size (MLS). “What we get in market now is oil sardines that are at the brink of MLS and it’s a very alarming situation. They trap sardine shoals with mesh size normally used for catching anchovy and if the practice continues, it will reflect in the catch of 2021. The researchers have spotted occurrence of shoals and only after observing the exploitation rate we can talk about the change in biomass and catch. Their predictions had gone wrong in the past due to juvenile exploitation,” says Dr. K.K.Appukuttan, marine fisheries expert and former scientist with CMFRI. Fish meal plants He adds that a good percentage of the juvenile catch end up at fish meal plants and an organised group is working for the fish meal fish oil (FMFO) industry. “They use carrier boats to ferry the catch and load it in trucks at night.” Fisheries officials say though they get several complaints about juvenile fishing, not many boats with fish below MLS are seen in harbours. “We are well aware of the stock status of oil sardine, but if the catch is above MLS we can’t take any action. All we can do is spread awareness,” says K.Suhair, Deputy Director, Fisheries Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fishers-opting-for-juveniles/article33772208.ece
07 February 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||ESI Model Hospital will get more facilities: MP||The Employees’ State Insurance Corporation will directly operate the medical and surgical ICUs at ESI Model Hospital, Asramam, which were earlier handed over to a private group, said N.K. Premachandran, MP. At a meeting held in Delhi, Anuradha Prasad, Director General, ESIC, had said that the ICUs will be renovated with new ventilators and all modern amenities, making them functional within three months, he said. “A hundred more beds will be added to the 200-bed facility and construction of the super specialty block will be expedited,” he said. A system will be in place to supervise the construction works at two parts of the hospital. Mr. Premachandran also made a proposal to construct the new block at three acres of land under the ESIC which now houses the staff quarters. The Director General has instructed the officials to study the proposal and submit the report. “The ESI dispensary at Punalur will be renovated using Rs. 30 lakh and a new building with modern facilities will be built there,” he added. The functioning of the hospital, the only super specialty hospital run by the ESIC in State, has come under much criticism. It is alleged that the hospital has been denying proper treatment and medicines to the beneficiaries. Privatisation Though the hospital has different departments including neurology, oncology, endocrinology and urology, the services are not available due to privatisation as part of public-private partnership (PPP). The hospital is also facing shortage of staff, including specialised doctors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/esi-model-hospital-will-get-more-facilities-mp/article33772209.ece
07 February 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Vacant seats||Government Industrial Training Institute (ITI) for Women, Manayilkulangara, has invited applications for vacant seats in various trades. Applications will be accepted till 3 p.m. on February 12 and the spot interview will be held on February 15.For more details, contact 0474 2793714.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vacant-seats/article33772210.ece
07 February 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||525 COVID cases in Kollam||The district reported 525 new cases of COVID-19 and 325 recoveries on Saturday. While 516 patients contracted the disease through contact, others include one NRI, one person from another State, four health workers and three cases with no known source. The district currently has 11,582 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 7,54,046. A total of 1,278 people completed home quarantine on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/525-covid-cases-in-kollam/article33772212.ece
07 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Poor surveillance, faulty cameras hit road safety||Faulty speed detection cameras and declining surveillance by enforcement squads have resulted in the Vadakara-Azhiyoor stretch of the Kozhikode-Kannur National Highway becoming one of the most unsafe routes in Kozhikode district. The violation of speed limit continues to be the main cause of accidents on the stretch, where 15 persons were killed in the last two years. Local merchants from Kainatty, an area that witnessed the highest number of freak accidents on the route, said attempts to overtake heavy trucks and trailers during peak hours of traffic caused the majority of accidents. Overspeeding by taxi drivers in the absence of poor checking is another reason behind the accidents, they added. Since most taxi drivers are aware of the position of speed detection cameras, they maintain the permitted speed only when the vehicles are near the cameras. Vehicles plying to Kannur and Kozhikode airports are often held for speed rule violations during surprise inspections. Luxury vehicles “Recently, we have noticed the entry of high-speed luxury vehicles on the road, which create a lot of trouble for other motorists. Their zigzag race and unbearable sound cause huge distraction to fellow motorists and affect road safety,” said V.P. Vaheed, a road safety volunteer from Vadakara. He pointed out that safety violations by such vehicles went unchecked even in accident-prone areas. A schoolteacher from Kainatty said the entry of underage riders with altered motorcycles and luxury sports vehicles was also on the increase on accident-prone routes. “It endangers the safety of schoolchildren, pedestrians and motorists,” she added. Meanwhile, the Vadakara police said they would conduct surprise inspections using speed detection cameras in the accident-prone areas. There were also special drives conducted by the Motor Vehicles Department as part of road safety programmes, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poor-surveillance-faulty-cameras-hit-road-safety/article33772172.ece
07 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||PCB likely to visit medical college soon||The Kerala State Pollution Control Board has reportedly promised to inspect the functioning of an incinerator installed near the postgraduate students’ hostel attached to the Government Medical College, Kozhikode, in the coming days. College students’ union chairman Rahul Rajeev said on Saturday that the students had been complaining about difficulties due to the smoke generated from the incinerator. It had been pointed out that black plumes were entering the hostel rooms every time windows were opened. It is reportedly entering the premises of the senior residents’ quarters and nursing college hostel as well. The students claimed it would affect their health. They said the incinerator had been installed for burning of the waste generated from the medical college hospital. The authorities should consider a more environment-friendly system to address the disposal of waste, said the union functionaries. The college authorities, however, claimed that all guidelines were being followed in the functioning of the incinerator.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pcb-likely-to-visit-medical-college-soon/article33772162.ece
07 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Sudhakaran’s comment has more to it than meets the eye||It could be sheer organisational dynamics, with Assembly polls round the corner, that may have forced Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala to make a U-turn on his remark about Congress leader and Kannur MP K. Sudhakaran’s alleged caste slur at Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Defending Mr. Sudhakaran, Mr. Chennithala said the working president of the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee had only pointed out the extravagance of the Chief Minister when he allegedly made the “unsavoury” remark on Mr. Vijayan. Mr. Sudhakaran, however, was defiant, strongly justifying his comment on Mr. Vijayan. While doing so, he pinned blame on Alappuzha legislator and All India Congress Committee (AICC) member Shanimol Usman, a protege of Mr. Chennithala, who had flayed Mr. Sudhakaran in her Facebook post. He responded to Ms. Usman’s post even as Tariq Anwar, AICC general secretary in-charge of Kerala, said Mr. Sudhakaran’s comment would be examined.  According to political insiders, the comment of Mr. Sudhakaran has more to it than meets the eye. While apparently taking on the ruling CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front, his hidden target probably was the Congress State leadership. And now, with the issue triggering debates in the State’s political spectrum, his twin objectives seem to have been achieved. Mr. Sudhakaran probably knew the caste aspersion would not boomerang on him, as he also belonged to the same community—Thiyya—as the Chief Minister. Mr. Sudhakaran has sent a faint message to the Central leadership that he could still navigate the organisational apparatus with support from affiliates of the party, especially the youth. Polarisation With polarisation in the Congress rising, Mr. Sudhakaran’s comment could be seen more as an opportunity he took to strike, especially after the Central leadership put its foot down on his aspiration to run for the Assembly polls. He has deftly used the organisational ecosystem to generate a discussion, well to his own benefit to return to State politics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sudhakarans-comment-has-more-to-it-than-meets-the-eye/article33772166.ece
07 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Memorial for Beypore Sultan may be a reality||It was during an encounter with a visitor that Vaikom Mohammed Basheer famously described himself as the ‘Sultan of Beypore’, showing his love for the port town that had been his home after marriage. Two decades after his demise, the plan to build a memorial there for the writer is now taking baby steps. Architect Vinod Cyriac, who was assigned by the Kozhikode Corporation to prepare a blueprint for the project, told The Hindu on Saturday that the newly constituted council was expected to take the project forward. Design ready “The plan for the Basheer memorial cultural complex was approved by the previous council at the fag end of its tenure. We were recently informed that a meeting will be held next week to discuss the future course. The design is ready and its execution needs to be discussed now,” he said. The blueprint is titled ‘Akashamittayi’, the name Saramma and Keshavan Nair proposed for their child in Premalekhanam, one of Basheer’s classic works. The plan is to have a cultural hall, library, research hall, amphitheatre, park, auditorium and cultural centre along with a ‘Garden of Letters’. A statue of the writer in the front yard, a hall showcasing his works, and information on the history of Beypore may also be highlighted. There will be a walkway to the memorial from the entrance. A reclining chair and a gramophone, things that the writer came to be identified with, may be placed in the front yard. K.J. Thomas, cultural activist, who was a functionary of an advisory committee formed in 2008 to build a memorial for the writer, said the government had earlier allocated Rs. 50 lakh for that project. The panel was chaired by the then Minister for Culture M.A. Baby. Mr. Thomas said the State government, however, took back the money in 2018 as land could not be identified for the purpose. “The new project is part of the State government’s proposal to have cultural complexes in all districts. The authorities may have to also link it with other tourism projects so that visitors get access to the place,” he added. Demolished According to sources, a community hall on B.C. Road in Beypore will be demolished to create the new structure. Over 80 cents of land on the southern side of the hall is reportedly being acquired for the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-memorial-in-beypore-for-its-sultan-may-finally-be-a-reality/article33772157.ece
07 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||New building for veterinary hospital||Minister for Forests, Animal Husbandry and Zoos K. Raju opened the newly constructed building complex for the Koyilandy government veterinary hospital in the district on Saturday. K. Dasan, MLA, presided over the online inaugural event. Officials said the new building would house three district-level offices of the Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-building-for-veterinary-hospital/article33772158.ece
07 February 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||7 schools get new buildings||New buildings constructed under the Save Public Education campaign in seven government schools in Kozhikode were opened on Saturday by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Funds were made available from Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board. Government Higher Secondary School, Narikkuni, Government Vocational Higher Secondary Schools at Meenchanda and Madappally, Government Lower Primary Schools at Kothamangalam, Kumbalachola, Payyadimeethal and Chelavoor were renovated, said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/7-schools-get-new-buildings/article33772168.ece
07 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Aid for senior citizens’ ventures||The ‘Navajeevan’ project under the National Employment Service (Kerala), which offers financial assistance to senior citizens interested in starting self-employment ventures, was launched at Perambra in Kozhikode district on Saturday. Minister for Excise and Labour T.P. Ramakrishnan inaugurated the State-level scheme. The benefit of the new scheme will be available for citizens between 50 and 65 years of age who have registered their names with various employment exchanges in the State. A one-time instalment of Rs. 50, 000 will be given to eligible beneficiaries with 25% subsidy. Officials with the National Employment Service said the benefit of the scheme would be available only to those renewed their employment registration every year. The applicants’ annual income should be below Rs. 1 lakh. Giving special consideration to women, up to 25% of the total fund had been reserved for them, they said. The project coordinators also said the scheme would give priority to widows and differently abled persons. As the fund can be sanctioned under the credit guarantee scheme, no personal security would be required. Of the total fund, 25% would be reserved for the Below Poverty Line segment in the State, they said. One of the biggest attractions of the scheme, according to officials, is that the beneficiaries can start joint ventures using the amount. All of them will be eligible for the subsidy, which will be credited directly into their bank accounts. Several nationalised and cooperative banks are partners in the scheme. Apart from financial support, skilled persons in the specific age group will be given job opportunities under various government-supported projects. The Labour Department’s support will be sought to identify such skilled senior citizens and make use of their experience for the successful implementation of various government-funded projects. Under the scheme, efforts will be taken to prepare a district-wise data bank with the names and contact details of such skilled citizens. They will be offered job opportunities mostly in their respective areas. Farmers will also be able to take advantage of the new openings to find a sustainable income.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/navajeevan-to-offer-financial-aid-to-senior-citizens-ventures/article33772170.ece
07 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Break the Chain’ to be back in focus||The Kozhikode Corporation will strengthen efforts to contain COVID-19 in the city. According to a press release issued by Mayor Beena Philip, ‘Break the Chain’ campaign would be resumed in offices, shops, and public places. Directions will be issued to place soaps and sanitisers at all institutions. This was decided at a meeting held on Saturday. An all-party meeting will be convened on February 13, where MLAs and MPs will be present. Youth organisations will be asked to do the job at public places and institution heads on their premises. Ward-level rapid response teams will be asked to ensure that only 100 people are present in public events, including weddings and funerals. Awareness campaigns will be undertaken among milk and newspaper vendors as well as autorickshaw drivers. The functioning of sectoral magistrates will be strengthened. The corporation health officer has been authorised to supervise the disposal of used sanitiser bottles and face masks dumped in public places. A system will be put in place in association with shop owners to collect used face masks. Business establishments can function even if their staff test positive for the virus after disinfection of premises. However, high-risk contacts should not go for work. Meetings will be convened with traders, auto drivers, and other sections of society, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/break-the-chain-to-be-back-in-focus/article33772167.ece
07 February 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||696 fresh COVID cases in Kozhikode||As many as 696 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Saturday, of whom 682 acquired the infection through local contact. The number of tests is going up, with 8,488 results made available. The daily test positivity rate is 8.19%. According to the District Medical Officer, the source of infection of 12 persons is not known. There were 141 cases of local transmission from the Kozhikode Corporation area, 35 from Kunnamangalam, 25 from Chorod, and 24 from Kuruvattoor. As many as 619 people recovered from the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/696-fresh-covid-cases-in-kozhikode/article33772169.ece
07 February 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Lockdown sees more child abuse: activist||Activist Sunitha Krishnan said here that most child abuses were taking place within the families, and that the COVID-19 lockdown had increased the incidence of such abuses. Inaugurating an awareness seminar on women’s safety laws for Kudumbashree workers here on Friday, Dr. Krishnan said that the lockdown provided a conducive atmosphere for a precipitation in intra-family abuses. She said it would be only through legal fights and resistances that excesses and harassments on women at work places could be prevented. The Victims Information, Sensitisation, Welfare and Assistance Society (VISWA), a Palakkad-based organisation providing help for the victims of crimes and excesses, organised the seminar in association with the North and South Community Development Societies of Palakkad Municipality. VISWAS vice president S. Santha Devi presided. Secretary P. Premnath welcomed the gathering. Municipal vice chairman E. Krishnadas, municipal standing committee chairperson for social welfare T. Baby, VISWAS vice president V.P. Kuriakose, and treasurer B. Jayarajan spoke. VISWAS Niyama Vedi secretary K. Vijaya proposed a vote of thanks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lockdown-sees-more-child-abuse-activist/article33772876.ece
07 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Roadmap for better GST regime||Kerala can attain protected revenue as envisaged in the Goods and Services Tax (Compensation to States) Act, 2017, and come out from the compensation net by 2023-24 if the roadmap for better GST governance is executed. The State needs to step up its effort in increasing both State Goods and Services Tax (SGST) and Integrated Goods and Services Tax (IGST) collection, says N. Ramalingam, Associate Professor, and Santosh Kumar Dash, Assistant Professor, Gulati Institute of Finance and Taxation, in an analysis of the trend in GST revenue collection and the GST-GSDP ratio of States since the implementation of GST. The ‘Medium-term fiscal policy and strategy’ statement with medium term fiscal plan for Kerala 2021-22 to 2023-24 has formulated a roadmap for better GST governance in terms of scrutiny of GST returns, audit, enforcement activities, and even arrest of major evaders. e-invoicing system Similarly, the full-fledged operationalisation of the e-invoicing system will be a boon for Kerala which depends substantially on IGST revenue that has to be collected from other States. With the firm pursuit of these initiatives, they say the State can come out from the compensation net. The analysis covers 29 States for 2017-18 to 2019-20. The States have been categorised into 20 general category States (GCS) and nine special category States (SCS). Kerala belongs to the former. Kerala’s GST collection rank is similar to the GST-GSDP (Gross State Domestic Product) ratio. Importantly, its GST-GSDP ratio exactly matches with the average of 20 States (2.48%). Though Kerala is first in terms of per capita consumption, the average three-year collection of Rs. 18,374.8 crore is lower than 20 general category States average (Rs. 21,881.2 crore). Kerala’s GST collection was Rs. 17,348.7 crore in 2017-18, Rs. 18,385.2 crore in 2018-19, and Rs. 19,390.1 crore in 2019-20. A closer look at the components of total GST, namely SGST and IGST remittance, reveals that 54% of the total GST comes from IGST revenue. As a share of SGST revenue in total GST collection, Kerala stands 19th among the 20 States, while its position is second in terms of share of IGST remittance in total GST. Kerala’s share lower In SGST as a per cent of GSDP, Kerala’s share is much lower (1.17%) than the 20-State average (1.49%). On the other hand, the share of IGST remittance in GSDP of Kerala is much higher (1.31%) than the 20-State average (0.99%). While Kerala ranks 16th in the SGST-GSDP ratio, it stands third in the SGST-GSDP ratio among general category States. Kerala with an average collection of Rs. 18,375 crore comes 10th in terms of GST collection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/roadmap-for-better-gst-regime/article33772238.ece
07 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Varsities to have Right to Service Act||Taking a stern view of the lax approach to service delivery in the higher education sector, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said the Right to Service Act will be implemented in universities to ensure time-bound issuance of certificates and other documents. Participating in theCM@Campusprogramme at the University of Kerala on Saturday, Mr. Vijayan highlighted the plight of students who received their degree certificates very late, which often jeopardised their prospects for further studies. Applicant’s right “We cannot persist with such negligent tendencies at a time when the State aspires to modernise its higher education sector. Universities must ensure that the activities, right from course commencement to the conduct of examinations and declaration of results, were undertaken in a time-bound manner. It is every applicant’s right to receive services within a defined time frame,” he said. He added that universities have begun dialogues with industrialists to redesign courses to suit industry needs. Initiatives such as their inclusion on Boards of Studies are bound to improve the employability of graduates. The government also favoured fostering student exchange programmes and interaction with foreign students. New teaching hours Mr. Vijayan hinted at the government’s plan to implement its proposal of modifying teaching hours in colleges from 8 a.m. to 1 p.m. The suggestion had been mooted since the current system in which classes conclude at 4 p.m. prevented students from engaging in any vocation. The proposed reform had been put on hold due to the pandemic. The government had approved the policy and hoped to implement it after the pandemic subsided. Citing the government’s public education rejuvenation campaign, the Chief Minister said efforts were made to prevent lopsided development in the sector that denied certain sections quality education. He stressed the need to nurture a community of research scholars whose advancements could be translated for the development of the land. Only then would the State realise its dream of achieving a knowledge economy, he said. Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel, Kerala State Planning Board Vice Chairman V.K. Ramachandran, University Vice Chancellor V.P. Mahadevan Pillai, Pro Vice Chancellor P.P. Ajayakumar, and Syndicate member K.H. Babujan were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/varsities-to-have-right-to-service-act/article33772215.ece
07 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||A small pat on their own back||While tributes have been pouring in for health workers from all over for their tireless efforts in keeping COVID-19 at bay, a group of health workers themselves have now come out with a song to celebrate the fight. The song titled ‘Thirinalam’ was released on YouTube on January 30, to mark the first anniversary of detection of a COVID-19 case in Kerala. Sijo Mathew Jacob, a medical social worker (counsellor), says that he conceived the song after some of the doctors and nurses working with him asked him to think of a musical tribute. Lyrics He got in touch with lyricist Vayalar Sarath Chandra Varma, who penned the lines that begins with Poruthunnu Keralam veeryathode, maanaveeyamam sheelathode, covid aadhiye tholpikkum nammal . Playback singers Afsal and Swetha Ashok have sung the song along with 20 health workers, including doctors, nurses, and paramedics. “Quite a few songs have come out paying tribute to health workers. Here, we are paying a tribute to the many like us. Instead of a sombre mood, which is common to such tribute songs, considering the COVID-19 situation, we decided to give it an upbeat mood, conveying the fact that we all are happy to serve the public during these pandemic times,” says Mr. Jacob. He says that the work on the song had begun more than six months ago, but with most of them working in a tight schedule especially due to the prevailing COVID-19 situation, they could work only during the very short free time available to them. “For the past one year, many of these health workers have been staying away from their families for long periods and working for longer hours than usual. Our work on this song used to happen on Sundays or after the day’s work, when we all could come together,” says Mr. Jacob, who has released a few independent music albums in the past.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-small-pat-on-their-own-back/article33772861.ece
07 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Panchayats tasked with containment efforts||Faced with yet another surge in COVID-19 cases, the government has provided local bodies a greater role in the containment efforts. The Department of Panchayats has issued guidelines for the functioning of grama panchayat-level and ward-level committees. The department has directed grama panchayats that have not formed ward-level committees to complete the process immediately. Strict action Strict action must be taken against those founding to violate the COVID-19 protocol.The government instructed local bodies to seek the assistance of the police to ensure adherence to the prescribed norms in schools, cinema theatres, malls, auditoriums, and markets. Participation in wedding ceremonies, funerals, public functions, and other gatherings must remain within the limits permitted by the government. Alert the police The grama panchayat- and ward-level committees must adopt necessary steps to alert the police and sectoral magistrate if any violation is detected. Local bodies have also been tasked with intensive containment efforts in association with the police in containment and micro-containment zones that witnessed spikes in COVID-19 cases. Migrant labourers Symptomatic migrant labourers must be subjected to RT-PCR tests in the event of a COVID-19 spread in labour camps. Geo-mapping must be undertaken with the assistance of health care workers in those areas that witnessed a rapid spread of the disease. People who tested positive for the disease in densely populated areas must be shifted to COVID-19 first-line treatment centres or COVID-19 hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panchayats-tasked-with-containment-efforts/article33772869.ece
07 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||IFFK to pay homage to 10 veterans||The 25th International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK) will pay homage to 10 eminent film personalities who passed away during the year. The Homage category will have nine films, each a tribute to a late talent associated with the film. IFFK will pay homage to renowned director Kim ki-Duk with a screening of the late filmmaker’s ‘Spring, Summer, Fall, Winter...and Spring’. ‘Qissa’, directed by Anup Singh will be screened as a homage to the veteran actor Irrfan Khan, who passed away last year. Cinematographer K. Ramachandra Babu, who had worked in over 125 films spanning across Malayalam, Tamil, Telugu, Hindi, Arabic and English languages, and also the founder of the Indian Society of Cinematographers (ISC), will be paid homage through the screening of ‘Agraharathil Kazhutai’ (Donkey in a Brahmin Village), directed by John Abraham. ‘Charulata’, a 1964 Indian drama film written and directed by veteran filmmaker Satyajit Ray, will be featured as a tribute to the late Soumitra Chatterjee, who played one of the central roles in the film. He passed away in November last year. He was the recipient of the Dada Saheb Phalke Award in 2012. For Bhanu Athaiya ‘Nagrik’, by Jayprad Desai will be screened as a tribute to Bhanu Athaiya, one of the most popular costume designers of all times. The first Indian to win an Academy Award (for costume design for ‘Gandhi’ in 1982), Athaiya had also won two national awards for costume design (’Lekin’ and ‘Lagaan’). She had worked on over 100 films, both national and international. ‘Karie’, the debut directorial venture of Shanavas Naranipuzha, whose passing away came as a shock to the Malayalam film industry and film goers, will be screened as a tribute. The film encapsulates the essence of travel from the north to the south of Kerala and a mythical dance form named Karinkaliyattam (Karie). IFFK will pay homage to renowned filmmaker Fernando E. Solanas with the screening of his film ‘Sur’ (South). Following its debut at the 1988 Cannes Film Festival, ‘Sur’ has collected a host of awards at prestigious international film festivals. Malayalam film ‘Ayyappanum Koshiyum’ will be screened as a tribute to its director and screenwriter Sachy, and actor Anil Nedumangad, both of whom passed away recently. The Anubhav Sinha-directed ‘Mulk’ will be screened as a homage to the late actor Rishi Kapoor, who passed away last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iffk-to-pay-homage-to-10-veterans-who-passed-away/article33772201.ece
07 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Conclave’s suggestions to find place in Five-Year Plan||Important recommendations that have emerged from Kerala Looks Ahead, the just-concluded three-day international conference and consultation organised by the State Planning Board, will be woven into the 14th Five-Year Plan, board vice chairman V.K. Ramachandran has said. As a next-step, the Planning Board intends to consolidate the proceedings of the sessions and decide what the takeaways are for the State. “'Many of the positive suggestions will find their way into the State’s 14th Five-Year Plan,” Mr. Ramachandran told a press conference here on Saturday. The conclave has long-term recommendations that are of strategic interest to the State and some specific suggestions for the short term, he said. To a question on the tourism sector, Planning Board member-secretary Venu V. said global reports indicated that international tourism would be back on track only by 2024. The tourism sector, though witnessing a downturn at the moment, will play a major role in the State’s recovery process, Mr. Ramachandran said. Summarising the outcomes of the virtual conclave held from February 1 to 3, Mr. Ramachandran said the conclave was marked by a universal appreciation of Kerala’s historical achievements, particularly achievements made during the past four-and-a-half years and the alternative development policies pursued by the State. Unique attempt The conference and consultation itself was appreciated by the participants as a unique attempt to seek the national and international views on the State’s future development, he said.. The conclave saw participation by 190 speakers from 11 countries,. The conclave featured 22 sessions on sectors deemed critical to the State’s development in addition to three special sessions on local governments, development financing, and industry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/conclaves-suggestions-to-find-place-in-five-year-plan/article33772229.ece
07 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Dial 1912 for doorstep delivery of KSEB services||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday launched the Service@Doorsteps scheme of the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) which assures consumers ‘home delivery’ by calling the toll-free number 1912. The new service will help put an end to complaints pertaining to service delivery by the KSEB, the Chief Minister said. Being an institution that was closely linked to the lives of the people, the KSEB should be guided by a consumer-friendly approach. Service@Doorsteps would be an important step in this direction, he said. While the new initiative was indeed a welcome step, the KSEB should also ensure that it did not unduly burden the power utility, he said. In the first phase, the scheme will be rolled out in 362 of the 775 electrical section offices. In due course, it would be extended to all sections, KSEB chairman and managing director N.S. Pillai said. In a nutshell, the Service@Doorsteps scheme allows to avail KSEB services without visiting the KSEB offices. After a consumer dials 1912 and registers his/her name, KSEB officials will visit the consumer/applicant at the homes and attend to the requirements. New services Services under the new facility include new connections, transfer of ownership of connections, tariff conversion, effecting changes in connected load/contract load/phases and relocation of service line and meters. The KSEB had piloted the scheme in the Palakkad electrical circle as a consumer-friendly initiative during the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dial-1912-for-doorstep-delivery-of-kseb-services/article33772218.ece
07 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tharoor garners ideas for UDF’s people’s manifesto||From policy ideas to tackle climate change to the digital divide, an interaction chaired by Congress MP, Shashi Tharoor, to garner ideas for the United Democratic Front (UDF)’s people’s manifesto, generated a whole host of suggestions from the predominantly young crowd here on Saturday. Kicking off the interaction titled ‘World-class Kerala,’ Mr.Tharoor said that Kerala was slow to catch up with the 21st century due to backward looking policies. He said that only the UDF is capable of thinking and acting for a forward-looking Kerala. The first question of the interaction from journalism student Anjana was about why the Congress is still banking on Sabarimala issue even now, in the context of the party bringing out a draft law proposing two years imprisonment for women of menstruating age entering the temple. Tharoor said that the party wanted to resolve the issue and move forward. “It is a question of respecting the concern of the majority of believers,” he said. Higher education Kaikasi V.S, Assistant Professor, University College, who put forward ideas for revamping the higher education sector said that the board of studies in universities, which takes all decisions, is not a very inclusive or student-friendly, and the system needs a relook. Abhilash, a research scholar, said that strict follow-up and implementation of the academic calendar should be there in the higher education sector so that students don’t miss out on opportunities due to delays. Anurag, an architect, said that constructions in the government sector itself should be done in an eco-friendly, sustainable manner, in light of recent natural disasters. Mr.Tharoor said that he had taken up the idea of floodplain mapping. However, the State government did not take forward the idea. Jithin Panikker, a representative of the construction sector, questioned Mr.Tharoor on the divergent views between him and his party on some issues, especially that of the Thiruvananthapuram airport privatisation, and asked him to convince his party about such issues. In response Mr. Tharoor said that he has been making a lot of effort to bring in more international companies to Thiruvananthapuram, and connectivity is of paramount importance to them. Priya Rajesh, another participant, suggested a gender balanced cabinet with 50% representation for women, as well as a campaign centred on climate change issues which affect the livelihood of people from all walks of life. Mr.Tharoor said that people should elect more women too, to ensure representation. Film hub Hari, a theatre owner, suggested that the Chithranjali studio should be turned into a film hub of South India, with better editing facilities. Prakash C.P of the National Health Mission, came up with the idea for mobile chemotherapy units to reduce the crowd in cancer centres as well as to make it accessible for even those without bystanders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tharoor-garners-ideas-for-udfs-peoples-manifesto/article33772199.ece
07 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Medical college faculty plan stir||The faculty in government medical colleges across the State, who had organised a token strike last week and are currently on a hunger strike demanding the implementation of pay revision of medical college doctors, have decided to go on an indefinite strike from February 9. They allege that the government has not shown any inclination to discuss and settle their demands or to defuse the current stalemate. In a statement here, the Kerala Government Medical College Teachers’ Association (KGMCTA) said that the hunger strike of doctors would continue. From February 9, all academic activities, including teaching, internal exams, and official meetings, would be boycotted by the faculty. Pay ward admissions and special duties, which the doctors were currently boycotting, would also continue. In addition, OP clinic services, ward duties, and elective surgeries would also be affected, as doctors would not engage themselves in full strength. The KGMCTA said that doctors would intensify their agitation in the coming days. Apologising for the difficulties the strike would cause to the public, the doctors said that they were being pushed to the strike by the government, which had no qualms about denying doctors their rightful salary and dues while generously extending the same benefits to other sections of government servants. It pointed out that even the order on pay revision of doctors, which should have been implemented in 2016, was issued five years late in September last. Medical college faculty had raised the issue with the government several times but it was because the State was engaged in the fight against COVID-19 that the doctors had set aside the issue temporarily. It was the government’s continued neglect of the issue which had precipitated the strike, KGMCTA said in a statement here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/medical-college-faculty-to-go-on-indefinite-strike/article33772203.ece
07 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Making building rules accessible to commoners||Late in 2019, when the Local Self-Government Department (LSGD) organised building permit adalats at all Corporations, quite a few requests for regularisation of various building rule violations came up. A majority of the applicants, whose grievances were heard by Minister A.C. Moideen and officials, claimed that they were unaware of one rule or the other while constructing a building in violation of the same. This led to the realisation that the Kerala Municipal Building Rules and the Kerala Panchayat Building Rules are not really written in a language that the lay person can comprehend. To address this issue, the LSGD is now coming out with a booklet where the rules are broken down into bullet points and images, with the usual doubts regarding the rules listed out as Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) and answers. “During the adalats, we found that some of the violations were found to be repeated by many. This means that there are still a lot of common misconceptions regarding building rules among the public, for which they end up paying regularisation fee later on. So there is a need to make these rules more accessible,” said a source from the department. Details provided The booklet will have information regarding the kind of documents required for applying for building permits, the things to be taken care of while applying, details of the procedure for clearance of application, information on the setback from public roads and nearby buildings, rules on road access, maximum area of building within a specific plot area, etc. All of these are laid out with illustrations and examples. The booklet, which is set to be released soon, will be uploaded online. The move comes close on the heels of a Cabinet decision to introduce a self-certification system for construction of houses below 300 sq m, which is also seen as a step to ease the process for buildings of small and medium sizes. Once this self-certification and plan are submitted to the local body, the local body secretary has to provide an acknowledgement within five days, which can be considered as the building permit to begin the construction work. The booklet will have the latest updated information, including the amendment for introducing self-certification.  The move comes close on the heels of a Cabinet decision to introduce a self-certification system for construction of houses below 300 sq m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/making-building-rules-accessible-to-commoners/article33772855.ece
07 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||All set for start of Santhwana Sparsham from tomorrow||The district administration is geared up for the Santhwana Sparsham grievance redressal adalat that will commence in the district on Monday. The first round of the adalat will be held at Neyyattinkara Higher Secondary School when complaints from Kattakada taluk will be heard from 9 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. and those from Neyyattinkara taluk, from 2 p.m. to 5.30 p.m. While grievances from Varkala and Chirayinkeezhu taluks will be taken up at the Attingal higher secondary school on Tuesday (February 9), those from Thiruvananthapuram and Nedumangad will be considered at the SMV School in the State capital on the concluding day on February 11. Biju Prabhakar, the secretary of the committee tasked with organising the adalat in the district, urged the public to comply with the COVID-19 protocol at the venues. Ministers T.M. Thomas Isaac, J. Mercykutty Amma, and Kadakampally Surendran will take part in the adalats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-set-for-start-of-santhwana-sparsham-from-tomorrow/article33772857.ece
07 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||480 new cases in capital||The district recorded 480 COVID-19 cases and 485 recoveries as the number of active cases stood at 4,370 on Saturday. Almost all of the fresh cases have been attributed to local transmission of the infection. Three health care workers are among those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The death toll in the district stood at 765 as on Friday. Five recent deaths were attributed to COVID-19 on the day. The district administration placed 1,936 people under quarantine, while 894 people were permitted to discontinue self-isolation. There are currently 24,212 people who are quarantined in their homes and 55 in various institutions across the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/480-new-cases-in-capital/article33772867.ece
07 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Steps for data security at Panchayats dept.||The Department of Panchayats has issued a set of directives to ensure the data security in its various offices and grama panchayats. The Panchayats Director has issued strict instructions that employees/technical assistant should take steps to avoid autosaved passwords from individual systems in local bodies, as there are chances of misuse. The employees should be made aware of the need to change the default passwords in the software. The technical team should aid the employees in setting strong passwords as well as provide training in using the software without technical help. In case employees retire or are transferred, their login ID has to be deactivated and the information marked in the relieving order. This change, it seems, has been brought in owing to a recent allegation of fund embezzlement in the Treasury Department using the login ID and password of a retired employee. For new employees, fresh login ID has to be generated and the practice of editing the existing ID should not continue. It will be seen as a serious dereliction of duty if grama panchayat secretaries or employees in the supervisory cadre hand over their digital signatures or dongles to other employees. The Director said that disciplinary action would be taken against those who act irresponsibly regarding such issues.  When employees retire or are transferred, their login ID has to be deactivated||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/steps-for-data-security-at-panchayats-dept/article33772216.ece
07 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Central team for ramping up testing||A three-member team of officials from the Union Health Ministry, deputed by the Centre to look into the COVID-19 situation in Kerala, has recommended that the State immediately increase the number of tests done in the community. The team members have also recommended that the State improve field-level monitoring and surveillance and tighten contact tracing mechanisms and cluster mapping so that cases and contacts could be pin-pointed and followed up. Discussion on TPR The high and consistent levels of test positivity rate (TPR) in the State had come in for discussion during the meetings. State officials raised the argument that the high test positivity was due to the faulty denominator — that private labs that were now doing a significant number of tests were not reporting the negative test results. The team visited Kozhikode, Ernakulam and Kottayam districts where the case graph had been on the rise in recent times and interacted with the district administration and health officials. They also met the Health Minister and the senior officials in Thiruvananthapuram on Saturday. The Central team has also expressed its apprehensions over the fact that home care had all but replaced institutional care that the State was providing through first- and second-line treatment centres.  In Kerala, COVID-19 seemed to be spreading within families, which was directly linked to the fact that home quarantine was not efficient.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/central-team-for-ramping-up-testing/article33772871.ece
07 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Parenting clinics inaugurated||People fail at parenting not because of lack of love for their children, but due to lack of awareness of scientific parenting, Minister for Women and Child Development K.K. Shylaja has said. She was inaugurating through videoconference on Saturday parenting clinics set up by the Women and Child Development Department. The clinics will guide parents during children’s growing up years, she said. Counselling for parents and children and expert treatment on referral basis will be provided. One clinic will function in all blocks and Corporations. For now, they will utilise the infrastructure of nutrition clinics under the Integrated Child Development Services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/parenting-clinics-inaugurated/article33772872.ece
07 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM: KIIFB helps to take development forward||Children returning to schools in the next academic year in the post-COVID situation will not see institutions they saw a year before, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He was speaking after inaugurating 111 school buildings constructed as part of the government’s 100-day programme on Saturday. The Chief Minister questioned alleged attempts to discredit the Kerala Infratsructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). Many schools had seen huge changes in infrastructure and academic facilities, which was made possible by KIIFB funds, he said. The KIIFB had chipped in to take development work forward whenever there were funds shortage in Budget allocation. A similar announcement, for development work to the tune of Rs. 50,000 crore to be realised through the KIIFB, was made by the government. As per this, projects worth Rs. 62,000 crore were now ready, he said. This totally fulfilled the aspirations of the people, the CM said. As many 6.8 lakh students had newly joined government and aided schools after the Left Democratic Front government came to power. This was in sharp contrast to the times when student strength in such schools was falling and they were closing down. The real beneficiary of the Public Education Rejuvenation Mission was the common man. The change now was that a student in the most backward school could now get world-class education, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/111-school-buildings-inaugurated/article33772198.ece
07 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Token stir by 2 RTC unions on Feb. 23||Employees owing allegiance to the INTUC-affiliated Transport Democratic Federation (TDF) and the BMS-affiliated Kerala State Transport Employees Sangh (KSTES), two unions of the KSRTC, will go on a 24-hour token stir from February 22 midnight. Their demands include withdrawal of the move to float KSRTC-SWIFT, a new company to operate long-distance buses using contract staff, and immediate revision of salary. The decision was taken after separate meetings of the two unions here on Saturday. The government had made it clear to the three recognised unions that it was not ready to abandon KSRTC-SWIFT. Both the TDF and KSTES had opposed Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac’s proposal on Friday to form an independent society under it instead of floating KSRTC-SWIFT. The notice for the token strike will be given to the management on Monday, TDF working president R. Sasidharan said. The formation of KSRTC SWIFT would turn the KSRTC into a paper organisation. “Be it an independent company or society, the new entity will corner all revenue from the KSRTC fleet,” he said. KSTES general secretary K.L. Rajesh said the KSRTC should be converted into a department considering the role it plays in public transport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/token-stir-by-2-rtc-unions-on-feb-23/article33772228.ece
07 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||TPR remains at 7.18% as 82,804 samples tested||On Saturday, Kerala tested 82,804 samples in 24 hours, reporting 5,942 new cases of COVID-19. While 57,988 of these tests were rapid antigen assay, RT-PCR tests numbered 22,424, while other molecular diagnostic tests such as Truenat, CBNAAT constituted the remaining tests. The cumulative number of tests done by the State ever since the pandemic began crossed 1,00,30,809 on Saturday. With the increase in testing, the test positivity rate (TPR) remained at 7.18%. The State’s cumulative burden of COVID-19 has risen to 9,62,363 cases. With the State reporting as many or more recoveries as new cases for the past several days, the active case pool has dropped to 67,543 cases. With 6,178 patients reported to have recovered from their disease on the day, the cumulative recoveries reported in Kerala till date has risen to 8,90,720. On Saturday, 16 more deaths were added to the official list of COVID fatalities, taking the State’s toll ever since the pandemic began to 3,848 deaths. \ As on Saturday, official reports said the number of critically ill COVID patients was 813 . Most in Ernakulam Among districts, Ernakulam continues to report the maximum number of cases with 898 cases, Kozhikode 696, Malappuram 652, Kollam 525, Kottayam 512, Pathanamthitta 496, Thiruvananthapuram 480, Thrissur 448, Alappuzha 410, Palakkad 235, Kannur 182, Wayanad 179, Idukki 167, and Kasaragod 62 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tpr-remains-at-718-as-82804-samples-tested/article33772234.ece
07 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Chief Minister, students discuss a range of topics||College students and research scholars raised a plethora of issues ranging from disability to the reservation system during theCM@Campusinteraction held at the University of Kerala on Saturday. Many among the 41 students flagged the lack of industry linkage in the higher education system that often rendered job aspirants ‘unemployable’. Decrying the lack of employment opportunities, Geethanjali, a research student in basic sciences, called for universities to engage industrial houses to train students. Incubation centres must also be introduced in universities that affiliate arts and science colleges. Abhirami S., proposed campus placement opportunities for arts and science courses as was generally being witnessed in the case of technical courses. She also said the activities of the Additional Skill Acquisition Programme (ASAP) must be ideally integrated to the curricula of higher education courses rather than functioning as a standalone agency. Senate member N. Nowfal, a researcher in political science, stressed on the need to constitute a panel to ensure that research works were adopted for policy formation and implementation. He also advocated priority for ‘social input’ rather than for ‘research output’. Sakib Alam, a hearing-impaired student who conveyed his suggestions through an interpreter, urged the government to introduce sign language as a subject from the primary school level. Interpreters must be engaged in university classes and seminars for the benefit of the differently abled. He also sought steps to ensure every government offices, hospitals and other public places were made disabled-friendly. Nibin Shekhar, a BEd. student, sought practical exposure while being taught lessons on training differently abled students. The existing curriculum only comprised theory lessons on the topic. CM endorses Responding to the suggestions, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan endorsed the idea of appointing interpreters for all public functions, even if the audience did not include differently abled people. Such initiatives would go a long way in creating awareness, he said. Mr. Vijayan did not hide his dismay when a student called for replacing the system of providing reservation on the basis of caste with another that took into account the economic status of beneficiaries. That the proposal garnered cheer from a large section of the audience also appeared to annoy the Chief Minister, who later elaborated on the injustices faced by the lower castes prior to the reformation movement in the State. “While demands to abolish the reservation system might sound logical for many who did not gain from it, we cannot neglect the plight of several oppressed communities who continue to struggle to progress in their lives. Our academic community must remain advocates for holistic development, the fruits of which could be enjoyed by every social strata,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chief-minister-students-discuss-a-range-of-topics/article33772856.ece
07 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||IDRB is nodal agency for waterbodies||The State government has designated the Irrigation Design and Research Board (IDRB) as the nodal agency for the restoration of waterbodies. Orders in this regard were issued on February 3. The decision followed a direction by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to all States and Union Territories (UTs) to designate nodal agencies for the protection and restoration of waterbodies, department officials said. The government has named Priyesh R., Director, IDRB, as the nodal officer. While considering a petition seeking the identification, protection and restoration of waterbodies in Gurugram in November 2020, the NGT had expanded the scope of the plea and directed States and UTs to designate nodal agencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/idrb-is-nodal-agency-for-waterbodies/article33772217.ece
07 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KFC loans for start-ups||The Kerala Financial Corporation has approved loans of Rs. 10.75 crore for start-up companies. Ten start-ups were provided assistance without collateral. Under a scheme formulated by the KFC, start-ups with firm purchase orders can avail themselves of funds up to 80% of the work order subject to a maximum of Rs. 10 crore at an interest rate of 10%, CMD Tomin J. Thachankari said.  Guarantee fund Assistance of up to Rs. 1 crore will be available for expansion of innovative prototypes. In addition to these, a Startup Guarantee Fund has been set up and the government has set aside an initial corpus of Rs. 25 crore, Mr. Thachankari said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kfc-loans-for-start-ups/article33772227.ece
07 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Man detained on charge of stabbing wife||The Vizhinjam police took into custody a 52-year-old man for allegedly stabbing his wife on Saturday evening. The police said Sugathesan attacked his wife Sini, 49, outside the Vizhinjam branch of SBI where she is employed. The couple, who has a son, has been living in a rented house in Venganoor. The incident occurred around 5.15 p.m. Sini sustained injuries to her hand and stomach. She was She remained in a critical state, the police said, attributing the attack to marital dispute.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-detained-on-charge-of-stabbing-wife/article33772859.ece
07 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State urged to protect heritage library||V.S. Sivakumar, MLA, has demanded that the government take steps to protect the Sree Chithira Thirunal Library at Vanchiyoor. In a statement here on Friday, Mr. Sivakumar said the 106-year-old library had made an important contribution to the social, cultural, and educational spheres. Letters in this connection had been handed over to Minister for Culture A.K. Balan and Minister for Higher Education K.T. Jaleel, the MLA said. Mr. Sivakumar who visited the library held meetings with trust office-bearers, people’s representatives, and protection council members. The trust office-bearers told Mr. Sivakumar that steps to keep the library open would be taken. Some organisations had come forward to protect and digitise palm leaf manuscripts and other invaluable collections in the library, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-urged-to-protect-heritage-library/article33772866.ece
07 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Power supply to be disrupted||Electricity supply to areas coming under the Thiruvallam electrical section will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Sunday on account of scheduled maintenance of a transformer. Supply in the Thycaud and Peroorkada electrical section limits will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/power-supply-to-be-disrupted/article33772858.ece
07 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Train partially cancelled||The 06127 Chennai Egmore-Guruvayur daily special leaving Egmore on February 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 13 will be short-terminated at Ernakulam Junction. The partial cancellation is due to traffic block for safety-related track maintenance in the Irinjalakuda- Pudukkad section and at the Karukutty yard, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/train-partially-cancelled/article33772226.ece
07 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Recognition for police academy||The Kerala Police Academy, Thrissur, has bagged the Union Home Minister’s award for the best police training centre in south India for the year 2016-17. The academy has won the award for a training programme for non-gazetted officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/recognition-for-police-academy/article33772230.ece
07 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Health webinar||The Health Department is organising a webinar on February 17 to assess the progress in attaining the sustainable development goals outlined by the U.N. in the health sector in the light of the COVID-19 pandemic. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan is scheduled to inaugurate the webinar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/health-webinar/article33772231.ece
07 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Panchayat Day celebrations on Feb. 19||The Panchayat Day celebrations of 2021 will be inaugurated online by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan at the Arts and Crafts Village, Kovalam, on February 19. Local Self-Governments Minister A.C. Moideen will preside over the function and Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala will deliver the keynote address. Swaraj Trophy and various awards for local bodies will be presented at the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panchayat-day-celebrations-on-feb-19/article33772232.ece
07 February 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Development projects dedicated to public||An array of development projects in education and health sectors were dedicated to people at various functions held in the district on Saturday. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan declared 16 more schools in the district as centres of excellence at a function held online. Education Minister C. Ravindranath presided over the function. There was a time when government schools were crying for infrastructure facilities. Now the government schools had state-of-the art facilities, Minister for Local Self-Governments A.C Moideen said. With planning and proper funding, the health sector in the State had earned unprecedented growth in the last few years, noted Health Minister K.K. Shylaja. She was speaking after inaugurating a new five-storey building at the Government Taluk Hospital, Kodungallur. It was built using Rs. 13 crore of the tsunami rehabilitation fund. She also announced the Rs. 4.10-crore trauma-care unit of the hospital. The Minister inaugurated 48 projects in the health sector in the district. She launched projects worth Rs. 22.59 crore at the Government Medical College Hospital here. A mammogram unit at the Irinjalakuda General Hospital was opened. The first phase of the hospital for women and children, built at Rs. 7.25 crore, was inaugurated at Thrissur General Hospital. “The State could bring down the COVID-19 death rate to 0.4% in 2021. In other States, it is more than 1%. People’s support is needed to reduce the rate further. Crowding of people should be avoided. COVID protocols should be strictly maintained. Kerala brought down the death rate by providing medicines for lifestyle diseases at the doorstep,” the Minister said. The infrastructure and technological improvements achieved by government hospitals, which have been largely depended on by the common people, are things of great pride, she said. Lifestyle diseases “However the health sector in the State is facing many challenges. Lifestyle diseases have been increasing fast. We need to find out the causes and should rectify them. As a densely populated State, there is a threat of spreading epidemics. Lack of exercise and unscientific diet are making us sick. High rates of lifestyle diseases and high population of the elderly are posing challenges for control of epidemics,” the Minister said. She inaugurated development projects worth Rs. 114.48 crore at the Government Mental Health Centre, West Fort. “Mentally challenged people need care and support from the public. The government is committed to providing them with modern treatment and care,” she said. The Minister inaugurated a modern psychiatric ward, dietary unit, forensic unit, renovated pharmacy, image room, and steamer. Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar inaugurated a retina clinic and a Kshara Suthra surgery unit at the Ramavarma District Ayurveda Hospital. The clinic can find out diabetic retinopathy and glaucoma in advance and can take preventive steps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/development-projects-dedicated-to-public/article33772821.ece
07 February 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||NIPMR declared as centre of excellence||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has declared the National Institute of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (NIPMR), an autonomous organisation providing multidisciplinary intervention and rehabilitation for differently abled people, as a centre of excellence through videoconferencing at a function held on NIPMR campus, located at Kallettumkara, near Irinjalakuda. Minister for Health, Social Justice, and Women and Child Development K.K. Shylaja presided over the function. The CM appreciated the initiatives by NIPMR in the area of rehabilitation of the differently abled. “The goal of the government is to take differently abled people to the mainstream and various programmes, including Anuyatra, have been launched. Early intervention centres have been set up in all the districts and all the medical colleges for identifying and treating their issues at an early stage,” he said. Rehabilitation centres  The government would set up rehabilitation centres across the State for differently abled people and help of various NGOs would be sought for the purpose, said Ms. Shylaja.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nipmr-declared-centre-of-excellence/article33772159.ece
07 February 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Sangeetha Nataka Akademi awards declared||The Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Akademy has declared the fellowships and awards for 2020. Eminent theatre person Pirappankode Murali, Kathakali maestro Kalamandalam Vasuppisharadi, and famous Ghatam artiste Thrippunithura Radhakrishan have been selected for fellowships. The following artistes have been selected for awards: Rajani Melur (theatre); E.A. Rajendran (theatre); Pradeep Malavika (theatre); Manalur Gopinath (Ottanthullal); Suresh Babu T. (theatre); Gopalan Adatt (theatre); C.N. Sreevatsan (theatre); K. Venkittaramanan (vocal music); Babu Narayanan (violin); Premkumar Vadakara (music direction); Reena Murali (light music); Nadesh Shankar (light music); Kalamandalam Jishnu Prathap (Koodiyattam); Vinaya Chandran (Kerala Natanam); Kavitha Krishnakumar (Mohiniyattam); Peringode Chandran (Thimila); Thrik kulam Krishankutty (Kathaprasangam). Gurupuja award winners Meena Ganesh (theatre); Ratnamma Madhavan (theatre); Cochin Hassanar (theatre); Meenaraj (theatre); Nilambur Mani (theatre); Cherayi Suresh (theatre); Kuryanad Chandran (theatre); E.T. Varghese (theatre); Ajayan Unniparambil (theatre); P.V.K. Panayal (theatre); K.R. Prasad (dance drama); M.S. Prakash (instrumental music); Babil Perunna (street theatre); E.V. Vatsan (light music); M.K. Venugopal (ballet music); Kalamandalam Sreedevi (Bharatanatyam); Chavara Dhanapalan (Kathaprasangam); Paraykkad Thankappan Marar (Thimila); and Ramesh Menon (music). While fellowships carry Rs. 50,000, the other awards have a cash component of Rs. 30,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sangeetha-nataka-akademi-awards-declared/article33772237.ece
07 February 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||448 new cases, 451 recoveries in Thrissur||A total of 448 COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Saturday while 451 people recovered from the pandemic. There are 4,474 active cases in the district and 101 people from the district are undergoing treatment in hospitals in other districts. So far, 90,289 COVID-19 cases have been reported from the district and 85,205 people have recovered. According to official statistics, 435 people, including two health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Saturday. Of them, 73 people are above the age of 60 and 22 are below the age of 10. 9,800 samples collected In all, 3,119 people are in home care. As many as 113 people were admitted to hospitals for treatment on Saturday. A total of 9,800 samples were collected for tests on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/448-new-cases-451-recoveries-in-thrissur/article33772823.ece
07 February 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Thrissur Pooram to be held||Thrissur Pooram and Pooram exhibition will be held this year after monitoring the COVID-19 situation. The decision was taken at a meeting convened by Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar here on Saturday. As the Pooram is two-and-a-half months away, a committee under the Collector will be formed to monitor the spread of the disease. The committee will meet once in two weeks, evaluate the situation, and will chalk out procedures for conducting the Pooram. It will have people’s representatives, Cochin Devaswom Board member, Paramekkavu and Thiruvambadi Devaswom Board members, representatives from the police, Health Department, and the Forest Department. The Pooram will be organised after getting permission from the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thrissur-pooram-to-be-held/article33772225.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||New start||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-start/article33772755.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||A new chapter||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-new-chapter/article33772769.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Defying gravity||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/defying-gravity/article33772750.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Mark of protest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mark-of-protest/article33772165.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||On collision track||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/on-collision-track/article33772865.ece
07 February 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||President coming to Madanapalle today||The district administration has made elaborate arrangements for the one-day visit of President Ram Nath Kovind to Madanapalle, scheduled for Sunday. According to a press release, the President would fly from Bengaluru airport in a special IAF helicopter and arrive at the helipad at Madanapalle on Sunday afternoon. He will proceed to the Satsang Ashram campus on the outskirts, where he will lay stones for Bharatiya Yoga Centre and Swasthya Hospital, besides launching a plantation drive on the campus. At 3.40 p.m., the President will reach the helipad at Peepal Grove School in Sadum mandal, where he will launch a plantation drive, before interacting with the students and teachers. He will fly back to Bengaluru airport at 4.50 p.m. District Collector Hari Narayanan and Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar inspected the venues at Madanapalle division.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/president-coming-to-madanapalle-today/article33772809.ece
07 February 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEC overstepping his authority: Ambati||To confine a senior Minister to his house is out of the purview of State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar, YSRCP MLA Ambati Rambabu has said. Addressing the media here on Saturday, Mr. Rambabu said the SEC had no power to take such a decision. It would tantamount to violating the rights of people, he added. He said that Mr. Ramesh Kumar confined Panchayat Raj Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy to his house because he was active in Chittoor district, the home turf of TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu. Strict action would be taken against officials who violated the norms, he said. Accusing the SEC of being biased and vindictive, Mr. Rambabu said the e-Watch app brought out by the SEC had no security certificate. “A constitutional body released an app without a security certificate. Who will believe in the efficacy of such an app?” he questioned. Referring to the unanimous polls, he said it was nothing new. Unanimous elections would ensure unity and development in villages, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sec-overstepping-his-authority-ambati/article33772810.ece
07 February 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dalit youth held for ‘staging missing drama’||The Rajamahendravaram city police have traced the 23-year-old Dalit youth, who went missing since Wednesday night, in Kakinada city of East Godavari district. Last year, he was tonsured by the Seetanagaram police of the district.Rajamahendravaram City North Zone DSP K. Venkateswara Rao said, “We have traced the youth in a house in Kakinada city on Friday night. He had staged the missing drama as part of a plan to hide for some days to create an impression that his rival had kidnapped him.” The police alleged that he intended to create trouble to his rival who was involved in the tonsuring case. His rival is now in the fray for the panchayat election. “The youth and his Kakinada-based friend Sandeep, the accomplice, have been arrested under IPC Section 153 (a), 120 (b) and 505,” said the DSP. The duo were sent to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dalit-youth-held-for-staging-missing-drama/article33771982.ece
07 February 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nothing short of withdrawal of laws is acceptable: farmers||Farmers and farm labourers under the aegis of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee(AIKSCC) staged a road blockade on the arterial Kurnool road here on Saturday demanding unconditional withdrawal of the three laws forthwith and raised slogans in support of protesting farmers in Delhi. Vehicular traffic was disrupted for over one hour following the protest. The agitating farmers, led by AIKSCC Prakasam District Convenor Ch.Ranga Rao, raised slogans against the “false propaganda” by the Narendra Modi government. “Nothing short of withdrawal of the farm laws will be acceptable,” asserted Mr. Ranga Rao referring to the Centre’s offer to keep the farm laws in abeyance for 18 months. The new laws would lead to a situation wherein corporates would rule the roost while farmers would be turned into labourers in their own land. It was unfortunate that the BJP had not kept with its promise to guarantee minimum support price(MSP) but made a “U-turn” after coming to power, All India Kisan Sabha(AIKS) District Secretary Vadde Hanuma Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nothing-short-of-withdrawal-of-laws-is-acceptable-farmers/article33771983.ece
07 February 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP urges SP to ensure free and fair polls||A Telugu Desm Party delegation led by former Home Minister Kimidi Kala Venkata Rao has urged Srikakulam Superintendent of Police Amit Bardar to check the alleged atrocities of YSRCP leaders in various villages of Srikakulam district. Mr. Venkata Rao alleged that the TDP-backed candidates were scared to campaign in villages with the frequent threats from YSRCP leaders. The TDP leaders expressed their displeasure over the arrest of TDP State unit president K. Atchannaidu although he was not directly involved in Nimmada panchayat elections. Mr. Bardar assured that the police department would ensure free and fair election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-urges-sp-to-ensure-free-and-fair-polls/article33772833.ece
07 February 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP intensifies campaign in Srikakulam||YSR Congress Party leaders have intensified their campaign in rural areas to help the party-backed candidates win the maximum number of panchayats in Srikakulam district. They are confident of winning 80% of the seats in the gram panchayat elections contested without party symbols. Party senior leader Dharmana Rammanohar Naidu campaigned in the rural areas of the district and addressed a public meeting at Balarampuram village. He said that the party had picked the candidates who would work with dedication for the welfare of people rather than concentrating on their personal gains. AP Kalinga Vysya Corporation chairman Andhavarapu Suribabu campaigned for the candidates in LN Peta and other places. He said that the YSRCP’s flagship programmes such as Amma Vodi, YSR Asara, Jagananna Deevena, house sites’ distribution and supply of rice at the doorstep were being highlighted during the campaign. Mr. Suribabu urged the sarpanch candidates to distribute pamphlets to every house to highlight the achievements of the Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy government in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-intensifies-campaign-in-srikakulam/article33772839.ece
07 February 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||MLA donates land, Rs. 3 cr. to TTD for temple in T.N.||AIADMK MLA from Tamil Nadu and member of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Trust Board, R. Kumaraguru, on Saturday handed over documents for four acres of land and cheques for Rs. 3.16 crore to TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy for building a temple of Lord Venkateswara in his native Ulundurpet constituency. Addressing the gathering on the occasion, at a private establishment, the Chairman said he was pleased with the benevolent act of his colleague Mr. Kumaraguru who had alienated land worth over Rs. 20 crore to get the temple constructed for the benefit of the people of his constituency. Under the instructions of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy the TTD had taken up promotion of sanatana dharma from Kashmir to Kanyakumari and, as part of it, would soon lay the foundation stone for the construction of a Venkateswara temple in Jammu, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tn-mla-donates-land-money-to-ttd-to-build-temple/article33771910.ece
07 February 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEC’s ‘tough stand’ on unanimous elections ruffles YSRCP leaders||While it is common for the Opposition to cry foul over non-cooperation by the official machinery, it is, surprisingly, the turn of the ruling YSRCP to make such an accusation in the backdrop of the panchayat elections. The party’s top brass, who included Adviser to the government Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy, Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy, TTD Chairman and party’s Chittoor district in-charge Y.V. Subba Reddy, Panchayat Raj Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy, Industries Minister Mekapati Gowtham Reddy, APIIC chairperson and Nagari MLA R.K. Roja, and Tirupati MLA B. Karunakar Reddy, went into a huddle here on Saturday to discuss ways and means to proceed ahead in the elections. The meeting was necessitated with the State Election Commission (SEC) taking a ‘tough stand’ in ensuring transparency and fairness in the election process, which apparently ruffled the ruling dispensation’s feathers. Lashing out at the SEC for airing “conflicting views” over the validity of the seats won unanimously, the YSRCP leadership wondered if unanimity was a welcome sign in a democracy or not. “Electing candidates unanimously is a common phenomenon right from the President to the panchayat level. But this time, the SEC seems to have some reservations,” said Mr. Subba Reddy. Mr. Narayanaswamy accused the SEC of toeing TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu’s line, and pointed out that unanimous election would always ensure unity and camaraderie in the villages. Mr. Ramachandra Reddy, who had come under fire for his controversial diktat to the official machinery on Friday, accused the officials of not extending cooperation to the candidates supported by the ruling party, which, he said, was “out of fear” for the SEC. Peddireddi’s advice “The district officials are unduly scared at the overarching influence of the SEC, and hence are hesitant to discharge their duties. I urge them to stay committed to their duty,” he said. Ms. Roja accused the SEC of trying to breathe life into the TDP, which, she said, had been given “a decent burial” by the voters in the 2019 elections. She said the SEC was deliberately blowing non-issues out of proportion in a bid to corner the government. “Mr. Ramesh Kumar visited a couple of villages in his own Guntur district, where candidates who withdrew from the race clarified to him that they had voluntarily opted out for the benefit of the village. What will he say now?” she questioned. ‘Harassment’ The leaders expressed confidence that unnecessary interference and harassment would only help the ruling party gain the voters’ sympathy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/secs-tough-stand-on-unanimous-elections-ruffles-ysrcp-leaders/article33772812.ece
07 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Expose YSRCP misrule, Naidu tells TDP cadre||The elections to gram panchayats should be a harbinger of clean, honest and responsible politics, said TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Saturday. Addressing the elected representatives of the party, in charge leaders and other seniors through a video conference, Mr. Naidu said this election should put an end to the ‘mindless’ rule of the YSR Congress Party in the State. He urged the party leaders to ‘expose’ the misrule of the YSRCP and propagate in every village the good work done by the TDP. He appreciated the partymen for bravely facing the ‘threats and atrocities’ unleashed by the ruling party and asked them to ensure filing of 100% nominations in the third phase of the polls. ‘Keep watch’ He said the party leaders should be alert at the time of scrutiny and withdrawal as attempts were being made to reject nominations citing factors that were not there in the Panchayat Raj Act. He said ‘irregularities’ by the ruling party leaders and instances of threats, distribution of money or liquor should be recorded and sent to the Election Commission, the district officials and the TDP control room. Advising them to make use of the social media platforms for campaigning, Mr. Naidu said people should be explained how the YSRCP, instead of developing the State, had stalled the works initiated by the TDP, he said.  There was a strong opposition to the YSRCP among people. The public was able to see through the ‘rampant corruption at various levels’, he said and cited examples of ‘sand mafia, increasing the price of cement to benefit personal cement business at the cost of the livelihood of lakhs of construction workers and loot of the public money’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/expose-ysrcp-misrule-naidu-tells-tdp-cadre/article33772895.ece
07 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plea to declare February 9 as ‘bonded labour abolition day’||Members of Jeevana Jwala, an association of survivors of bonded labour in the State, have urged Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to declare February 9 as ‘bonded labour system abolition day.’ In a letter addressed to Mr. Jagan, president of the organisation Thudhiya, a survivor of bonded labour herself, pointed to the fact that the Bonded Labour System (Abolition) Act came into existence on February 9 in 1976. The Chief Minister should declare the day as Bonded Labour System Abolition Day and release a GO on it. She said the move would help create awareness on this social menace and said the Tamil Nadu government had recently declared February 9 as Bonded Labour day officially. Manigandan, treasurer, Jeevana Jwala, and Drakshiyani and Kowsalya, executive members, suggested that on that day (February 9), the government offices should take a pledge to abolish the bonded labour system, conduct awareness programmes through rallies, campaigns and street plays and present awards for proactive enforcement officials. They said though the government had been making all-out efforts to eradicate the social menace, cases were still being reported from some parts. The organisation had reached out to nearly 800 bonded labourers rescued mainly from Chittoor and East Godavari districts by the government departments, with the assistance of International Justice Mission (IJM), an organisation working on the issue of human trafficking and bonded labour since 2003.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plea-to-declare-february-9-as-bonded-labour-abolition-day/article33772844.ece
07 February 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Leaving nothing to chance: DGP||Tight security will be arranged at the 13,133 gram panchayats and 1,30,749 wards for which elections are being conducted at 1,35,852 polling stations, Director General of Police D. Gautam Sawang has said. “To ensure peaceful conduct of the elections, the police have bound over 1,47,391 persons. Public and private persons have surrendered 9,199 licensed weapons,” Mr. Gautam Sawang told the media at the AP Police Headquarters at Mangalagiri here on Saturday. He further said that 12,779 security-related (bound over) and 707 cases pertaining to seizures such as gold, liquor, ganja etc. were registered. “Bandobust is being arranged at the polling stations with 1,122 route mobile parties, 257 striking forces, 143 special striking forces, and 199 mobile check posts. Besides, nine reserve parties attached to the Superintendents of Police and nine reserve parties under the control of Addition SPs will be kept ready,” he said. The police had so far booked 44 cases against election-related offences. This figure was 87 in 2013 local body elections. The police had so far seized Rs. 5.02 crore in cash, 9.5 kg gold, 188 kg silver, 125 vehicles, 2,278 kg of ganja and liquor, all worth about Rs. 13.03 crore, the DGP said. ‘Social media posts under scanner’ “We have 8,555 sensitive and 6,254 hyper sensitive polling stations. We have set up static check- posts and arranged pickets in faction areas. Besides, mapping of vulnerable polling stations has also been done,” Mr. Sawang said, and added that special focus would be laid on social media posts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/leaving-nothing-to-chance-dgp/article33772818.ece
07 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||One death and 75 new infections in State||The State has again reported fewer than 100 new COVID-19 infections and one death in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning. For the fourth time in a row and fifth time this month, the single-day tally was fewer than 100 as only 75 infections were reported. The lone death was reported from Visakhapatnam district. With these figures, the tally increased to 8,88,350 and the toll reached 7,159. The recovery rate slightly increased to 99.08% and the death rate remained at 0.81%. The number of active cases reached 1,012 as 133 patients recovered during the period, taking the total number of recoveries to 8,80,179. The daily positivity rate of the 34,864 samples tested was 0.22%, one of the lowest in the past few days. The overall positivity rate of 1.331 crore samples tested so far was 6.67%. Chittoor reported 16 new infections, the highest among the districts. It was followed by East Godavari (13), Krishna (11), Visakhapatnam (10), Anantapur (6), Kurnool (4), Guntur (3), Nellore (3), Kadapa (2), Srikakulam (2), Vizianagaram (2), West Godavari (2), and Prakasam (1). The overall district-wise tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,24,314), West Godavari (94,259), Chittoor (87,111), Guntur (75,557), Anantapur (67,673), Nellore (62,355), Prakasam (62,184), Kurnool (60,831), Visakhapatnam (59,849), Kadapa (55,281), Krishna (48,754), Srikakulam (46,144), and Vizianagaram (41,143).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-death-and-75-new-infections-in-state/article33772808.ece
07 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CAs urged to adapt to new techniques of digital era||The Vijayawada branch of the Southern India Regional Council (SIRC) of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) has received a pat for its initiative of digital learning courses conducted by chartered accountants. Addressing a meeting here to mark the golden jubilee celebration of the branch, the president of ICAI, New Delhi, Atul Kumar Gupta urged auditors to adapt to the new techniques and practices in this digital era without losing sight of the basic tenets of confidentiality, ethics and integrity. The Chairman of the SIRC from Madurai, CA Dungar Chand Jain, appreciated the Vijayawada branch for building good infrastructure for the benefit of the members and students. Complimenting the members here for conducting the maximum number of virtual seminars and refresher courses, he promised all possible support from the SIRC. The Chairman, Vijayawada, G. Srinivasa Rao said even during the pandemic time the branch had conducted more than 200 hours of online educational programmes. Secretary G. Sritha Shireen and more than 200 chartered accountants from the city participated in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cas-urged-to-adapt-to-new-techniques-of-digital-era/article33772843.ece
07 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telugu Desam demands Peddireddi’s dismissal||The TDP has urged Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan to immediately dismiss Panchayat Raj Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy from the Council of Ministers and initiate action against him to save Constitution and democracy. A party delegation met the Governor here on Saturday and made a representation, drawing his attention to “gross violation of the model code of conduct” by the ruling YSRCP leaders. The TDP leaders accused the Ministers of directly targeting the State Election Commission (SEC) and the officials on election duty. Mr. Ramachandra Reddy had openly threatened the officials on election duty, the TDP leaders alleged, and quoted what the Minister had purportedly said against the SEC. Calling it transgression of the Constitution, the TDP leaders said that such acts should be dealt with seriously to uphold values.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telugu-desam-demands-peddireddis-dismissal/article33772813.ece
07 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Facilities at PNBS inspected||Vice-Chairman and Managing Director of the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) R.P. Thakur on Saturday asked the officials to ensure proper hygiene and cleanliness in and around the Pandit Nehru Bus Station (PNBS), the main bus stand of the corporation. Mr. Thakur inspected parts of the bus station like the one to seven platforms in the departure block where buses bound for Eluru, Amalapuram and Visakhapatnam were ready to depart. He asked the officials if timing was being maintained and advised extra care to ensure time discipline, especially in these routes which had more traffic. He said platforms and toilets should be cleaned regularly. He interacted with the retail shop owners on the premises and asked about any issues to be addressed. He said they should sell only fresh stocks and said any violation would not be tolerated. Mr. Thakur emphasised the need to deal with the commuters with great deal of patience.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/facilities-at-pnbs-inspected/article33772896.ece
07 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Budget is balanced, says ICAI president||Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) president Atul Kumar Gupta on Saturday hailed the Union Budget 2021-22 as ‘balanced and futuristic, with a focus on nation-building’. Delivering the inaugural address at the one-day conference Udyati-3 here on Saturday, Mr. Gupta said the Budget was based on six key pillars, which lay the foundation for economic development. “Almost every aspect, right from skill development to agriculture and from housing to infrastructure building and health and wellness, has been given priority. Most importantly, every pillar was linked to the sustainable development goals,” Mr. Gupta said. Talking of direct and indirect taxes in the Budget, Mr. Gupta said that as no new taxes were introduced, it has rejuvenated the stock market, which is a healthy sign for an economic uptick. However, certain areas such as audits on ‘digital and cash payment’ need a relook, he said. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that there was no need for audit of digital payments. But it needs a rethink as audit is not merely linked to payments and there are a number of factors and compliances involved, he said. Speaking on ICAI and chartered accountancy as a course, Mr. Gupta said that the course has now gone global and professionals should think globally. “We have been redesigning the course from time to time and now, young students should think of things such as blockchain, data analytics, cybersecurity, artificial intelligence, forensic audit, capacity building and critical thinking,” he said. “We have prepared an action plan and it will be implemented soon. We are now competing with global firms and ICAI will provide the platform,” he added. The ICAI president said that the COVID pandemic was a test for all, including the institute. “It was a challenge to conduct the examinations last November in over 5,800 centres. We engaged over 10,000 volunteers, and the members from respective chapters have done a commendable job,” he said. Conducting a bank audit virtually was also a challenge during the pandemic, he pointed out. Dungar Chand U. Jain, SIRC chairman, Dayaniwas Sharma, central council member of ICAI, Naresh Chandra Gelli, SIRC member, China Masthan, SIRC member, Chengal Reddy, SIRC member, D. Prasanna Kumar, vice-chairman of CMP, ICAI, and G. Bharathi Devi, chairperson of the conference, spoke at the conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/budget-is-balanced-says-icai-president/article33772901.ece
07 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Left parties tell YSRCP to take a stand on steel plant||Protests continued for the second day against the Union government's proposed move to privatise Vizag Steel Plant (VSP), here in Visakhapatnam. Members from various Left parties, people’s organisations and unions staged a massive rasto-roko at Maddilapalem junction on Saturday demanding that the Centre withdraw its proposal immediately. Raising slogans against the Narendra Modi-led BJP government, the protesters staged an agitation near Maddilapalem bus-stop. With slogans of 'Visakha Ukku Andhrulu Hakku', the protesters alleged that the BJP government favoured private companies. The agitators criticised BJP leader Sujana Chowdary, who supported the Centre's move. Secretary of CPI (M), Greater Visakha City Committee B. Ganga Rao dared Mr. Chowdary to come to Vizag and express his opinion. The protesters said the YSRCP and Telugu Desam Party should not just announce their opinions, but should take part in the protests. They said Jana Sena Party chief Pawan Kalyan should severe his alliance with BJP and join their agitation. Meanwhile, a number of protesters who were trying to block the national highway were detained by the police. Condemning the police action, the members said that instead of supporting their cause, the State fovernment was “illegally” arresting them. They said that the YSRCP should announce that it was against the Centre’s decision to privatise VSP. The State government should pass a resolution in the Assembly in this regard and also oppose the move in Parliament, the members stated. Progressive Organisation for Women (POW) members M. Lakshmi and A. Vimala said that not just farmers, the BJP was against labourers, small scale businessmen and middle-class people, and wais only favorable to corporate gaints. She said that VSP was achieved by the people after a long agitation in the early 1970s. The government’s decision was just to benefit the private companies and it should be opposed by all the people, she said. Meanwhile, the protesters came down heavily against the Union government over the farm laws. Extending support to the farmers who have been staging agitation at Delhi borders, AITUC leader M Pydiraju said that the government was putting all efforts to stop the farmer's agitation, but in vain. He criticised the BJP government for arranging barricades and spikes on roads at Delhi border, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/left-parties-tell-ysrcp-to-take-a-stand-on-steel-plant/article33772904.ece
07 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Marpu’ counselling now also extended to police personnel||The ‘Marpu’ programme has now been extended to police personnel from Saturday. The decision was taken after it was noticed that over a period of time, some police personnel have taken to drinking while some have become habitual absentees. This has been impairing the functioning of the department, as fewer personnel are available for duties despite the government paying salaries to all. As disciplinary action is not yielding the desired results in many cases, and it is seen that there is a manifestation of certain behavioural patterns such as abuses and inappropriate behaviour with the public, the ‘Marpu’ counselling will henceforth be extended to police personnel, according to instructions from Commissioner of Police Manish Kumar Sinha. This is being viewed as an alternative method of transforming these personnels through counselling that has been taken up under this programme. Senior police officials along with a psychologist and an NGO form the panel. On Saturday, six police personnel attended the counselling session at the Marpu centre. One of the persons was immediately referred to a deaddiction centre, as he broke down and began crying in the course of counselling. The ‘Marpu’ programme was initially started last month for counselling rowdy-sheeters and bringing them into the mainstream. It was later extended to youth who are addicted to vices such as drugs and alcohol and habitual bike racers. The programme has been yielding good results, according to police officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/marpu-counselling-now-also-extended-to-police-personnel/article33772902.ece
07 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP leaders take aim at govt.||Former TDP MLA Bandaru Satyanarayana Murthy came down heavily on Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for remaining mum over the issue of the proposed privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), even as politicians cutting across party lines were criticising the move. Addressing a press conference in Visakhapatnam on Saturday, Mr. Satyanarayana said the steel plant was established after a prolonged struggle by the people of Andhra Pradesh, in the course of which 30 people had lost their lives. “The Chief Minister seems to be utterly indifferent to the sentiments and aspirations of the people of the State,” he said. Mr. Satyanarayana recalled that there were attempts to take up disinvestment of the plant but the TDP leadership and the unions together represented to the Union Government and stalled the move while N.T. Rama Rao was Chief Minister, and later when N. Chandrababu Naidu was in power. Even the local BJP leaders in both the Telugu States are vocally opposing the move of the Centre. However, the A.P. Chief Minister has not yet spelt out his stand despite severe agitations in the city, he remarked. The TDP leader wondered whether Mr. Jagan was aware of the history of VSP. “The Chief Minister seems to be afraid of the Centre because of the cases against him and therefore he is not speaking out on the issue,” he said, and sought to know what the YSRCP MPs were doing in Parliament. Meanwhile, TDP Mahila president V. Anitha blasted the State government for its indifference on the burning issue and said the government is ruining Visakhapatnam city. The steel plant is in danger of falling into private hands and therefore the MPs and MLAs of the ruling party should immediately resign as a mark of protest, she demanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-leaders-take-aim-at-govt/article33772907.ece
07 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Augmentation of DLS to be completed in March||Work on augmentation of the Diesel Loco Shed (DLS) in Visakhapatnam, the largest of its kind in the country, is expected to be completed by March. The exercise will increase the holding capacity of the shed to 331 locomotives from the existing 231. “The augmentation work is expected to be completed by March. Initially, it was planned to keep older version locos in the old shed, but now only electrical locomotives are being manufactured, and hence the DLS would be converted to handle only electric locomotives. We have already transferred 20 electric locos from the existing ELS (Electric Loco Shed) to the DLS,” said Senior Divisional Mechanical Engineer Santosh Kumar Patra. “We have also posted 300 staff to work on maintenance of the 20 electric locos. Civil works have been completed. A 15-tonne crane has been erected and the 65-tonne crane erection would be completed by February 10. The initial cost of Rs. 64 crore has now gone up to Rs. 92.50 crore,” he said. The augmentation work was sanctioned in the 2015-16 financial year and it was announced that work on augmentation of ELS, Visakhapatnam, would be taken up at a cost of Rs. 19.57 crore. DLS, Visakhapatnam had celebrated its golden jubilee last May.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/augmentation-of-diesel-loco-shed-to-be-over-in-march/article33772840.ece
07 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telugu Academy Chairperson visits AU||Telugu Academy Chairperson Lakshmi Parvathi on Saturday visited Telugu Department in Andhra University here. Speaking in a programme at the department, she said students should give importance to quality in research. She asked the officials to create awareness over old literature. She said that programmes were being designed such that research could be conducted under Telugu Academy. Ms. Parvathi asked the students to utilise the opportunity. She paid floral tributes to the Telugu Thalli portrait. Rector K Samatha and Registrar V. Krishna Mohan attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telugu-academy-chairperson-visits-au/article33772898.ece
07 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special trains from city to Tirupati, Bilaspur, Puri||Special express trains will be operated by the East Coast Railway (ECoR) between Bilaspur-Tirupati via Visakhapatnam with effect from February 7. Train 07481 Tirupati-Bilaspur special express will leave Tirupati on Thursdays and Sundays with effect from February 7 at 10.50 a.m. to reach Visakhapatnam the next day at 4.35 a.m. and depart at 4.55 a.m. to reach Bilaspur at 5.25 p.m. In the return direction, 07482 Bilaspur-Tirupati special express will leave Bilaspur on Tuesdays and Saturdays with effect from Feb 9 at 3.35 p.m. and will reach Visakhapatnam on the next day at 3.05 a.m. and depart at 3.25 a.m. to reach Tirupati at 10.45 p.m., according to Senior Divisional Commercial Manager of Waltair Division A.K. Tripathi. These trains will have stoppages at Renigunta, Srikalahasti, Venkatagiri, Gudur, Nellore, Bitragunta, Kavali, Singarayakonda, Tanguturu, Ongole, Ammanabrolu, Chinna Ganjam, Vetapalemu, Chirala, Bapatla, Nidubrolu, Tsunduru, Tenali, Vijayawada, Gudivada, Kaikaluru, Akividu, BhimavaramTown, Tanuku, Nidadavolu, Rajamahendravaram, Dwarapudi, Anaparthi, Samalkot, Pithapuram, Annavaram, Tuni, Yelamanchili, Anakapalle, Duvvada, Visakhapatnam, Simhachalam, Kottavalasa, Vizianagaram , Bobbili, Parvatipuram, Parvatipuram Town, Rayagada, Muniguda, Kesinga, Titlagarh, Kantabanji, Harishankar Road, Khariar Road, Bagbahara, Mahasamund, Raipur, Tilda and Bhatapara. These trains will have one II-AC, two III-AC, nine Sleeper, four Second-Class and two Second Class-cum-Luggage coaches. Special express trains will also be operated between Tirupati and Puri via Visakhapatnam. Train 07479 Tirupati-Puri special express will leave Tirupati on Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays at 10.35 a.m. with effect from February 8 to arrive in Visakhapatnam on the next day at 4.40 a.m. and depart at 5 a.m. to reach Puri at 2.35 p.m. In the return direction, 07480 Puri-Tirupati special express will leave Puri on Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, Fridays and Sundays at 6.30 p.m. with effect from February 10 to arrive in Visakhapatnam on the next day at 3.05 a.m. and depart at 3.25 a.m. to reach Tirupati on the same day at 10.45 p.m. These trains will have one II-AC, two III-AC, nine Sleeper, four Second-Class and two Second Class-cum-Luggage coaches. Passengers are requested to follow the COVID-19 health protocols while undertaking the journey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-trains-to-tirupati-bilaspur-puri/article33772845.ece
07 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||7 kg hash oil seized, 2 held at Kancharapalem||Officials of the Special Branch, City Task Force (CTF), arrested two persons while they were allegedly transporting 7 kg of ganja oil or hashish oil worth Rs. 14 lakh here on Saturday. The arrested were identified as K David Raju (21) and K Chiranjeevi (22) from Pedabayulu mandal. A third suspect, V. Balaji, is yet to be nabbed. Police intercepted two motorists near ITI Junction, Kancharapalem, and nabbed the two persons while they were transporting the weed oil, extracted from ganja.  Cracking down on ganja, the city police arrested 187 persons in 70 various in the last four weeks. Classifying the cases, police said 132 persons were arrested since the last four weeks for allegedly consuming ganja in 50 different cases. The police had conducted raids at 50 various places and nabbed the accused. Of them, 33 persons were identified as students. Police said that some of the students had completed IIT, MBA, B. Tech and graduation and some of them were pursuing IIT, B.Tech, graduation and Intermediate. In another 20 different cases, police arrested 55 persons while they were allegedly smuggling ganja and hash oil. Police recovered 418 kg ganja and 9 kg hash oil from them. About Rs. 29,000 cash was seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/7-kg-hash-oil-seized-2-held-at-kancharapalem/article33772905.ece
07 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||A symbol of local pride: Muttamsetti||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao on Saturday said that the YSR Congress Party will be at the forefront in the struggle against the proposed privatisation of the steel plant. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has written to the Prime Minister urging him to keep the plant in the public sector, the Minister said. Addressing reporters here on Saturday night, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that 32 persons had laid down their lives for the establishment of the plant, and said it has become a symbol of local pride. “Lakhs of families are dependent on the plant and it is linked with the sentiments of the local people and the people of the State. The plant is operating efficiently, but due to lack of captive mines, it is suffering losses. Therefore, it is not correct to say that it is a loss-making PSU. The NDA government is adding insult to injury by taking up the move after the bifurcation of the State,” the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-symbol-of-local-pride-muttamsetti/article33772908.ece
07 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Ganta’s resignation a political gimmick’||Former BJP MLA P. Vishnu Kumar Raju has termed the resignation of TDP MLA Ganta Srinivasa Rao as a political gimmick. Speaking to The Hindu on Saturday, Mr. Raju said that Mr. Srinivasa Rao should remember that earlier there was a talk that the DCI would be privatised, and HSL and BHPV would be closed. “But nothing of that sort has happened,” the BJP leader said. “DCI is doing well with a consortium of ports and HSL too is faring well. BHPV has been taken over by BHEL,” said Mr. Vishnu Kumar Raju. “State BJP leaders are going to New Delhi on February 14 to apprise the Centre of the facts and speak about the VSP’s proposed privatisation,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gantas-resignation-a-political-gimmick/article33772909.ece
07 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ganta resigns opposing move to sell stake in VSP||Stepping up the heat on the ongoing agitation against the proposed strategic sale of RINL, the corporate entity of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, TDP’s Visakhapatnam (North) MLA Ganta Srinivasa Rao resigned as MLA here on Saturday. Speaking to the media, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said he had sent his resignation letter to the Speaker, urging him to accept it. “I informally sent the letter. I will send the resignation in the prescribed format later,” he added. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said he would form a non-political JAC to fight against the proposed privatisation. He criticised the Centre for deciding to sell VSP by terming it as a loss-making unit. He said the VSP was making losses owing to non-availability of captive mines. Mr. Srinivasa Rao pointed out that when he was MP, a similar situation had risen, and that he had led a delegation to the then Prime Minister A.B. Vajpayee, and the proposal was turned down. “The Union government had even sanctioned Rs. 1,000 crore for the plant’s restructuring,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ganta-resigns-opposing-move-to-sell-stake-in-vsp/article33772816.ece
07 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Narsipatnam sees 1,342 sarpanch nominations||With the last date for filing of nominations for Narsipatnam revenue division for the second phase of gram panchayat polls ending on Friday, authorities have received 1,342 nominations for 261 sarpanch seats. For 2,584 ward member posts, 8,555 nominations were received. The highest nominations received for sarpanch posts was in Nakkapalli. For 31 gram panchayats, 310 nominations were received. In the case of wards, Nathavaram recorded the highest with 1,065 nominations for 304 wards. Holidays Meanwhile, in line with the notice from the State Election Commissioner, the District Collector has asked all public, private and industrial organisations to declare paid holidays on election dates — February 9, 13, 17 and 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/narsipatnam-sees-1342-sarpanch-nominations/article33772846.ece
07 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eye screening camp held at Mindhi village||A door-to-door unique free eye screening project funded by Andhra Petrochemicals Ltd (APL) under their CSR activity has been initiated at Mindhi village by Sankar Foundation, a super-specialty eye hospital in the city. The project is aimed at eradication of avoidable blindness in Mindhi and adjoining colonies. The project was inaugurated by Gudivada Amarnath, MLA, Anakapalle, in the presence of Sri Narsappa, vice-president, APL, G.S.N. Murthy, GM (HR), APL and Sankar Foundation officials. A team of medical and paramedical staff of Sankar Foundation screened around 4,324 persons so far and provided 1,800 spectacles to needy persons and performed 133 cataract and 30 sub-specialty surgeries in Mindhi and its adjoining colonies. All services were done free of cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eye-screening-camp-held-at-mindhi-village/article33772899.ece
07 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Placement brochure released||Vice-Chancellor of Andhra University P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy released the brochure of the Placement Cell, Dr. B.R Ambedkar College of Law, Andhra University, here on Saturday. The placement brochure was prepared by the students under the supervision of the Placement Officer. Mr. Prasad Reddy said that the university is keen in bringing placements to the law college by signing several MoUs with various organisations. The varsity extends complete financial support to the placement cell, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/placement-brochure-released/article33772849.ece
07 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP MLA arrested, released||The district police on Saturday arrested YSRCP MLA (Elamanchili) Uppalapati Ramanamurthy Raju, popularly known as Kanna Babu, on the charge of threatening a sarpanch aspirant backed by a rival party at Rambilli on February 2. He was later released on station bail. In a voice recording that went viral in the social media recently, Mr. Kanna Babu allegedly threatened a sarpanch aspirant for contesting against a YSRCP-backed candidate at Lalamkoduru of Rambilli mandal. Following a complaint from the victim’s family members, the police registered a case under Section 506 of the IPC and relevant Sections of the Panchayat Raj Act-1995.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-mla-arrested-released/article33772814.ece
07 February 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Enrol for management courses, students urged||Central Tribal University Vice-Chancellor T.V. Kattimani on Saturday asked students to pursue management courses apart from engineering and technical courses as additional qualifications would help them become entrepreneurs and prove their skills in their chosen careers. Prof. Kattimani attended the inauguration of a BBA course at SITAM College of Vizianagaram as chief guest. He said innovative thinking and hard work were the need of the hour for students to face new challenges. Former MP and SITAM College chairperson Botcha Jhansi Lakshmi urged students to utilise the best infrastructure created in the college to ensure a decent career for them. College director M. Sasibhusana Rao said that management courses would enlighten students on India’s economy and pave a bright future for them. He said that there was a huge demand for MBA and BBA courses in Tier-II cities. Special Officer of Tribal University Hanumanthu Lajapathi Rai, Satya Degree and PG Colleges principal Sai Deva Mani attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/enrol-for-management-courses-students-urged/article33772834.ece
07 February 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP confident of strong show in elections||The Telugu Desam Party’s Parliamentary wing president Kimidi Nagarjuna on Saturday exuded confidence that voters would ensure a massive victory for the party in the upcoming panchayat elections. “The people are fed up with the poor governance of the Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy administration,” Mr. Nagarjuna said. The TDP leader was accompanying party-backed candidates during the filing of their nominations in the constituency of Cheepurupalli. “The so-called welfare schemes would be of little benefit to the people due to skyrocketing inflation, which has made lives miserable for the poor,” he said. “People want stable prices for essential commodities and petrol. When the rates are drastically on the rise, people are unable to buy essential goods. The situation is worse for poor people living in villages where they have limited opportunities to earn income,” Mr. Nagarjuna said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-confident-of-strong-show-in-elections/article33772838.ece
07 February 2021||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Number of people taking COVID-19 tests decreasing||Few people are keen on undergoing COVID-19 tests being conducted by the government in Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts. Earlier, more than 5,000 people would arrive daily at the testing centres in each district. Now, the number has gradually come down to 2,500, thanks to a decline in identification of new cases. As many as 1,952 persons attended for the medical tests and two positive cases were identified in Srikakulam district on Saturday. Only 11 patients are being treated currently for COVID-19 in the district, which has seen an overall case load of 46,439. In Vizianagaram, only two new cases were identified on Saturday, taking the total caseload to 41,236. As many as 207 deaths were reported in the district in the last eight months. Vizianagaram District Medical and Health Officer S.V. Ramanakumari said that only 14 patients were currently under observation and their condition was stable. Former president of the Vizianagaram unit of the Indian Medical Association M. Venkateswara Rao urged people to go for COVID-19 testing as the pandemic continued to pose a threat. “Many people are no longer taking the pandemic seriously due to the drop in cases. But it is far from over, which is evident with the second wave that occurred in China, United States and other countries,” Mr. Venkateswara Rao said. “The casual approach has had an impact on the vaccination process, as many frontline warriors are neglecting the vaccine. Vaccination is important to protect from the second wave which is expected in a few months,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/number-of-people-taking-covid-19-tests-decreasing/article33772836.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Campaign intensifies||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/campaign-intensifies/article33772894.ece
07 February 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Second leg of COVID vaccination begins||Collector M.V. Reddy and several senior officials were among those who received COVID-19 shots as part of the second phase of the vaccination drive that began at 38 health centres across the district here on Saturday. An estimated 9,000 staff, including frontline workers of the Police, Revenue, Municipal and Panchayat Raj departments, will be covered under the second leg of the drive, sources said. Mr Reddy, and Additional Collectors Venkateshwarlu and Anudeep received the jabs at the Urban Health Centre at Safai Basti in the coal town. Speaking on the occasion, Mr Reddy said healthcare, sanitation and anganwadi workers were given COVID-19 vaccines across the district during the first phase. The district earned wide appreciation for the well-coordinated efforts of the frontline workers in effectively containing the spread of coronavirus during the lockdown and post-lockdown phases last year, he said, adding that the district excelled in implementation of the first phase of the COVID-19 vaccination drive at the State level. In Sangareddy, Superintendent of Police S. Chandrasekhar Reddy took the vaccine at the primary health centre in Kandi. Twenty-six officials of the Indrakaran police station limits also took the jab. At Siddipet, Commissioner of Police D. Joyal Davis got the first dose of vaccine in the second phase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/second-leg-of-covid-vaccination-begins/article33772854.ece
07 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GMR plans to expand perishable cargo terminal||GMR Hyderabad International Airport Ltd which operates the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport at Shamshabad has sought cooperation of the State government for the expansion of the perishable cargo terminal to give a boost to export of fruits and vegetables from Telangana and other nearby areas. In a meeting with Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy and other officials of the Agriculture and Marketing Departments here on Saturday, Chief Commercial Officer of Ashish Kumar and a few other senior executives said they have plans to expand the perishable cargo terminal from the existing 5,000 square feet to 25,000 square feet. The GMR officials explained to the Minister that the expansion of the facility would also have irradiation facility required for export of mangoes by improving their shelf life. The Minister, assuring them GMR officials that he would take up the matter at higher level, said Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had recently instructed the officials to plan a agri-export processing unit near Shamshabad airport. They stated that they would soon hold a preparatory meeting with buyers, sellers, exporters and importers. The Minister also assured the GMR officials of convening a meeting involving them with Horticulture, Marketing and APEDA officials. Earlier in the day, the minister held a meeting with the Marketing Department officials and told them that the biggest challenge before them now was to scale up the marketing facilities for increasing production of agricultural and horticultural produce in the State. Produce worth about Rs. 1.15 lakh crore would reach the market every year and it was the responsibility of officials to provide marketing facilities. After a lot of brainstorming, the Chief Minister had asked the farmers to go for regulated farming during the last Kharif (Vanakalam) season and accordingly farmers had cultivated redgram in 10.8 lakh acres and the market price was over Rs. 7,000 per quintal now. The Minister underscored the need to increase the cultivation of groundnut in the State from the present 3 lakh acres to about fifteen lakh acres as there was huge demand for oilseeds in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gmr-plans-to-expand-perishable-cargo-terminal/article33772746.ece
07 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Garbage problems continue for GHMC||Almost a year after being rapped by the High Court for not making serious efforts towards decentralised solid waste management, the GHMC is yet to take a step forward in that direction. None of the sites identified by the corporation as alternative dump yards has come into its possession so far, rendering the proposal a non-starter. As per the affidavit submitted by GHMC to the High Court, three locations had been identified for establishment of alternative dump yards other than Jawahar Nagar — at Lakdaram village in Patancheru mandal of Sangareddy district, Pyaranagar village in Gummadidala mandal of Sangareddy district and Khanapur village at Talakondapally village of Rangareddy district. This was in line with the Telangana government’s policy of decentralised garbage processing and waste treatment facilities. Minister for Municipal Administration & Urban Development (MA&UD) K.T.Rama Rao too had in November last year, before GHMC polls, mentioned the two locations at Pyarangar and Lakdaram as possible sites of decentralised garbage processing. On the ground, uncertainty shrouds the proposal as none of the sites has been finalised as yet. The 152 acre site at Pyaranagar is as closest as it can get for GHMC to start the facility, but the proposal is stuck as there is no approach road. Half a kilometre stretch running through the forest area is halting the construction of approach road, an official informed. Request has been made to the Sangareddy District Collector for alienation of 150 acres of government land at Lakdaram, of which the collector has approved 100 acres, officials informed. However, the said extent of land had been allotted to Rajiv Swagruha Corporation during the period of joint State, and government’s active intervention would be needed for alienating it from the corporation. At Khanapur, citizens have been up in arms against the proposal to allot 42 acres of government land for the dump yard, and already conducted vocal protests against the move. The proposal is dumped for all practical purposes, officials say.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/garbage-problems-continue-for-ghmc/article33772707.ece
07 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRS executive meet today amid confusion among cadre||A meeting of the State executive of TRS to be held on Sunday afternoon after a long gap has assumed significance in the backdrop of the setback that the party suffered in elections to Dubbak Assembly constituency and Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC). It is also taking place amidst confusion in the cadre whether the party president and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao will hand over the reins of power to his son and next in command K.T. Rama Rao. The upcoming by-election to Nagarjunasagar Assembly constituency has lent more credence to the meeting but sources said Mr. Rao was not expected to touch any of these issues as it was primarily called to discuss only organisational issues which will culminate with the election of the party president. President’s poll was every two years till the constitution of party was amended to make it four years in 2017. However, the membership drive and constitution of committees of the party were retained at two years. Since all three issues were due in the current year and have to be completed before April 27, party’s foundation day, sources said Mr. Rao found it the right time to kick start the process. Behind the veil, however, party cadre read the meeting as a platform for Mr. Rao to speak his mind on elevation of Mr. KTR as Chief Minister and elections to not only Nagarjunasagar Assembly constituency but Legislative Council from two graduates constituencies and Khammam and Warangal municipal corporations. It was also wildly rumoured that Mr. Rao will hand over the baton to Mr. Rama Rao on February 17, which is the former’s birthday. Sources said Mr. Rao might confine himself to discussing the arrangements for the party plenary on April 27, which had not taken place in the last two years. They also shot down suggestion that he will air his views on the farm laws enacted by the Centre or the silence by TRS. After having supported the Bharat bandh call given by other Opposition parties, the TRS had not even given lip service to the agitation which put the cadre in a dilemma. The executive was meeting at a time when the grass roots level TRS cadre was shifting loyalties to other parties, mainly BJP, following its recent successes. Mr. Rao was also keen to check this emerging trend. The TRS was only known to get leaders from other parties so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-executive-meeting-today-amid-confusion-among-cadre/article33772740.ece
07 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Left parties, Cong. take part in road blockade against farm laws||The Left parties, Congress and their frontal organisations blocked highways at several places in the State on Saturday as part of “chakka jam” call given by the farmer organisations against the new farm laws. Movement of the vehicular traffic was disrupted at places where the protest was staged with squatting across the road to block the movement of vehicles. At Hayathnagar here, traffic movement was disrupted for about an hour when the activists of Left parties blocked the Hyderabad-Vijayawada highway. They raised slogans demanding end to repression against protesting farmers, repeal of anti-farmer laws and making minimum support price guarantee law. Left parties, farmers’ organisations and people’s organisations participated in the protest under the banner of All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee. After the protesters blocked traffic for about an hour, police took them into custody and cleared the jam. Those who were taken into custody included State secretary of CPI Chada Venkat Reddy, D.G. Narasimha Rao of CPI(M), Goverdhan and S. Venkateshwar Rao (CPI-ML-ND), V. Kiran Kumar of Rythu Swarajya Vedika, P. Padma, T. Sagar, Jhansi, Rama, Anuradha, Upender Reddy, Achuta Ramarao, J.V. Chalapathi Rao and others. They demanded that the Centre put an end to anti-democratic measures such as internet shutdown at protest sites, intimidation of and attacks on protesters, digging up of roads to prevent supporters from Delhi reaching the protest site, prevention of access to basic amenities and services, foisting cases against farmers and leaders of farmer organisations. MSP-for-crops demand Further, they demanded that the Telangana government continue procurement of crops to ensure minimum support price to farmers and pass a resolution in the State Assembly against the new farm laws. ‘Rasta roko’ protests were also organised at Nalgonda crossroads, Nizamabad, Bodhan, Armoor, Kammarpally, Makur, Warangal, Wardhannapet, Narsampet, Mandarpet, Mulugu, Bhongir and several other places in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/left-parties-cong-take-part-in-road-blockade-against-farm-laws/article33772720.ece
07 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Civil Service officers put on their running shoes||The All India Civil Service Officers and Central Civil Service Officers undergoing Special Foundation course at Dr. MCR HRD Institute of Telangana conducted a mini marathon of 5km on their campus to express solidarity with COVID warriors, under the stewardship of institute director-general Harpreet Singh. The run was flagged off by Benhur Mahesh Dutt Ekka, additional director-general and course director. After participating in the marathon, he addressed the officer trainees and lauded the onerous services rendered by the COVID warriors, especially doctors, nurses, sanitation workers and police personnel, in the past one year and termed them as real heroes. While appreciating all the officer trainees who participated in the mini marathon, Mr. Ekka felicitated the winners of the run. L. Mukesh Kumar, IPS; Kanta Jangir, IPS bagged the first prize in the men and women categories, respectively. Others who bagged the prizes includes officer trainees Yow Peter Raiphea, Rajarshi Raj Varma, Vishakha Ashok Bhadane and Suman Beniwal. Divya Parmar, additional course director, and Srinivas Peddaboina, sports coordinator, also participated in the event along with other faculty and staff members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/civil-service-officers-put-on-their-running-shoes/article33772725.ece
07 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||SanghaMitra lends a helping hand to women in distress||Rachakonda Police Commissionerate in association with Rachakonda Security Council initiated a flagship programme, SanghaMitra, to spread awareness on women’s safety issues. On the last day of the programme on Saturday, MLC Kalvakuntla Kavitha distributed certificates to trained ‘SanghaMitras’ and lauded Police Commissioner Mahesh M. Bhagwat’s efforts in taking up friendly policing initiatives and prompt actions in the prevention of violence against women. Addressing the gathering, she stated that Telangana women with inspiration obtained from the separate State movement should aspire to work together to build a progressive, and safe State to empower women. Ms. Kavitha further said that the mission programmes of SanghaMitra was in line with the extension of SHE Teams initiative taken by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. She called for initiatives like SanghaMitra across the State spreading the spirit of friendly policing and mentioned that she wants to take an active role and enroll as SanghaMitra. Earlier, Mr. Mahesh Bhagwat outlined the vision, mission, and initiative taken by Rachakonda police to empower, and train women from Ibrahimpatnam, Choutuppal and Bhongir. He said that they have inspired about 1,000 women creating awareness and instilling self-confidence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sanghamitra-lends-a-helping-hand-to-women-in-distress/article33772738.ece
07 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC employees protest against delay in salaries||GHMC workers, under the umbrella of GHMC Employees and Workers JAC, staged a demonstration in front of the corporation’s head office demanding payment of salaries on time. Representatives from the JAC claimed that the permanent employees are yet to get their salaries this month, which goes against the practice of payment of salaries by the first of every month. “For the past five to six months, the permanent employees who number over 4,500 have not been receiving the salaries by the first day of the month. We are made to wait for two to four days more, which pushes us over the edge owing to non-payment of EMIs,” vice-chairman of the JAC Bala Narsing Rao said. He also claimed that the retirement benefits such as gratuity, commuted pension and GPF are not being paid, though cheques are being issued for the same. He attributed the situation to empty coffers of GHMC, and said there had been no precedent of GHMC employees resorting to protest demanding payment of salaries. Attempts to contact the GHMC officials for their version have not yielded results.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmc-employees-protest-against-delay-in-salaries/article33772708.ece
07 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rural banks offer digital insta account||The Digital Insta Savings Account mobile app of Andhra Pradesh Grameena Vikas Bank (APGVB) and Telangana Grameena Bank (TGB) was launched recently by State Bank of India chairman Dinesh Kumar Khara. The app will be at the heart of the Digital Insta Savings Account (DISA) launched by the two regional rural banks. The benefits of DISA include zero balance account, can be opened within 10 minutes and activation of mobile banking and SMS alerts immediately. Rupay debit card will be issued and the account holders need to successfully complete e-KYC at home branch or video-KYC within one year. The account can be opened by individuals aged above 18 years, who do not have any existing relationship with the bank as well as any OTP-based Aadhaar verification based account with any other bank/financial institution. The customer must have valid Aadhaar number linked to his/her mobile number. A maximum balance of Rs. 1 lakh can be maintained in the account and the transaction limit is capped at Rs. 49,999 per transaction. Total credit summations in a year is restricted to Rs. 2 lakh, the release said. Mr. Khara said APGVB and TGB are among progressive RRBs and better than small finance banks with a brand, reach, network and fair understanding of risks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rural-banks-offer-digital-insta-account/article33772718.ece
07 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CPI(M) blames govt. for fund-starved GHMC||CPI(M) City Committee, through a press statement on Saturday, accused the State government of pushing the GHMC into insolvency by not releasing even the allocated funds. The corporation has failed to pay salaries even after a week since the beginning of February, and several works have been stopped for paucity of funds, the statement said, adding that such fund crunch is a first in the corporation’s history. Blaming the State government for the current situation, CPI(M) city secretary M.Srinivas said, during the last six years since 2014, the government has released only Rs. 366 crore for GHMC against the budget allocation of Rs. 1,981 crore. Maximum revenue for the State budget is garnered from Greater Hyderabad area, but allocations to the city are the least, the statement said. Even allocations are not being released in full. For the Rs. 250 crore professional tax which should be devolved annually, the government is allocating only Rs. 30 crore, and releasing only half of the allocations, the statement alleged. Same predicament haunts the devolution of funds with regard to entertainment tax, property tax and motor vehicles tax, the statement said, and demanded immediate release of funds for payment of salaries and wages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cpim-blames-govt-for-fund-starved-ghmc/article33772728.ece
07 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||New BDL products at Aero India-2021||Adding to its wide range of product line, Bharat Dynamics Limited (BDL) has launched two new products during Aero India- 2021 - the “Dishani” and “Garudastra”. Commodore Siddharth Mishra (Retd), CMD, BDL presented a model of the new products to Defence Minister Rajnath Singh during a ceremony held as a part of Aero India - 2021 in Bengaluru on Saturday in the presence of Chief of Integrated Defence Staff, Chief of the Indian Army and Navy, Secretary (Defence Production), Ministry of Defence, Secretary Department of Defence R &D and Chairman, DRDO, Air Officer Maintenance and other dignitaries. Garudastra is an advanced anti-submarine self-guided state of the art homing torpedo being designed and developed by NSTL, DRDO with BDL as the development partner. Dishani, an expendable air-deployed ASW sonobuoy system being designed and developed by NPOL, DRDO. BDL is the development partner for Dishani. BDL has entered into Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) / agreements during Aero India - 2021 with foreign and Indian firms namely Naval Group, L&T MBDA Missile Systems Ltd, a Joint Venture between L&T and MBDA, Rafael Advanced Defence System Ltd (Naval Division), Thales, UK, Roxel, France, STE "SPETSTECHNOEXPORT", Ukraine, EMCO, Bulgaria, Bharat Forge Limited, Dhruva Space Pvt Ltd., Skyroot Aerospace Pvt Ltd., Analinear Design Technologies Pvt Ltd., Tonbo Imaging Indian Pvt Ltd. & Binford Research Labs Pvt Ltd. CMD, BDL, Commodore Siddharth Mishra, (Retd) stated “BDL, as a part of its Global Outreach, is endeavouring to forge alliance with foreign companies. In addition to forging alliance with domestic Companies, BDL is also encouraging start-up companies to participate in its innovation programmes which would synergize their innovative ideas with BDL’s capabilities, infrastructure and long and rich experience in the field of manufacturing and develop new products for the Armed Forces utilizing emerging technologies.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-bdl-products-at-aero-india-2021/article33772735.ece
07 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Class X student ends life, case registered against teacher||A class X student was found dead at his residence in Challapur village of Kulkacharla mandal in Vikarabad district on Friday evening. The victim ended his life by hanging himself from a ceiling fan, police said. District Superintendent of Police M. Narayana said that three days ago the boy went to the school after it reopened and one teacher, identified as Ramesh, suggested that he attend classes online instead of coming to school. “Last year, the boy had some issue with a girl in his class and he was counselled by the headmaster, teachers and her parents. The school even considered issuing a transfer certificate to the boy. However, it was not followed up as the schools were closed since March,” he said. When the boy went to school, their teacher Ramesh counselled him again and suggested that he take online classes and pass the examination to avoid further repercussions, Mr. Narayana said. “The teenager reportedly was hurt by the remarks and resorted to the extreme step,” the officer said. A note purportedly left behind by the victim blamed Ramesh for his taking the extreme step. A case under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) of Indian Penal Code was registered against Ramesh.    There is always someone to listen at: +914066202000 in case of any emotional breakdown at this Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre, Roshni.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/class-x-student-ends-life/article33772709.ece
07 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Nod for 3 LI schemes, lining work of Rs. 1,277 cr.||The State government has given administrative approval for construction of two new lift irrigation schemes in Suryapet district and one in Nirmal as also cement-concrete lining to Nagarjunasagar Left Canal in Suryapet and Nalgonda districts with a total estimated cost of about Rs. 1,277 crore. State Plan funds In the orders issued on Saturday, the Irrigation Department gave its approval for construction and commissioning of Pipri lift irrigation scheme on the foreshores of the Sriramsagar Project (SRSP) in Lokeshwaram mandal of Nirmal district with Rs. 58.96 crore under State Plan funds. Two more lift irrigation schemes in Suryapet district, as announced by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao at a review meeting, with cost of Rs. 936.2 crore got approval on Friday. The first scheme is aimed at supplementing water to Mukthyala Branch Canal of NSLC from Krishna river near Vellatur village of Chintalapalem mandal in Suryapet district with Rs. 817.5 crore. Another lift scheme is planned to supplement water to Janpahad Branch Canal of NSLC from Krishna river near Gundeboinagudem village of Palakeedu mandal also in Suryapet district with a cost of Rs. 118.7 crore. Modernisation Besides, modernisation of Mukthyala Branch Canal and its distributaries (Rs. 184.6 crore), CC lining to Janpahad Branch Canal and its distributary system (Rs. 52.11 crore), CC lining (leftover modernisation work) from km 70.520 to km 115.400 of NSLC (Rs. 29.02 crore) – all in Suryapet district – and CC lining to leftover modernisation work from km 0 to km 70.520 of NSLC in Nalgonda district (Rs. 15.78 crore) were also approved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nod-for-3-li-schemes-lining-work-of-rs-1277-crore/article33772733.ece
07 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Harassment charge against airline staff||The manager of an airport services company, the subsidiary of a popular private airlines, was booked by the RGIA police of Cyberabad on Saturday for allegedly sexually harassing a woman. The 30-year-old victim from RB Nagar in Shamshabad, who works for another airport support agency at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA), had applied for a job at the accused’s company two months ago. “She accused the company manager Srikanth (35) of expecting sexual favours to appoint her,” police said. Based on her complaint, a case was registered against Srikanth and a probe is on. Police said the airlines have also lodged a complaint against the victim, accusing her of extortion and threatening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/harassment-charge-against-airline-staff/article33772710.ece
07 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||161 COVID cases on Friday||Telangana recorded 161 COVID-19 cases on Friday, taking the total to 2,95,431. While 35,421 people were examined, results of 945 were awaited. One more COVID-19 patient died, pushing up the toll to 1,608. The new cases include 28 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), and 10 each from Rangareddy and Medchal Malkajgiri. No case was reported from Suryapet, Nagarkurnool, Narayanpet, Medak, Kamareddy and Jogulamba-Gadwal. The total number of COVID-19 tests has crossed 80 lakh — it now stands at 80,69,459. Of the total cases, 1,977 were active and 2,91,846 have recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telangana-sees-161-more-covid-cases/article33772721.ece
07 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Flood victims stage protest, demand aid||Flood victims from the Old Kamela area of Basheerbagh arrived at GHMC on Saturday, and staged a protest demanding the promised flood relief amount for damaged houses. Chief Minister K.Chandrasekhar Rao had promised Rs. 50,000 compensation for partially damaged houses and Rs. 1 lakh for complete collapse post the October floods last year which had caused widespread devastation in the city. While the distribution of immediate relief of Rs. 10,000 was taken up on priority, there are no guidelines for distribution of compensation for damaged/collapsed homes. The protesters reminded the government of its promise to come to the aid of each and every victim, and questioned its inaction now. “We are making rounds of all offices, but to no avail. Officials have not even removed the debris from our collapsed homes, let alone pay the promised compensation. If the debris is cleared, we can at least live in shacks till the compensation comes,” said K.Lakshmamma, a victim. Sampoorna, another victim, said her family had been staying in a rented accommodation for past three months, and no number of trips to the Revenue offices had yielded any result.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/flood-victims-stage-protest-demand-long-pending-aid/article33772727.ece
07 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC declines to intervene in fresh plea||Justice Abhinand Kumar Shavili of Telangana High Court declined to pass any interim direction in a writ petition filed by AP Mahesh Co-operative Bank Shareholders Welfare Association seeking suspension of the bank’s board of directors. When the matter came up for hearing on three days ago, the judge issued notices to the respondents but observed that there was no need to pass any specific direction immediately. The judge noted that already Justice P. Naveen Rao heard pleas with similar content and passed interim orders nearly a month ago protecting interests of the small depositors of the bank. Next hearing The same interim orders would apply in the plea filed by the bank’s shareholders welfare association, the judge noted. He posted the matter after three weeks for next hearing. The association, in its petition, pleaded with the court to appoint an administrator to the bank stating that a similar request was made by State government’s agriculture and co-operative department to the Central Registrar of co-operative societies. Irregularities alleged Supreme Court counsel Dil Jit Singh Ahluwalia appearing for the association said the State government had written on December 23 last alleging irregularities by the previous board of the directors of the bank. The government sought a forensic audit of the accounts of the bank transactions and appointment of an administrator. On this January 17, the association represented to the Reserve Bank of India with similar pleas. However, there was no response from the RBI even after three weeks, the counsel told the court. The counsel of the bank chairman opposed issuing of notices in the matter. The RBI’s counsel informed the court that Justice P. Naveen Rao’s bench had already passed interim orders stating that the bank’s board of directors should not take any major policy decisions. This direction would protect the interests of the small depositors, the counsel said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mahesh-bank-case-hc-declines-to-intervene/article33772723.ece
07 February 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||TPCC gears up for MLC, municipal elections||The Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) has set its sights on the upcoming elections to the Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda Graduates Constituency of the Legislative Council and the Khammam Municipal Corporation (KMC) and ramping up efforts to emerge victorious at the ensuing hustings. A high-level meeting of the top State-level party leaders has been convened here on Sunday to chalk out the strategies to win the forthcoming elections. All-India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge for Telangana Manickam Tagore, TPCC president and Nalgonda MP N. Uttam Kumar Reddy and Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka, among others, will attend the meeting, party sources said on Saturday. They will also address a meeting of the party booth and division level workers in the town the same day. The leaders of the party frontal organisations and the presidents of the district Congress committees from all over the State are expected to attend the crucial meeting. Elaborate arrangements The Khammam District Congress Committee has made elaborate arrangements for Sunday’s high-level meeting. The Congress led Grand Alliance put up a splendid performance in the 2018 Assembly elections winning eight out of the total ten Assembly seats in the old undivided Khammam district. The ruling TRS won just the solitary seat of Khammam in the last Assembly polls in the erstwhile composite Khammam district. However, the Congress party suffered a series of setbacks following a slew of defections from the party into the ruling TRS in 2019. Meanwhile, Mr. Vikramarka reviewed the arrangements for Sunday’s meeting with the district Congress leaders here on Saturday. New strategies Talking to mediapersons, Mr. Vikramarka said that the meeting will deliberate on the strategies for the upcoming Legislative Council elections to both Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda and Hyderabad-RangaReddy-Mahabubnagar Graduates Constituencies as well as the KMC polls. The party leadership will announce the candidates for MLC elections in a few days, he said, adding that the Congress has a strong cadre strength in the district. “We will win the upcoming elections with the overwhelming support of people, who are vexed with the TRS misrule, failure to fulfil promises and nepotism,” Mr. Vikramarka said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tpcc-gears-up-for-mlc-municipal-elections/article33772744.ece
07 February 2021||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Laxminagar, a role model for other villages||Do you know any village that celebrates four festivals in a year involving all community people? Then, here is one - Laxminagar of Papannapet mandal. In this village, one can witness various activities taken up by all community people. Laxminagar celebrates four festivals - village birthday festival during Sankranti time, village water and current festival on Srirama Navami, green village festival on July 2nd and sports and cultural festival during Dasara. Coinciding with the formation of Telangana, the village started its development activity - which is going unabated since 2014. The village has taken up as many as 20 projects including – drinking water treatment plant, milk society for women, ban on liquor selling, website, solid waste management yard, liquid waste management by establishing soak pits, cement roads, individual sanitary latrines, Laxminagar Pragati center, plastic ban, farmers club formation, bore-well recharge units in fields, trouble shooting water problems in fields, Haritha Haram, temple renovation, solar street lights, graveyard construction, organic farming, digital village and installation of CCTVs. On the birthday of the village, during Sankranti, there will be a review meeting in the presence of all villagers. They will discuss the scheduled programmes during the year which were started, the progress so far and programmes were yet to be taken up. For the past six years this was held without fail. Presently, works of establishing CCTVs in the village is on in addition to extending Laxminagar Pragati Centre. Once the village used to have more than 40 harvesters and now the number had come down to 25 now due to various reasons, including that of younger generation not showing much interest, besides lack of drivers. Every house in the village has some fruit bearing plants and vegetables. “We are taking up several activities in the village. This is being developed as a model village. In the past, I used run a transport service in Hyderabad. However, for the past 10 months, I am staying here and looking after village activities,” Srinivas Rao Kota, one of the villagers, told . Those keen to know the welfare activities of the village can visit: www.ourlaxminagar.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-role-model-for-other-villages/article33772742.ece
07 February 2021||Medak,TELANGANA||Teen raped, murdered||The incident of rape and murder of a 16-year-girl by an autorickshaw driver last November at Somla Tanda under Ambriya tanda, came to light on Saturday. According to sources, the auto driver, identified as K. Veeresham, used to drop the teenager at a government school where she was studying. The duo reportedly became close. She went missing in the last week of November and her father lodged a complaint with police on November 29. During police investigation, the issue of her rape and murder came to light. Further details are awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/teen-raped-murdered/article33772743.ece
07 February 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Activists of Left parties block highway||The proposal to put on hold implementation of the three farm laws, which farmers protesting on the borders of New Delhi have been demanding repeal, is a devious plan and an internal agenda of the Bharatiya Janata Party, alleged leaders of Communist parties in Nalgonda. Activists of the Left parties staged rasta roko in different parts of the State as part of the nation-wide call given for three-hour ‘chakka jam’ by farmer organisations. “Putting off the implementation of the laws also means the Centre is accepting its mistake. The black laws must be repealed,” they said, blocking the Narketpalli-Addanki State highway. CPI (M) leader Mudireddy Sudhakar Reddy and CPI leader Nellikanti Satyam said discussions on minimum support price should not be limited to the panel, but should be assured with a legal sanctity, and related provisions must be enacted. They said a section of media was showing the protesting farming community in a bad light. Other leaders — Paladugu Nagarjuna and Pandula Saidulu — said that the courts should take suo motu cognizance of the authorities planting iron nails on the highways and intervene. They said recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission that MSP should be at least 50% more than the weighted average cost of production, must be implemented. Police personnel intervened about an hour after the blockade began and removed the activists from the site. A few of them were briefly detained at the Rural police station. In Suryapet, CPI (M) cadres and activists of affiliate organisations staged a blockade of the NH-65 (Hyderabad-Vijayawada) near S.V. Engineering college from 12 noon till about 1.30 p.m. In Sangareddy, the activists CPI(M) held rasta roko on the Mumbai National Highway on Saturday. Traffic came to stand still for some time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/activists-of-left-parties-block-highway/article33772851.ece
07 February 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Flashy auto helps nab murderers||Investigation into the murders of two unidentified men in the wee hours of January 25, near Ramnagar locality on the town outskirts, reached a logical point on Friday with the Nalgonda police nabbing two suspects. The two dead persons were identified as Bondi Ramji and Bondi Nageswar of Pothulur village, Prathipadu in East Godavari district. They had come to Nalgonda in search of work, and later in the wee hours were found murdered. DSP Venkateswara Reddy produced two accused — Shaik Azeem and Shaik Amir of Girakalabavi in the old town — before media persons and disclosed the details. “The duo, one of whom was the auto-rickshaw driver, assumed the visitors’ bags contained a lot of money. So as part of a plan, invited the two for a drink ,and took them to the outskirts, where after a couple of drinks, the accused bludgeoned the victims with boulders,” he said. No leads The crime scene on January 25 did not offer much to the investigating team of the police. One of the investigating officials said a small wallet was found, but it also did not provide a strong lead. However, footage from CCTVs on the route, one at Cherlapally on the Addanki-Narketpally State highway where the visitors got down and took the auto-rickshaw, and another CCTV on the Collectorate road near the crime scene, showed striking similarity. “At around 3.55 a.m., an auto-rickshaw with blinking lights and a fancy sticker, was seen on the CCTVs. The same vehicle was seen at Cherlapally and on the Collectorate road towards Ramnagar,” an official said. Following this lead, police questioned a few auto-rickshaw drivers and zeroed in on the two suspects. While questioning their motive, their role in the crime became clear. The duo were remanded to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/flashy-auto-helps-nab-murderers/article33772729.ece
07 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,TELANGANA||Special strategy to tackle situation in LWE-affected areas||The police will be deploying heavy security forces in the Maoist-affected areas to ensure incident-free polling during the gram panchayat elections in the State, Director General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang has said. “We are holding coordination meetings with the police of the neighbouring States to tackle the Naxalites during the local body polls, and the response from our counterparts is positive. Special focus is being laid on Naxal-dominated villages. Our target is to ensure incident-free polling,” Mr. Sawang told The Hindu . In all, 983 Left Wing Extremism (LWE)-affected polling stations are there in the State. As the Maoists have given a call to boycott the elections, the police, along with the officials of other departments, are holding meetings and taking all measures to build confidence and step up security in the tribal hamlets. “Naxalite activities are restricted to some pockets in Visakhapatnam Rural and East Godavari districts. Along with the Greyhounds personnel, the area domination and road opening parties have taken the villages into their control,” Mr. Sawang said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/special-strategy-to-tackle-situation-in-lwe-affected-areas/article33772747.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||In nature’s lap||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/in-natures-lap/article33772732.ece
07 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||3 trade union office-bearers detained over chakka jam||Three trade union office-bearers were detained in the wake of nationwide chakka jam called by the protesting farmers, the police said on Saturday. The three persons who were detained are All India United Trade Union Centre (AIUTUC) Delhi State Secretary, Manager Chaurasia, Delhi Centre of Indian Trade Union’s north district vice-president Vipin and All India Federation of Trade Union’s National Treasurer and Delhi president Animesh Das. ‘To ensure order’ Delhi Police Public Relations Officer Chinmoy Biswal said, “Keeping in mind the violence that erupted on January 26 by miscreants and violations of rules that were caused, detention of a few persons was part of preventive measures taken by the police. Since there was no chakka jam in the Capital, we wanted to ensure no attempts were made by miscreants to cause any untoward incident in the garb of this event”. All India Kisan Mazdoor Sabha general secretary Ashish Mittal said that Dr. Das was picked up and detained at 5 a.m. and that officials were also posted outside Pragatisheel Mahila Sangathan general secretary Poonam to restrict her movement. The CITU said that Mr. Vipin was detained around 12.30 a.m. from his residence and that “police misled him while picking him up but later told him that he had been picked up because of the chakka jam call”. AIUTUC president Harish Tyagi said that Mr. Chaurasia was placed under detention at his house to prevent him from organising the workers’ assembly on Saturday at Shahidi Park near ITO in solidarity with the farmers’ ‘chakka jam’ call. “The AIUTUC condemns the fascistic measures adopted by the Central government and its subservient Delhi Police to disrupt the solidarity gathering and thus, muzzle the democratic voice of the people,” Mr. Tyagi said. In a related development, at least 60 people were detained during the chakka jam near Shahidi Park. A senior police officer said that protesting here wasn’t allowed which led to detentions. All those detained were released later in the evening. On Friday, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha had said that protesters will not block roads in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand during the strike and only national highways will be blocked for three hours in a peaceful way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/3-trade-union-office-bearers-detained-over-chakka-jam/article33772264.ece
07 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||50,000 security personnel keep vigil in Delhi||The Delhi police on Saturday were fully prepared for the chakka jam in case of any untoward incident. Nearly 50,000 personnel were deployed across the city, including border points to ensure law and order. The police said that forces were deployed at important points across the national capital, including the Red Fort and ITO which had witnessed violence on January 26 during a tractor parade by protesting farmers in which over 500 police personnel and several protesters sustained injuries. The police also used drone cameras to keep a check at certain points. Multilayered barricades, barbed wires and nail-studded roads at the protest sites were part of the precautionary measures taken by the police. Social media As police have been keeping a watch on social media, the same was closely monitored on Saturday to ensure rumours were not spread. Delhi Police Public Relations Officer Chinmoy Biswal said adequate security arrangements were been put in place at the borders so that miscreants are not able to enter the national capital or congregate inside. “We are monitoring content on the social media to make sure rumours are not spread against the police. The protesters are camping at the borders of Delhi. We are in touch with the police force of other States also,” he added. The police said that measures were taken to ensure that traffic and normal life is not affected. Another senior police officer from East district said as a precautionary measure, iron nails studded on the roads have also been repositioned behind the barricades at the Ghazipur border, another protest site. The police said that there were additional deployment of pickets at all the border points and all vehicles were being checked thoroughly at the entry and exit points.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/50000-security-personnel-keep-vigil-in-delhi/article33772261.ece
07 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Three more held for R-Day violence||Three persons have been arrested in connection with the violence at the Red Fort on Republic Day during the tractor rally by farmers, the police said on Saturday. The police said that the accused have been identified as Harpreet Singh, 32, Harjeet Singh, 48, and Dharmender Singh, 55, all residents of Delhi. They were arrested by the Special Investigation Team on Wednesday. The police said that pictures of over 70 people involved in the violence have been released to be identified, and 126 persons have been arrested so far. On January 26, protesting farmers had clashed with the police during the parade leaving several security personnel and protesters injured. One protester had died during the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/three-more-held-for-r-day-violence/article33772262.ece
07 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ten metro stations shut; services resume after 5 hours||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Saturday closed gates of 10 metro stations across the network in view of the “chakka jam” called by the protesting farmers. The gates remained closed for over five hours and normal services were restored around 4 p.m., according to DMRC officials. Entry and exit gates of Mandi House, ITO and Delhi Gate stations on the Violet Line were the first to get closed around 10.30 a.m. This was followed by closure of entry and exit gates of the Vishwavidyala metro station, which is on the Yellow Line. Following advisories from the Delhi police, the DMRC subsequently closed the gates of Lal Quila, Jama Masjid, Janpath and Central Secretariat metro stations, on the Violet Line. However, interchange facilities were available during this period, according to metro officials. The last two stations where the entry and exit gates were shut by the DMRC were Khan Market and Nehru Place metro stations which are also on the Violet Line.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ten-metro-stations-shut-services-resume-after-5-hours/article33772259.ece
07 February 2021||Shahjahanpur,||Red Fort incident: Delhi police notice to gurdwara worker in U.P.||On the lookout for those responsible for the Red Fort violence during a farmers’ tractor parade on the Republic Day in the Capital, a team of the Delhi police on Saturday served a notice to a functionary of a gurdwara in Uttar Pradesh’s Pilibhit. The police team arrived at Puranpur, adjoining Shahjahanpur, and served notice to granthi Gurtej Singh, asking him to come to Delhi for recording his statement, area SHO Suresh Kumar Singh said over the phone. The team served the notice saying that a tractor from the gurdwara had gone to Delhi, the SHO said. The team later left for Shahjahanpur, he said. According to locals, the team also visited the house of a farmer, Arshpreet, in Chamrabhoji village under the Khutar area and on failing to find him, pasted a notice there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/red-fort-incident-delhi-police-notice-to-gurdwara-worker-in-up/article33772258.ece
07 February 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha revenue officials, policemen get jab||Top revenue and police officials of Odisha on Saturday flooded social media platforms with photographs of them getting jab to dispel fear. As the State began vaccinating, front-line workers, senior officials took the lead to take vaccine shots in front of their subordinates. Director General of Police Abhay was the first among the front-line workers to take the vaccine at Cuttack. At district level, Collectors and Superintendents of Police got themselves vaccinated. Photographs and videos were uploaded immediately on social media to do away with fear. “There is no point to get scared. Crores of people across the world are receiving vaccine shots,” said Sudhansu Sarangi, Commissioner of Police for Bhubaneswar and Cuttack. In Malkangiri district, where the Border Security Force personnel were deployed to fight the Left Wing Extremists, they were also administered vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/odisha-revenue-officials-policemen-get-jab/article33772281.ece
07 February 2021||Ghaziabad,||Delhi police notices to Baghpat farmers over R-Day violence||Exercising powers under Section 160/91 of CrPc, Delhi Police has served notices on farmers in Baraut town of Baghpat district to join the investigation in connection to Republic Day violence in the Capital. The notice issued by Pandav Nagar and Seemapuri police stations said, “The investigation revealed that there were reasonable grounds to ascertain facts and circumstances from you.” Serious IPC sections The FIR has been registered under serious sections such as 307 (attempt to murder), 353 (criminal assault on public servant) 147 (rioting) 395 (dacoity), 397 (robbery) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC. The farmers have been called to the police station on Sunday. Brijpal Singh, a member of Desh khap, and Thamba Chaudhary of five villages, claimed they didn’t go to Delhi on the said date. “I was at the protest site in Baraut. It seems it is an attempt to instil fear in us so that we do not protest against farm laws.” He said he would reply through his lawyer. Pandav Nagar Police Station SHO confirmed that the notices have been issued. Sub-Inspector Niraj Kumar said those who were under suspicion had been served notices. “We are thoroughly evaluating different kinds of evidence since January 26 and a list has been prepared. The charges are serious. We don’t want any innocent to be arrested. After two-three rounds of questioning, it would be clear who were actually part of the violence.” He said at least 10 people in Baghpat were served notices. “The notices are also being served in other districts of west U.P. and Punjab. We are working with the local police,” he said. In a separate development, farmer leaders from the district have also been asked by the local administration to sign personal bonds “to maintain peace”. Meanwhile, addressing a gathering at the Ghazipur protest site on Saturday, BKU spokesperson Rakesh Tikaitsaid farmers would hold protests at police stations if the notices were not withdrawn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/delhi-police-notices-to-baghpat-farmers-over-r-day-violence/article33772280.ece
07 February 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam activist alleges threat for decision to contest polls||An activist based in eastern Assam’s Bokakhat, near the Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve, has claimed that the State machinery has been intimidating him ever since he decided to contest the coming Assembly election as an independent candidate. Pranab Doley, founder of a peasant and farm worker organisation Jeepal Krishak Sramik Sangha, said eight armed men in “police uniform” came knocking around midnight on February 3, a day after he announced his candidature for the Bokakhat constituency in Golaghat district. “They parked their large vehicle outside the gate of my house and rapped on the door at 11.30 p.m. They left as people gathered upon being alerted by our dogs. The heavily armed men were in police uniform,” Mr. Doley told The Hindu on Saturday. Bokakhat Sub-Divisional Police Officer P. Rajkhowa denied any involvement of the police in the incident. “Our men did not carry out any such operation in and around his house,” he said. ‘Been victimised’ “I have been victimised along with senior activist Soneswar Narah by the system since I raised my voice against fake encounters of local villagers by the Kaziranga’s forest protection force,” he said. His supporters had been carrying out rallies to protest alleged bullying by the BJP-AGP combine. “Some 3,000 of them took to the streets today [Saturday] too,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/assam-activist-alleges-threat-for-decision-to-contest-polls/article33772277.ece
07 February 2021||JAIPUR,||Farmers block several roads in Rajasthan||Farmers protesting against the Centre’s agriculture sector laws blocked the roads and highways at several places in Rajasthan for three hours on Saturday in response to the chakka jam call. Congress leaders also joined the agitating farmers at many places. Farmers in Sriganganagar, Hanumangarh, Jhalawar, Dholpur and Jaipur blocked the highways and held demonstrations. A massive tractor rally was taken out in Kota. The Delhi-Jaipur National Highway was completely blocked. There were no reports of any untoward incident. pcc president Govind Singh Dotasra said the party workers had joined the farmers to make the blockade successful and ensured that it was peaceful.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/farmers-block-several-roads-in-rajasthan/article33772278.ece
07 February 2021||LUCKNOW,||BJP ally, SP demand compensation for damaged boats in Prayagraj||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav has accused the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh of ‘kicking the belly’ of the Nishad community, an Other Backward Class caste, after boats belonging to them were allegedly damaged by the police and administration in Prayagraj district during an anti-mining drive. Following the incident, the BJP’s ally in the State, the Nishad Party, has also demanded action against the police and administrative officials who allegedly damaged the boats and lathi-charged Nishad boatmen and labourers, men and women, near the Yamuna river on February 4. “By breaking the boats of the Nishad community in Prayagraj, the BJP government has kicked on their bellies,” Mr. Yadav tweeted. The BJP government should immediately apologise to the Nishad community and provide them new boats for livelihood, Mr. Yadav demanded. On February, 4, a joint team of police personnel and administrative and mining officials landed up at Mohabbatganj and Baswar village in the trans-Yamuna area of the district after complaints of alleged mining. Dozens of people on boats were digging sand out of the Yamuna, said Prayagraj police. Officials explained to the people there that they were engaging in illegal work and illegal mining and that legal action could be taken against them, said the police. Local TV channels and portals showed police chasing the people assembled at the spot with batons in order to evict them. Sanjay Nishad, president of the Nishad Party accused the police of lathicharge on “innocent women and children” and use of an earthmover to break some boats belonging to the community. Prayagraj police, however, said when the team reached there, people started to get “aggressive” and insisted on carrying on with the mining. A person from the crowd then pelted stones, police said. The police said it used “restraint to send back the people from the site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-ally-sp-demand-compensation-for-damaged-boats-in-prayagraj/article33772279.ece
07 February 2021||Mumbai,||‘Rasta rokos’ in Karad, Kolhapur; police detain agitating farmers||‘Rasta rokos’ were staged in Karad and Kolhapur cities in Maharashtra on Saturday as part of the ‘chakka jam’ called by farmer bodies agitating on the borders of Delhi against the new farm laws. At least 40 protesters, including senior Congress leader Prithviraj Chavan’s wife Satvasheela Chavan and farmers, were detained by the police for holding a protest on a busy road at Kolhapur Naka in Karad, a police official said. They were detained under Sections 68 and 69 of the Mumbai Police Act and released, he said. As per farmer unions, the ‘chakka jam’ includes blocking national and State highways between 12 noon and 3 p.m., and protest over the Internet ban near their agitation sites, harassment allegedly meted out by authorities, and other issues. In Kolhapur city, in western Maharashtra, Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatna leader Raju Shetti led a protest against the farm laws. Mr. Shetti and some farmers were detained for staging a ‘rasta roko’ at Dabholkar Chowk in afternoon. They were released later, a local police official said. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh demanding the rollback of the laws. The farmers have expressed apprehension that the laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations. However, the government has maintained the laws will ensure better opportunities for farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rasta-rokos-in-karad-kolhapur-police-detain-agitating-farmers/article33771993.ece
07 February 2021||Mumbai,||Capturing Mumbai Police’s grit in the face of COVID-19 crisis||The Mumbai Police’s fighting spirit against the novel coronavirus and the grit of the personnel in managing a city under lockdown has been captured in photos and is now available in the form of a calendar. Last week, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray unveiled the 6th edition of the Mumbai Police calendar, which features the uniformed personnel through the lens of photographer Pravin Talan. Mr. Talan said, “The calendar has never-before-seen action images of the Mumbai Police. In the new world order, threats are varied and ever increasing. Whether it’s the pandemic, terrorism, law and order situations, or cyber crime. Mumbai being the financial capital of the country is always at the centre of it. The 2021 calender projects the many facets of the force: whether it is personnel in PPE kits or bomb suits, ferocious Belgian Malinois sniffer dogs, Quick Response Team commandos with MP5 and AK-47s patrolling at night, or an emotional moment like a policeman fixing a little girl’s bicycle.” Mr. Talan said at the peak of the pandemic, the maximum number of personnel from Maharashtra who succumbed to the virus were from the Mumbai Police. He said despite grave dangers, the personnel stood as a solid barrier between the deadly virus and the city’s residents. “An inspirational addition is the photograph of Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh leading from the front on foot in Dharavi, a COVID-19 hotspot, when the pandemic peaked in 2020,” Mr. Talan added. Mr. Singh said last year wasn’t an easy one to sail through. “Citizens should be given credit for getting through the year; for surviving its good, bad and ugly. All of it, with the lucky three — grit, grace and gratitude. In its fight against the virus, policing found a new meaning as much as the ‘spirit of Mumbai’ did,” he said. Mr. Singh added that the Mumbai Police will always be the wall between good and evil, and be with Mumbaikars in the fight against “the unseen, unknown, and unheard-of enemy”. Mr. Talan said Vishwas Nangare Patil, Joint Commissioner of Police (Law & Order) mentored him with regard to the concept and execution of the calendar. Mr. Talan said, “The calendar is an annual feature, a tribute to the brave, compassionate, and unparalleled police force in the world.” At the launch ceremony, Mr. Thackeray honoured Mr. Talan for his endeavours amid the pandemic by bringing out books such as True Grit and Atulya Himmat and the viral video hit ‘ Rakh tu Housla ’ to support the Mumbai Police Foundation.  Citizens should be given credit for getting through the year; for surviving its good, bad and ugly Param Bir Singh Mumbai Police Commissioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/capturing-mumbai-polices-grit-in-the-face-of-covid-19-crisis/article33771999.ece
07 February 2021||Mumbai,||Govt. shouldn’t have put Lata, Sachin’s reputation at stake: Raj||Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray on Saturday said the Union government should not have exposed Sachin Tendulkar and Lata Mangeshkar to social media trolling by involving them in its campaign to counter tweets by foreign celebrities in support of the ongoing farmers’ stir. If American pop star Rihanna and others supporting the agitation against the new agriculture laws was interference in India’s internal matters, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s slogan in support of Donald Trump too was problematic, Mr. Thackeray said.  The Centre should not have asked Sachin Tendulkar and Lata Mangeshkar to tweet in support of its stand and put their reputation at stake. Now they have to face the wrath of social media trolling, he said. “They are true legends in their fields, but otherwise very simple persons. They should not have been asked to tweet with the same hashtag. They tweeted what government asked them to tweet, and now they are at the receiving end,” he said. The MNS chief also wondered how many Indians knew who Rihanna was until she tweeted about the agitating farmers’ plight. There was no need for the government to ask her to not get involved in the issue, Mr. Thackeray said. “By that logic, there was no need to hold a rally in the United States saying ‘Agali Baar, Trump Sarkar’. It was that country’s internal matter,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/govt-shouldnt-have-put-lata-sachins-reputation-at-stake-raj/article33771994.ece
07 February 2021||Mumbai,||MVA leaders yet to take call on new Speaker||Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) leaders are yet to decide on the candidate to fill the vacant Maharashtra Assembly Speaker’s post, days after the former Speaker, Nana Patole, was appointed the new State Congress chief. Sharad Pawar, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president, had told reporters in Delhi that the resignation of Mr. Patole had opened up negotiations on filling the Speaker’s post. “Now that he has resigned, the post will be open and we will decide on it in our meetings,” he had said. Mr. Patole too said the top leaders of three parties would soon arrive at a decision. The Congress now seems headed for a series of negotiations to reclaim the post. “We will be discussing the matter within the party organisation. We are aware of the NCP president’s remarks. We will discuss the matter with all and I am sure that a solution will be reached,” said a member of the All India Congress Committee (AICC) and one of the officials in-charge of Maharashtra. Contenders within the Congress include Tribal Affairs Minister K.C. Padvi, former chief minister Prithviraj Chavan, and Congress MLA Sangram Thopate. “Many names are being discussed within the party. We do not want to comment on who will be the next Speaker,” said the AICC official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/mva-leaders-yet-to-take-call-on-new-speaker/article33771996.ece
07 February 2021||Mumbai,||2,768 fresh cases, 1,739 recoveries in Maharashtra||Maharashtra reported 2,768 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the total tally of cases to 20,41,398. As many as 25 deaths pushed the death toll to 51,280. Of the new deaths, 17 were from the past 48 hours, while eight from the last week. A total of 1,739 patients were discharged, taking the number of recoveries to 19,53,926. The State now has 34,934 active cases. The recovery rate stands at 95.72%, while the case fatality rate is 2.51%. Mumbai reported 414 new cases, and four deaths. With this, the total count of cases in Mumbai went up to 3,11,433 and the death toll to 11,388. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region, which includes Mumbai city and satellite towns, reported 797 new cases, taking the tally to 6,98,982 and the toll to 19,615. Nashik division’s tally is 2,78,476 with a toll of 5,137. The case load in the Pune division is 5,04,176 and death toll is 11,656. Kolhapur division has reported 1,18,263 cases and 4,021 deaths till now, while Aurangabad division’s case tally stands at 75,468 and toll at 2,004. Latur division has reported 83,049 cases and 2,479 fatalities. Akola division has recorded 73,432 cases and 1,613 deaths. Nagpur division has recorded 2,09,402 infections and 4,670 fatalities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/2768-fresh-cases-1739-recoveries-in-maharashtra/article33772001.ece
07 February 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Jaipur student arrested for duping Ulwe resident||The NRI coastal police have arrested a 23-year-old student from Jaipur for allegedly cheating a teenager from Ulwe. The complainant, Poonam Surve, approached the police four months ago after she learnt that Rs. 3.29 lakh was missing from her bank account. Her son, Pranav, had seen an advertisement for a high-end phone posted on Instagram by Chirag Sharma, an undergraduate student from Jaipur. Mr. Sharma promised the phone for Rs. 10,000. Pranav made an online payment through an e-wallet linked to his mother’s account. Mr. Sharma claimed he hadn’t received the money and tricked Pranav into making the payment multiple times between August 2 and October 12 last year. “In October, the complainant visited her bank and learnt about the transactions,” senior police inspector Ravindra Patil said. The police then approached the cyber cell and blocked Mr. Sharma’s Instagram account and froze his bank account. Mr. Sharma was arrested and is now in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/jaipur-student-arrested-for-duping-ulwe-resident/article33772000.ece
07 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||For single-screen theatres, it’s still a ‘no show’||A deserted porch and iron shutters over the main gate is a common sight at most single-screen theatres in the city. The halls shut down on March 13, 2020, due to the COVID-19 outbreak, and most of them are still closed despite the Delhi government allowing them to reopen. Theatres were among the worst-hit in the entertainment sector during the lockdown, and occupancy restrictions still make doing business tough, especially for single-screen theatres. Many employees of small halls have had their salaries halved. Fifty-year-old Vijay Singh, who has been working as a ticket-booking clerk atGagan Cinemain Nand Nagri for the last 36 years, misses the time before the pandemic. “The hall would be full if a Salman Khan movie was playing. You would find as many people outside the hall as inside... but now, we sit idle all day, taking a stroll or basking in the sun,” he says. “I used to earn Rs. 16,000 a month before the outbreak. After the hall shut, the salaries of all employees were halved. But we are all grateful to the owner of the cinema hall for continuing to give us a pay cheque,” says Mr. Singh. Salary cut The salary cut has forced Mr. Singh and his family to reduce their expenses. “I have two sons and a daughter. My oldest son is married and lives with us. Earlier, we used to get three litres of milk every day, now we make do with 1.5 litres. Each of us used to have four cups of tea daily, now we have just two. This is the practical cost of the situation,” he says. Mr. Singh has had to prolong his daughter’s wedding celebrations as well. “We fixed the marriage of my daughter 10 days ago but we will organise the functions a year from now when our financial condition is better,” he says. Even though the cinema hall is closed, Mr. Singh makes the two-minute walk to the theatre daily. “My daughter-in-law is at home. It doesn’t look nice if I idle away at home, so, I come in [to the theatre] at 10 a.m. and leave at 7 p.m.” Ramashish Yadav, 43, who has been working as a security guard at west Delhi’sMilan Cinemafor the past nine years, is living in a makeshift accommodation under the stairs leading to the hall. His utensils and groceries are kept on the stairs and he prepares his meals on a stove near his bed. Mr. Yadav, who hails from Uttar Pradesh, used to earn Rs. 10,000 a month before the outbreak, but now gets about Rs. 7,000. He is barely able to make ends meet as he sends most of the money back home to his wife and children. “The employees are all old. They will not be able to get a job anywhere else,” he says. It is a fear Mr. Singh shares. In north Delhi’sAmba, a theatre that used to be popular with college students, cinema manager Virender Antin, 35, surfs the Internet on his phone while sitting outside the entrance of the hall. He comes 15 days a month and gets Rs. 8,500. Earlier, he used to get Rs. 18,000 a month. Life has become tough, says the father of two school-going children. “My kids have to attend online classes. I had to buy a smartphone for them and took a loan from my parents,” he says, adding that school fees is a major expense for them now. “I live in Bawana and used to take the scooter to work, spending Rs. 150 on petrol every day. Now, I take the bus. It takes me two and a half hours one way and Rs. 15 a day. I have no other option,” he says, adding that he has had to take money from family and friends to manage his household. No new release “The government has allowed reopening of theatres but no new films are releasing. The multiplexes may be able to manage even if a few people show up at every screen. We have only one screen and only two-three people turned up, but it stills costs us electricity and full staff attendance is needed,” he says. AtRitz Cinemain Kashmere Gate, peon Jaiveer, 49, says: “Poore din baithe rehte hain… man hi nahi lagta[I keep sitting idle all day… there’s no fun in that]. He is somehow managing the household with his curtailed salary. His two sons, one in Class 12 and another in first year of college, have deferred their education to find jobs and help their parents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/for-single-screen-theatres-its-still-a-no-show/article33772276.ece
07 February 2021||Palghar,||Abducted Navy sailor burnt alive||A 26-year-old Navy sailor who had been abducted in Chennai on January 30 was set on fire by kidnappers in the jungles of Palghar district, the police said on Saturday. Suraj Kumar Dubey, the victim, died while he was being shifted to hospital in Mumbai on Friday, the district police said. Dubey, who hailed from Ranchi, was posted at INS Agraninear Coimbatore. As per the preliminary information, when he was returning from vacation, three men abducted him at gunpoint outside Chennai airport and demanded a ransom of Rs. 10 lakh. He was kept captive in Chennai for three days and shifted to Vevji in Palghar district. On Friday, the abductors set him on fire, and fled leaving him for dead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/abducted-navy-sailor-burnt-alive/article33771995.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||U.S., China spar as diplomats hold talks||The United States and China on Saturday exchanged sharp messages in the highest-level interaction between the two sides following a new administration taking charge in Washington, in a suggestion that a recently confrontational relationship was likely to see more continuity than change. In a telephone call between new Secretary of State Antony Blinken and the top Chinese foreign policy official Yang Jiechi, who is a member of the Communist Party of China’s Politburo and Director of the Central Foreign Affairs Commission, the Biden administration conveyed a strong message to China on human rights and security in the Indo-Pacific, while China, for its part, blamed the U.S. for recent tensions by calling on Washington “to rectify its mistakes”. “Secretary Blinken stressed the United States will continue to stand up for human rights and democratic values, including in Xinjiang, Tibet, and Hong Kong, and pressed China to join the international community in condemning the military coup in Burma,” State Department spokesperson Ned Price said. “The Secretary reaffirmed that the United States will work together with its allies and partners in defence of our shared values and interests to hold the PRC accountable for its efforts to threaten stability in the Indo-Pacific, including across the Taiwan Strait, and its undermining of the rules-based international system.” Mr. Blinken and India’s External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar spoke last week, and the Secretary of State, in their January 29 call, had “underscored India’s role as a pre-eminent U.S. partner in the Indo-Pacific and the importance of working together to expand regional cooperation, including through the Quad”. Constructive role The Chinese readout of Saturday’s call said Mr. Yang had “urged the U.S. side to play a constructive role in promoting peace and stability in the Asia-Pacific region”. China does not use the term Indo-Pacific. On the military coup in Myanmar, he underlined the position of Beijing, which has been opposed to the imposition of sanctions and has so far refrained from criticising the military leadership, that “the international community should create an enabling external environment for the proper settlement of the Myanmar issue”. Mr. Yang said China-U.S. relations “stand at a key moment” and “the two sides should respect each other’s core interests and choices of political system and development path, and manage their domestic affairs well,” the official Xinhua news agency said. He “urged the U.S. to rectify its mistakes made over a period of time and work with China to uphold the spirit of no conflict, no confrontation, mutual respect and win-win cooperation, focus on cooperation and manage differences, so as to push forward the healthy and stable development of bilateral relations”. “China will unswervingly follow its path of socialism with Chinese characteristics and no force could stop the realisation of the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation,” Mr. Yang said, adding that “the Taiwan question, the most important and sensitive core issue in China-U.S. relations, bears on China’s sovereignty and territorial integrity.” He called on the U.S. to “strictly abide by the one-China principle” and said, “Hong Kong, Xinjiang and Tibet-related affairs are all China's internal affairs and allow no interference by any external forces.” Sovereignty and security “Any attempt to slander and smear China will not succeed, and China will continue to firmly safeguard its sovereignty, security and development interests,” he said, adding that “all countries in the world should safeguard the international system with the United Nations at its core, the international order based on international law, and the basic norms of international relations in line with the purposes and principles of the UN Charter” which was "the consensus of the international community, not the so-called rules-based international order championed by a few countries.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-china-spar-as-diplomats-hold-talks/article33771902.ece
07 February 2021||Riyadh,||Blinken makes call to Saudi Foreign Minister||U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken discussed “common challenges” faced by Washington and Riyadh in his first phone call with Saudi Foreign Minister Faisal bin Farhan, state media said on Saturday. Mr. Bin Farhan congratulated Mr. Blinken on his appointment and said Riyadh looked forward to working with Washington, said the official Saudi Press Agency. The kingdom was keen to cooperate with President Joe Biden’s administration to uphold “security and stability” in the region, it said. Mr. Blinken and Mr. bin Farhan also discussed the “historical and strategic relations” between the two countries, the agency added. The reported phone call comes after Mr. Biden announced on Thursday he was ending U.S. support for Saudi Arabia’s war in Yemen, where it has been involved since 2015 to shore up the government against the Iran-backed Houthi rebels. Mr. Biden also said his administration would end all support, including arms sales for Saudi Arabia in the war that has brought impoverished Yemen to its knees. He also appointed veteran diplomat Timothy Lenderking, who has wide knowledge of the region, as U.S. special envoy for Yemen. Saudi Arabia reacted to Mr. Biden’s decisions by welcoming his “commitment to cooperate with the kingdom to defend its sovereignty and counter threats against it,” the agency said. State department spokesman Ned Price has noted that Mr. Biden made clear the U.S. still supported Saudi Arabia outside the Yemen war. In ending support for the Saudi war in Yemen, Mr. Biden was fulfilling a campaign promise to activists who have been horrified by the suffering.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/blinken-makes-call-to-saudi-counterpart/article33771894.ece
07 February 2021||Beijing,||China approves second domestic vaccine||China’s drug authorities have given “conditional” approval for a second COVID-19 vaccine, Sinovac’s CoronaVac jab, the pharmaceutical company said on Saturday. The vaccine has already been rolled out to key groups at higher risk of exposure to coronavirus but Saturday’s approval allows for its use on the general public. A conditional approval helps speed-up emergency supply of drugs to market in cases where clinical trials are yet to meet normal standards but indicate therapies will work. The approval comes after multiple domestic and overseas trials of the vaccine in countries including Brazil and Turkey, although “efficacy and safety results need to be further confirmed”, Sinovac said in a statement. Fellow Chinese pharmaceutical company Sinopharm received a similar conditional green light in December to put its vaccine on the market. Sinovac said trials in Brazil had shown around 50% efficacy in preventing infection and 80% efficacy in preventing cases requiring medical intervention. Sinopharm said in December that its vaccine had a 79.34% efficacy rate, lower than rival jabs developed in the West by Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna — with 95 and 94% rates, respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-approves-second-domestic-vaccine/article33771897.ece
07 February 2021||COLOMBO,||Sri Lanka settles $400 mn currency swap with India||The  Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) settled a $400 million currency swap facility from the Reserve Bank (RBI) of India last week, meeting the terms that the two countries had agreed upon. The update sparked speculation in local media that India may have “abruptly terminated” the agreement, following Colombo’s decision to pull out of a 2019 agreement to develop a Colombo Port terminal jointly with India and Japan. However, both countries clarified that the developments were not linked. “The CBSL settled its swap facility with [the] Reserve Bank of India as scheduled. There was no special request from India for a premature settlement as erroneously reported by certain media outlets. Discussions on future collaboration continue,” the CBSL said in a tweet on Friday. “The two countries had agreed on the date earlier, this scheduled repayment has nothing to do with the ECT decision,” Sri Lanka’s State Minister of Money and Capital Market and State Enterprise Reforms Ajith Nivard Cabraal told The Hindu . Pandemic impact The CBSL obtained the swap facility on July 31, 2020, for an initial period of three months, to cope with the severe economic impact of the pandemic. Subsequently, the RBI provided a three-month rollover at CBSL’s request, until February 1, 2021. “Further extension would require Sri Lanka having a successfully negotiated staff level agreement for an IMF programme, which Sri Lanka does not have at present,” a spokesman of the Indian High Commission said. “It is reiterated that India abides by all of its international and bilateral commitments in letter and spirit,” he added, days after India urged the Sri Lankan leadership to adhere to Colombo’s commitments on the ECT. Foreign reserves COVID-19 struck Sri Lanka in March 2020, putting its foreign reserves under strain since, as tourism, worker remittances and exports were badly hit. Sri Lanka’s looming foreign debt obligations — $6.8 billion this year — and fall in gross official reserves to $5.6 billion as of December 31, 2020, according to Central Bank Data, foretell another challenging year. However, the Rajapaksa administration has said it will not seek an IMF bailout. Colombo has instead sought further loans from China, among others, and additional currency swap facilities from both India and China. Neither China nor India has responded to Colombo’s debt freeze request. Sri Lanka owes over $5 billion to China and $960 million to India in debt repayment. Secretary to the Treasury S.R. Attygalle said Sri Lanka expects the $1.5 billion swap facility from China to come through soon. “The [bilateral] negotiations are nearly over, only the final paperwork is pending. We should be able to complete that by the end of this month,” he told The Hindu on Saturday. The currency swap is only one of at least three requests Colombo has made to Beijing since the pandemic. Following approval of a $500 million loan from China in March 2020, the Sri Lankan government has sought an additional $700 million loan, in addition to applying for another ‘COVID-19 Emergency and Crisis Response Facility’, to the tune of $180 million, from the Beijing-backed Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB). “The negotiations are proceeding well,” a Chinese Embassy spokesman told The Hindu . Meanwhile, amid questions over whether New Delhi would clear Colombo’s $1 billion swap line request, in the wake of the ECT deal falling through, an Indian official source said, “the request is under consideration”. State Minister Cabraal said: “Negotiations are going on, but even if India decides not to offer it, we will understand. The Indian Economy is also under grave pressure due to the pandemic, you see,” he told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-settles-400-mn-currency-swap-with-india/article33771896.ece
07 February 2021||Dubai,||U.S. moves to end terror designation of Houthis||The U.S. has moved to delist Yemen’s Houthi rebels as a terrorist organisation, removing a block that humanitarian groups said jeopardised crucial aid as the country’s warring sides cautiously welcomed a push for peace by President Joe Biden. The grinding six-year war in Yemen has killed tens of thousands and displaced millions, triggering what the UN calls the world’s worst humanitarian disaster. Nearly 80% of Yemen’s population need some form of aid for survival, says UN. A State Department spokesperson said on Friday they had “formally notified Congress” of Secretary of State Antony Blinken’s intent to revoke the terrorist designations. The move comes a day after Mr. Biden announced an end to U.S. support for the Saudi-led offensive operations in Yemen. “This decision has nothing to do with our view of the Houthis and their reprehensible conduct, including attacks against civilians and the kidnapping of American citizens,” the spokesperson said. Humanitarian view “Our action is due entirely to the humanitarian consequences of this last-minute designation from the prior administration,” they said, adding the U.S. remained committed to helping Saudi Arabia defend its territory against attacks by the rebels. Mr. Blinken’s predecessor Mike Pompeo announced the designation days before leaving office last month, pointing to the Houthis’ links to Iran and a deadly attack on the airport in Yemen’s second city of Aden in December.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-moves-to-end-terror-designation-of-houthis/article33771903.ece
07 February 2021||Washington,||Trump should not get intel briefings: Biden||U.S. President Joe Biden said on Friday that his predecessor Donald Trump, who is awaiting a Senate impeachment trial on charges of inciting an attack on the US Capitol, should not receive classified intelligence briefings, as is customary for former presidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-should-not-get-intel-briefings-biden/article33771893.ece
07 February 2021||MILAN,||EU--Italy-Politics||Italian Premier-designate Mario Draghi on Saturday secured preliminary support from two key parties — the populist 5-Star Movement and the right-wing League — for forming a new government that will decide how to spend more than €200 billion ($240 billion) in EU funds to help relaunch Italy’s pandemic-ravaged economy.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/eu-italy-politics/article33771899.ece
07 February 2021||MUMBAI/DELHI,||Buffeted by Centre and State, GM threatens legal action||Squeezed between the Centre’s decision to clamp down on the proposed sale of its car manufacturing and export plant to a Chinese company, and the Maharashtra State government’s restrictions on shutting down the plant, American auto major General Motors has threatened to pursue legal options against the government. More than a year since GM agreed to sell its factory in Talegaon to China’s Great Wall Motors (GWM) and six months after it applied for special permission under the government’s new ‘Chinese-FDI rules’, the company is yet to receive clearances. Meanwhile, the Maharashtra government has rejected the company’s application for permanent closure of the plant which ceased production from December 24, 2020, and has instructed the company to keep it running and pay the staff as usual. In 2017 the plant had 2,500 employees. Rock and a hard place “Effectively, the State’s decision amounts to a requirement that GM either produce vehicles for which there are no customer orders, or pay workers indefinitely for doing no work,” George Svigos, General Motors’ Director of Communications (International Markets) told The Hindu , in a written response from the company’s headquarters in Detroit. “We reject both suggestions. We will move for the reversal of the order as soon as possible and firmly believe the law is on our side,” he added. Hardening its position in the face of the double-clinch from the governments in New Delhi and Mumbai, GM says it sees absolutely no “scenario in which it would reinvest in the site”. “GM’s plan is unchanged. GM production has ceased at the Talegaon site and there will be no future GM production at the site,” Mr. Svigos wrote, adding that it is completing “all wind-down work” after which the site will be dormant. He said GM’s current offered package was well in excess of the legal minimum of 15 days per year of service, and asserted that the union, which moved the court, was refusing to negotiate a settlement. Clouds from LAC The plans for General Motors to exit from India ran into trouble last year after tensions at the Line of Actual Control between India and China rose over the Chinese PLA’s aggressive incursions into Ladakh, which led to new restrictions on “neighbourhood investment”. GM applied for permission to sell the Talegaon plant to GWM’s wholly owned subsidiary, Billion Sunny Development of Hong Kong, filing an application on July 9, which was forwarded to the ministries of external affairs and home affairs, as also the Reserve Bank of India, for clearances on July 13. While none of the departments concerned has commented on the issue, sources confirmed to The Hindu that GM has not received any clearances thus far, nor has the government given clearance to any of the companies that have applied in the Chinese-FDI category. 2017 sale to MG Motor In 2017, GM was successfully able to sell its Halol plant in Gujarat to another Chinese-owned company, MG Motor, the Indian subsidiary of SAIC Motor Corporation of China. Experts say the changed environment due to India-China tensions is affecting many third parties as well as India’s attractiveness to investors. “The GM-GWM saga is a stalemate that benefits no one and is adversely impacting India’s stature as an FDI destination,” said Santosh Pai, a partner with Link Legal, which advises companies on investments in India. “Ease of business includes ease of exiting a market.” According to sources aware of the negotiations, GWM has not yet given up hope of being allowed to buy the GM plant in Talegaon, but plans are on the back-burner for now. Also hanging in the balance the Chinese company’s MoU with the Maharashtra government for investments of up to Rs. 3,770 crore for “Make in India” projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/buffeted-by-centre-and-state-gm-threatens-legal-action/article33771876.ece
07 February 2021||COIMBATORE,||Mills association seeks rollback of duty on cotton imports||The Southern India Mills’ Association has sought a rollback of the 10% customs duty on cotton imports announced in the Union Budget, as it would escalate the cost of garments and result in higher import of garments, especially from countries such as Bangladesh and Sri Lanka. Ashwin Chandran, chairman of Southern India Mills’ Association, said that India imports mainly extra-long staple (ELS) cotton, organic cotton, contamination-free cotton and sustainable cotton. The production of these varieties is either nil or meagre in India. Indian mills consume about 15 lakh bales of ELS cotton annually as against the domestic production of about five lakh bales, Mr. Chandran said. India is a major importer of Pima and Giza cotton varieties. The country imports about 33% of total Pima exports from the U.S. and 45% of Giza cotton from Egypt. Several garment exporters in the MSME segment do not have capacities to make yarn from such premium cotton varieties and buy yarn from the domestic mills. Such exporters will not get Advance Authorisation Scheme benefits that the integrated mills that import cotton can avail of. Thus, Indian products made of imported cotton will become expensive in the international market, which will give competitors an edge. In the case of the domestic market, the cost of garments made of imported cotton will increase, leading to higher import of garments, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mills-association-seeks-rollback-of-duty-on-cotton-imports/article33771878.ece
07 February 2021||New Delhi,||PNB may raise Rs. 3,200 crore via share sale this quarter||Punjab National Bank on Saturday said it planned to raise Rs. 3,200 crore from sale of shares during the current quarter to enhance its capital base. The bank had raised Rs. 3,788.04 crore via qualified institutional placement (QIP) in December following which the Centre’s holding in the bank came down to 76.9% from 85.6%. The bank had taken approval for raising Rs. 14,000 crore through a mix of equity and debt. As per the plan, the bank decided to raise Rs. 3,000 crore from AT-1 bonds, Rs. 4,000 crore from Tier II bonds and Rs. 7,000 crore from QIP. “We have already taken Rs. 4,000 crore from Tier-II and Rs. 3,788 crore we have taken through QIP as at the end of December. In January, we have also taken AT-1 of another Rs. 500 crore. So, I am very confident that remaining Rs. 2,500 crore under Additional Tier-1 bonds will be garnered from the market before March 31,” PNB MD S.S. Mallikarjuna Rao said. Talking to the media after announcing the results, he said, “We are also actively looking at going for the QIP again with respect to the remaining Rs. 3,200 crore to be acquired from the market at an appropriate time ... it could be in this fiscal also.”   PNB on Friday reported a standalone net profit of Rs. 506.03 crore for the December quarter on the back of a reduction in bad assets. It had posted a net loss of Rs. 492.28 crore a year earlier. Total income rose to Rs. 23,298.53 crore from Rs. 15,967.49 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/pnb-may-raise-rs-3200-crore-via-share-sale-this-quarter/article33771882.ece
07 February 2021||MUMBAI,||Risk of sharp deterioration in private banks’ asset quality has receded: Moody’s||The Indian government’s policy measures to support bank borrowers have softened growth in non-performing loans (NPLs), thus averting the risk of a sharp deterioration in asset quality, Moody’s Investors Service said on Friday. It added that the risk of a sharp deterioration in private banks’ asset quality had also receded. “Ample domestic liquidity, loose monetary policy, moratoriums on loan repayments and government-guaranteed loans to small businesses have supported Indian banks’ asset quality,” said Alka Anbarasu, a Moody’s vice president and senior credit officer. “As a result, restructured loans have not increased as much as we expected at the onset of the pandemic.” Moody’s said the asset performance at India’s largest private sector banks — HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank, Axis Bank, IndusInd Bank and IDBI Bank — was better than its expectations in the nine months ended December. The NPL ratios of IndusInd and HDFC Bank rose 48 basis points (bps) and 12 bps to 2.9% and 1.4% at the end of December, respectively, from March. Those of Axis Bank and ICICI Bank declined 31 bps and 11 bps, respectively, to 4.6% and 5.4%. IDBI’s NPL ratio also fell, although it remained well above 20%, the highest among the six banks. The banks’ NPL ratios include loans that have become delinquent since the end of August 2020 but are not classified as NPLs because of a pending case in the Supreme Court. ‘Yes Bank more at risk’ On the other hand, Yes Bank, which was rescued in 2020, is faced with greater asset risks than peers, although its capitalisation, liquidity and funding have improved, Moody’s said. Overall, a recovery in India’s economy in 2021 would support borrowers’ debt-servicing capability after the support measures expire. “As a result, a sharp deterioration in asset quality is now less likely than Moody’s previously anticipated,” the credit rating agency added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/risk-of-sharp-deterioration-in-private-banks-asset-quality-has-receded-moodys/article33771874.ece
07 February 2021||Mumbai,||‘Millennials keen on holidaying abroad’||With the vaccination drive against COVID-19 gathering steam across the world and restrictions on movements easing gradually, many millennials are keen on taking an international holiday this summer, according to a survey. Things are looking up for 2021, as 52% millennials are eager to take an international holiday this summer as COVID-19 vaccines ushered in hope that the end to the pandemic is on the horizon, a survey by BOTT (Business of Travel Trade) Travel Sentiment Tracker showed. The survey was done online with more than 6,000 millennial travellers across the country during January 2021. According to the survey, 75% millennials would prefer to go to foreign destinations with fewer COVID-19 cases and 71% would opt for destinations with defined protocols for the pandemic to avoid unnecessary hassles. The industry finds survey findings encouraging for the travel industry. The findings, they believe, will generate more confidence in an industry, which is currently disappointed by being ignored in the Budget. “However, inbound and outbound are two verticals of travel that go hand in hand. We hope the government will look into opening up borders in India soon, and so will other countries,” Travel Agents Association of India president and Federation of Associations in Indian Tourism and Hospitality’s vice chairperson Jyoti Mayal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/millennials-keen-on-holidaying-abroad/article33771884.ece
07 February 2021||New Delhi,||India’s Internet start-ups on cusp of listing: report||India’s Internet start-ups that operate businesses ranging from food delivery to e-commerce to online insurance, are now on the cusp of listing, a report has said. “The growing scale and maturity of India’s Internet economy is starting to create more value and investment opportunities. More than $60 billion has been invested in India’s Internet start-ups in the past five years, with around $12 billion in 2020 alone,” HSBC Global Research said in the report. The report put the total sector value (ex-fintech) to reach $180 billion by 2025. India has 42 unicorns (firms with $1-billion valuation) and more than 45 soonicorns (potential to become unicorns), HSBC said. E-commerce is the largest opportunity, worth an estimated $67 billion by 2025, it said adding this was worth $31 billion 2019 after expanding at an impressive five-year CAGR of 39%. Ed-tech is the second-largest opportunity with a market of $48 billion by 2025. Although still quite fragmented, it is one of the most profitable segments, HSBC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indias-internet-start-ups-on-cusp-of-listing-report/article33771886.ece
07 February 2021||Chennai,||Mental health tech platform raises $5.2 mn||Mental health platform InnerHour has raised $5.2 million from Lightbox and others. In a statement, the start-up said this was largest quantum raised in the Indian mental health ecosystem till date. Lightbox led the round with $4.5 million. InnerHour plans to use the funds to scale its technology-led mental health platform, “as it is set to serve a section of the 200 million Indians... suffering from mental health conditions”. India accounts for a third of the global burden of depression, addictions and suicides, but there is a 95% treatment gap due to lack of access and awareness, affordability and variable quality of providers, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mental-health-tech-platform-raises-52-mn/article33771879.ece
07 February 2021||New Delhi,||JK Cement Q3 net rises 75% to Rs. 217.3 crore||JK Cement Ltd. on Saturday reported an increase of 74.8% in its consolidated net profit to Rs. 217.28 crore for the third quarter ended December 2020. The company had posted a profit of Rs. 124.29 crore in the October-December period a year earlier, JK Cement said in a regulatory filing. Revenue from operations was up 24.52% at Rs. 1,832.71 crore during the quarter under review as against Rs. 1,471.78 crore in the year-earlier period. The company’s total expenses were at Rs. 1,526.25 crore, up 15.73%, as against Rs. 1,318.80 crore of Q3 FY 2019-20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/jk-cement-q3-net-rises-75-to-rs-2173-crore/article33771880.ece
07 February 2021||New Delhi,||Punjab & Sind Bank net loss widens||Punjab & Sind Bank on Saturday said its net loss in the December quarter spiralled to Rs. 2,375.53 crore on higher provisions for bad loans. The lender had posted a net loss of Rs. 255.49 crore in the same period a year earlier. In September quarter also, the bank had a loss of Rs. 401.27 crore. Total income also fell to Rs. 1,982.52 crore from Rs. 2,077.01 crore in the same period of 2019-20, the bank said in a filing. Net income fell 9.1% to Rs. 1,763.10 crore and income on investments was down 12.1% to Rs. 455.42 crore. Gross NPAs remained high at 13.1% of the gross advances as of December 31, 2020, compared with 13.6% in the year earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/punjab-sind-bank-net-loss-widens/article33771883.ece
07 February 2021||Chennai,||Ruthless Root, brutal Stokes bat India into the ground||A milestone looming, he bravely skipped down the track displaying compelling lightness of feet, got to the pitch of the flighted ball from R. Ashwin, and eased it over long-on to take him past 200. Then, Joe Root laughed as he celebrated the occasion. The trick is as much in the mind as technique. When you get both aspects right, the effect can be devastating. You watch Root bat and it’s hard to believe he is captaining the side. He’s smiling, enjoying himself in the middle, making light the burden of expectations from a skipper. And with his mind and body in harmony, Root is in a rarefied ‘Zone’. Flowing strokes In this territory, the belief is big, the ball appears bigger, the strokes flow in all directions, the gaps are opened up and the hefty scores are conjured with consummate ease. The only man to notch up a double hundred in his 100th Test, and the first visiting batsman to make a double hundred in India since 2010, the history-making Root continued to leave landmarks behind. And England, riding on Root’s 218 and a brutal 82 from the powerful Ben Stokes — the two added 124 — was on a commanding 555 for eight at close on day two at Chepauk. The pitch showed signs of wear and tear, where the ball often kicked up from the footmarks. Root’s monumental effort — he was finally prised out by one that straightened from left-arm spinner Shahbaz Nadeem — underlined his powers of concentration. Hard man to dislodge He is a hard man to dislodge. And the right-left combination of Root and Stokes kept India wicket-less before lunch. Picking length early, Root continued to impress. A scorching square cut of Jasprit Bumrah caught the attention. He drove spinners in front of the wicket with authority. The left-handed Stokes’ duel with Ashwin was engaging. The big Englishman thrust his front leg forward and blasted the off-spinner straight for a six. Ashwin got one to dip, Stokes miscued but the bowler could not hang on to a tough return catch. Forceful on the on-side, Stokes remarkably bludgeoned Nadeem with slog-sweeps even as the bowler got the ball to jump from the footmarks. Stokes finally perished swinging at Nadeem. There were useful contributions from Ollie Pope, Jos Buttler and Dom Bess as England’s tally swelled. And the consistent Ishant inched within a wicket of the 300-mark castling Buttler and Jofra Archer with two sharp incoming deliveries. Interestingly, India lost all three reviews and when offie Washington Sundar got one to drift and turn, found the edge of Buttler’s bat but saw his appeal being negated — replays confirmed the nick — India had run out of them. Washington, bowling with bite as the day progressed, was unlucky not to consume Bess, floored by Rohit Sharma at mid-wicket. It was that sort of a day for India. A day of missed opportunities.  I think there has been spin, bounce and reverse [swing]. We just played really well, you have to give us credit. We gave ourselves a great opportunity to get in and score runs on a pitch that is helping the bowlers Stokes    Root’s distinction  Root’s 218 is the highest by a visiting batsman at Chepauk, surpassing Dean Jones’ 210 in the 1986 Tied Test||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ruthless-root-brutal-stokes-bat-india-into-the-ground/article33772014.ece
07 February 2021||Pune:,||Catalina well tuned to repeat in main event||Trainer M. Srinivas Reddy’s Catalina, who won well in her last start at Hyderabad, is well tuned and may repeat in the Gool S. Poonawalla Million (Gr. 3), the main attraction of Sunday’s (February 7) Mumbai races held at Pune. Rails will be announced one hour before the first race.  BOURBON KING PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46 — 1.00 p.m.: 1. Exotique (7) Chouhan 59, 2. Myrcella (5) Zeeshan 55.5, 3. Beejay (4) C.S. Jodha 55, 4. Tomorrows Dreams (10) Sandesh 55, 5. Iron Throne (3) T.S. Jodha 54.5, 6. Vincenzo (9) Parmar 54.5, 7. Blazing Bay (8) Bhawani 54, 8. Its A Deal (6) Merchant 54, 9. Carlos (1) S. Amit 53.5 and 10. Gold Magic (2) Neeraj 52.  1. EXOTIQUE, 2. TOMORROWS DREAMS, 3. IRON THRONE   GENERAL OBAIDULLAH KHAN TROPHY (2,400m) Cl. II, rated 60 to 86 — 1.30: 1. In It To Win It (1) M.S. Deora 59, 2. Square Moon (4) S. Amit 58.5, 3. Golden Era (2) Neeraj 58 and 4. Gloriosus (3) Sandesh 54.  1. IN IT TO WIN IT   PERCEIVED VALUE PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), Cl. V, 5-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30 — 2.00: 1. Sachertorte (14) Gagandeep 62, 2. Gold Member (7) Dashrath 61, 3. Grand Sinatra (4) Nazil 61, 4. Lagertha (Late Mikayla’s Pride) (9) J. Chinoy 61, 5. Shapath (2) Zervan 61, 6. Mythical Power (11) Ayyar 59.5, 7. Va Bene (5) Neeraj 58, 8. Hollywood Park (3) N.B. Kuldeep 57, 9. Dowsabel (1) Aniket 56.5, 10. Highland Woods (13) T.S. Jodha 56.5, 11. On Va Danser (8) Kaviraj 56.5, 12. Allegria (10) Bhawani 56, 13. Gandalf (12) Peter 53.5 and 14. War Of Attrition (6) Merchant 51.  1. LAGERTHA, 2. GRAND SINATRA, 3. SACHERTORTE   BOURBON KING PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46 — 2.30: 1. My Precious (9) A. Prakash 61, 2. Classicus (6) Peter 59.5, 3. Shamshir Sword (4) Chouhan 59.5, 4. Rays Of Sun (11) Parmar 59, 5. Ron (5) S. Amit 58.5, 6. Steppenwolf (3) S.J. Sunil 58.5, 7. Winter (1) T.S. Jodha 57, 8. Marvin (2) C.S. Jodha 55, 9. Miss Scarlett (7) Sandesh 54.5, 10. Gilt Edge (10) Nazil 54 and 11. Hayden (8) N.B. Kuldeep 54.  1. WINTER, 2. SHAMSHIR SWORD, 3. MARVIN   COLOMBIANA PLATE (1, 200m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66 — 3.00: 1. Castilian (3) Zervan 60.5, 2. Ebony (5) Neeraj 57, 3. Leopard Rock (2) Chouhan 57, 4. Epiphany (6) T.S. Jodha 54.5, 5. Agrami (7) Aniket 54, 6. Wild Fire (1) Kaviraj 53.5 and 7. Red Carnation (4) Ayyar 52.5.  1. LEOPARD ROCK, 2. EPIPHANY, 3. CASTILIAN   PLEASURE HUNT PLATE (1,400m) (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only – 3.30: 1. Alpha Gene (10) Kaviraj 56, 2. Arc De Triomphe (8) Zervan 56, 3. Caprifla (6) C.S. Jodha 56, 4. Heidmar (11) Dashrath 56, 5. Hellbent (7) Parmar 56, 6. Nishk (9) Sandesh 56, 7. Sonic Dash (1) Vishal Bunde 56, 8. Supreme Runner (2) S. Kamble 56, 9. The President (5) T.S. Jodha 56, 10. Beastia (3) Bhawani 54.5, 11. Easy Rider (4) Neeraj 54.5 and 12. Miracle (12) Chouhan 54.5.  1. NISHK, 2. SUPREME RUNNER, 3. THE PRESIDENT   GOOL S. POONAWALLA MILLION (Gr. 3) (1,200m) (Terms), 3-y-o only — 4.00: 1. Catalina (7) Zervan 57, 2. Fast Rain (4) T.S. Jodha 55.5, 3. Flying Scotsman (6) C.S. Joddha 55.5, 4. Multiencrypted (8) Parmar 55.5, 5. Raffaello (5) Neeraj 55.5, 6. Souza (2) Chouhan 55.5, 7. Abishola (1) Sandesh 54 and 8. Amare (3) Bhawani 54.  1. CATALINA, 2. MULTIENCRYPTED, 3. RAFFAELLO   WARSAW PACT PLATE (1,200m), Cl. IV, 4-y-o only, rated 20 to 46 — 4.30: 1. Intense Approach (–), 2. El Capitan (2) Kaviraj 59, 3. Pense’e (6) Neeraj 58.5, 4. Costa Rica (11) Chouhan 56, 5. Endeavour (13) Sandesh 55, 6. Desert Fire (9) J. Chinoy 54.5, 7. Feel Lucky (12) Nazil 54.5, 8. Killer Clown (7) Zeeshan 54, 9. Super Girl (5) Parmar 53.5, 10. Fifty Grand (3) N.B. Kuldeep 52.5, 11. Gold Charm (1) Nirmal 52.5, 12. Kardashian (10) Peter 52.5, 13. Raechelles Pride (4) Zervan 52.5 and 14. Who Dares Wins (8) M.S. Deora 49.5.  1. EL CAPITAN, 2. PENSE’E, 3. ENDEAVOUR   PERCEIVED VALUE PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), Cl. V, 5-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30 — 5.00: 1. Tristar (7) Nazil 59, 2. Arabian Storm (6) Dashrath 58.5, 3. Gold Crest (11) Peter 58.5, 4. Saltbae (14) S. Kamble 57.5, 5. Divija (3) C.S. Jodha 56, 6. Thea’s Pet (5) Kaviraj 55.5, 7. Forever Free (12) M.S. Deora 55, 8. Honourable Eyes (9) Ayyar 55, 9. Primum Non Nocere (2) Neeraj 54, 10. Whispering Queen (10) Vishal Bunde 54, 11. Arabian Muktar (4) Merchant 53.5, 12. Principessa (8) Aniket 51, 13. Highland Wind (13) Zeeshan 49.5 and 14. Red Fire (1) P. Vinod 49.5.  1. ARABIAN STORM, 2. DIVIJA, 3. GOLD CREST  Day’s Best: LEOPARD ROCK  Jackpot: (i) 3, 4, 5, 6 & 7; (ii) 5, 6, 7, 8 & 9. Treble: (i) 2, 3 & 4; (ii) 6, 7 & 8; (iii) 7, 8 & 9. Super Jackpot: 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 & 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/catalina-well-tuned-to-repeat-in-main-event/article33772802.ece
07 February 2021||Birmingham,||Villa beats sloppy Arsenal||An early goal from Ollie Watkins helped Aston Villa beat a sloppy Arsenal 1-0 on Saturday to move up to eighth in the Premier League, consigning the visitors to a second loss in as many games.   The results: Premier League: Aston Villa 1 (Watkins 2) bt Arsenal 0; Burnley 1 (Gudmundsson 53) drew with Brighton 1 (Dunk 36); Newcastle 3 (Willock 16, Almiron 26, 45+4) bt Southampton 2 (Minamino 30, Ward-Prowse 48).   LaLiga: Levante 2 (Morales 30, 67) drew with Granada 2 (Kenedy 43, Soldado 90+2); Huesca 1 (Galan 48) lost to Real Madrid 2 (Varane 55, 84).   Bundesliga: Bayer Leverkusen 5 (Demirbay 18, 31, Bailey 56, Wirtz 68, Gray 84) bt Stuttgart 2 (Kalajdzic 50, 77); Freiburg 2 (Jeong 49, Schmid 52) bt Borussia Dortmund 1 (Moukoko 76); Schalke 0 lost to RB Leipzig 3 (Mukiele 45+2, Sabitzer 73, Orban 87); Mainz 1 (Niakhate 22-pen) bt Union Berlin 0; Augsburg 0 lost to Wolfsburg 2 (Weghorst 38, Baku 59).   Serie A: Atalanta 3 (Ilicic 14, Gosens 19, Muriel 21) drew with Torino 3 (Belotti 42, Bremer 45+1, Bonazzoli 84); Sassuolo 1 (Caputo 25) lost to Spezia 2 (Erlic 39, Oyasi 78).   Friday: LaLiga: Alaves 1 (Joselu 66) bt Real Valladolid 0.   Bundesliga: Hertha Berlin 0 lost to Bayern Munich 1 (Coman 21).   Serie A: Fiorentina 0 lost to Inter Milan 2 (Barella 31, Persic 52).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/villa-beats-sloppy-arsenal/article33772025.ece
07 February 2021||Melbourne,||Russia books a meeting with Italy||Daniil Medvedev battled back from a set down to topple Alexander Zverev and power Russia into the ATP Cup final here on Saturday. Russia will meet the Matteo Berrettini-led Italy. The World No. 4 had to dig deep against the German World No. 7, finally winning 3-6, 6-3, 7-5 on his fourth match-point. He sealed the tie after Andrey Rublev, who won five ATP titles last year as he raced up the rankings, also pulled off a come-from-behind win, grinding down Jan-Lennard Struff 3-6, 6-1, 6-2. Italy beat last year's finalists Spain, which again missed the injured Rafael Nadal.  The results:   Semifinals: Russia bt Germany 2-1 [Andrey Rublev bt Jan-Lennard Struff 3-6, 6-1, 6-2; Daniil Medvedev bt Alexander Zverev 3-6, 6-3, 7-5; Evgeny Donskoy & Aslan Karatsev lost to Struff & Kevin Krawietz 6-3, 7-6(2)].   Italy bt Spain 3-0 [Fabio Fognini bt Pablo Carreno Busta 6-1, 1-6, 6-4; Matteo Berrettini bt Roberto Bautista Agut 6-3, 7-5; Simone Bolelli & Andrea Vavassori w/o Busta & Marcel Granollers].||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/russia-books-a-meeting-with-italy/article33772003.ece
07 February 2021||Coimbatore,||Grand Prix racing returns to India||For the first time since its inception in 2003, the Kari Motor Speedway here is playing host to a Grand Prix racing meet, the KMS50. It did take many by surprise but not its organisers Spitfire and Meco Motorsports. “We have been planning it for some time but the motivation factor was the renovation of the track. We wanted to run an event that recaptures the passion of the good old days,” said B. Vijayakumar, the track owner. “The last GP in India for normal cars was probably in the late eighties at Sholavaram,” said J. Balamurugan, Director, Spitfire and Chairman of the meet. “I am quite excited to participate in the 50-lap race. It brings me sweet memories of Sholavaram,” said D. Vidyaprakash, veteran racing star. Former national champion Arjun Narendran is as eager. “The crucial part will be the driver change and fuelling. It could be a big learning experience for all of us,” he said.  The event in itself is phenomenal given the many classes for bikes, Formula and Saloon cars. “It is a very inclusive event and we have more than 100 entries, both veterans and youngsters,” said Balamurugan. Interestingly, the event attracted quite a few women, who not only raced but also played the role of the officials. The sprint events took off on Saturday but the 50-lapper showdowns for the Formula and Saloon cars are slated for Sunday. “We want to make it an annual affair as it is racing in its purest form. The teams have the flexibility to plan their race strategies as long as they conform to the regulations,” said Balamurugan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/grand-prix-racing-returns-to-india/article33772694.ece
07 February 2021||Chennai,||TNCA staff at work in MAC stands||Even as the first Test is going on, the TNCA staff is at work in the stands. “We are cleaning the I, J, and K stands to ensure they are ready on time,” TNCA secretary R.S. Ramasaamy told The Hindu on Saturday. The I, J, and K stands at the M.A. Chidambaram Stadium were last opened for spectators during the India-Pakistan ODI in late 2012. Ramasaamy said: “We should be able to accommodate around 15,000 spectators [occupying 50% of the stadium] for the Test.” The second Test gets underway on February 13. Tickets to be sold online from February 9 The tickets for the match will be sold online by Paytm from February 9, the TNCA secretary revealed. Ramasaamy added there would be Central accreditation for the media that would be allowed into the stadium to cover the second Test. Meanwhile, the BCCI and the TNCA have been in touch with the England team. List of precautions Ramasaamy said, “the England team has asked for the list of precautions we would be taking during the Test.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tnca-staff-at-work-in-mac-stands/article33772653.ece
07 February 2021||MUMBAI,||Mumbai coach appointment further delayed||With the infighting within the Mumbai Cricket Association (MCA) reaching the doors of former MCA and Indian cricket chief Sharad Pawar, the appointment of Mumbai’s head coach for the Vijay Hazare Trophy has been further delayed. On a day when four selectors met Pawar along with former MCA chief Ravi Savant to complain against the office-bearers’ interference in cricketing matters, an MCA source told The Hindu “the coach will be appointed latest by Monday evening”. The coach appointment procedure has been mired in controversy ever since Amit Pagnis resigned after the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy debacle. On Friday, while the office-bearers proposed former Mumbai captain Amol Muzumdar take over the reins, the Cricket Improvement Committee (CIC) headed by Lalchand Rajput finalised former India off-spinner Ramesh Powar as coach. Savant along with four of the five selectors, except Salil Ankola, met with Pawar. “We had no choice but to request him to intervene. It’s sad to see MCA having become a laughing stock due to the mismanagement,” Savant told The Hindu . “He agreed that according to the MCA constitution, the CIC should be handling cricketing matters and assured that he would speak with the MCA president to sort out the issue.” No response MCA president Vijay Patil did not respond to queries about the coach appointment and the role of the CIC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mumbai-coach-appointment-further-delayed/article33772801.ece
07 February 2021||MUMBAI,||Hazare Trophy to begin on Feb. 20||The inter-State one-day cricket tournament for the Vijay Hazare Trophy will be played in seven cities from February 20 to March 14. While the venue for the knockouts is yet to be finalised, the six group stages will be held at Surat, Indore, Bengaluru, Jaipur, Kolkata and Chennai. From the venues that hosted the Mushtaq Ali Trophy last month, Mumbai and Vadodara have been replaced with Surat and Jaipur.  The groups: Group A (Surat): Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, Hyderabad, Tripura, Baroda, Goa.   Group B (Indore): Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha, Andhra Pradesh.   Group C (Bengaluru): Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Odisha, Railways, Bihar.   Group D (Jaipur): Delhi, Mumbai, Maharashtra, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Pondicherry.   Group E (Kolkata): Bengal, Services, Jammu & Kashmir, Saurashtra, Haryana, Chandigarh.   Plate (Chennai): Uttarakhand, Assam, Nagaland, Meghalaya, Manipur, Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Sikkim.   The dates: League stage: Feb. 20 to March 1; Knockouts: March 7 to 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hazare-trophy-to-begin-on-feb-20/article33772006.ece
07 February 2021||Coimbatore,||Anindith, Sohil dominate day one||Anindith Reddy (Rayo Racing) and Sohil Shah (MSport) topped the charts in their respective categories for cars on the opening day of the maiden KMS50, organised by Spitfire and Meco Motorsports, at the Kari Motor Speedway in Chettipalayam here on Saturday. Rahil Shetty of Gusto Racing finished on top in the Pro Stock up to 301-400cc class for two wheelers.  The results (provisional): Men: 2W Stock 165cc novice (below 23): Race 1: A. Anfal (Rockstar) 9:31.115; 2. Allwin Sundar (AS); 3. Mohammed Yusuf (Speedup). Above 23: 1. N. Jagadeesh (Sparks) 9:11.387; 2. Jayanth Prathipati (Gusto); 3. Phani Teja (Gusto).   Pro Stock up to 301-400cc: Race 1: Rahil Shetty (Gusto) 6:23.094; 2. Sivanesan (Alisha Racing); 3. N. Jagadeesh (Sparks).   Indian Touring Cars: Race 1: Anindith Reddy (Rayo Racing) 13:01.238; 2. Dhruv Mohite (Rayo); 3. B. Vijayakumar (Prime Racing). Super Stock: 1. Joel Joseph (Race Concepts) 14:08.305; 2. Sanjay Balu (Race Concepts); 3. Vishnu Prasad (Msports).   FLGB4 Open: 1. Sohil Shah (MSport) 13:25.975; 2. Sandeep Kumar (Dark Don); 3. Mohamed Ryan (MSport). FLGB 1300 Open: 1. Raghul Rangasamy (MSport) 13:26.905; 2. Viswas Vijay Raj (DTS); 3. Vignesh K (MSport).   Women: 2W Stock up to 165cc for ladies: Race 1 (six laps): 1. Arpitha Bhat (Gusto) 8:58.216; 2. Ann Jeniffer (Sparks Racing) 9:00.489; 3. Lani Zena Fernadez (SDZ) 9:02.815 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anindith-sohil-dominate-day-one/article33772016.ece
07 February 2021||Melbourne,||It’s Muguruza vs Barty||Two-time Grand Slam winner Garbine Muguruza crushed Marketa Vondrousova for the loss of just one game on Saturday to set up a Yarra Valley Classic final with World No. 1 Ashleigh Barty. Last year's Australian Open finalist Muguruza smashed 20 winners and broke the 21st-ranked Vondrousova's serve five times en route to a 6-1, 6-0 win in 53 minutes. She has shown the form that put her atop the rankings in 2017, dropping just 10 games in four matches so far including her quarterfinal thrashing of Sofia Kenin — her conqueror in last year's Australian Open final.  The results: Yarra Valley Classic: Semifinal: Garbine Muguruza bt Marketa Vondrousova 6-1, 6-0.   Gippsland Trophy: Semifinals: Kaia Kanepi bt Ekaterina Alexandrova 6-3, 7-6(6); Elise Mertens w/o bt Naomi Osaka.   Grampians Trophy: Quarterfinals: Maria Sakkari bt Angelique Kerber 6-4, 6-2; Anett Kontaveit w/o Victoria Azarenka; Jennifer Brady bt Barbora Krejcikova 7-6(5), 6-4; Ann Li bt Sorana Cirstea 6-3, 6-1.   ATP Murray River Open: Semifinals: Daniel Evans bt Jeremy Chardy 6-2, 6-2; Felix Auger-Aliassime bt Corentin Moutet 6-1, 6-2   Great Ocean Road Open: Semifinals: Stefano Travaglia bt Thiago Monteiro 6-3, 6-4; Jannik Sinner bt Karen Khachanov 7-6(4), 4-6, 7-6(4).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/muguruza-sets-up-final-against-barty/article33772023.ece
07 February 2021||Guwahati,||Pavana raises the bar in high jump||Karnataka’s Pavana Nagaraj raised the under-16 high jump National record by four cms to 1.73m in the 36th National junior athletics.   The results: Boys: Under-20: 10,000m: 1. M. Sathish Kumar (TN) 29:50.69s, 2. Prince Nagar (Har) 30:52.54, 3. Amaresh Kumar (Del) 30:59.88. Long jump: 1. Jeswin Aldrin (TN) 7.47m, 2. Bhupender Singh (Har) 7.37, 3. Aditya Kumar Singh (MP) 7.35. Javelin throw: 1. Rohit Yadav (UP) 77.86m, 2. Yashvir Singh (Har) 77.15, Nandkishor Singh (UP) 72.06.   Under-18: Javelin throw: 1. Vivek Kumar (MP) 72.83m, 2. Utsav Tanwar (Raj) 67.75, 3. Izhar Ahmad (UP) 67.65.   Under-16: Shot put: 1. Anurag Singh Kaler (UP) 20.16m NR, OR 18.05m, Adhish Ghildiyal, 2017), 2. Nikhlesh (Haryana) 19.13, 3. Mohammed Mohsin (Tel) 16.36. Discus throw: 1. Ram Narayan (Del) 53.17m, 2. Raman (Har) 51.91, 3. Avadhut Kumar (Mah) 49.77.   Girls: Under 20: 5000m: 1. Ankita Dhyani (Utk) 16:21.19s NR, OR 16:21.59, Sunita Rani, Catania, 1997), 2. Chatru Gumnaram (Raj) 16:54.59, 3. Rebi Pal (UP) 17:34.39. Long Jump: 1. Ancy Sojan (Ker) 6.20m, 2. Manisha Merel (Odi) 5.63, 3. Tanushree Porel (WB) 5.60.   Under-18: Long Jump: 1. Agasara Nandini (Tel) 5.80m, 2. Lakshmi Gemmela (AP) 1.38, 3. M. Kayva Manoharan (TN) 5.33.   Under-16: High jump: 1. Pavana Nagaraj (Kar) 1.73m NR, OR 1.69m, Kavya Muthanna, 2003), 2. Mohur Mukherjee (WB) 1.71, 3. Bidisha Kundu (WB) 1.63. Long Jump: 1. Sabita Toppo (Odi) 5.59m, 2. E.S. Sivapriya (Ker) 5.45, 3. Neha Parvin (WB) 5.42. Shot Put: 1. Rubasri Krishnamoorthi (TN) 14.35m, 2. V. Madhumitha (TN) 13.98, 3. Gurleen Kaur (Pun) 13.71.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pavana-raises-the-bar-in-high-jump/article33772190.ece
07 February 2021||Hyderabad:,||Lightning Bolt should score hat-trick||Lightning Bolt, who has won two races very well during this Hyderabad racing season, is in rousing form and should score a hat-trick in the Peddapalli Plate, the chief event of Sunday’s (February 7) races. Rails will be announced one hour before the first race.  GANGOTRI PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III) — 1.45 p.m.: 1. Explosive (13) Mukesh Kumar 60.5, 2. Angel Tesoro (9) Kuldeep Singh 58, 3. Trump Star (7) Suraj Narredu 56.5, 4. Blissful (5) Nakhat Singh 56, 5. Blazing Speed (2) Ajeeth Kumar 55.5, 6. Star Dancer (3) Kiran Naidu 54, 7. Echoes Of Heaven (12) Santosh Raj N.R. 53.5, 8. Viking Sun (11) Md. Ismail 53.5, 9. Tapatio (6) Surya Prakash 53, 10. Berkeley (8) R. Laxmikanth 52.5, 11. Star Babe (4) Akshay Kumar 52, 12. Fantastic Show (10) B.R. Kumar 51.5, 13. Glendale (14) P. Gaddam 51.5 and 14. Let It Be Me (1) G. Naresh 51.5.  1. STAR DANCER, 2. TRUMP STAR, 3. EXPLOSIVE   ARISTOCRAT PLATE (1,400m), Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II) — 2. 15: 1. Best Buddy (9) Nakhat Singh 56, 2. Indian Glory (1) Mukesh Kumar 56, 3. Jean Lafette (14) Kuldeep Singh 56, 4. Salisbury (6) Suraj Narredu 56, 5. Space Walk (2) B.R. Kumar 56, 6. Sye Ra (3) Surya Prakash 56, 7. Yesterday (11) R. Laxmikanth 56, 8. Allah Rakhi (4) Md. Ismail 54.5, 9. Ashwa Pishkin (13) Trevor 54.5, 10. Key To Time (8) Koushik 54.5, 11. Mehrnoosh (5) P. Gaddam 54.5, 12. Muaser (12) P. Sai Kumar 54.5, 13. New Look (10) Kiran Naidu 54.5 and 14. Spectacular Cruise (7) Akshay Kumar 54.5.  1. ASHWA PUSHKIN, 2. SALISBURY, 3. SPECTACULAR CRUISE   DECCAN PRINCE PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II) — 2.45: 1. British Empress (12) Akshay Kumar 60, 2. Dandy Man (10) Trevor 58, 3. Red Snaper (2) Kiran Niadu 55, 4. That’s My Magic (1) Md. Ismail 55, 5. Beyond Limits (5) Gopal Singh 54.5, 6. Rhythm Selection (3) P. Sai Kumar 54.5, 7. Zamora (8) Kuldeep Singh 54, 8. Mr. Shanghai (7) B.R. Kumar 53.5, 9. Loch Stella (9) C.P. Bopanna 53, 10. N R I Heights (4) Abhay Singh 53, 11. Cincia Azzurra (6) P. Gaddam 52, 12. Miss Marvellous (13) G. Naresh 51.5 and 13. Ulysses (11) Ajeeth Kumar 51.5.  1. DANDY MAN, 2. N R I HEIGHTS, 3. BRITISH EMPRESS   SUNNY BLOSSOM PLATE (2,000m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III) — 3. 15: 1. Gusty Look (11) Rohit Kumar 60.5, 2. Advance Guard (6) P. Sai Kumar 59, 3. Buttonwood (7) Koushik 58.5, 4. Saffron Art (1) Suraj Narredu 57.5, 5. Francis Bacon (12) R. Laxmikanth 56.5, 6. Eagle Bluff (9) Akshay Kumar 55, 7. Aerial Combat (4) Santosh Raj N.R. 54.5, 8. N R I Touch (8) Abhay Singh 54, 9. Mt. Davidson (5) Kuldeep Singh 53, 10. Grand Finale (10) B.R. Kumar 52.5, 11. Lightning Fairy (14) Md. Ismail 52, 12. Melting Ice (2) Nakhat Singh 52, 13. Forever Bond (3) Ajeeth Kumar 51 and 14. Sun Dancer (13) Surya Prakash 50.  1. GUSTY LOOK, 2. SAFFRON ART, 3. EAGLE BLUFF   GANGOTRI PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III) — 3.45: 1. Linewiler (1) Deepak Singh 61, 2. Green Turf (4) Akshay Kumar 59, 3. Southern Princess (8) Trevor 57, 4. Whiskey Martini (14) Mukesh Kumar 56.5, 5. Certitude (9) Suraj Narredu 56, 6. Hurricane (13) B.R. Kumar 55.5, 7. Classy Dame (12) Abhay Singh 55, 8. Thrill Of Power (10) Koushik 53.5, 9. O’Brien (6) Md. Ismail 53, 10. Sublime (7) Santosh Raj N.R. 53, 11. Shivalik Meadow (11) Ajeeth Kumar 52, 12. Air Salute (5) G. Naresh 51.5, 13. Lorena (3) R.S. Jodha 51.5 and 14. Felix Flame (2) P. Gaddam 50.  1. GREEN TURF, 2. WHISKEY MARTINI, 3. CERTITUDE   DECCAN PRINCE PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II) — 4.15: 1. N R I Symbol (10) Deepak Singh 60, 2. Blazer (4) Kiran Naidu 57.5, 3. Balius (5) Abhay Singh 56.5, 4. Ayur Shakti (6) Ajeeth Kumar 54.5, 5. Max (12) G. Naresh 54.5, 6. Lockhart (7) P. Sai Kumar 54, 7. Forever Splendour (3) Trevor 53.5, 8. Crazy Horse (8) Akshay Kumar 53, 9. Mystery (1) Santosh Raj N.R. 53, 10. Dunkirk (9) Kuldeep Singh 52.5, 11. Mark My Day (2) B.R. Kumar 52.5 and 12. Kamyar (11) Gopal Singh 51.5.  1. FOREVER SPLENDOUR, 2. CRAZY HORSE, 3. KAMYAR   PEDDAPALLI PLATE (1,400m), rated 60 to 85 (Cat. II) — 4.45: 1. Lightning Bolt (8) Trevor 60, 2. Prince Valiant (9) Surya Prakash 60, 3. Agni (1) Suraj Narredu 59.5, 4. Sovet Pride (7) Akshay Kumar 58, 5. Artistryy (5) Mukesh Kumar 57.5, 6. Havelock Cruise (3) B.R. Kumar 57.5, 7. Long Range (13) Ajeeth Kumar 57, 8. Mark My Word (6) C.P. Bopanna 56.5, 9. That’s My Class (11) Md. Ismail 55.5, 10. Starlight (2) P. Sai Kumar 55, 11. Destined Dynamite (12) R. Manish 54.5, 12. Southern Legacy (4) Santosh Raj N.R. 53.5 and 13. Ashwa Yashobali (10) P. Gaddam 52.5.  1. LIGHTNING BOLT, 2. AGNI, 3. SOVET PRIDE   STORM TROOPER PLATE (1,600m), rated up to 25 (Cat. III) — 5.15: 1. Alexanderthegreat (9) B.R. Kumar 60, 2. Astronaut (12) R. Laxmikanth 60, 3. Detonator (3) Rohit Kumar 60, 4. Kapell Bruke (14) Deepak Singh 60, 5. Queen Blossom (2) Kiran Naidu 60, 6. Greek Soul (6) Mukesh Kumar 59.5, 7. Prime Gardenia (11) Ajeeth Kumar 59.5, 8. Princess Shana (10) Surya Prakash 59, 9. Hip Hop (5) Kuldeep Singh 58.5, 10. Cephalonia (1) G. Naresh 58, 11. Bedazzled (13) Koushik 57.5, 12. Kintsugi (4) Abhay Singh 56.5, 13. A Hundred Echoes (8) Akshay Kumar 56 and 14. Shanu Shanu (7) Nakhat Singh 56.  1. KINTSUGI, 2. A HUNDRED ECHOES, 3. KAPELL BRUKE  Day’s Best: FOREVER SPLENDOUR  Jackpot: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8. Treble: (i) 1, 2 & 3; (ii) 3, 4 & 5; (iii) 6, 7 & 8. Mini Jackpot: (i) 2, 3, 4 & 5. (ii) 5, 6, 7 & 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lightning-bolt-should-score-hat-trick/article33772026.ece
07 February 2021||Chattogram,||Mominul, Mehidy shine||Captain Mominul Haque hit his 10th Test century and off-spinner Mehidy Hasan continued his good form for Bangladesh on the fourth day of the first Test against West Indies on Saturday. Mominul's 115 — reaching the 3,000 runs milestone in the process — helped Bangladesh set a fearsome 395-run target for the West Indies. At the end of the day, the visitors had reached 110 for three, with debutants Kyle Mayers (37) and Nkrumah Bonner (15) at the crease. Mehidy Hasan claimed all the three wickets.  The scores: Bangladesh 430 & 223/8 decl. in 67.5 overs (Mominul Haque 115, Liton Das 69; Cornwall 3/81, Gabriel 3/37, Warrican 3/57) vs West Indies 259 & 110/3 in 40 overs (Kyle Mayers batting 37; Mehidy Hasan 3/52).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mominul-mehidy-shine/article33772004.ece
07 February 2021||RAWALPINDI,||Faheem and Rizwan revive Pakistan innings||The lower-order increased Pakistan’s lead to 200 runs against South Africa on the third day of the second and final Test on Saturday. All-rounder Faheem Ashraf and Mohammad Rizwan featured in a 52-run sixth-wicket stand, guiding the hosts to 129-6 at stumps. Earlier, fast bowler Hasan Ali (5-54) helped the hosts dismiss South Africa for 201, a lead of 71.  The scores: Pakistan 272 & 129/6 in 51 overs (Azhar Ali 33, Mohd. Rizwan 28 batting, Faheem Ashraf 29, Linde 3/12)) vs South Africa 201 in 65.4 overs (A. Markram 32, T. Bavuma 44 n.o., Q. de Kock 29, W. Mulder 33, Hasan Ali 5/54) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/faheem-and-rizwan-revive-pakistan-innings/article33772005.ece
07 February 2021||CHENNAI:,||Tamizhaga TTA State team for Nationals||A 10-member squad will represent the Stree Seva Mandir-Tamizhaga TTA State team in the UTT 82nd senior National table tennis championships to be held at Panchkula, Harayana, from February 15 to 23.  The team: Men: R. Anandha Raj, D. Vishwa, V. Malesh Kumar, R. Santhosh Kumar, Veeraraghavan. Women: S. Selena Deepthi, M. Nithya Shree, V. Kowshika, V. Vaishnavi, T.R. Shruthi; Coaches: Christopher Anans & R. Ramesh Babu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tamizhaga-tta-state-team-for-nationals/article33772652.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Recognition time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/recognition-time/article33772636.ece
07 February 2021||KOCHI,||Single-leg format for KPL||The Kerala Premier League (KPL) football’s seventh edition, which is likely to start in the first week of March, will be held in a single-leg format and in two venues. “It will be held at Kottapady in Malappuram and at the Maharaja’s Stadium in Ernakulam,” said P. Anilkumar, general secretary, Kerala Football Association, on Saturday. “This time, we are doing only single-leg matches. We will have two groups with six teams each and the semifinals and final. Matches will be played during weekends and the league is likely to run till the first week of May. We will have a total of 33 matches.”  The teams: Kerala Blasters (reserves), Gokulam Kerala (reserves), Kovalam FC, SAT Tirur, Luca SC, Kerala Police, FC Kerala, MA College, Golden Threads, KSEB, Kerala United, Basco Othukungal .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/single-leg-format-for-kpl/article33772187.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||ATKMB coasts past Odisha||ATK Mohun Bagan (ATKMB) has often been criticised for not living up to its potential in front of goal and for being content with 1-0 wins. However, none of the flak the Mariners have been subjected to mattered on Saturday as they coasted to a thumping 4-1 win over Odisha FC in the Indian Super League at the GMC Stadium in Bambolim. Manvir Singh and Roy Krishna were the architects of the victory as they struck a brace each to ensure ATKMB remained within three points of table-topper Mumbai City.   The result: Odisha FC 1 (Cole Alexander 45+2) lost to ATK Mohun Bagan 4 (Manvir Singh 11, 54, Roy Krishna 83-pen, 86).   Sunday’s matches: Jamshedpur vs East Bengal, 5 p.m.; Hyderabad vs NEUFC, 7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/atkmb-coasts-past-odisha/article33772011.ece
07 February 2021||CHENNAI,||‘Ishant’s wickets lifted the team’||After another day of toil, left-arm spinner Shahbaz Nadeem said that there were no demons in the pitch and backed India’s batsmen to score heavily. “The pitch has not undergone much change after the first two days,” said Nadeem. There is just a bit of rough that can create problems for the left-handers. Other than that, the pitch is still quite good for batting. I am sure our batsmen will also score a huge total.” Explaining what the team tried to do on the second day, Nadeem said, “If you go for wickets, you can give away runs on this pitch. Our plan was to bowl in good areas. If the batsman plays a false shot, you have a chance to get a wicket.” The Jharkhand player also added that Ishant Sharma’s wickets of Jos Buttler and Jofra Archer in the last session helped the morale of the team. “Ishant’s wickets were crucial. When you get wickets like that, it uplifts the team,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ishants-wickets-lifted-the-team/article33772019.ece
07 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA:,||Bhuvanendra slams century||J. Bhuvanendra’s unbeaten 104 (117b, 4x10, 6x2) for Shining Stars was one of the highlights of the KDCA A-Division (one-day) league cricket championship for Katragadda Madhusudhana Rao memorial Trophy here.     The scores:   New Everest 275 in 50 overs (Y. Satish 82) bt Welcome 251 in 47.1 overs (V. Vishal 84, S. Manikanta 3/43, B. Geeta 3/38).   Royal 217 in 42.4 overs (D. Prabhu Kiran 42, K. Dheeraj Lakshman 40, M. Roopesh 38) bt Everest 172 in 45.4 overs (Ch. Gokul Varma 68, T. Bhagyaraj 4/33).   Shining Stars 238/7 in 50 overs (J. Buvanendra 104 n.o., Vimal Naik 50, N. Nagendra Babu 4/26) bt Railways 128 in 31.5 overs (T. Venugopal Reddy 3/37).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bhuvanendra-slams-century/article33772285.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||ENGAGEMENTS||At Coimbatore   Cricket: TNCA-CDCA league, PSGIMS & Rathinam TC grounds, 9.30 a.m.   Motorsports: KMS50, Kari Motor Speedway, 9 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/engagements/article33772692.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||ENGAGEMENTS||Cricket: TNCA league, III-B, Prem vs Sea Hawks (Wahe Guru ‘A’), Triplicane CC vs Triplicane SC (TI-Murugappa), Rising Stars vs Madras Aryan (MIT), Sical vs Royapettah (Union), Perungalathur vs Bunts (Cricket Drome).   IV-D, Book Sellers vs Venkateswara (St. Bede’s ‘A’), Magnet vs Garnet (Sumangali Medavakkam, matting), Sumangali Homes vs Fox Trotters (Sumangali, turf)), Tiger vs Galaxy (VB Nest), Youngsters vs TSRMSC (Engg.), 9.30 a.m.; TDCA league, II div., Pattabiram vs Classic (8 a.m.), IV, Universal vs Jaya Education Group (1 p.m.), Gojan.; SMCA Champions Trophy, Runs & Wickets vs Sportan Ventures (8 a.m.), Madras Sevasadan vs Rising Youngsters (1 p.m.), Wahe Guru ‘B’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/engagements/article33772654.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Kochi Eng||At Kochi   Athletics: 64th Dr. Tony Daniel memorial Ernakulam District championships, Maharaja’s College Stadium, 9 a.m.    Cricket: Ernakulam District A-Div. League, Swantons vs Muthoot ECC ‘A’, Rajagiri College ground, Kakkanad, 9 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kochi-eng/article33772186.ece
07 February 2021||Abu Dhabi,||Daruvala grabs second spot for Mumbai Falcons||Mumbai Falcons’ Jehan Daruvala continued to sparkle in the Formula 3 Asian Championship, grabbing second place in Race 1 of the third round here at the Yas Marina International Circuit late on Saturday evening. This is his fourth consecutive podium finish over three nerve-wracking days. On Sunday, the last two races of the round will take place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/daruvala-grabs-second-spot-for-mumbai-falcons/article33772017.ece
07 February 2021||LOS ANGELES,||Celtics hold on to beat Clippers||Jayson Tatum scored a team-high 34 points and Kemba Walker (24) delivered a late surge as Boston Celtics rallied from a first-half deficit to hold on and edge Los Angeles Clippers 119-115 on Friday.  The results: Cleveland Cavaliers 105 lost to Milwaukee Bucks 123; Brooklyn Nets 117 lost to Toronto Raptors 123; Charlotte Hornets 121 lost to Utah Jazz 138.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/celtics-hold-on-to-beat-clippers/article33772018.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 08:07 IST,||Sudoku — February 7, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-february-7-2021/article33772941.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Love under lockdown||Priyanka Deo Jain (32), Editor-Anchor and Ankit Jain (29), Officer on Special Duty,   Rashtrapati Bhavan; Delhi  "The lockdown was thebest thing that happened in our lives," says Priyanka Deo Jain. She met Ankit Jain at Delhi's Mughal Garden in February 2020 and married him on June 29. "It feels unreal now! He had first messaged me on Twitter in December 2019 saying he liked my work. The sceptic in me thought he was hitting on me like other guys," laughs Priyanka, who had returned from the US after completing her studies in Harvard and started her YouTube channel New India Junction where many of her development-themed stories were going viral. A couple of coffee meetings, and two months later, Priyanka, who was new in Delhi, was invited as part of a team of journalists to report on the opening of the Mughal Garden. Her second cameraperson did not turn up. It took her an extra three hours to get the footage, during which time Ankit came to check on the reporter who had stayed on for so long. The conversation was brief and formal. A week later they met again over coffee. "I found her charming and intelligent and masked my feelings because I did not want to spoil my chances," he says. A month later, they crossed paths in the Bengaluru airport and dined together. Awkwardly, he’d forgotten his wallet at home and she offered him money to spend, though it made her wonder about him. Back in Delhi, he did take her out for dinner and repaid her. What changed their lives was a three hour walk around India Gate holding hands and talking endlessly.Through April and May, when the lockdown intensified, Ankit frequently dropped in at her home in Gulmohar Park to help her with groceries as he had a vehicle to move around. The duo went for walks in the neighbourhood park and slowly grew into a couple. He visited her daily when she injured her ankle, and once her mother caught a glimpse of him during a Skype call. That set them both wondering about commitment. “We soon realised we were on the same page,” says Ankit. The next morning they told their parents. "We did not even say the three magical words to each other before marriage as everything was so seamless and we were so sure of us," she says. The wedding was held in the lawns of Ankit's house with just four people -- their parents. “It was very relaxing and peaceful and saved us time, money, and stress,” says Ankit. Their extended families and friends did not have a whiff about the wedding till Priyanka announced it on her Twitter post a month later. ---------------------------------------    Saurav Sahoo (26), IT professional and Raunak Sharma (27),   Ph.D in BITS;   Hyderabad  "I wanted to have a seriousrelationship and downloaded the Aisle app, liked his profile and he replied to my ice breaker question," says Raunak Sharma. Before they knew, they were constantly texting each other over the next 10 days and decided on the first video call on July 17. "There was a tremendous comfort level from the word go," says Saurav Sahoo. From that day, it turned into 4-5 hours of daily conversation. For their first date on August 2, she sneaked out of her campus with a friend's help and they spent the entire day talking, laughing, eating, riding around on his bike. While dropping her back, he gave her a necklace saying he had purchased it long ago and kept it to give to his first girlfriend. And then he asked whether she would like to follow the app's tagline: "Delete it forever together." It took Raunak a week to process the thoughts and realise how madly in love she was with him. "Everything felt so right and we told our parents in September. Both sides were extremely open and welcomed us," she says. She likes his sense of humour and he is in awe of her accomplishments as an academician, athlete, and a dancer. Both describe themselves as two sides of the same personality. "While he is calm and I am short-tempered, both of us are extroverts and ambitious about our careers without being materialistic," she says. "We constantly surprise and motivate each other," he says. The couple is getting engaged on March 19 and the wedding is planned for November. -----------------------------------------------------------    Rupali Shinde (32), Journalist and Hrishikesh Shinde (33), freelance photographer ;    Mumbai  Just before the lockdownRupali and Hrishikesh met on dating app Aisle. Both were divorced and were on the lookout for a serious relationship. After celebrating her birthday on March 7, when the lockdown caught him off-guard, Hrishikesh was left with no projects and he says the next three months were tough. While he was constantly worrying about earning, Rupali says she was sure about him even though many times it appeared they were on the verge of a break-up. He is reticent and does not like having long chats over phone and the inability to meet him in person and comfort him was frustrating, she says. The day lockdown was lifted, Rupali booked a cab and went to meet him and his parents in Pune. "They were very kind and open and asked me to think cautiously as he did not have a permanent job. I left after saying, ‘I love you.’ He did not answer," she says. When he got back to Mumbai, they went out to dinner, and Rupali gave the bartender a ring to put it in his cocktail. Back home, she formally proposed, and decided on a simple court wedding on December 7. "We complete each other. If silence and long distance held us together, we can tide over any crisis," says Rupali. "True love lasts, and the pandemic taught us that," she says. -------------------------------------------------------------  BOX     Sonali Khullar,   Delhi  This pandemic and subsequentlockdown has been hard on everyone, but it has had some positives. For a housewife like me, life was a series of mundane activities punctuated with travel that I love. Being married to a workaholic didn't help. Vikas and I met in college and fell in love. Two kids and 28 years later we had fallen into a rut. Everything was adjusted for work including our vacations. I don't remember a time when it was only us talking and having fun. We even had a third ‘person’ on our 25th anniversary celebrations -- his work. With the lockdown we were suddenly home all the time -- no distractions, no visitors, nowhere to go and most importantly NO WORK. With four adults in the house, work was relatively easy and soon both of us gravitated towards what we loved: food and drink. The day was spent planning what to cook and which cocktail to make. Having a background in hotel management made it easier. Cocktail hour was at 5 pm, with videos being made and even appearances by my elusive introverted son. The next couple of hours were spent on the balcony talking, really talking. We started to rediscover each other and enjoy our time together. Vikas was never very expressive about feelings and I had long given up planning special dates. It was nice to realize that our love was still strong but more importantly, that we liked each other. Another 30 or so years with him seem nice. We have shifted houses in the last couple of months and though the office is back on four days a week, we still follow the routine of sitting on the balcony, talking and laughing. I haven't travelled at all since the pandemic started and that's not normal for me. But I'm ok with that. It has given me my relationship back and that has been the best thing ever.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/love-under-lockdown/article33771991.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Words of Wisdom||SOCIAL CHEMISTRY: DECODING   PATTERNS OF HUMAN CONNECTION  By Marissa King ,    Hodder & Stoughton-Hachette U.K.  While conventional wisdomtells us to mingle and connect to expand our social network as much as possible, the author argues otherwise in her book based on social science research. She says the quality and structure of our relationships have greater impact on our personal and professional lives. Our relationships are our greatest asset and yet we leave them to chance. The professor of Organizational Behaviour at Yale says everyone needs a science-based strategy to alter or build meaningful and productive relationships for a happier life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/words-of-wisdom/article33771986.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||An oriole’s winter itinerary||S. Balachandran lets data do the talking for the Black-naped Oriole’s winter planning. First, its frequency chart in the Western Ghats settles a question: It is big “winter visitor” in that range. Second, in contrast, its occurrence across Tamil Nadu as a whole, particularly in the plains, is best described as “scattered” and “not continuous”. Deputy Director at the BNHS Regional Migration Study Centre in Point Calimere, Balachandran has had a Black-naped Oriole ringed and sent back into the wild. It was back in 2016, and that remains the only documented sighting of the Black-naped Oriole at Point Calimere, let alone ringing. “Besides the fact that it winters in Western Ghats, we are not clearly aware of this species’ migratory route. Unless you ring a species in substantial numbers, any knowledge you have would only be patchy,” states Balachandran. So, is the Black-naped Oriole ( Oriolus chinensis) not a winter visitor and only a sojourner in most parts of Tamil Nadu, particularly Chennai, pitching tent in some patches before settling down into a longer home stay elsewhere? The BNHS scientist baulks at drawing that inference, and chooses the most sensible option: Keeping the door open for fresh insights. “Nowadays, we notice the migratory patterns of many species changing due to various factors, says Balachandran, adding that new discoveries may be stemming simply from the fact that “more observations are being made now.” Balachandran is obviously referring to citizen-science projects that bring more pairs of eyes to bird habitats. Three young birders familiar with IIT-Madras, a source of photographic records about Black-naped Oriole sightings in Chennai, weigh in with their views in this matter. They are: eBird reviewer Vikas Madhav Nagarajan; Sidharth Srinivasan, a resident of West Mambalam, currently pursuing a masters programme in Wildlife Biology and Conservation at the National Centre for Biological Studies, who has made IIT-M his birding patch, even now during flying visits to Chennai between semesters. Mahathi Narayanaswamy, given to recording bird calls, has the privilege of keeping her ear really close to the ground as she is a resident of IIT-M, and therefore having a glimpse of a wintering Black-naped Oriole is probably not as challenging as it could be for most others. “There were not as many records of the Black-naped Oriole as there are today. All forested tracts in Chennai have records: IIT-M, Guindy National Park (GNP) and Madras Christian College (MCC) are among them. I have seen it at SSN College during the bird count. It needs trees, and are drawn to fruiting ficus trees, especially large ones like the Banyan,” says Vikas. There have even been a couple of photographic records from Stella Maris, which has an impressive green cover. Says Sidharth: “The Black-naped Oriole usually comes to IIT-Madras and GNP during winter, almost every season, as the records in eBird show. It migrates here for the winter, but could also be a passage migrant, because many of them go to the Western Ghats. It could be that the population that come here stays here. Or, it could be that a part of that population stays here, and the rest goes to the Western Ghats. We cannot be really sure about that. The number of sightings have definitely increased here — but one could attribute it to more pairs of eyes, and more reportings on eBird. It likes the forested parts of Chennai. Not only Chennai, it also occurs in other parts of the Coromandel Coast: It does like the forested habitats, the tropical dry evergreen forests. It should be more frequent and common in any of the wooded habitats of Chennai, but we really do not have a lot of that left. That may explain the number of sightings.” Says Vikas: “If you look at Richard Grimmett, it will have a scattered appearance across Tamil Nadu. It will look like a very rare bird, with only a few records here and there, whereas it is a regular winter visitor, especially in our areas where you will definitely see the bird, if you go to the right place. The Black-naped Oriole would prefer a much thicker forest tract and a well-wooded country. The Indian Golden Oriole, which is a resident in Chennai with some local movement, is also at home in a wooded habitat, but is more eclectic, being found in thick forest; and may also be found in patches that are open scrub and open country, but have stands of trees.” Mahathi says, “At IIT-M, due to a lot of birding activity, records of Black-naped Oriole emerge. The bird must be present in similar patches, which include the Theosophical Society campus.” She adds, “At IIT-M, there are many ficus trees across the campus, and Black-naped Orioles feed on their fruits, particularly those of the Banyan.” (' Migrant Watch ' is a column about birds that visit Chennai during winter)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/an-orioles-winter-itinerary/article33772473.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||The glowing light of service||A torch with a tall leaping tongue of fire is evocative — think Olympics. Passed on, it signifies a sense of continuity, collaboration and community. A torch with dry cells do not make for a similarly arresting picture. However, the alumni of PS High School (PSHS) have managed those three Cs despite having settled for a torch of the garden variety. In 2019, when the school’s 1969 batch had their golden-jubilee reunion, the tradition of passing on the torch to the next batch saw the light. Through this act, a batch symbolically transfers the responsibility of improving the school’s infrastructure to the one next in line to celebrate its fiftieth-year meet-up. The school tie being strong, a good number of batches would be in for the long haul, chipping in with support from time to time, but when the torch finds a batch in its golden-jubilee year, a massive effort is tacitly expected of it. Three successive batches have had a taste of this new tradition, and with each doing justice to it, the school now has improved classrooms with better chairs and tables and smartboards (1969 batch); a well-appointed computer lab with 22 new computers and related-lab facilities (1970 batch); and recently, a block of new restrooms with hugely upgraded facilities (1971 batch). The modest torch with dry cells has been a huge motivator. Here is an illustration. Dr. U.V. Ramakrishnan from the 1970 batch, lives at Appu Street where he also has a practice as a pulmonologist, besides being attached to a private hospital. He recalls that when the 1969 batch had their golden jubilee celebrations, the school management sent for him. “The ‘69 batch passed the torch on to me,” says Dr. Ramakrishnan, adding that the responsibilities with him were a tad more demanding — because, he had to start from the scratch, having to stitch together a 1970-batch alumni group. “As I was a doctor, the school administration was able to contact me,” he explains. “The 1971 batch had started meeting., within 30 years of passing out of school. They were building their contacts slowly, whereas we did not do that. Fortunately, some of my batchmates were in the same locality. Catching hold of them, I spread the word about having to buold a 1970-batch alumini group, through them. Today, the 1970-batch alumni group is over 40 members old, and we stay connected over WhatsApp. In February 2020 (12 in attendance), we conducted one meet and in early-March (when the number doubled), another. By no stretch of the imagination are these a golden-jubilee reunion. The idea has been in cold storage, and when the threat from the pandemic subsides, we would have it organised. As our batch stretches up to ‘G’ section, with each having around 40 students, our alumni group has to obviously grow bigger.” Though the pandemic has moved their grand reunion, the 1970 batch has managed to “pass on the torch”. “During the second meeting, in early-March, 2020, we formed a core group and we went around the campus with headmistress R. Kala, looking into various things that required attention. The computer lab being one of them, we made it the focus of our project. The computers had mostly aged 12 to 15 years. We raised close to Rs. 6 lakh, with which we managed to donate 22 brand-new computers, items necessary to run a computer lab, an Air-Conditioning unit, wall fans and a vacuum cleaner. From my end, I also passed on some sanitary equipment,” says Dr. Ramakrishnan. On this new practice that is three batches old, KVS Gopalakrishnan, secretary of PS High School and the PS Educational Society, says “It ensures continuity in both service to the alma mater and also connectivity between one batch and another; and continues the chain. The handing over of the torch like a baton has happened only among the 1969, 70 and 71 batches, but the golden jubilee reunions have been going on since 1990 when the 1940 celebrated theirs. For the last 30 years, the golden-jubilee reunions have been happening, and sometimes, the batches may also meet for their 25th and 20th year reunion in an informal manner. Even before the reunion happens, they get in touch with the headmistress or the secretary to find out what they could do for the school.” Dr. Ramakrishnan lauds earlier batches that have made impressive contributions, though they had no “torch” to spur them on. He gives an example: “My brother UV Babu is from the 1964 batch and I know that they have made a difference by taking care of old teachers.”  During the second meeting, in early-March, 2020, we formed a core group and we went around the campus with headmistress R. Kala, looking into various things that required attention||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-glowing-light-of-service/article33772476.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||A legacy parked in a library||To all appearances, Vasanthan Library in Kodambakkam is just another library. For those familiar with the story behind its establishment, it is hallowed ground, marking the memory of Vasanthan, who was tragically struck down in the prime of his life. Vasanthan was in the final-year of a master of arts programme at Madras Christian College, when he met with an accident. The family would not let his memory fade away. In March 2015, a year after his death, they established this library at Sivan Koil Street near Powerhouse in his honour. “Vasanthan has always been surrounded by books; in Class VI itself, he had read Shiv Khera’s You Can Win. He was exposed to wide range of genres,” recalls Sudha Ulagaoli, Vasanthan’s mother who is a former banker and Tamil news reader. It was Vasanthan’s dream to establish a public library at his father’s village in interior Tiruchirappali. With the family finding it a challenge to set up a library at their native town, they decided on opening up the space at the house Vasanthan grew up in. The ground floor at the independent house was converted into a free library-cum-reading room. “The ground floor had a hall, a car parking area and a kitchen; we converted the hall into a library. The parking lot is where people sit and read, it can accommodate 10 people comfortably,” she says. In the initial years, much of the collection consisted of books that had been bought by Vasanthan, and also those by his father, M. Ulagaoli. “We had 60 boxes of books, a good number of them were related to Civil Service examination that Vasanthan was preparing for then,” says Sudha, who is in her mid-50s. Books on international human rights, biographies and Sidney Sheldon series are part of his collection that are now stacked in the room. The reading room currently has a collection of 5,000 books, seeking to meet reading needs of various age groups. Pongal and Deepavali are the only days when the place is closed; otherwise anyone can have access to the collection any time between 9 a.m. and 8 p.m. It also has a rest room for the benefit of those using the facility for a longer duration. “This is not a lending library, so we have not had any practical difficulties of keeping track of books,” says Sudha. In the pre-COVID days, on an average, 20 people would visit the place; and the number would increase during weekends. “We maintain a wish list where readers can mention a book they are looking for, which we either procure by contacting friends or have well-wishers donating for the purchase of book,” says Sudha, who is a member of Thakkar Baba Vidyalaya. The centre has been helping children hone their creativity by conducting drawing competitions during Pongal and a drama event every Saturday. Every Wednesday, a councillor is invited to the place. It has also offered its premises free for NEET classes. Lockdown project Since the lockdown began last year, the library has not opened its gates formally but continues to engage with its readers through the digital medium. In October, the library started a YouTube channel by the same name where they record books meant to help deserving high school students. “We completed recording lessons that students appearing for class X Board examination need and we are in the process of recording lessons for other classes,” she says. Sudha says they currently have 70 videos, which were made by more than 70 volunteers and they are in the process of uploading more vidoes. Volunteers needed They are looking for more volunteers who can help them with this exercise. “I have retired teachers, home-makers and some from Coimbatore and Madurai helping us in recording. We currently need people to help us with editing audios and videos, checkers who can listen and compare the text and explanation to weed any mistakes and those who can read lessons,” says Sudha. D. Vijayaraghavan, a working professional who volunteers after his office hours, in the evening, by editing videos, says anyone with a knowledge of computers can be a part of this exercise. A digital experience of Bharathiar songs is also being planned. To volunteer, contact 9884149045/ 9716177728  We maintain a wish list that allows readers to mention a book they are looking for, and we either get it for them by contacting our friends or get well-wishers to donate towards the purchase of the book||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-legacy-parked-in-a-library/article33772462.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Auld Lang Syne in Madras Will all avenues still lead to Chintamani?||Chintamani Supermarket has been knocked down. And it has a litmus test to pass: Landmarks are put to a popularity vote after they are gone. That is the downside to being a landmark. The best ones survive physical removal, their “ashes” interred with “the everyday”. Is Chintamani in that league? Or, would it be expunged out of our collective memory? The cooperative supermarket has two things going for it straightaway. One, it lent its name to a well-used bus stop, and a busy signal to boot. Two, it fits in organically with an unusual story called “Anna Nagar”. Landmarks with bus stops named after them are likely to have a free and long ride into the future that they themselves are not a part of. Ponds Bus Stop — on Grand Southern Trunk Road in the Nagalkeni area of Chromepet — has indelibly scripted the memory of a factory that the Ponds Company functioned from, into the common man’s daily commute. These names are history in shorthand, and the curious lot from successive generations decipher them, even elaborating on the stories of the times they represent. An example right in Anna Nagar — not too far from what was Chintamani only a few days ago — is the Blue Star Bus Stop and the Blue Star Signal. “In 2014, we stumbled upon the origins of the title ‘Blue Star Bus Stop’, through something that IPS officer (retd.) Roshan Lal Handa shared with us. Somewhere in the late 1960s, the bus stop derived its name from an iron shop ( isthirikadai ) bearing the name ‘blue star’ in Tamil,” says Thirupurasundari Sevvel of Nam Veedu Nam Oor Nam Kadhai, a social history initiative that particularly documents stories about West Madras, which includes Anna Nagar. Thirupurasundari recalls being intrigued by this piece of information. “It is widely assumed that the bus stop and the signal took their name after the local presence of the Blue Star company on the same road, and bore it even after this presence left the neighbourhood. Curiously bearing this company’s name, the iron shop did predate the establishment, as we discovered when we carried out a social-research exercise based on Mr. Handa’s lead. We interviewed senior and long-time residents, and thirty-two people confirmed it,” discloses Thirupurasundari. Going by this account, there seems to be a rare case of coincidence. What makes this piece of social-history research really remarkable, according to Thirupurasundari, is how it provided a peek into what is at the core of this neighbourhood. Thirupurasundari continues: “In the late 1960s and early 1970s, there were only a scattering of houses in Anna Nagar, a planned neighbourhood. Back then, it was a neighbourhood primarily populated by government employees, who had bought TNHB plots. Residents point out that the owner of this iron shop, who operated with two assistants, would apply starch to the uniform of police personnel domiciled in the neighbourhood. His small enterprise was well-known. A few residents with houses around the Blue Star Signal area, who were born in Anna Nagar and are in their fifties and sixties now, have told us how as children, they would be asked to stand next to the ‘blue star’ iron shop, and wait for the bus. Naturally, in time, the bus stop got that name. Residents would have sent their children to schools near and far by public transport, and there was CSI Ewarts and schools in Mylapore that drew students from far.” Footnote to history Every landmark will ultimately go, but some do “remain” as footnotes to history. Chintamani will put in a modest appearance wherever the history of Anna Nagar is discussed. Col. Dr. N.G. Pandarinath, a resident of Twelfth Main Road, says, “The Chintamani Bus Stop and Signal will continue just as the Blue Star Bus Stop and Signal have continued.” Dr. Pandarinath has not set foot in the Chintamani Supermarket, but he instinctively realises that it is integrated into the Anna Nagar story. When it was thrown open on March 23, 1974, by R. Natarajan, then Special Secretary of the Cooperative Department, the cooperative supermarket was a visible and powerful symbol of town planning. It was named after a successful experiment in cooperatives, in Coimbatore, that spread to other parts of India. “The fact that this was a planned marketplace where residents can buy essentials at subsidised prices, and came with the early blueprint for Anna Nagar, earns it a place in history,” says Thirupurasundari. “It blends organically into the other elements of the Anna Nagar story, which in its initial years was about government employees, state and central, putting down roots in the neighbourhood.” Says Dr. Pandarinath: “At the time (of the Chintamani Supermarket being established), I was in the Army, and I heard that something had come up. I had in fact got my plot way back in 1967, and whenever I would come down, I would go and look at the plot on Twelfth Main Road. In the late 1970s, I received a letter from Tamil Nadu Housing Board that if I did not construct a house on the plot it would be taken away. I said I was in the Army and therefore would not be able to supervise the construction, and they gave me exemption. However, in 1980, I had a house built on the plot and gave it to the Army because my work was in the Himalayas,” says Dr. Pandarinath. He would continue to carry out his duties as doctor in the high-altitude ranges of the Himalayas, including Pir Panchal and Dhauladhar, and it would be 1995, following his retirement, when he and his family would finally settle down in their house on Twelfth Main Road. Though he never ever shopped at Chintamani, he knows it is part of the foundations on which the locality was planned and established. Dominic Johnson, who lived in Shenoy Nagar for 33 years and has been living in X Block of Anna Nagar, behind the iconic Anna Nagar Tower, since 1991, has memories of booking tickets at Southern Railway's Booking Office in Chintamani. Though over the years he would find the walls leading to the booking office increasingly marred by pan stains, there are simple but enduring memories to cherish about “Chintamani the landmark”, where “in the 1970s, we would congregate before heading to the Thiru Vi Ka School grounds for cricket. There would be no buildings after Chintamani.” There are buildings everywhere now, but no Chintamani. But certainly, memories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/auld-lang-syne-in-madras-will-all-avenues-still-lead-to-chintamani/article33772468.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||New court complex in Ambattur nearing completion||After a lull caused by the lockdown, work relating to the construction of the Combined Court Complex in Ambattur is slowly drawing to a close. At present, the Public Works Department (PWD) has completed 80 per cent of the work including construction of separate chambers for judges, conference rooms and visitors’ hall. The multi-crore project is being carried out after the demolition of an old dilapidated court complex on the 1.25-acres premises on CTH Road, adjacent to the office of Zone – 7, Greater Chennai Corporation. Since the old court complex was demolished, the existing Ambattur court functions from the defunct canteen belonging to Small Industrial Development Corporation (SIDCO) off CTH Road, behind the bus terminus at Ambattur Industrial Estate. The rented unused canteen has been converted into a court complex with small rooms that house judges’ chambers, a record room and court halls. A majority of the rooms were poorly lit and the ceilings in the structure has peeled off due to weathering. “Unlike the temporary accommodation, the new court is located at the centre of the neighbourhood making it accessible for visitors,” says S. Marimuthu, a litigant from Pattaravakkam. As per the plan, PWD officials point out, the new court building on CTH Road will have separate court halls for all three courts with separate rooms for judges, separate rooms for men and women advocates, a visitors’ hall, a records room, an office, water taps and toilets. Ramps will also be constructed for the differently-abled. Parking space for vehicles, a canteen and advocates association rooms are being constructed. Prior to COVID-19, every day, on an average, more than 600 litigants from Ambattur OT, Thirumulavoyal, Muthalpudupet, Heavy Vehicles Factory (HVF), Ambattur Estate, Korattur and Nolambur would visit the court. Further, under-trials were also brought to the court for remand and custody. However, due to lack of custody rooms at the defunct canteen-turned-court complex, the police accompanying the under-trials have been on the spot as the safety of under-trials is at risk. Case bundles need better maintenance as there are not adequate steel bureaus to store them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/new-court-complex-in-ambattur-nearing-completion/article33772454.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Pathway to railway station gets messy||Careless waste disposal practices have compounded the stray-dog problem near the railway station in Villivakkam. We are particularly talking about garbage dumped near the ticket counters at the northern entrance of the railway station. In the evening hours, commuters especially women, are scared of using the pathway as stray dogs chase them.  “We cannot walk on the pathway due to the foul smell emanating from the garbage. And due to the dumping of garbage on the pathway, mosquitoes have also started breeding,” says S. Venugopal, a commuter from Villivakkam. A vast open space at the railway station was once a paid parking spot. Garbage is also being dumped on the open space, which also has stagnant rainwater that accumulated during the northeast monsoon in December because the open railway land does not have drains to discharge excess rainwater to nearby stormwater drains. Another major irritant for commuters is the closure of refreshment outlets at the railway station. Villivakkam railway station does not have adequate refreshment outlets including newspaper and magazine stalls and eateries. “Steps will be taken to prevent dumping of garbage on the pathway near the railway station soon,” said a railway official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/pathway-to-railway-station-gets-messy/article33772457.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||ROB work in Annanur picks up steam||Work on another project that has raised great expectations is progressing at a good clip. The construction of the Rail Over Bridge (ROB), which will replace the existing manned railway line at Annanur near Thirumullaivoyal, is nearing completion with over 80 per cent of the work having been completed. The new bridge project, handled by the Rural Roads wing of the State Highways Department and NABARD for the past two years will ensure easy access to various parts of Chennai via CTH Road. At present, most of the motorists from the neighbourhood take a detour via Avadi and Thirumullavoyal to reach CTH Road covering a distance of over four kilometres. The existing manned railway crossing at Annanur railway crossing remains closed most of the time especially during rush hour even as the operation of suburban trains resumed a few months ago. Many motorists, especially motorcyclists, cross the railway track to reach the other side of the neighbourhood putting themselves at risk for accidents. “Early inauguration of the new bridge will put an end to out plight. The connecting stretch between the neighbourhood and CTH Road should also be relaid to ensure safety of road users,” says K. Vinod, a motorist from Annanoor. The project got the administrative nod from the State government in 2012, but due to challenges in land acquisition it got delayed by many years. The work got under way more than an year ago. As per the plan, the two-lane bridge will be built at a cost of Rs. 24 crore with the total length of the bridge pegged at around 650 metres and its width, 7.5 metres, with additional facilities such as stormwater drains, LED street lights, median, reflectors, footpaths and staircases. According to existing work standards, the railway track portion of such projects including subways and bridges is being done by the Engineer Division of the Southern Railway while the ramp portion on the connecting roads is done by the State Highways. Accident-prone spots Between Chennai Central and Tiruvallur railway stations, Annanoor railway station is one of the five most accident-prone spots on the western suburban rail line, as per a recent study done by the Railways. Railway stations at Vyasarpadi, Villivakkam, Pattabiram and Thiruninravur near Avadi are the other four most accident-prone spots on the route where on an average three persons die on the tracks every week. Most of these deaths occur due to trespassing, with commuters talking over the mobile phone and thereby failing to see the oncoming trains, mostly suburban trains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/rob-work-in-annanur-picks-up-steam/article33772451.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Mangal Eri park now a feast for the eyes||Mangal Eri Park — also known as Arignar Anna Park — on Vellar Street in Mogappair West is now a feast for the eyes. Coupled with a good monsoon, timely restoration work by the civic officials of Zone 7, the Eri is almost filled to brim. As part of the restoration, widened stormwater drains on adjoining streets and lanes were connected to the pond through a network of pipelines. The pond was desilted and deepened after being rid of thick vegetation. Staircases were built on all four sides of the waterbody for visitors to access it. Weeds that had grown between the compound wall and the walkers’ pathway, which is around 30-feet wide, were pruned. A small portion of space inside the park has also been converted to handle garbage, mainly consisting of dry leaves from the park. “The excess rainwater in the pond will help recharge the groundwater in its vicinity that is thickly populated,” says S. Venketaramani, a long-time resident of Mogappair. Over 2,000 visitors, mainly walkers from Mogappair West, Reddipalayam Nagar, Mogappair East, J.J Nagar, Nolambur, Maduravoyal, Collector Nagar and Tirumangalam visit the park, one of the biggest public spaces after the Tower Park in Anna Nagar every day. Since 2017, Greater Chennai Corporation has been restoring the Eri as a ‘Model Park’. A concrete median, 1.5-feet tall and provided with enough space for saplings to be planted in it, on either side of the walkers’ pathway, de-silting and deepening the pond to a depth of around three metres and provided with steel railings, a yoga and meditation centre, a children’s play area, a pebble pathway and a clock tower were among the other highlights of the project. At present, the walker’s pathway is around 4.5 feet wide and 520 metres long.  Residents and visitors also want the pond to be fully fenced to prevent children and students from going near it. “Steps will be taken to ensure safety of visitors at the park,” says a Corporation official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/mangal-eri-park-now-a-feast-for-the-eyes/article33772444.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||A textbook project||A volunteering exercise to record audio books for a library in Kodambakkam has brought 10 women from a gated community in Vadapalani together. D. Vijayalakshmi, S. Varalakshmi, Anandavalli Natarajan, Usha, Uma Ravishankar, Uma Maheshwari, Mythili, P. Visalam, Radha, E. Indu and Priya are part of the women’s WhatsApp group of the gated community ASTA AVM, which helped Vasanthan library in Kodambakkam digitise State Board’s Class X books for the benefit of students who do not have access to such a resource or may need additional help with the lessons. When D. Vijayalakshmi learnt through a friend that the library was seeking volunteers to help them record State Board textbooks, she put out a post about it in the apartment’s women’s group. “Ten women wanted to support the cause and we formed a WhatApp group for the initiative to ensure better coordination,” says Vijayalakshmi. All that they had to do was record Class X textbooks from the comfort of their home, at their pace, and mail what they have done. Each of the women took up tasks based on their strengths. M. Usha, for instance, has completed recording nine poems in Tamil language. “Recording lessons is not new to me. I have done reading classes for the visually-challenged on a one-on-one basis but this was a little challenging as I also explain the poem, which means I have to refer books to first understand and practise a couple of times before doing the final recording,” says Usha. School teacher E. Indu, who took up Mathematics, would solve the problems in a notebook, explain it and send the recording to the library. P. Visalam, who retired from BSNL, is excited about doing the recording with two other friends from the apartment —Varalakshmi and Anandavalli. “We three are friends, so we took up Social Studies and divided the lessons among ourselves. Varalakshmi took up geography, Anandavalli, civics and economics and I took up history. We kept the target of finishing it in 10-15 days and made it as easy and interesting as possible,” says Visalam, who is also working on recording Bharathiyar songs. Vijayalakshmi says it was a new experience for all of them. “Not all of us are teachers, so it took some doing on our part,” says Vijayalakshmi, who has taken voluntary retirement from a bank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-textbook-project/article33772459.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||The fact sheet||lRunning through the eyes, broad black stripes meet, garlanding the nape in an arc lIn the female, the yellow in the mantle has a noticeable dash of green to it lIn the juvenile, the underparts are streaked and the eye-and-nape stripe is weak lThe bird feeds on berries and insects, with a particular taste for ficus fruits lThe Black-naped Oriole (Oriolus chinesis) is at home in broadleaf forests lThe subspecies Oriolus chinensis diffusus is what is found wintering in South India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-fact-sheet/article33772469.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Honour for school||Vedanta Academy Senior Secondary School was recently awarded British Council’s International School Award (ISA) in recognition of its work “to bring the world into the classroom.” The school has also been conferred with “Rashtriya Shiksha Gaurav Puraskar – 2020” award for the Best Next Generation School in Tamil Nadu by the Centre for Education Growth and Research (CEGR). The Academy is also a recipient of the FIT India Certificate of Recognition from the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports, Government of India for taking initiatives relating to physical fitness, said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/honour-for-school/article33772440.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer-writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtownfeedback@ thehindu.co.in. Here’s a short note on the basic building blocks of any short news feature. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. c) News features have to be factually-grounded and the central portion should support the anecdotal paragraph and the cosmic paragraph||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/you-can-be-our-volunteer-writer/article33772455.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Handicrafts sale ends on Feb.14||Sumathi Handicrafts is organising an exhibition-cum-sale of hadnloom products and handicrafts at No:7, North Mada Street, Mylapore. According to a press release, saris such as Bandini, Chanderi, Maheshwari, Kantha work, block-printed, Bengal cotton, Madurai Sungudi, tussar silk, Kota, and Ikkat are available. Also available are duppatas, shawls, kurtis, bed-spreads, towels, and kurtis. The sale will end on February 14. Time: From 10 a.m. to 8.30 p.m. For details, call 93837 40065 / 96293 74196.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/handicrafts-sale-ends-on-feb14/article33772439.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Yoga classes||Mogappair Panneer Nagar Manavalakalai Trust conducts yoga foundation course every month at Seethakathi Salai 4th Cross Street, Mogappair. The current batch started on February 1 and will continue till February 13. For details, call 9444418241 / 9840861519||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/yoga-classes/article33772441.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Will all avenues still lead to Chintamani?||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/will-all-avenues-still-lead-to-chintamani/article33772446.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||New court complex in Ambattur nearing completion||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/new-court-complex-in-ambattur-nearing-completion/article33772448.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||An oriole’s winter itinerary||S. Balachandran lets data do the talking for the Black-naped Oriole’s winter planning. First, its frequency chart in the Western Ghats settles a question: It is big “winter visitor” in that range. Second, in contrast, its occurrence across Tamil Nadu as a whole, particularly in the plains, is best described as “scattered” and “not continuous”. Deputy Director at the BNHS Regional Migration Study Centre in Point Calimere, Balachandran has had a Black-naped Oriole ringed and sent back into the wild. It was back in 2016, and that remains the only documented sighting of the Black-naped Oriole at Point Calimere, let alone ringing. “Besides the fact that it winters in Western Ghats, we are not clearly aware of this species’ migratory route. Unless you ring a species in substantial numbers, any knowledge you have would only be patchy,” states Balachandran. So, is the Black-naped Oriole ( Oriolus chinensis) not a winter visitor and only a sojourner in most parts of Tamil Nadu, particularly Chennai, pitching tent in some patches before settling down into a longer home stay elsewhere? The BNHS scientist baulks at drawing that inference, and chooses the most sensible option: Keeping the door open for fresh insights. “Nowadays, we notice the migratory patterns of many species changing due to various factors, says Balachandran, adding that new discoveries may be stemming simply from the fact that “more observations are being made now.” Balachandran is obviously referring to citizen-science projects that bring more pairs of eyes to bird habitats. Three young birders familiar with IIT-Madras, a source of photographic records about Black-naped Oriole sightings in Chennai, weigh in with their views in this matter. They are: eBird reviewer Vikas Madhav Nagarajan; Sidharth Srinivasan, a resident of West Mambalam, currently pursuing a masters programme in Wildlife Biology and Conservation at the National Centre for Biological Studies, who has made IIT-M his birding patch, even now during flying visits to Chennai between semesters. Mahathi Narayanaswamy, given to recording bird calls, has the privilege of keeping her ear really close to the ground as she is a resident of IIT-M, and therefore having a glimpse of a wintering Black-naped Oriole is probably not as challenging as it could be for most others. “There were not as many records of the Black-naped Oriole as there are today. All forested tracts in Chennai have records: IIT-M, Guindy National Park (GNP) and Madras Christian College (MCC) are among them. I have seen it at SSN College during the bird count. It needs trees, and are drawn to fruiting ficus trees, especially large ones like the Banyan,” says Vikas. There have even been a couple of photographic records from Stella Maris, which has an impressive green cover. Says Sidharth: “The Black-naped Oriole usually comes to IIT-Madras and GNP during winter, almost every season, as the records in eBird show. It migrates here for the winter, but could also be a passage migrant, because many of them go to the Western Ghats. It could be that the population that come here stays here. Or, it could be that a part of that population stays here, and the rest goes to the Western Ghats. We cannot be really sure about that. The number of sightings have definitely increased here — but one could attribute it to more pairs of eyes, and more reportings on eBird. It likes the forested parts of Chennai. Not only Chennai, it also occurs in other parts of the Coromandel Coast: It does like the forested habitats, the tropical dry evergreen forests. It should be more frequent and common in any of the wooded habitats of Chennai, but we really do not have a lot of that left. That may explain the number of sightings.” Says Vikas: “If you look at Richard Grimmett, it will have a scattered appearance across Tamil Nadu. It will look like a very rare bird, with only a few records here and there, whereas it is a regular winter visitor, especially in our areas where you will definitely see the bird, if you go to the right place. The Black-naped Oriole would prefer a much thicker forest tract and a well-wooded country. The Indian Golden Oriole, which is a resident in Chennai with some local movement, is also at home in a wooded habitat, but is more eclectic, being found in thick forest; and may also be found in patches that are open scrub and open country, but have stands of trees.” Mahathi says, “At IIT-M, due to a lot of birding activity, records of Black-naped Oriole emerge. The bird must be present in similar patches, which include the Theosophical Society campus.” She adds, “At IIT-M, there are many ficus trees across the campus, and Black-naped Orioles feed on their fruits, particularly those of the Banyan.” (' Migrant Watch ' is a column about birds that visit Chennai during winter)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/an-orioles-winter-itinerary/article33772495.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||A champion in their midst||Anitha Pauldurai would not miss her everyday fitness programme for anything. The same goes for her practice as a basketball player. The commitment paid off. She is a national basketball player who has been receiving accolades for sterling performances, especially in big-ticket events like Common Wealth Games, Asian Games, and FIBA Asian Basketball Championship. Now, as a crowning glory, this mother of two children has made it to the list of achievers who would be conferred with the Padma Shri Award for the year 2021. “Since 11, I have been actively taking part in various sports and winning prizes. Coach N. Sampath encouraged me to take up basketball. Playing at the regional and State level, fetched me a job in Southern Railway, which further paved the way for me to represent the Indian team. I became the captain of the Indian team when I was just 19. I was considered the youngest captain,” says Anitha, an alumna of St. Antony’s Higher Secondary School in Santhome and Lady Sivaswamy Ayyar Girls’ Higher Secondary School in Mylapore. A month after delivering her son in 2014, she started a workout regimen to shed the excess weight gained during pregnancy. Without reducing her food intake, she lost nearly 10 kg, purely through exercise and yoga, she says. She followed the same programme after she had her second baby. Anitha obviously has great time-management skills, as she has done justice to various commitments: As a mother, Chief Welfare Inspector (Sports) in Southern Railway and of course, as a basketball player. “I am thankful that my mother and husband have been supporting me to pursue my goals as a basketball player,” says 35-year-old Anitha, who is an MBA graduate. Residents of AGS Colony in West Velachery have been proud about having a national basketball player in their midst. Until she moved to AGS Colony in November 2020, she was a resident of Iyyapanthangal. AGS Colony Residents Welfare Association honoured her last week and plans to felicitate her after she receives the coveted award in March.  Since 11, I have been actively taking part in various sports; and thanks to my coach, I realised basketball was my calling||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-champion-in-their-midst/article33772502.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Food waste treatment system installed||The office of Zone 13 of Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) has installed a plant for the treatment of food waste at Amma Unavagam (Amma canteen) located on the premises of a Greater Chennai Corporation Primary School in Indira Nagar, Adyar. The plant, developed by Avris Environment Technologies Limited Liability Partnership (LLP), a Chennai-based start-up, was inaugurated by Alby John Varghese, Regional Deputy Commissioner - South, GCC recently on February 2. V. Bharath, director of the start-up says,“The plant can take in 75 kg of waste. The waste is crushed and turned into a slurry, which further gets converted into bio-gas. This fuel is piped to the stove in the kitchen and used for cooking.” Srikant Sitaraman, director, says, “The slurry is a fertilizer rich in nitrogen phosphorous and potassium.” The start-up calls their product Chugg. Apart from one with 75-kg capacity, there is one that comes with 35-kg capacity, says Ravi Ayyangar, director of the start-up. According to GCC’s Assistant Engineer, V. Ravichandran, “The plant is user-friendly and we are training our staff to operate it. This Amma Unavagam generates 20 to 25 kilograms of waste every day.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/food-waste-treatment-system-installed/article33772480.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||The glowing light of service||A torch with a tall leaping tongue of fire is evocative — think Olympics. Passed on, it signifies a sense of continuity, collaboration and community. A torch with dry cells do not make for a similarly arresting picture. However, the alumni of PS High School (PSHS) have managed those three Cs despite having settled for a torch of the garden variety. In 2019, when the school’s 1969 batch had their golden-jubilee reunion, the tradition of passing on the torch to the next batch saw the light. Through this act, a batch symbolically transfers the responsibility of improving the school’s infrastructure to the one next in line to celebrate its fiftieth-year meet-up. The school tie being strong, a good number of batches would be in for the long haul, chipping in with support from time to time, but when the torch finds a batch in its golden-jubilee year, a massive effort is tacitly expected of it. Three successive batches have had a taste of this new tradition, and with each doing justice to it, the school now has improved classrooms with better chairs and tables and smartboards (1969 batch); a well-appointed computer lab with 22 new computers and related-lab facilities (1970 batch); and recently, a block of new restrooms with hugely upgraded facilities (1971 batch). The modest torch with dry cells has been a huge motivator. Here is an illustration. Dr. U.V. Ramakrishnan from the 1970 batch, lives at Appu Street where he also has a practice as a pulmonologist, besides being attached to a private hospital. He recalls that when the 1969 batch had their golden jubilee celebrations, the school management sent for him. “The ‘69 batch passed the torch on to me,” says Dr. Ramakrishnan, adding that the responsibilities with him were a tad more demanding — because, he had to start from the scratch, having to stitch together a 1970-batch alumni group. “As I was a doctor, the school administration was able to contact me,” he explains. “The 1971 batch had started meeting., within 30 years of passing out of school. They were building their contacts slowly, whereas we did not do that. Fortunately, some of my batchmates were in the same locality. Catching hold of them, I spread the word about having to buold a 1970-batch alumini group, through them. Today, the 1970-batch alumni group is over 40 members old, and we stay connected over WhatsApp. In February 2020 (12 in attendance), we conducted one meet and in early-March (when the number doubled), another. By no stretch of the imagination are these a golden-jubilee reunion. The idea has been in cold storage, and when the threat from the pandemic subsides, we would have it organised. As our batch stretches up to ‘G’ section, with each having around 40 students, our alumni group has to obviously grow bigger.” Though the pandemic has moved their grand reunion, the 1970 batch has managed to “pass on the torch”. “During the second meeting, in early-March, 2020, we formed a core group and we went around the campus with headmistress R. Kala, looking into various things that required attention. The computer lab being one of them, we made it the focus of our project. The computers had mostly aged 12 to 15 years. We raised close to Rs. 6 lakh, with which we managed to donate 22 brand-new computers, items necessary to run a computer lab, an Air-Conditioning unit, wall fans and a vacuum cleaner. From my end, I also passed on some sanitary equipment,” says Dr. Ramakrishnan. On this new practice that is three batches old, KVS Gopalakrishnan, secretary of PS High School and the PS Educational Society, says “It ensures continuity in both service to the alma mater and also connectivity between one batch and another; and continues the chain. The handing over of the torch like a baton has happened only among the 1969, 70 and 71 batches, but the golden jubilee reunions have been going on since 1990 when the 1940 celebrated theirs. For the last 30 years, the golden-jubilee reunions have been happening, and sometimes, the batches may also meet for their 25th and 20th year reunion in an informal manner. Even before the reunion happens, they get in touch with the headmistress or the secretary to find out what they could do for the school.” Dr. Ramakrishnan lauds earlier batches that have made impressive contributions, though they had no “torch” to spur them on. He gives an example: “My brother UV Babu is from the 1964 batch and I know that they have made a difference by taking care of old teachers.”  During the second meeting, in early-March, 2020, we formed a core group and we went around the campus with headmistress R. Kala, looking into various things that required attention||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-glowing-light-of-service/article33772485.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||A legacy parked in a library||To all appearances, Vasanthan Library in Kodambakkam is just another library. For those familiar with the story behind its establishment, it is hallowed ground, marking the memory of Vasanthan, who was tragically struck down in the prime of his life. Vasanthan was in the final-year of a master of arts programme at Madras Christian College, when he met with an accident. The family would not let his memory fade away. In March 2015, a year after his death, they established this library at Sivan Koil Street near Powerhouse in his honour. “Vasanthan has always been surrounded by books; in Class VI itself, he had read Shiv Khera’s You Can Win. He was exposed to wide range of genres,” recalls Sudha Ulagaoli, Vasanthan’s mother who is a former banker and Tamil news reader. It was Vasanthan’s dream to establish a public library at his father’s village in interior Tiruchirappali. With the family finding it a challenge to set up a library at their native town, they decided on opening up the space at the house Vasanthan grew up in. The ground floor at the independent house was converted into a free library-cum-reading room. “The ground floor had a hall, a car parking area and a kitchen; we converted the hall into a library. The parking lot is where people sit and read, it can accommodate 10 people comfortably,” she says. In the initial years, much of the collection consisted of books that had been bought by Vasanthan, and also those by his father, M. Ulagaoli. “We had 60 boxes of books, a good number of them were related to Civil Service examination that Vasanthan was preparing for then,” says Sudha, who is in her mid-50s. Books on international human rights, biographies and Sidney Sheldon series are part of his collection that are now stacked in the room. The reading room currently has a collection of 5,000 books, seeking to meet reading needs of various age groups. Pongal and Deepavali are the only days when the place is closed; otherwise anyone can have access to the collection any time between 9 a.m. and 8 p.m. It also has a rest room for the benefit of those using the facility for a longer duration. “This is not a lending library, so we have not had any practical difficulties of keeping track of books,” says Sudha. In the pre-COVID days, on an average, 20 people would visit the place; and the number would increase during weekends. “We maintain a wish list where readers can mention a book they are looking for, which we either procure by contacting friends or have well-wishers donating for the purchase of book,” says Sudha, who is a member of Thakkar Baba Vidyalaya. The centre has been helping children hone their creativity by conducting drawing competitions during Pongal and a drama event every Saturday. Every Wednesday, a councillor is invited to the place. It has also offered its premises free for NEET classes. Lockdown project Since the lockdown began last year, the library has not opened its gates formally but continues to engage with its readers through the digital medium. In October, the library started a YouTube channel by the same name where they record books meant to help deserving high school students. “We completed recording lessons that students appearing for class X Board examination need and we are in the process of recording lessons for other classes,” she says. Sudha says they currently have 70 videos, which were made by more than 70 volunteers and they are in the process of uploading more vidoes. Volunteers needed They are looking for more volunteers who can help them with this exercise. “I have retired teachers, home-makers and some from Coimbatore and Madurai helping us in recording. We currently need people to help us with editing audios and videos, checkers who can listen and compare the text and explanation to weed any mistakes and those who can read lessons,” says Sudha. D. Vijayaraghavan, a working professional who volunteers after his office hours, in the evening, by editing videos, says anyone with a knowledge of computers can be a part of this exercise. A digital experience of Bharathiar songs is also being planned. To volunteer, contact 9884149045/ 9716177728  We maintain a wish list that allows readers to mention a book they are looking for, and we either get it for them by contacting our friends or get well-wishers to donate towards the purchase of the book||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-legacy-parked-in-a-library/article33772497.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Auld Lang Syne in Madras Will all avenues still lead to Chintamani?||Chintamani Supermarket has been knocked down. And it has a litmus test to pass: Landmarks are put to a popularity vote after they are gone. That is the downside to being a landmark. The best ones survive physical removal, their “ashes” interred with “the everyday”. Is Chintamani in that league? Or, would it be expunged out of our collective memory? The cooperative supermarket has two things going for it straightaway. One, it lent its name to a well-used bus stop, and a busy signal to boot. Two, it fits in organically with an unusual story called “Anna Nagar”. Landmarks with bus stops named after them are likely to have a free and long ride into the future that they themselves are not a part of. Ponds Bus Stop — on Grand Southern Trunk Road in the Nagalkeni area of Chromepet — has indelibly scripted the memory of a factory that the Ponds Company functioned from, into the common man’s daily commute. These names are history in shorthand, and the curious lot from successive generations decipher them, even elaborating on the stories of the times they represent. An example right in Anna Nagar — not too far from what was Chintamani only a few days ago — is the Blue Star Bus Stop and the Blue Star Signal. “In 2014, we stumbled upon the origins of the title ‘Blue Star Bus Stop’, through something that IPS officer (retd.) Roshan Lal Handa shared with us. Somewhere in the late 1960s, the bus stop derived its name from an iron shop ( isthirikadai ) bearing the name ‘blue star’ in Tamil,” says Thirupurasundari Sevvel of Nam Veedu Nam Oor Nam Kadhai, a social history initiative that particularly documents stories about West Madras, which includes Anna Nagar. Thirupurasundari recalls being intrigued by this piece of information. “It is widely assumed that the bus stop and the signal took their name after the local presence of the Blue Star company on the same road, and bore it even after this presence left the neighbourhood. Curiously bearing this company’s name, the iron shop did predate the establishment, as we discovered when we carried out a social-research exercise based on Mr. Handa’s lead. We interviewed senior and long-time residents, and thirty-two people confirmed it,” discloses Thirupurasundari. Going by this account, there seems to be a rare case of coincidence. What makes this piece of social-history research really remarkable, according to Thirupurasundari, is how it provided a peek into what is at the core of this neighbourhood. Thirupurasundari continues: “In the late 1960s and early 1970s, there were only a scattering of houses in Anna Nagar, a planned neighbourhood. Back then, it was a neighbourhood primarily populated by government employees, who had bought TNHB plots. Residents point out that the owner of this iron shop, who operated with two assistants, would apply starch to the uniform of police personnel domiciled in the neighbourhood. His small enterprise was well-known. A few residents with houses around the Blue Star Signal area, who were born in Anna Nagar and are in their fifties and sixties now, have told us how as children, they would be asked to stand next to the ‘blue star’ iron shop, and wait for the bus. Naturally, in time, the bus stop got that name. Residents would have sent their children to schools near and far by public transport, and there was CSI Ewarts and schools in Mylapore that drew students from far.” Footnote to history Every landmark will ultimately go, but some do “remain” as footnotes to history. Chintamani will put in a modest appearance wherever the history of Anna Nagar is discussed. Col. Dr. N.G. Pandarinath, a resident of Twelfth Main Road, says, “The Chintamani Bus Stop and Signal will continue just as the Blue Star Bus Stop and Signal have continued.” Dr. Pandarinath has not set foot in the Chintamani Supermarket, but he instinctively realises that it is integrated into the Anna Nagar story. When it was thrown open on March 23, 1974, by R. Natarajan, then Special Secretary of the Cooperative Department, the cooperative supermarket was a visible and powerful symbol of town planning. It was named after a successful experiment in cooperatives, in Coimbatore, that spread to other parts of India. “The fact that this was a planned marketplace where residents can buy essentials at subsidised prices, and came with the early blueprint for Anna Nagar, earns it a place in history,” says Thirupurasundari. “It blends organically into the other elements of the Anna Nagar story, which in its initial years was about government employees, state and central, putting down roots in the neighbourhood.” Says Dr. Pandarinath: “At the time (of the Chintamani Supermarket being established), I was in the Army, and I heard that something had come up. I had in fact got my plot way back in 1967, and whenever I would come down, I would go and look at the plot on Twelfth Main Road. In the late 1970s, I received a letter from Tamil Nadu Housing Board that if I did not construct a house on the plot it would be taken away. I said I was in the Army and therefore would not be able to supervise the construction, and they gave me exemption. However, in 1980, I had a house built on the plot and gave it to the Army because my work was in the Himalayas,” says Dr. Pandarinath. He would continue to carry out his duties as doctor in the high-altitude ranges of the Himalayas, including Pir Panchal and Dhauladhar, and it would be 1995, following his retirement, when he and his family would finally settle down in their house on Twelfth Main Road. Though he never ever shopped at Chintamani, he knows it is part of the foundations on which the locality was planned and established. Dominic Johnson, who lived in Shenoy Nagar for 33 years and has been living in X Block of Anna Nagar, behind the iconic Anna Nagar Tower, since 1991, has memories of booking tickets at Southern Railway's Booking Office in Chintamani. Though over the years he would find the walls leading to the booking office increasingly marred by pan stains, there are simple but enduring memories to cherish about “Chintamani the landmark”, where “in the 1970s, we would congregate before heading to the Thiru Vi Ka School grounds for cricket. There would be no buildings after Chintamani.” There are buildings everywhere now, but no Chintamani. But certainly, memories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/auld-lang-syne-in-madras-will-all-avenues-still-lead-to-chintamani/article33772498.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||All eyes on Kalvi Varu Street project||Kalvi Varu Street near Luz Corner junction in Mylapore is on the threshold of a major makeover. The S-shaped, 800-metre-long street is being widened, and is expected to have its existing facilities improved upon. Recently, workers of the Greater Chennai Corporation were busy attending to the footpath, which was damaged. Though not an arterial road, Kalvi Varu Street is a key stretch in the neighbourhood connecting Royapettah High Road with Kutchery Road. The MRTS rail line runs over the stretch with one of its stations being located at one end of the street. With this restoration work, Luz Corner junction would be decongested and there would be an alternative and safe route for motorists to reach both sides of the neighbourhood. “The stretch makes a short and safer route for motorists and pedestrians. Civic officials should ensure that the widened stretch, especially its footpaths are not encroached upon again,” says S. Nathan, a motorist from Mylapore. For decades, the road has been narrow and in some parts encroached upon. The civic body has extended the width of the stretch up to the bund of the Buckingham Canal to ensure greater road space. With the widening work, the width of the road would double to 60 feet along with expanded footpath, parking bays for cars and two-wheelers and seating arrangement for walkers. The two-way stretch will not have a median as it would reduce the total road space. Instead, reflectors, signboards, LED street lights and speed breakers will be a part of the facelift. More importantly, the canal bund will be strengthened with a three-foot-tall side wall and a fencing above the side wall to prevent people from leaning and looking into the canal. “The entire widening work is expected to be completed in a month,” says a Corporation official.  Greater Chennai Corporation officials should ensure the footpaths are not encroached upon again||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/all-eyes-on-kalvi-varu-street-project/article33772489.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||A textbook project||A volunteering exercise to record audio books for a library in Kodambakkam has brought 10 women from a gated community in Vadapalani together. D. Vijayalakshmi, S. Varalakshmi, Anandavalli Natarajan, Usha, Uma Ravishankar, Uma Maheshwari, Mythili, P. Visalam, Radha, E. Indu and Priya are part of the women’s WhatsApp group of the gated community ASTA AVM, which helped Vasanthan library in Kodambakkam digitise State Board’s Class X books for the benefit of students who do not have access to such a resource or may need additional help with the lessons. When D. Vijayalakshmi learnt through a friend that the library was seeking volunteers to help them record State Board textbooks, she put out a post about it in the apartment’s women’s group. “Ten women wanted to support the cause and we formed a WhatApp group for the initiative to ensure better coordination,” says Vijayalakshmi. All that they had to do was record Class X textbooks from the comfort of their home, at their pace, and mail what they have done. Each of the women took up tasks based on their strengths. M. Usha, for instance, has completed recording nine poems in Tamil language. “Recording lessons is not new to me. I have done reading classes for the visually-challenged on a one-on-one basis but this was a little challenging as I also explain the poem, which means I have to refer books to first understand and practise a couple of times before doing the final recording,” says Usha. School teacher E. Indu, who took up Mathematics, would solve the problems in a notebook, explain it and send the recording to the library. P. Visalam, who retired from BSNL, is excited about doing the recording with two other friends from the apartment —Varalakshmi and Anandavalli. “We three are friends, so we took up Social Studies and divided the lessons among ourselves. Varalakshmi took up geography, Anandavalli, civics and economics and I took up history. We kept the target of finishing it in 10-15 days and made it as easy and interesting as possible,” says Visalam, who is also working on recording Bharathiyar songs. Vijayalakshmi says it was a new experience for all of them. “Not all of us are teachers, so it took some doing on our part,” says Vijayalakshmi, who has taken voluntary retirement from a bank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-textbook-project/article33772496.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||The fact sheet||lRunning through the eyes, broad black stripes meet, garlanding the nape in an arc lIn the female, the yellow in the mantle has a noticeable dash of green to it lIn the juvenile, the underparts are streaked and the eye-and-nape stripe is weak lThe bird feeds on berries and insects, with a particular taste for ficus fruits lThe Black-naped Oriole (Oriolus chinesis) is at home in broadleaf forests lThe subspecies Oriolus chinensis diffusus is what is found wintering in South India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-fact-sheet/article33772494.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||After 10 months, Murrays resumes auction||Murrays, one of the oldest auction houses in Chennai, has resumed its auctions after a 10-month break due to the COVID-19 pandemic. A press release has said that the first auction will be held on February 6. The firm will be conducting a themed auction every week, the first of which was “Brass and Collectables”. The auction house is following COVID-19 safety precautions, the release says. Murrays will hold shorter auctions with about 90 - 100 lots, conscious of the need to provide a safe environment for its customers, says the release. The firm is taking all necessary measures to maintain social distancing and ensure compliance with government regulations. The Auction Rooms can seat about 80 people. Murrays will also be taking phone and absentee bids. Murrays was started in 1927 and its auction rooms were thrown open to the public in 1930 on Mount Road and since then, the Sunday Auction has become a feature of the city’s business landscape. The last auction conducted at Murrays was in March 2020. Added to its live in-person auctions, Murrays will shortly launch its online auction portal for sale of quality furniture, art and collectables, adds the release. The auctions will be held at the Murrays Auction Rooms, 601, Anna Salai, Chennai-06, 4:30 p.m. The articles would be available for viewing through the week, between 10 a.m. and 6 p.m. For updates on safety protocols, SOPs, themes of future auctions and catalogues, visitwww.murrays.inor follow @murraysauctions on Facebook.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/after-10-months-murrays-resumes-auction/article33772503.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Residents plan to keep track of development||WhenHarrington Roadreceived a makeover five years ago, residents’ involvement in the exercise was evident. The resident association had divided itself into groups to coordinate different aspects of the work. Later, when the work was completed, the association deployed marshals who would make sure vehicles were not parked on the widened and tiled footpath. These marshals, whose salaries were paid by residents, also had to regulate traffic and pull down unauthorised posters. Those familiar with the afore-mentioned residents’ initiative might experience a deja vu of sorts if they studied the efforts being taken by residents of Kalvi Varu Street. For instance, a WhatsApp group — Kalvi Varu Street Welfare Group – comprising representatives from Kalvi Varu Street, Mundakanni Amman Koil and Thiru Vi Ka Lanes has been formed to discuss how to engage with different stakeholders when the Kalvi Varu Street makeover project is completed. At present, the group formed last year, has around 20 members. “We are trying to rope in more people, including residents of adjoining streets so that all of us can work collectively and ensure the upkeep of this place,” says Sekar Viswanathan, a resident of Mundakanni Amman Koil Street and one of the members in the group. Already, members are sharpening the focus on the areas they have to focus on when the street is fully ready. “There are obstructions on the platform, but I regularly walk on it as this is the space for pedestrians and we need to use it, question it when it is usurped,” says Viswanathan. “We have to involve those staying on the other side of Kalvi Varu Street, so that they also develop a sense of ownership about the street,” he adds. With one entrance of Vidya Mandir Senior Secondary School on the stretch, the school management will also have an active role to play in this exercise. “To ensure that the development work being taken up on the stretch is satisfactorily maintained, residents of Kalvi Varu Street, Vidya Mandir School, Parent Teacher Association and Vidya Mandir Alumni Association may come together to support the initiative and also maintain the street,” says M. Kannuswamy, president of Vidya Mandir Alumni Association. K. Viswanathan, secretary of Mylapore Residents Welfare Association (MRWA), says the Kalvi Varu Street makeover project is unique in many respects and the local residents’ active participation is of utmost importance in sustaining the work. He cites the example of Seethamma Extension Welfare Association (SEWA) in Teynampet. After the Association got unauthorised college vans parked on the stretch removed, residents came together to ensure various safety measures including CCTV cameras and speed breakers, were introduced. The MRWA secretaryadds, “SEWA is an example of how residents have succeeded in restoring and sustaining the maintenance of public spaces.”  We are trying to rope in more people so that all of us can work collectively and ensure this place’s upkeep||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/residents-plan-to-keep-track-of-development/article33772486.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Auditions for Face of Chennai||Iris Events is conducting the 10th edition of the ‘Face of Chennai 2021’. The event seeks to identify “complete beauty, personality and positive attitudes” in young women and men in the 16-25 age group, says a release. The event also features several sub-categories for contestants like Enticing Smile, Expressive Eyes, Healthy Hair, Healthy Skin, Catwalk, Talent, Fitness and Perfect 10. The auditions will be held on February 7 at Citi Centre, Mylapore. For more details contact: 9841206506/ 9884783510 Email Id:irisfaceofchennai@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/auditions-for-face-of-chennai/article33772477.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Young mandolin player honoured||B. Viswas, a Class XII student of P.S. Senior Secondary School, who won the first place in Kala Utsav, a national-level contest organised by MHRD in the instrument category for the year 2019 – 2020, was felicitated recently. He was awarded a cash prize of Rs. 25,000 by the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu. Vishwas has been learning mandolin for the past 10 years and is a student of Gottuvadyam exponent Kalaimaamani Allam Shri Durga Prasad, says a press release. He is a member of the school’s orchestra.  Spoorthi Rao of Class X secured the first place in the National level competition under Carnatic Music category. Spoorthi has been learning Carnatic music from Ranjani and Gayatri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/young-mandolin-player-honoured/article33772482.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Handicrafts sale ends on Feb. 14||Sumathi Handicrafts is organising an exhibition-cum-sale of hadnloom products and handicrafts at No:7, North Mada Street, Mylapore. According to a press release, saris such as Bandini, Chanderi, Maheshwari, Kantha work, block-printed, Bengal cotton, Madurai Sungudi, tussar silk, Kota, and Ikkat are available. The sale has an offer in which a customer can get a sari free if two Chanderi saris are bought. Also available are duppatas, shawls, kurtis, bed-spreads, towels, and kurtis. Further, glass work, jewellery, brass artefacts, crockery items and food products are part of the collection. The sale will end on February 14. Time: From 10 a.m. to 8.30 p.m. For details, call 93837 40065 / 96293 74196.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/handicrafts-sale-ends-on-feb-14/article33772484.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||After 10 months, Murrays resumes auction||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/after-10-months-murrays-resumes-auction/article33772491.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||A legacy parked in a library||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-legacy-parked-in-a-library/article33772492.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||An oriole’s winter itinerary||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/an-orioles-winter-itinerary/article33772493.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||An oriole’s winter itinerary||S. Balachandran lets data do the talking for the Black-naped Oriole’s winter planning. First, its frequency chart in the Western Ghats settles a question: It is big “winter visitor” in that range. Second, in contrast, its occurrence across Tamil Nadu as a whole, particularly in the plains, is best described as “scattered” and “not continuous”. Deputy Director at the BNHS Regional Migration Study Centre in Point Calimere, Balachandran has had a Black-naped Oriole ringed and sent back into the wild. It was back in 2016, and that remains the only documented sighting of the Black-naped Oriole at Point Calimere, let alone ringing. “Besides the fact that it winters in Western Ghats, we are not clearly aware of this species’ migratory route. Unless you ring a species in substantial numbers, any knowledge you have would only be patchy,” states Balachandran. So, is the Black-naped Oriole ( Oriolus chinensis) not a winter visitor and only a sojourner in most parts of Tamil Nadu, particularly Chennai, pitching tent in some patches before settling down into a longer home stay elsewhere? The BNHS scientist baulks at drawing that inference, and chooses the most sensible option: Keeping the door open for fresh insights. “Nowadays, we notice the migratory patterns of many species changing due to various factors, says Balachandran, adding that new discoveries may be stemming simply from the fact that “more observations are being made now.” Balachandran is obviously referring to citizen-science projects that bring more pairs of eyes to bird habitats. Three young birders familiar with IIT-Madras, a source of photographic records about Black-naped Oriole sightings in Chennai, weigh in with their views in this matter. They are: eBird reviewer Vikas Madhav Nagarajan; Sidharth Srinivasan, a resident of West Mambalam, currently pursuing a masters programme in Wildlife Biology and Conservation at the National Centre for Biological Studies, who has made IIT-M his birding patch, even now during flying visits to Chennai between semesters. Mahathi Narayanaswamy, given to recording bird calls, has the privilege of keeping her ear really close to the ground as she is a resident of IIT-M, and therefore having a glimpse of a wintering Black-naped Oriole is probably not as challenging as it could be for most others. “There were not as many records of the Black-naped Oriole as there are today. All forested tracts in Chennai have records: IIT-M, Guindy National Park (GNP) and Madras Christian College (MCC) are among them. I have seen it at SSN College during the bird count. It needs trees, and are drawn to fruiting ficus trees, especially large ones like the Banyan,” says Vikas. There have even been a couple of photographic records from Stella Maris, which has an impressive green cover. Says Sidharth: “The Black-naped Oriole usually comes to IIT-Madras and GNP during winter, almost every season, as the records in eBird show. It migrates here for the winter, but could also be a passage migrant, because many of them go to the Western Ghats. It could be that the population that come here stays here. Or, it could be that a part of that population stays here, and the rest goes to the Western Ghats. We cannot be really sure about that. The number of sightings have definitely increased here — but one could attribute it to more pairs of eyes, and more reportings on eBird. It likes the forested parts of Chennai. Not only Chennai, it also occurs in other parts of the Coromandel Coast: It does like the forested habitats, the tropical dry evergreen forests. It should be more frequent and common in any of the wooded habitats of Chennai, but we really do not have a lot of that left. That may explain the number of sightings.” Says Vikas: “If you look at Richard Grimmett, it will have a scattered appearance across Tamil Nadu. It will look like a very rare bird, with only a few records here and there, whereas it is a regular winter visitor, especially in our areas where you will definitely see the bird, if you go to the right place. The Black-naped Oriole would prefer a much thicker forest tract and a well-wooded country. The Indian Golden Oriole, which is a resident in Chennai with some local movement, is also at home in a wooded habitat, but is more eclectic, being found in thick forest; and may also be found in patches that are open scrub and open country, but have stands of trees.” Mahathi says, “At IIT-M, due to a lot of birding activity, records of Black-naped Oriole emerge. The bird must be present in similar patches, which include the Theosophical Society campus.” She adds, “At IIT-M, there are many ficus trees across the campus, and Black-naped Orioles feed on their fruits, particularly those of the Banyan.” (' Migrant Watch ' is a column about birds that visit Chennai during winter)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/an-orioles-winter-itinerary/article33772532.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||A champion in their midst||Anitha Pauldurai would not miss her everyday fitness programme for anything. The same goes for her practice as a basketball player. The commitment paid off. She is a national basketball player who has been receiving accolades for sterling performances, especially in big-ticket events like Common Wealth Games, Asian Games, and FIBA Asian Basketball Championship. Now, as a crowning glory, this mother of two children has made it to the list of achievers who would be conferred with the Padma Shri Award for the year 2021. “Since 11, I have been actively taking part in various sports and winning prizes. Coach N. Sampath encouraged me to take up basketball. Playing at the regional and State level, fetched me a job in Southern Railway, which further paved the way for me to represent the Indian team. I became the captain of the Indian team when I was just 19. I was considered the youngest captain,” says Anitha, an alumna of St. Antony’s Higher Secondary School in Santhome and Lady Sivaswamy Ayyar Girls’ Higher Secondary School in Mylapore. A month after delivering her son in 2014, she started a workout regimen to shed the excess weight gained during pregnancy. Without reducing her food intake, she lost nearly 10 kg, purely through exercise and yoga, she says. She followed the same programme after she had her second baby. Anitha obviously has great time-management skills, as she has done justice to various commitments: As a mother, Chief Welfare Inspector (Sports) in Southern Railway and of course, as a basketball player. “I am thankful that my mother and husband have been supporting me to pursue my goals as a basketball player,” says 35-year-old Anitha, who is an MBA graduate. Residents of AGS Colony in West Velachery have been proud about having a national basketball player in their midst. Until she moved to AGS Colony in November 2020, she was a resident of Iyyapanthangal. AGS Colony Residents Welfare Association honoured her last week and plans to felicitate her after she receives the coveted award in March.  Since 11, I have been actively taking part in various sports, and thanks to my coach, I realised that basketball was my calling||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-champion-in-their-midst/article33772504.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||The glowing light of service||A torch with a tall leaping tongue of fire is evocative — think Olympics. Passed on, it signifies a sense of continuity, collaboration and community. A torch with dry cells do not make for a similarly arresting picture. However, the alumni of PS High School (PSHS) have managed those three Cs despite having settled for a torch of the garden variety. In 2019, when the school’s 1969 batch had their golden-jubilee reunion, the tradition of passing on the torch to the next batch saw the light. Through this act, a batch symbolically transfers the responsibility of improving the school’s infrastructure to the one next in line to celebrate its fiftieth-year meet-up. The school tie being strong, a good number of batches would be in for the long haul, chipping in with support from time to time, but when the torch finds a batch in its golden-jubilee year, a massive effort is tacitly expected of it. Three successive batches have had a taste of this new tradition, and with each doing justice to it, the school now has improved classrooms with better chairs and tables and smartboards (1969 batch); a well-appointed computer lab with 22 new computers and related-lab facilities (1970 batch); and recently, a block of new restrooms with hugely upgraded facilities (1971 batch). The modest torch with dry cells has been a huge motivator. Here is an illustration. Dr. U.V. Ramakrishnan from the 1970 batch, lives at Appu Street where he also has a practice as a pulmonologist, besides being attached to a private hospital. He recalls that when the 1969 batch had their golden jubilee celebrations, the school management sent for him. “The ‘69 batch passed the torch on to me,” says Dr. Ramakrishnan, adding that the responsibilities with him were a tad more demanding — because, he had to start from the scratch, having to stitch together a 1970-batch alumni group. “As I was a doctor, the school administration was able to contact me,” he explains. “The 1971 batch had started meeting., within 30 years of passing out of school. They were building their contacts slowly, whereas we did not do that. Fortunately, some of my batchmates were in the same locality. Catching hold of them, I spread the word about having to buold a 1970-batch alumini group, through them. Today, the 1970-batch alumni group is over 40 members old, and we stay connected over WhatsApp. In February 2020 (12 in attendance), we conducted one meet and in early-March (when the number doubled), another. By no stretch of the imagination are these a golden-jubilee reunion. The idea has been in cold storage, and when the threat from the pandemic subsides, we would have it organised. As our batch stretches up to ‘G’ section, with each having around 40 students, our alumni group has to obviously grow bigger.” Though the pandemic has moved their grand reunion, the 1970 batch has managed to “pass on the torch”. “During the second meeting, in early-March, 2020, we formed a core group and we went around the campus with headmistress R. Kala, looking into various things that required attention. The computer lab being one of them, we made it the focus of our project. The computers had mostly aged 12 to 15 years. We raised close to Rs. 6 lakh, with which we managed to donate 22 brand-new computers, items necessary to run a computer lab, an Air-Conditioning unit, wall fans and a vacuum cleaner. From my end, I also passed on some sanitary equipment,” says Dr. Ramakrishnan. On this new practice that is three batches old, KVS Gopalakrishnan, secretary of PS High School and the PS Educational Society, says “It ensures continuity in both service to the alma mater and also connectivity between one batch and another; and continues the chain. The handing over of the torch like a baton has happened only among the 1969, 70 and 71 batches, but the golden jubilee reunions have been going on since 1990 when the 1940 celebrated theirs. For the last 30 years, the golden-jubilee reunions have been happening, and sometimes, the batches may also meet for their 25th and 20th year reunion in an informal manner. Even before the reunion happens, they get in touch with the headmistress or the secretary to find out what they could do for the school.” Dr. Ramakrishnan lauds earlier batches that have made impressive contributions, though they had no “torch” to spur them on. He gives an example: “My brother UV Babu is from the 1964 batch and I know that they have made a difference by taking care of old teachers.”  During the second meeting, in early-March, 2020, we formed a core group and we went around the campus with headmistress R. Kala, looking into various things that required attention||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-glowing-light-of-service/article33772530.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||A legacy parked in a library||To all appearances, Vasanthan Library in Kodambakkam is just another library. For those familiar with the story behind its establishment, it is hallowed ground, marking the memory of Vasanthan, who was tragically struck down in the prime of his life. Vasanthan was in the final-year of a master of arts programme at Madras Christian College, when he met with an accident. The family would not let his memory fade away. In March 2015, a year after his death, they established this library at Sivan Koil Street near Powerhouse in his honour. “Vasanthan has always been surrounded by books; in Class VI itself, he had read Shiv Khera’s You Can Win. He was exposed to wide range of genres,” recalls Sudha Ulagaoli, Vasanthan’s mother who is a former banker and Tamil news reader. It was Vasanthan’s dream to establish a public library at his father’s village in interior Tiruchirappali. With the family finding it a challenge to set up a library at their native town, they decided on opening up the space at the house Vasanthan grew up in. The ground floor at the independent house was converted into a free library-cum-reading room. “The ground floor had a hall, a car parking area and a kitchen; we converted the hall into a library. The parking lot is where people sit and read, it can accommodate 10 people comfortably,” she says. In the initial years, much of the collection consisted of books that had been bought by Vasanthan, and also those by his father, M. Ulagaoli. “We had 60 boxes of books, a good number of them were related to Civil Service examination that Vasanthan was preparing for then,” says Sudha, who is in her mid-50s. Books on international human rights, biographies and Sidney Sheldon series are part of his collection that are now stacked in the room. The reading room currently has a collection of 5,000 books, seeking to meet reading needs of various age groups. Pongal and Deepavali are the only days when the place is closed; otherwise anyone can have access to the collection any time between 9 a.m. and 8 p.m. It also has a rest room for the benefit of those using the facility for a longer duration. “This is not a lending library, so we have not had any practical difficulties of keeping track of books,” says Sudha. In the pre-COVID days, on an average, 20 people would visit the place; and the number would increase during weekends. “We maintain a wish list where readers can mention a book they are looking for, which we either procure by contacting friends or have well-wishers donating for the purchase of book,” says Sudha, who is a member of Thakkar Baba Vidyalaya. The centre has been helping children hone their creativity by conducting drawing competitions during Pongal and a drama event every Saturday. Every Wednesday, a councillor is invited to the place. It has also offered its premises free for NEET classes. Lockdown project Since the lockdown began last year, the library has not opened its gates formally but continues to engage with its readers through the digital medium. In October, the library started a YouTube channel by the same name where they record books meant to help deserving high school students. “We completed recording lessons that students appearing for class X Board examination need and we are in the process of recording lessons for other classes,” she says. Sudha says they currently have 70 videos, which were made by more than 70 volunteers and they are in the process of uploading more vidoes. Volunteers needed They are looking for more volunteers who can help them with this exercise. “I have retired teachers, home-makers and some from Coimbatore and Madurai helping us in recording. We currently need people to help us with editing audios and videos, checkers who can listen and compare the text and explanation to weed any mistakes and those who can read lessons,” says Sudha. D. Vijayaraghavan, a working professional who volunteers after his office hours, in the evening, by editing videos, says anyone with a knowledge of computers can be a part of this exercise. A digital experience of Bharathiar songs is also being planned. To volunteer, contact 9884149045/ 9716177728  We maintain a wish list that allows readers to mention a book they are looking for, and we either get it for them by contacting our friends or get well-wishers to donate towards the purchase of the book||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-legacy-parked-in-a-library/article33772529.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Auld Lang Syne in Madras Will all avenues still lead to Chintamani?||Chintamani Supermarket has been knocked down. And it has a litmus test to pass: Landmarks are put to a popularity vote after they are gone. That is the downside to being a landmark. The best ones survive physical removal, their “ashes” interred with “the everyday”. Is Chintamani in that league? Or, would it be expunged out of our collective memory? The cooperative supermarket has two things going for it straightaway. One, it lent its name to a well-used bus stop, and a busy signal to boot. Two, it fits in organically with an unusual story called “Anna Nagar”. Landmarks with bus stops named after them are likely to have a free and long ride into the future that they themselves are not a part of. Ponds Bus Stop — on Grand Southern Trunk Road in the Nagalkeni area of Chromepet — has indelibly scripted the memory of a factory that the Ponds Company functioned from, into the common man’s daily commute. These names are history in shorthand, and the curious lot from successive generations decipher them, even elaborating on the stories of the times they represent. An example right in Anna Nagar — not too far from what was Chintamani only a few days ago — is the Blue Star Bus Stop and the Blue Star Signal. “In 2014, we stumbled upon the origins of the title ‘Blue Star Bus Stop’, through something that IPS officer (retd.) Roshan Lal Handa shared with us. Somewhere in the late 1960s, the bus stop derived its name from an iron shop ( isthirikadai ) bearing the name ‘blue star’ in Tamil,” says Thirupurasundari Sevvel of Nam Veedu Nam Oor Nam Kadhai, a social history initiative that particularly documents stories about West Madras, which includes Anna Nagar. Thirupurasundari recalls being intrigued by this piece of information. “It is widely assumed that the bus stop and the signal took their name after the local presence of the Blue Star company on the same road, and bore it even after this presence left the neighbourhood. Curiously bearing this company’s name, the iron shop did predate the establishment, as we discovered when we carried out a social-research exercise based on Mr. Handa’s lead. We interviewed senior and long-time residents, and thirty-two people confirmed it,” discloses Thirupurasundari. Going by this account, there seems to be a rare case of coincidence. What makes this piece of social-history research really remarkable, according to Thirupurasundari, is how it provided a peek into what is at the core of this neighbourhood. Thirupurasundari continues: “In the late 1960s and early 1970s, there were only a scattering of houses in Anna Nagar, a planned neighbourhood. Back then, it was a neighbourhood primarily populated by government employees, who had bought TNHB plots. Residents point out that the owner of this iron shop, who operated with two assistants, would apply starch to the uniform of police personnel domiciled in the neighbourhood. His small enterprise was well-known. A few residents with houses around the Blue Star Signal area, who were born in Anna Nagar and are in their fifties and sixties now, have told us how as children, they would be asked to stand next to the ‘blue star’ iron shop, and wait for the bus. Naturally, in time, the bus stop got that name. Residents would have sent their children to schools near and far by public transport, and there was CSI Ewarts and schools in Mylapore that drew students from far.” Footnote to history Every landmark will ultimately go, but some do “remain” as footnotes to history. Chintamani will put in a modest appearance wherever the history of Anna Nagar is discussed. Col. Dr. N.G. Pandarinath, a resident of Twelfth Main Road, says, “The Chintamani Bus Stop and Signal will continue just as the Blue Star Bus Stop and Signal have continued.” Dr. Pandarinath has not set foot in the Chintamani Supermarket, but he instinctively realises that it is integrated into the Anna Nagar story. When it was thrown open on March 23, 1974, by R. Natarajan, then Special Secretary of the Cooperative Department, the cooperative supermarket was a visible and powerful symbol of town planning. It was named after a successful experiment in cooperatives, in Coimbatore, that spread to other parts of India. “The fact that this was a planned marketplace where residents can buy essentials at subsidised prices, and came with the early blueprint for Anna Nagar, earns it a place in history,” says Thirupurasundari. “It blends organically into the other elements of the Anna Nagar story, which in its initial years was about government employees, state and central, putting down roots in the neighbourhood.” Says Dr. Pandarinath: “At the time (of the Chintamani Supermarket being established), I was in the Army, and I heard that something had come up. I had in fact got my plot way back in 1967, and whenever I would come down, I would go and look at the plot on Twelfth Main Road. In the late 1970s, I received a letter from Tamil Nadu Housing Board that if I did not construct a house on the plot it would be taken away. I said I was in the Army and therefore would not be able to supervise the construction, and they gave me exemption. However, in 1980, I had a house built on the plot and gave it to the Army because my work was in the Himalayas,” says Dr. Pandarinath. He would continue to carry out his duties as doctor in the high-altitude ranges of the Himalayas, including Pir Panchal and Dhauladhar, and it would be 1995, following his retirement, when he and his family would finally settle down in their house on Twelfth Main Road. Though he never ever shopped at Chintamani, he knows it is part of the foundations on which the locality was planned and established. Dominic Johnson, who lived in Shenoy Nagar for 33 years and has been living in X Block of Anna Nagar, behind the iconic Anna Nagar Tower, since 1991, has memories of booking tickets at Southern Railway's Booking Office in Chintamani. Though over the years he would find the walls leading to the booking office increasingly marred by pan stains, there are simple but enduring memories to cherish about “Chintamani the landmark”, where “in the 1970s, we would congregate before heading to the Thiru Vi Ka School grounds for cricket. There would be no buildings after Chintamani.” There are buildings everywhere now, but no Chintamani. But certainly, memories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/auld-lang-syne-in-madras-will-all-avenues-still-lead-to-chintamani/article33772533.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Our streets are no parking lot for abandoned vehicles’||Residents of Puliyur in Kodambakkam have made a plea to Zone 10 officials of the Greater Chennai Corporation seeking that their neighbourhoood be freed of the plague of abandoned vehicles. In fact, this request is worn and aged as those abandoned vehicles. However, over the last few months, they have been pursuing the issue persistently. According to residents, these vehicles are lying abandoned for nearly a decade and have come in handy for anti-socials. “The streets in the colony are narrow, and these abandoned vehicles eat into the little space that is available. Further, residents are unable to use the footpaths,” says B. Venkatagiri, a resident of Kodambakkam. Complaints to the Zone – 9 Kodambakkam officials of the Greater Chennai Corporation have not yielded the desired results.. A Corporation official says, “Steps will be taken to remove abandoned vehicles at the earliest.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/our-streets-are-no-parking-lot-for-abandoned-vehicles/article33772516.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Service lane in Porur lined with garbage mounds||The service lane near the Porur toll plaza on Chennai Bypass Road seems to have been reduced to a redundancy. Unseemly pile-ups of waste are the most noticeable feature of this service lane This section of the road witnesses heavy traffic round-the-clock. With the waste piles-ups inviting stray dogs and cattle, motorists are sometimes caught unawares as these animals scuttle across the lane. So, the possibility of such accident is high. Local traders and residents point out that most of the police personnel are found at the toll plaza, and no pair of eyes is ever focussed on the service lane. Lack of surveillance encourages illegal dumping of garbage, especially at night, under the cover of darkness. Residents have pointed out that much of the dumping happens near the new entrance created last year at Chennai Bypass to access the service lane, which leads to Samayapuram Main Road. “The objective of having a new entrance was to ease the vehicular traffic near the toll-plaza. That is, motorists moving towards Porur junction can use the new entrance. However, as a trail of garbage is found along the road with strays roaming around it, people avoid the new entrance,” says K. Vasanth, a resident of Porur. Every day, motorists from Tambaram, Porur, Thiruneermalai, Thiruverukadu, Poonamallee, Puzhal, Red Hills, use the Samayapuram Main Road to access the Chennai Bypass to reach various parts of the city and its outskirts. A State Highways official says, “Necessary steps will be taken to check the practice of garbage dumping on the service lane, at the earliest.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/service-lane-in-porur-lined-with-garbage-mounds/article33772525.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Handicrafts sale ends on Feb. 14||Sumathi Handicrafts is organising an exhibition-cum-sale of hadnloom products and handicrafts at No:7, North Mada Street, Mylapore. According to a press release, saris such as Bandini, Chanderi, Maheshwari, Kantha work, block-printed, Bengal cotton, Madurai Sungudi, tussar silk, Kota, and Ikkat are available. The sale has an offer in which a customer can get a sari free if two Chanderi saris are bought. Also available are duppatas, shawls, kurtis, bed-spreads, towels, and kurtis. Further, glass work, jewellery, brass artefacts, crockery items and food products are part of the collection. The sale will end on February 14. Time: From 10 a.m. to 8.30 p.m. For details, call 93837 40065 / 96293 74196.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/handicrafts-sale-ends-on-feb-14/article33772505.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Painting classes||A workshop on Madubhani painting and water colour painting will be conducted on February 13 and 14 at No: 20, Cresent Park Street, T. Nagar. Time: From 2 p.m. to 6 p.m. For details, call 99402 69288.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/painting-classes/article33772511.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Session on gardening||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Information & Training Centre is conducting a workshop on terrace gardening on February 10. A session on composting will be held on February 12, at the centre’s premises in Guindy. For details, call 044 - 2225 0511 / 2250 1960.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/session-on-gardening/article33772513.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||A textbook project||A volunteering exercise to record audio books for a library in Kodambakkam has brought 10 women from a gated community in Vadapalani together. D. Vijayalakshmi, S. Varalakshmi, Anandavalli Natarajan, Usha, Uma Ravishankar, Uma Maheshwari, Mythili, P. Visalam, Radha, E. Indu and Priya are part of the women’s WhatsApp group of the gated community ASTA AVM, which helped Vasanthan library in Kodambakkam digitise State Board’s Class X books for the benefit of students who do not have access to such a resource or may need additional help with the lessons. When D. Vijayalakshmi learnt through a friend that the library was seeking volunteers to help them record State Board textbooks, she put out a post about it in the apartment’s women’s group. “Ten women wanted to support the cause and we formed a WhatApp group for the initiative to ensure better coordination,” says Vijayalakshmi. All that they had to do was record Class X textbooks from the comfort of their home, at their pace, and mail what they have done. Each of the women took up tasks based on their strengths. M. Usha, for instance, has completed recording nine poems in Tamil language. “Recording lessons is not new to me. I have done reading classes for the visually-challenged on a one-on-one basis but this was a little challenging as I also explain the poem, which means I have to refer books to first understand and practise a couple of times before doing the final recording,” says Usha. School teacher E. Indu, who took up Mathematics, would solve the problems in a notebook, explain it and send the recording to the library. P. Visalam, who retired from BSNL, is excited about doing the recording with two other friends from the apartment —Varalakshmi and Anandavalli. “We three are friends, so we took up Social Studies and divided the lessons among ourselves. Varalakshmi took up geography, Anandavalli, civics and economics and I took up history. We kept the target of finishing it in 10-15 days and made it as easy and interesting as possible,” says Visalam, who is also working on recording Bharathiyar songs. Vijayalakshmi says it was a new experience for all of them. “Not all of us are teachers, so it took some doing on our part,” says Vijayalakshmi, who has taken voluntary retirement from a bank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-textbook-project/article33772528.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||The fact sheet||lRunning through the eyes, broad black stripes meet, garlanding the nape in an arc lIn the female, the yellow in the mantle has a noticeable dash of green to it lIn the juvenile, the underparts are streaked and the eye-and-nape stripe is weak lThe bird feeds on berries and insects, with a particular taste for ficus fruits lThe Black-naped Oriole (Oriolus chinesis) is at home in broadleaf forests lThe subspecies Oriolus chinensis diffusus is what is found wintering in South India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-fact-sheet/article33772531.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Honour for school||Vedanta Academy Senior Secondary School was recently awarded British Council’s International School Award (ISA) in recognition of its work “to bring the world into the classroom.” The school has also been conferred with “Rashtriya Shiksha Gaurav Puraskar – 2020” award for the Best Next Generation School in Tamil Nadu by the Centre for Education Growth and Research (CEGR). The Academy is also a recipient of the FIT India Certificate of Recognition from the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports, Government of India for taking initiatives relating to physical fitness, said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/honour-for-school/article33772506.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Health camp at KK Nagar||With the support of a private hospital, Sector 8, KK Nagar’s Residents Welfare Association has organised a health camp. According to a press release, the camp witnessed good participation from residents. Tests to check blood pressure, blood sugar and body mass index were conducted. The participants were educated about the importance of maintaining a healthy lifestyle including a strict diet and periodical monitoring of various health parameters. R. Manoharan, the Association president, says, “Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, many of us would have postponed our regular health check-ups or follow-up visits. We would have gone only for an emergency. In the past, our Association organised various health awareness campaigns and competitions for children on heath and hygiene.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/health-camp-at-kk-nagar/article33772518.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Workshop on haircare products||A workshop on making hair-care products will be held from February 12 to 13 at No:1, A Mangadu Swamy Street, Nungambakkam. According to a press release, participants will be taught how to make chemical-free products. Ingredients like floral extracts and essential oils will be used. For details, call 9840490961 / 8667503102||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/workshop-on-haircare-products/article33772509.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Saplings planted in Saidapet||Inner Wheel Club of Madras Central and Inner Wheel Club of Esplanade have together planted 120 tree saplings at Saidapet Model School. According to a press release, the objective of exercise is to increase the green cover at the school and make students understand the importance of environment conservation. Besides, there was a session in which students learnt about options relating to higher education and careers, adds the press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/saplings-planted-in-saidapet/article33772521.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer-writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtownfeedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number. Here’s a short note on the basic building blocks of any short news feature. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. c) News features have to be factually-grounded and the central portion, which will consist of a few paragraphs, should support the anecdotal paragraph and the cosmic paragraph||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/you-can-be-our-volunteer-writer/article33772519.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Auditions for Face of Chennai||Iris Events is conducting the 10th edition of the ‘Face of Chennai 2021’. The event seeks to identify “complete beauty, personality and positive attitudes” in young women and men in the 16-25 age group, says a press release. The event also features many sub-categories for contestants like Enticing Smile; Expressive Eyes; Healthy Hair; Healthy Skin; Catwalk; Talent,0 Fitness and Perfect 10. The auditions will be held on February 7 at Citi Centre, Mylapore. For more details, call 9841206506/ 9884783510. Email Id:irisface ofchennai @gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/auditions-for-face-of-chennai/article33772507.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Will all avenues still lead to Chintamani?||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/will-all-avenues-still-lead-to-chintamani/article33772526.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||A legacy parked in a library||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-legacy-parked-in-a-library/article33772527.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||a new facility||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-new-facility/article33772523.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Idols of Instagram||Santoshkumar Chitragar, 28, an artisan from Kinnal (also spelt Kinhal) in Karnataka is a busy man these days. When he’s not working in his studio crafting the exquisite Kinnal dolls, he is busy closing orders on Instagram, attending conference calls with clients, getting packages shipped or organising training programmes for his fellow craftsmen. It’s a stark contrast to his routine a year ago, and Santosh is enjoying every bit of it. “ I have been making Kinnal idols since my childhood, a craft I picked up from my father and grandfather. It has always been my dream to keep the legacy alive, and Instagram has really helped,” says Santosh. It was during a Kinnal workshop four years ago at the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts, Bengaluru, that two students introduced Santosh to social media, and opened an Instagram account for him. Seeing tremendous traction over the past year, the platform has given Santosh visibility and a chance to reach out to customers not only in India but across the globe. The account itself is managed by Santosh’s friend Nagaraj Bakale, a painter from Gadag. According to Bakale, they regularly receive orders from countries including the U.S., Germany and Canada. Buoyed by their success, the two have also started a Facebook page, and receive a steady stream of enquiries from overseas. Kinnal, a sleepy village in Koppal taluk, is home to the eponymous craft that was awarded a Geographical Indication tag in 2012. The chitragars , as the traditional artisans are known, fashion brightly coloured, lightweight toys and religious idols from a local variety of wood called Polki Marra, which grows in and around Jabbalgudda village, about 30 km from Koppal. The themes are mainly mythological — idols of deities including Hanuman, Garuda, Gowri and Durga are among Kinnal’s signature creations. Many of the artisans are also involved in making larger idols for the local village festivals, or ooru habba , along with paraphernalia such as palanquins, cradles and chowkis . The craft dates back to the 15th or 16th century, and is thought to have gained prominence and patronage under the Vijayanagara Empire, and later, the Nawabs of Koppal. The intricate carvings on the famous Hampi chariot are believed to be the handiwork of the ancestors of the chitragars of Kinnal. Intricate process The products are entirely handmade, and the first step involves sketching a rough outline of the required figure on a wall using charcoal. Blocks of wood are then chiselled to make individual components such as the head and limbs. The parts are joined using a paste called kitta , made by mixing boiled tamarind paste with jute rag pieces and neem wood powder. The latter protects the idols from termite attacks. Once the pieces are joined together, the idol is again given a thick coat of liquid tamarind and pebble powder. After this, the finer aspects such as the eyes and nose are etched out. The idol is then covered with pieces of thin cloth and chalk powder before being painted. Painted using watercolours or enamel, the signature colours of Kinnal are red, green, yellow and black. You’ll also find a few idols coated in a stunning gold finish. “While some artisans use enamel paint for gold, the authentic way is to use the lajawara technique — a trade secret. It is prepared by hand-beating sheets of tin, which results in a powder that when processed further yields silver and then gold paint. It is a very expensive and tedious process,” says Santosh, who is one of the very few artisans to have mastered this technique. His gold-coated heads of the goddess Gowri are among Kinnal’s most popular products. For all budgets Some dolls are available for as little as Rs. 150, but there’s a vast range of prices. For instance, there’s an intricately made six-inch Gowri head that costs Rs. 6,000, whereas a 24-inch idol crafted completely in lajawara gold comes to almost Rs. 3,65,000. Kinnal is currently home to 67 families of chitragars , about half of whom pursue the craft — a number that’s dwindling fast, as in all handicrafts. Santosh, however, has been able to persuade a few fellow artisans to take up the craft full-time, and has been giving them regular work from his Instagram orders. “Santosh has been outsourcing a lot of his work to at least five or six artisans including me, so we have decided to do this full-time” says Ramu S. Chitragar, 27. He adds that his uncle has now regained an interest in the craft and helps him out. Santosh recently organised a month-long training programme for about 30 members of the community, including 20 women, in association with the Export Promotion Council for Handicrafts and the Development Commissioner, Handicrafts. He has also coordinated the procurement of individual GI certificates for artisans, as proof of their products’ authenticity. “It is important for us to understand the nuances of marketing, upgrade our skills, and also create new designs for the changing times,” says Santosh. The freelance writer from Bengaluru has a passion for travel, culture, food and design.  The intricate carvings on the famous Hampi chariot are believed to be the handiwork of the ancestors of thechitragarsof Kinnal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/idols-of-instagram/article33772592.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Beyond the boundary||We shall know more what men want and what they live by when we begin from what they do.  — C.L.R. James, Beyond aBoundary  Paeans have been written about India’s Test win at the Gabba, Brisbane, and will continue to be written. Encomiums are also pouring in about the “New India” in cricket, an extension of the “New India” that has apparently been already crafted in the political-economic sphere.  In modern sport, sporting performance and national identity are inextricably intertwined. There is, therefore, a tendency to miss the many moments that escape this reduction of a great sporting moment to a mere accoutrement of a narrow nationalism, miss the moments that show us possibilities of human solidarity that go beyond ethnic and national borders. We saw this happen after Gabba, when we missed the rapturous celebration of India’s win in Pakistan, where the cricket laity, television anchors as well as luminaries of the game like Wasim Akram, Inzamam-ul-Haq, Shoaib Akhtar and Shahid Afridi cheered India’s win. Indo-Pak relations are at a dangerous nadir. It has been 13 years since a bilateral Test series took place between the two countries. Yet, that did not prevent a Pakistan television journalist from declaring that “today I have become a maniacal fan of Indian cricket,” or Pakistani fans from indulging in national self-flagellation and mocking the thought of even comparing Pakistan to India in cricket, or Pakistanis from mobilising larger identities like that of an Asian team beating Australia. Significantly, contrary to the emphatic assertion of a new [aggressive] India, it was actually the virtues of an “old India” that saw the win at Gabba resonating beyond its borders. Not only is modern sport fused with nationalism, the nationalism is often expressed in ugly, jingoistic ways. Sports scholarship has shown professional sport relies on military rhetoric and stands in for military confrontations between nations. It is indeed “war minus the shooting” as George Orwell once said. This was unfortunately on display when the Indian men’s cricket team wore military caps after the Pulwama terrorist attack, the first time such a display was made on a sporting field. Then there is an active conflation of the figure of the soldier and the sportsperson through acts like an M.S. Dhoni serving in the Territorial Army and even missing international matches for it. Following 9/11, there was an orgy of jingoistic displays in American sporting arenas, demonstrating the effects of what some writers termed “American military-industrialisation-sports-entertainment complex.” Similarly, football fandom in England has seen racism and xenophobia and a harking back to victories in World War II when it took on opponents like Germany. Active conflation Thus, unsurprisingly, a Virender Sehwag, with millions of followers on social media, chose to celebrate the Gabba win with the words: “This is the new India. Ghar mein ghuskar maarta hain .” It referred to the militaristic rhetoric used after the Balakot strikes, gloating about how the army had “entered the enemy home to kill”. When India beat Pakistan in the 2019 World Cup, the home minister termed it “another strike on Pakistan.” In 1978, the Pakistani captain described the Test series win against India in religious terms, as a “victory of Muslims all over the world over the Hindus.” This atmosphere of militarised hyper-nationalism submerges not just alternative imaginations of sport but also actual histories which have shown different possibilities. Thus, the 1999 Chepauk ovation for a Pakistan team against whom India narrowly lost; the grand welcome the Indian team received in Pakistan in 2004; or the fact that India’s Rohan Bopanna and Pakistan’s Aisam-ul-Haq Qureshi played together to reach the US Open doubles final in 2010 — all remain footnotes to an unread history. This manufactured amnesia caused surprised Indian reactions to the Pakistani ecstasy over India’s recent win. Said one: “I cannot believe people in Pakistan are so supportive of us.” Another wondered: “When there is so much love and respect between both the countries, why do we have so many animosities?” Endearing facelessness The Australian Test series showed that extraordinary sporting feats can be achieved without necessarily adopting boorish or intimidatory tactics or psychological warfare on the field, the mantras of commercialised, hyper-nationalistic sporting spectacles. It also showed that great leaders do not have to thump their chests to lead. Ajinkya Rahane’s refusal to cut a celebration cake in the shape of a kangaroo only reinforced the point. As Pakistani cricket writer Osman Samiuddin brilliantly notes, it was the “facelessness” of Rahane’s team that was endearing, in contrast to the team seen through the prism of the larger-than-life image of a Virat Kohli: “A bristling presence, bathing each situation in its own tensile force until it breaks and gives way, most times in some burst of genius but also sometimes in moments of crude chauvinism and confrontation.” Sport can become a vehicle for solidarity and tolerance or hatred and intolerance. But a Nelson Mandela using sport to unite a divided country; an American athlete holding an Iranian flag in Tehran; or North and South Korea fielding a joint sports team have been rare moments. In fact, that icon of supposedly global, cosmopolitan and capitalist values, the IPL, has banned Pakistani players. Trinidadian scholar and activist C.L.R. James argues in his seminal work on cricket, Beyond a Boundary , that cricket can only be understood if we go outside it and make sense of its myriad interconnections with politics, culture and society. The Pakistani celebration of the great Indian win at Gabba shows that beneath state borders and state-enforced embargoes on sporting engagements, there simmer other imaginations and futures of solidarity. The writer is with Dalhousie University and tweets @nmannathukkaren.  Professional sport relies on military rhetoric and stands in for military confrontations between nations. It is indeed “war minus the shooting” as George Orwell once said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/beyond-the-boundary/article33772536.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Madam Vice-President’s story||The rise of Kamala Harris to become the U.S.’s first ever woman Vice-President, and the first of mixed Indian and African American heritage, will have a long echo in the annals of that country’s politics, fraught as it is with deep divisions over race, immigration and gender rights. While Harris’ greatest work and achievements likely lie ahead of her, it is her past that bears closer study if the extent of her transformative potential is to be truly understood.  Kamala’s Way , a new biography of Harris by California journalist Dan Morain, offers exactly that — a deep reading of her antecedents in State politics, where she learned the ropes and emerged victorious through a variety of political encounters that shaped her outlook as much as did her mother, a strong-willed, fiercely independent cancer researcher from a Chennai family. Litany of tussles Given Morain’s career as a former state political reporter for the Los Angeles Times and former editorial page editor of The Sacramento Bee , it is inevitable that a significant part of his book reads as an exhaustive — and sometimes exhausting — recapitulation of the ins and outs of California’s policy debates over the past few decades, of course all the while referencing how Harris was impacted by them or sought to influence them. Included in the lengthy litany of political tussles that Harris was embroiled in, most notably, was her encounter with the self-confessed “Ayatollah” of the California Assembly and former San Francisco Mayor, Willie Brown. Harris ended up dating Brown, 30 years her senior, in 1994 and 1995, and in the process no doubt learned some of the stock in trade of California’s unique brand of pork barrel politics. Along the way Morain sheds light on the evolution of Harris’ views on issues such as gun crime and education that could well turn out to be important in the four years she spends at the White House. For example, in 2004 Harris came under fire from a wide swathe of the law enforcement for opposing the death penalty even in “cop killer” cases, notably the brutal murder of San Francisco police officer Isaac Espinoza at the hands of a suspected mobster. The timing could not have been more unfortunate for her, given that she was in the midst of a campaign for the San Francisco District Attorney’s post. Nevertheless, she held firm to her view and succeeded in getting elected as District Attorney, in part by demonstrating that even though she opposed capital punishment, she did not shy away from pressing for deservedly harsh sentences for those convicted of violent crimes. Policy compromises Similarly, Harris clearly refined the art of making delicate policy compromises that nevertheless rang true with her core values as a prosecutor when, in 2008, she sought to curb elementary school truancy by prosecuting parents of absent children. Her logic in adopting an approach that some would consider severe was that it was an acceptable tactic to enforce a child’s right to an education. Harris describes her own evolution through the swamp of California politics most aptly: in one television interview she spoke of her admiration for the Hindu deity Kali, in whose classic depiction the goddess holds several severed heads and is a mother figure. Morain says of Harris, “She also learned, Kali-like, how to figuratively sever a head or two. Her skill and charisma, her intelligence and grit, and her willingness to fight hard set her apart. In time, Californians would see more of that.” True to form, Harris went on to demonstrate her formidable resolve and singular focus as prosecutor most consistently in championing victims of sexual abuse, child trafficking and domestic violence. By the time she became Senator, Harris’ journey to statesmanship appears to be complete, and her conduct in the Upper House of Congress was the clearest demonstration of her prowess on the stage of Democratic Party heavy-hitters. Among the most notable moments, and one that put her firmly in the spotlight of national politics, was her savage grilling of former President Donald Trump’s erstwhile nominee to the U.S. Supreme Court, Brett Kavanaugh, at a 2018 Senate hearing. At that forum seeking more clarity on Kavanaugh’s views on Roe v. Wade, the landmark 1973 case that recognised the constitutional right to abortion, she asked him, “Can you think of any laws that give the government the power to make decisions about the male body?” He stammered, “I’m not aware — I’m not — thinking of any right now, Senator.” Notwithstanding the book’s references to Harris’ Indian cultural heritage and her grief at the passing of her mother Shyamala Gopalan in 2009, there is little by way of deeper analysis of the U.S. Vice-President’s historical links with India or discussion of foreign policy ideas that have resonated with her. To those who may be seeking specific clues about the broader worldview of the U.S.’s first potential woman president and second person of colour to be within striking distance of the Oval Office, this book may not serve the purpose. However, what it very clearly maps out for the reader is the force of character and political shrewdness that underpins the charismatic, personable Democratic leader that Harris has become over the past two decades, from relatively unassuming beginnings.  Kamala’s Way Dan Morain Simon & Schuster  Rs. 699||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/madam-vice-presidents-story/article33772578.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||A triple score||Players and organisers worldwide eagerly wait for scrabble tournaments. The competition is as intense as any other sport, followed by “after-hours” often replete with events as varied as poker sessions and karaoke gigs. The scene is no different in India, where players from various walks of life and age groups congregate to match skills. The all-encompassing appeal of scrabble was delightfully represented by the sight of a seven-year-old taking on a 97-year-old at a tournament in Bangalore. These wordsmiths have always been pitting their wits against each other, face to face. Until March 2020, that is. Travel restrictions, physical distancing norms and limits on gatherings combined to signal an indefinite hiatus on live tournaments. As the pandemic loomed, the foresight of a few contributed greatly towards satisfying the cravings of many a scrabble-starved soul. The Internet Scrabble Club (ISC) had long been a platform for virtual scrabble jousts. But its significance was realised in the wake of the need for online tournaments during the course of the lockdown. It did not take long for the “new normal” to kick in, and online tourneys became a way of life for many. Virtual jousts The online tournaments afforded competitive players a chance to stay in touch with the game. They have enabled “scrabblers” to interact with one another by virtue of the frequent doses of tournament games on the ISC. This has, in turn, helped maintain a semblance of the community feel that is the hallmark of any in-person tournament. A standard in-person tournament in India involves a league format resulting in individual standings, generally played over two to four days. An exception is the annual Wordaholix Scrabble League (WSL), modelled on an exciting team format that brings a refreshing dimension to competitive scrabble. The WSL is unique, as it generates great bonhomie among the participants. However, the boom in online tournaments, borne out of necessity, has taken the innovation to another level, with a view to keep the players hooked. Such new ideas for online tournaments have gone a long way in sustaining the players’ interest in the game. Multiple editions of a team tournament that introduced the concept of an IPL-style player auction, a “Casino” tournament that brought in aspects from poker to add to the unpredictability, a knockout tournament that drew over 100 players, a tournament modelled on city-based teams, a tournament exclusively for beginners, as also another for the top-rated players — you name it. A major global tournament was the Virtual World Cup that saw teams from 16 countries, with each team having five players. The Indian team made it to the final before agonisingly falling short against the U.S.  (Rustom Deboo is the joint   secretary of the Scrabble   Association of India)   rustom_8992@yahoo.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-triple-score/article33772556.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||The unaccommodated man||Manoranjan Byapari is unique among Indian writers because he comes from the working class. In that, he represents a huge swathe of our population that is born in anonymity, toils without honour, is exploited ruthlessly, and dies without redress. These people go unnoticed in the India of Mercs and condos because they cannot make themselves heard — at best, they can depend on a middle-class author to lend them voice and presence. Byapari is exceptional because he is one of them, but with the decisive ability to write his experience, which he brings out raw and bleeding in his books. As he said in an interview, “I write because I can’t kill.” His rage is directed at Brahmins, landowners, police, the state, and also at us — the genteel, privileged reader for whom deprivation is an idea. Byapari can make us feel ashamed. I’m a Chandal This self-taught writer pulls off a near-impossible literary feat in his works — he closes the gap between life and art so seamlessly that one can almost stand for the other. (It helps, of course, that he writes in his mother tongue Bengali. The contribution of translators like V. Ramaswamy or Arunava Sinha in rendering Byapari’s writings into English while keeping his cadence intact cannot be gainsaid.) In The Runaway Boy , the first part of his semi-autobiographical Chandal Jibon trilogy, we are introduced to Jibon, born unfortunate though not unwanted, who, true to his name, is indomitable. He is Shakespeare’s poor, bare unaccommodated man who walks and keeps on walking, no matter how much the world tries to crush him. The story of The Runaway Boy is unadorned, unrelenting, sometimes rambling, but always true to the life the author has led. As the boy screams out at his assailants at one point, “‘My name’s Jibon, I’m a Chandal. What more do you want to know?”’ It takes a child born into a low-caste, disenfranchised, utterly disadvantaged family to ask the simplest but toughest question of them all, the question Job had put to God: what has he done to deserve it? He runs away from his starving family in hope of a better life but hunger dogs him everywhere. The alternative to enduring starvation is to suffer the gratuitous cruelty of his employers, who beat him, cheat him, sexually abuse him, and treat him as untouchable. Battered relentlessly, Jibon gets an insight into the injustice inherent in social order: “Someone or the other had once told Jibon that the wages for minor work were low. The more important the work, the higher the wage. Jibon could not figure out why the work of men who ploughed the land under sun and rain and provided the country food... of the workers in farms and factories who worked their hammers and tools and made the country wealthy, was considered small, and why were their wages so low? And how was it that the tonsured Brahmins muttering om-bom and ringing bells before stone images in temples, the babu sitting on a chair in his office and sipping tea… were considered ‘big’?... Who made this classification of work?” Wings of light Abjection gives Jibon a nihilistic view of life and society. Yet his is not the intellectual nihilism of the decadent bourgeois. If Jibon loses his belief in religion, in politics of the Left or Right, in ideas of social welfare, even in humanity, it is because he simply cannot afford to trust. In the instances when he does, he is inevitably betrayed. The incident in Gauhati Mail where a man treats him kindly only to con him is gut-wrenching, all the more because we feel our hopes rising along with Jibon’s. The fall, when it comes, hits hard. But no experience, however painful, can snuff out Jibon’s will to live. Byapari creates moments of levity — such as when Jibon has a solemn conversation with his spectral friend, Maran (Death), or when, at playtime, Jibon assumes the role of “the great archer Ramachandra, his pants torn at the backside” — that flit on wings of light against the darkness. His descriptions of cities like Calcutta — controlled by the privileged few who “laughed, walked and talked like machines” — can recall images of urban superficiality in the works of great modernists like Eliot. But Byapari’s subject position gives his account a robust, hard-won authenticity.  The Runaway Boy will make the reader look at life through Jibon’s eyes and the view isn’t flattering, to put it mildly. Get ready to confront some bitter truths: “In this country, the son of a Baniya used to go on a fast from time to time, for two or ten days every month or two. He had become a leader by doing that. Later, he became the father of the nation. But the names of Jibon and many more like him — who began fasting from the time they were in their mothers’ wombs and ended it only when they finally died — found no place in history. No one spoke about them… Could there be anything more incredible than that!”  The Runaway Boy  Manoranjan Byapari, trs V. Rama- swamy Eka  Rs. 599    The story ofThe Runaway Boyis unadorned, unrelenting, sometimes rambling, but always true to the life the author has led||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-unaccommodated-man/article33772565.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||You can’t make an omelette without...||The 20 cm frying pan is central to my culinary happiness. I use this ‘omelette pan’ to cook eggs, obviously, but also to heat pasta sauces and other small amounts of non-desi food. Though friends will scoffingly tell you otherwise, I don’t fetishise foreign cooking equipment. However, I do believe in using the correct tools, so a flat-bottomed wok cannot replace a proper round-bottomed kadhai for desi khana . For the small frying pan that’s on constant duty, I’ve always picked up the best I could afford when travelling abroad. Once I’ve splurged on the thing, I take care of it jealously, resulting in these beauties lasting quite a few years. The last frying pan I purchased was in Paris after much Franglish discussion with the store clerk while standing in a veritable canyon of pots and pans. Did I want a restaurant-grade copper one, with a handle as long as my arm? How about this cast-iron one, almost as heavy as me? No, I just want a good modern one with decent non-stick coating. Ah, I have just the thing. I came away clutching a pan from the third most famous French cookware brand. This frying pan gave me everything a pan can give a person and more. The depth was just right; the balance was beautiful; without being too heavy, it sat on the burner supports with unfussy authority. The handle, of some hi-tech substance, was just the right thickness and stayed cool throughout. The non-stick coating happily handled the workload. Day after day, the thing delivered, sometimes even compensating for my mistakes. My previous pans had each lasted seven or eight years, but this guy remained my loyal friend and confidant for 13 whole years. Alas, came the day when I could no longer ignore the cuts and scratches as merely cosmetic. No, the cooking surface had gone and was now possibly leaking dangerous material into my innocent and defenceless eggs. I had to put my old compañero out of its misery. Worse, I had to get a replacement. My spending-controllers, who are scattered across the country, were all of one voice: no expensive foreign pan; the local industry has changed over the past decade and you now get perfectly good Indian pans. I began to browse the Internet. There was the most famous French brand, selling one at a crazy Rs. 10,000 from their Gurgaon outlet. Then there was one from the same brand as my old one but even more sleek — Rs. 7,500 plus a Rs. 1,000 shipping charge from Dubai. There were other foreign ones with equally mad prices. Diamond in the rough I began to look at the domestic brands. There, amidst the de rigeur ugliness that seems to pervade Indian-made western kitchen products, was one that looked quite nice at under Rs. 2,000. The coating was made in collaboration with a German company, the handle was of nicely tapering wood, the few reviews for this recently released model were positive and there was a five-year guarantee. When the thing came, I examined it. The weight was a bit lighter than I wanted but the balance was good. There were two clear lacerations on the virgin non-stick surface, but surely they would go once I washed it. I washed the pan, put it on the burner and reached for the oil. No, the scratches were still there. Again, I tried to wash them off. Nope, they were permanent. I wrote to the company. They responded asking for photos of the damage and the number on the bottom, which I promptly sent. There was a standard email reply: ‘we are sorry for your inconvenience...looking into your complaint’ etc. etc. and then nothing else for 10 days. Egg-withdrawal I waited, seething and omelette-less, the egg-withdrawal becoming more acute with each passing day. I began to curse all Indian companies, including the phone company that habitually over-charges, the bank that doesn’t deal with wrong debit card hits, the electric appliance fraudsters who are always out of spare parts. Then, after a fortnight, an unheralded parcel landed. It was a brand-new pan, the same model, but with a pristine surface. After the washing protocol, I put the pan on the burner. As the oil heated up, I poured in the beaten egg. The yellow spread quickly and smoothly into a perfect circle, like those mushroom clouds in film clips of hydrogen bomb tests. I tilted the pan and teased the mixture about. It behaved beautifully as it coalesced, first into a curd and then into full omelette-ness. I touched the disc with my spatula and it leapt balletically into a tube of the kind you see in YouTube videos by tetchy old chefs, into a tremulously undulating egg-package that only a really good omelette pan can produce. I mentally apologised to the manufacturers and slid the thing onto a plate.  No, the cooking surface had gone and was now possibly leaking dangerous material into my innocent and defenseless eggs. I had to put my old compañero out of its misery||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/you-cant-make-an-omelette-without/article33772594.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1Born on February 7, 1812, Charles Dickens is one of the most popular and most loved Victorian authors. When he was 12 years old, his father was arrested for his debts and Charles was forced to work at Warren’s Blacking Factory, where he earned six shillings a week. This experience was the inspiration for his writings about poor social conditions, which became known as ‘Dickensian’. As a ‘Blacker’ what did Dickens work with that comprised Naphtha, turpentine and nigrosine? 2When Dickens was 15, he found a job as a junior clerk at a law office. Instead of learning law, he became fascinated with a then new method of writing developed by Thomas Gurney. Gurney had published his system under the name ‘Brachygraphy, or Swift Writing’. By developing this skill, Dickens eventually became a reporter and writer. How better do we know this system of writing that changed the course of Dickens’s life? 3Some of Dickens’s most popular novels such as David Copperfield and Oliver Twist were initially written to be published in instalments for either monthly or weekly magazines. This meant that Dickens had to ensure that the reader kept looking forward to the next episode. This led to him perfecting the art of a plot device that left the reader in suspense. What plot device was this that we now refer to using a geographical expression? 4Dickens owned a beloved pet named ‘Grip’, which even makes an appearance in one of his novels. When that pet died after eating lead paint chips, he replaced it with another, which he also named ‘Grip’. This particular pet is supposedly the inspiration for one of the most famous poems by Edgar Allan Poe. What pet did Dickens have that you’d associate more with Poe and musician Steven Wilson? 5When Dickens was working as an editor at a magazine, he made it known that his earliest muse was a fairytale character. He wrote, “She was my first love, I felt that if I could have married (her), I should have known perfect bliss. But, it was not to be.” Who is this character who we know by her fondness for a certain colour and her encounter with a big bad canine? 6Charles Dickens, Arthur Conan Doyle and William Butler Yeats were all part of a research organisation that was founded in 1862. This club was started in Cambridge after a discussion on psychic phenomena. The club was dissolved following the death of Dickens in 1870 and was revived in 1882. What is the name of the club, which sounds more like a kids’ Halloween party? 7Dickens was a prodigious wordsmith responsible for giving the English language many words and phrases. He popularised the words ‘butter-fingers’, ‘the creeps’, ‘abuzz’ and ‘boredom’. One way that Dickens devised new words was by adding suffixes to old ones, such as adding ‘-iness’ to make nouns. One of these words he invented means ‘the quality of being light and full of air like wool’. What is this word that you might use to describe a baby rabbit, for instance? 8The works of Dickens are known for his characteristic wit and humour even when dealing with serious social issues. Only one of his works strays away from this and is a grim depiction of life in one of his favourite cities. This is also one of only two historical novels he wrote, the other being Barnaby Rudge . What novel is this which begins with the iconic lines, ‘It was the best of times, it was the worst of times’? 9The Little Ice Age is a climate interval that occurred between the 16th and 19th centuries when mountain glaciers expanded at several locations, including the European Alps. This led to a dramatic climatic shift in England as well. One of the effects was that, beginning the year Dickens was born, London had a very surprising eight years of Christmases with a certain weather pattern. This childhood memory shaped Dickens’s writing and that’s why this particular weather is a constant presence in his Christmas stories. What happened for eight years because of the Little Ice Age? 10The phrase ‘What the Dickens?’ is a euphemism for conjuring the devil and has nothing to do with Charles Dickens. In fact the first written record of this phrase predates Dickens by more than 200 years. It comes in a play where a character says ‘I cannot tell what the dickens his name is’. Who was the playwright who was the first to mention ‘the dickens’ in the 1590s? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article33772598.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Doe a deer||For decades, blackbuck males’ contrasting black-and-white coats, spiralling horns, and haughty strut caught the eye of researchers. The tawny-hued does didn’t seem to grab their attention in a similar way. The scientists termed female herds harems, and the bucks who supposedly ruled the roost were the harem masters. Nothing illustrates the does’ erasure more than the name of the species. Although only the bucks have black hides, the entire species came to be known as blackbuck. Energised When Kavita Isvaran began studying the species three decades ago, the general assumption among researchers was that herbivores were not as interesting as primates and carnivores. Like generations of researchers before her, she expected the does to be particularly boring. Nonetheless, she forced herself to rise before dawn to catch her study subjects before they stirred from their bedding spots. And she was in for a surprise. “Watch the females long enough, you realise they are completely different,” says Isvaran. In the dim predawn light, the does are frisky, jumping up and down and chasing each other. One would leap high in the air while holding its legs stiff, an apparently infectious behaviour called stotting. Others would respond in a similar fashion. Typically, deer and antelope perform this stunt when threatened by predators. But these females appear to suffer from nothing more than joie de vivre. “They act as if they are joyful,” Isvaran says. Young and old females sprint after each other. Even pregnancy doesn’t dampen their spirits. “It is hilarious to see the old and stodgy females bouncing and sprinting like mad.” In half an hour, they turned to the serious business of grazing. “You won’t recognise them. They show none of that playfulness.” However, being alone doesn’t trigger friskiness. When females give birth, the newborns can’t keep up with the herd and lie hidden in the vegetation. The mothers leave their groups and stay close to the fawns. At such times, they don’t stot. Although Isvaran would record this playful behaviour in every population of blackbuck she watched, she doesn’t know why they behave like this, using up a lot of energy. “Play and curiosity among blackbuck haven’t been studied much at all.” Territorial The surprises don’t stop there. During rutting season, the bucks clash head to head to establish ownership of territory. Sexually receptive does eyeball the victorious bucks whom they encounter on the daily circuit of their grazing grounds. If they aren’t impressed, they discourage the males’ unwanted overtures by butting. Although the females have no horns, the bucks get the message and back off. Male blackbucks of Velavadar in Gujarat and Tal Chappar in Rajasthan have a different mating strategy. Instead of holding large territories spaced far apart, they congregate in one spot, a unique phenomenon called lekking. They spend the entire day defending their tiny turf of a few square metres from encroaching rivals all day while the females arrive at the end of the day. Even in this scenario, individual does go from male to male until they find a desirable mate, usually at the heart of the gathering, without fear of being harassed by the losers. If their preferred buck is busy with another female, they may even demand his attention, interrupting his courtship moves until he mates with them. Such forwardness wasn’t expected in a shy and retiring creature as the female blackbuck. While the males may have the good looks, the dowdy females call the shots. “Researchers’ expectations can colour how they do their research,” says Isvaran. Since observing does, she’s come to realise that unlike human harems, herds of does are not assembled by the males. The females decide their social life: with whom to hang out and with whom to mate. Terms such as harem and harem master misconstrue the dynamics of blackbuck society and are now considered outdated. How long will it take, however, for the species’ sexist name to be replaced?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/doe-a-deer/article33772606.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Death comes as the beginning||Lalli was preparing to die.” Opening Kalpana Swaminathan’s latest Lalli mystery, this was certainly not the first line I expected to read. It took great effort not to flip through to the end to see if she survived. And I am glad I held out! For those who came in late, Lalli is a former detective with the Mumbai police force. Now that she has retired, Lalli looks into cases that pique her interest and her usual companions are her niece Sita, Inspector Shukla, her protégé Savio, and the forensic expert Dr. Q, who also has a fondness for rare books. In the initial stages of Raagam Taanam Pallavi , Lalli is frail and recovering from illness. And this worries everyone from Sita, Savio and Inspector Shukla to all the inhabitants of her apartment building. Lalli suspects that she may have committed a murder. Her only clue is a piece of music, specifically a kriti by Muthuswami Dikshitar, one of Carnatic music’s legendary trinity. As Lalli and Sita set about unravelling this clue, there is a murder in Subbu Bhagavathar’s house. From here, the reader is taken on a dizzying ride that coalesces the past and the present. How is Lalli’s neighbour Ramachandran involved? What does the myth of Murugan, the six-headed Tamil god, have to do with the murder? How is the death of Mani Vadiya’s daughter long, long ago connected with this murder? Swaminathan plays with the reader expertly, laying out multiple trails that lead this way and that. But the resolution brings them together beautifully. The only false note, to me, was Lalli’s accusation of murder directed at herself — it seems a bit overblown when seen against the denouement. While the book takes a while to get into its stride — the initial pages detailing Lalli’s illness and the efforts of her team to bring her back drag a bit — a patient reader will be rewarded. And for those worried about their lack of knowledge of Carnatic music or aspects of Tamil culture, a glossary at the end tells you all you need to know.  Raagam Taanam Pallavi Kalpana Swaminathan  Speaking Tiger  Rs. 499||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/death-comes-as-the-beginning/article33772560.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||A weave of emotions||Dhumketu is regarded a pioneer of the short story form. A contemporary of Rabindranath Tagore, Premchand and Manto, Dhumketu — the pen-name of Gujarati writer Gaurishankar Govardhanram Joshi (1892-1965) — wrote short stories, novels, plays, literary criticism and more. The translator of this collection, Jenny Bhatt, contextualises his work in the introduction while providing insightful details about his craft. The translations of Dhumketu’s own introductions to his work help the reader understand the writer’s approach to the short story form. Dhumketu’s awareness of the short story as a distinct form rather than a “a miniature novel” comes off brilliantly. A deep orality is ingrained in the stories, assisted with sharp details and soft imagery. They are as much about social structures and human behaviour as about a sense of wonder. Dhumketu inhabited a period of limited communication, connectivity and resources. Stories like Tears of the Soul and The Queen of Nepal have the charm of tales from a bygone era. He can be stylishly meta too — On the Banks of Sarayu is a story about storytelling being deferred and how this delay plays out in a father-son relationship. Since the stories are presented chronologically, we get an idea of Dhumketu’s evolving craft. His earlier works are at times archetypal and simplistic, but he soon masters the art of handling complex emotions. This leads to the stories becoming more layered and stimulating — The Noble Daughters-in-Law is one such. With many conflicts ending with some form of poetic justice, the stories seem to advocate the idea of karmic balance. The most remarkable aspect of Dhumketu’s craft is that it deflects attention from the craft itself, giving us an immersive reading experience. Ratno Dholi is a revelation: we hope that several other writers like Dhumketu, who are almost unknown to the English-speaking world, will soon be made available in translation. The writer is the author of Painting That Red Circle White, a poetry collection.  Ratno Dholi: The Best Stories of Dhumketu Trs Jenny Bhatt  HarperCollins  Rs. 399||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-weave-of-emotions/article33772562.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||The Drowned and the Saved by Primo Levi||The epigraph of Primo Levi’s last book, The Drowned and the Saved, is from Coleridge’s poem, ‘The Rime of the Ancient Mariner’: “Since then, at an uncertain hour,/ That agony returns,/ And till my ghastly tale is told/ This heart within me burns.” For Levi, the ‘ghastly tale’ that needed to be told was about the horrors of Auschwitz — the 76th anniversary of the camp’s liberation was on January 27 — and he did it repeatedly, starting with his first book, If This is a Man . Through eight chapters in The Drowned , bookended by a preface and a conclusion, Levi dissects life in the camps (Lagers), stressing on the need for truth and reconciliation in order to learn from the past. Trained as a chemist, Levi was arrested for being a member of the anti-fascist resistance during World War II and deported to Auschwitz. The first news about the Nazi annihilation camps, he writes, began to spread in 1942, this despite the best efforts of the SS posts to ensure no witness survived. In the first months of 1945 when Germany was being invaded from the west and east, there were “insane transfers” from camp to camp: survivors of Majdanek were sent to Auschwitz, those of Buchenwald to Bergen-Belsen, the women of Ravensbruck towards Schwerin — everyone was being snatched away from liberation. Diligent executioners For Levi, the “drowned” or those who died in the camps, were the true witnesses: the “saved”, who lived and wrote about the concentration camp experience, spoke “in their stead, by proxy.” While explaining the complex Lager phenomenon, Levi’s ultimate goal was to try to answer the most urgent question: how much of the concentration camp world is dead and will not return and what can each one of us do, “so that in a world pregnant with threats, at least this threat will be nullified?” Reading the autobiography of Rudolph Höss — the commander of Auschwitz who invented the hydrocyanic chambers — Levi says one can see a defence in the classical manner of all militiamen, who “have been educated in absolute obedience, hierarchy, nationalism….” As “diligent executioners”, with others deciding for them what to do and how to act, they did not feel responsible for the atrocities. “The pressure that a totalitarian state can exercise over the individual is frightful. Its weapons are substantially three: direct propaganda, the barrier erected against pluralism of information and terror,” writes Levi, pointing out that the entire history of Nazi rule can be “reread as a war against memory… a negation of reality.” In that sense, Hitler’s reign, according to Levi, is a “demonstration of the price to be paid when one dismembers the truth.” Vaster shame One of the most chilling chapters is ‘The Grey Zone’ where Levi describes the “collaborators” in the horrors, prisoners who helped the Lager authorities for some privilege, like food for a few more months. An “extreme case of collaboration” is represented by the ‘sonderkommandos’ of Auschwitz — prisoners, mostly Jews, entrusted with running the crematoria. These Special Squads, the “bearers of a horrendous secret”, were kept apart from other prisoners and the outside world. Most of them were killed, but information filtered through of what it meant to be forced to do this work. “One of them declared: ‘Doing this work, one either goes crazy the first day or gets accustomed to it.’ Another said: ‘Certainly, I could have killed myself or got myself killed; but I wanted to survive, to avenge myself and bear witness. You mustn’t think that we are monsters, we are the same as you, only much more unhappy.’” In one chapter, Levi writes about the ‘shame’ of being alive in place of another, mourning the deaths of people like Chaim, the watchmaker from Cracow, who, despite language difficulties, taught him the art of survival. “The worst survived — that is, the fittest; the best all died.” And yet, for Levi there is “another, vaster shame, the shame of the world,” when people faced by the crime of others or their own turn their backs on it. Every bell tolls for everyone, is the chilling reminder. Levi fell to his death soon after completing this book in April 1987, leading to speculation that there was a hint of his terrible future in it. He was distressed by the passing of Austrian philosopher Hanns Chaim Mayer,  alias Jean Améry , who killed himself in 1978. But, as Paul Bailey writes in the introduction, Levi used all his resources “positively and creatively” to ask question after pertinent question. As Levi outlines in the chapter, ‘The Intellectual of Auschwitz’, the aims of life are the best defence against death, and not only in the Lager. The writer looks back at one classic every month.  Trained as a chemist, Levi was arrested for being a member of the anti-fascist resistance during World War II and deported to Auschwitz||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-drowned-and-the-saved-by-primo-levi/article33772563.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||The shadow cast by Partition and the trauma of displacement||“The past is never dead. It’s not even past,” said  American novelist and Nobel Laureate William Faulkner in Requiem for a Nun. Marina Wheeler’s memoir of colonial policies that left Punjab (in erstwhile British India) wounded, reminds you of the famous aphorism: when you remember your past you come to terms with it. Silence on loss   The Lost Homestead is woven around Marina’s mother Dip Singh’s stories of loss and pain that Partition brought. Her peaceful and protected years till adolescence in their family home in Sargodha, near Lahore (now in Pakistan) were ruined when the subcontinent descended into chaos, riots and bloodshed and like millions of others her family was forced to flee their beautiful dwelling, never to return. Dip’s father Dr. Harbans Singh told his children to never speak about what they had lost. Marina writes while escaping from Punjab her grandfather left behind valuables and carried only ghee and some farm produce believing that the civil turmoil would be temporary. The division of the subcontinent displaced many and changed lives forever. For Partition survivors, refugee status in a new land (New Delhi) was an emotional baggage. Their personal sufferings often remained unrecorded because of their silence. In 2017, Marina saw Gurinder Chadha’s film Viceroy’s House , commemorating the 70th anniversary of India’s independence, and realised how her mother’s life was a mystery to her and sibling Shirin. To get her mother to reminisce was like understanding her personal and political freedom in a broader perspective.    Dip’s life story is an engaging narration and resonates with the diaspora as the book embraces a much larger story of the shadow cast by Partition and how millions of emigres survived the trauma. At 18, Dip escaped from her arranged marriage to Daljit Singh, the younger brother of Khushwant Singh, and 12 years later married BBC journalist Charles Wheeler. In between she worked at the Canadian Embassy in Delhi and at Amnesty International in London and moved in diplomatic circles. With Charles, Dip travelled the world from the then divided city of Berlin to Washington DC to finally Sussex where she lived for 40 years till her death. Dip rebuilt her life on her terms, blanking out the pre-1947 days. Never did she return to her country of birth or refuge and told Marina she never even read a book from India fearing it might make her homesick. Unexpected turn Marina set out to explore her roots in the two Punjabs in Pakistan and India, and piecemealed the lives of her maternal ancestors before and after Partition. It is a racy, evocative narration packing in details from her research, travels, interviews, anecdotes and unexpected surprises. The book brings out the catharsis and triumph of not one but two women. She pulls her mother out of the circle of people and events, and the writing process helps to examine her own life, married as she was to a public figure for 25 years. Marina ended her high-profile marriage to British Prime Minister Boris Johnson last November (a process that began in 2018). She believes that her mother never forgot her secure childhood homestead. Memories of undivided Punjab and the Partition-induced massacre remained dormant. Though Dip Singh finally broke her silence, she died in February 2020, months before the book was published.  The Lost Homestead: My Mother, Partition and the Punjab Marina Wheeler Hodder & Stoughton/ Hachette India  Rs. 699    She pulls her mother out of the circle of people and events, and the writing process helped to examine her own life, married as she was to a public figure for 25 years||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-shadow-cast-by-partition-and-the-trauma-of-displacement/article33772580.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Lessons from the Gabba||The recently concluded India-Australia cricket series had a few important life lessons, not just for sportsmen but even for the rest of us. “Magic” Johnson, a U.S. basketball player, once said, “In life, winning and losing will both happen. What is never acceptable is quitting.” Bundled out for a paltry 36 in the first Test, the captain leaving soon after, losing the best bowlers to a spate of injuries, getting hit and being battered and bruised as they went along, this Indian team, even while being bent, refused to break and instead rose like a phoenix from the ashes to vanquish Australia, a team endowed with arguably the best bowlers in the world. What was remarkable about this series victory was that it was achieved though just three or four tried-and-tested players could pitch in. Cricket is a team sport and nowhere was this more exemplified than in the way the Indian team performed. If the second Test saw the stand-in captain lead from the front, the third saw two injured men, standing and battling pain and body blows, dogged and determined to survive and take their team ashore. The fourth Test was as much about the exuberance, talent and fearlessness of greenhorns as it was about the determination, concentration and single-mindedness of a veteran who took repeated blows on his body but refused to wilt. The message of this, I am sure, would not have been lost on the colts in the team. Nowhere was the saying “cometh the hour, cometh the man” more apt than in this series. This series also brought home to us that success in sports as in other fields can never be unidimensional. One requires the Pants and the Gills as much as one requires the Pujaras and the Viharis. When to attack, when to defend, the situational awareness, the shot selection, the field placements, the line and length while bowling, all need to be borne in mind. In life, the attribute of adaptability is what comes closest to mind. Success in the pursuits of life, as in cricket, has a lot to do with self-belief. How else does one explain the emergence of players like Siraj, the son of an autorickshaw driver, or Natarajan, the son of a construction labourer, from disadvantaged backgrounds who made their country proud? Last but not the least, what these young cricketers taught us is that it does not matter what the challenges are or who one’s opponents are. All that matters is the will to put in those hard yards, work as a unit, endure all the pain and the agony en route , but never ever think of quitting. ashokwarrier27@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/lessons-from-the-gabba/article33772552.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Journeys with the Bullet||The thump of a Royal Enfield Bullet is often deemed as the Indian roads’ surreal anthem. It is a motorcycle redolent with nostalgia and built on roots spread between England and its ethnic heartbeat — Madras then, Chennai now. Ask a man on the street about his wicked automobile dreams and you would trigger a yearning towards riding a Bullet or driving an old Mahindra Jeep or a Maruti Gypsy. It is an emotion that petrolheads would understand. Southern heart-throb Dulquer Salmaan once said he is a ‘car guy’s car guy’. Likewise there are enough bike guy’s bike guys and in all their hearts, Royal Enfield occupies a fuzzy corner. This heritage brand’s story needed to be chronicled in an exhaustive and interesting way. And it is a task that business journalist Amrit Raj assigns himself in his book Indian Icon . ‘Mood swings’ He offers both the warm eye of a fan and the cold gaze of a cynical hack. Before he delves into the brand’s origins, slump, eventual revival and the attendant churn, he speaks to the bike’s lovers. There are gems to be savoured and Bobbee Singh from Old Delhi quips: “She is temperamental. She has mood swings. She does drama on a daily basis. She is known to be a jealous motorcycle. It might sound funny to you, but it is true.” The 350cc bike has its quirks and Amrit doesn’t flinch in stating the obvious truths, like how it was referred to as the Oilfield once since it used to leak engine oil. But eventually this is part homage, largely historical research and all stitched together with a journalist’s rigour. With Eicher Motors stepping in to own Royal Enfield and its biker-boss Siddhartha Lal infusing passion into a brand which once seemed headed the good old Ambassador’s way into oblivion, Amrit has enough material to chew on. Midway through the book, Amrit gets his analysis spot on: “The motorcycles that it made were timeless in sensibility and appeal yet approachable and relatively affordable and would encourage the owner to be hands-on.” Equally, he stresses that the brand cannot be a one-trick pony relying entirely on the Classic range, a viewpoint reiterated by industry watchers. Candid portrait While the author pens about the way the Classic was conceptualised and the rides into the mountains which helped invigorate the company, he is brutally candid about the teething issues that marred the Himalayan brand and the fiasco surrounding the promotion of Pegasus and Signals. He also offers snapshots of the few personality clashes but overall Amrit stays the course of offering a wholesome portrait of a brand that has turbo-charged the retro-cruiser segment, which now also has the Jawas, Benellis and Hondas eyeing a slice of the pie. This book isn’t meant only for those who gaze at a Bullet and wistfully sigh. It is also relevant to a wider audience keen to figure out a valued company’s evolution and the fresh roads it is charting, be it in India or abroad.  Indian Icon: A Cult called Royal Enfield Amrit Raj Westland Business  Rs. 699||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/journeys-with-the-bullet/article33772575.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Votes for dates||Dear Agony Akka, I dread this time of the year, when every boy in my class imagines himself to be irresistibly charming and keeps asking me out on Valentine’s Day dates. It was easy to fob them off last year: the coronavirus was a particularly good excuse to avoid meeting all these Romeos. But now that the corona is gone and even colleges are reopening, I have to keep inventing new-new excuses. You see, I don’t want to be very rude to them — next year is student leader elections and I need their votes. In fact, that’s why I have been humouring them these last two years. A hello here, a smile there — you have to do these things to win elections, right? But those poor sods imagine I’m really interested in them. Can you imagine? Them! Anyway, please tell me how I can make sure these boys will campaign for me and vote for me without becoming one super nuisance. —OneMercenaryGirl   Dear OMG,  Welcome to the real world. Where a bit of banter or a smile will be seen as an acceptance of a marriage proposal. Yes, the spring air and February does do something to the gushing hormones of our boys and they can become sillier than usual. What to do? In my days, we all thought Valentine’s Day was a great excuse to write bad poetry — of the ‘Roses are Red’ variety. And someone or the other would give one rose. Or one chocolate. We would become very happy. Then, during my niece’s days, things became rather hot. Armies of loony “cultural warriors” started roaming around parks and malls on February 14, pouncing upon young couples and making life hell. They would give them a mangalsutra or rakhi option: either have a symbolic wedding or become brother-sister . No doubt everyone hated those neanderthal creatures, but it was a good excuse to avoid unwanted dates. Like Sholay movie dialogue, my niece and her friends would pretend to shiver with fright and tell the boys, ‘Oh we can’t go out because THOSE men will come.’ Sadly, the goon squads appear to have moved on from Valentine’s Day vigilantism to Cow Vigilantism and Love Jihad. My friend Malathi tells me they’re particularly active in Uttar Pradesh. Their other areas of interest are the welfare of buses and roads and the activities of journalists. But plain-vanilla puppy love just doesn’t seem to get their blood boiling like it did even a few years ago. This is a great loss for new-age gals like you and for girls who don’t live in Uttar Pradesh. So, I have to think really hard. How to avoid dates and win elections? I know! Appeal to sanskari values. My niece tells me that college campuses are positively overflowing with that sentiment these days. And sanskari candidates are winning student body elections steadily. Let it be widely known that from now on, you will be observing February 14 as Maitri-Pitri Pujan Diwas — a day spent in propitiating one’s parents. That flamboyantly bearded baba himself announced this idea a few years ago. That baba, of course, was jailed for some rather un- sanskari deeds himself, but don’t let that distract you from his message. I know what you are thinking — given the high possibility that your relationship with your parents is less than excellent these days, how to pretend to worship them? In that case, I have an even better idea. Announce on social media that you think Valentine’s Day is a foolish, frivolous, and anti-national exercise. From now on, you will celebrate February 14 as Rajendra Prasad Day or Mundaka Upanishad Day — it doesn’t matter, just find something obscure. On such a serious day, obviously nobody will expect you to go on dates. But you could, of course, clarify that roses and chocolates are always welcome. And votes.  —AA  agony.akka@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/votes-for-dates/article33772596.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Where’s Tommy?||We haven’t seen our old friend Trump Coup Tommy in many months. We hope he will return soon. Tommy played this deal some years ago. It led to his nickname. West started the defence with the ace and another diamond. Tommy won in hand and led a trump to dummy’s king. He was totally bored with this hand until West discarded on the first trump. Tommy was energised when he realised that he would need a trump coup to make this slam. He would need an ending where he had just the ace-queen-nine of spades with the lead in dummy. He cashed dummy’s jack of spades and ace of clubs before ruffing a club in hand. This reduced his trump length to the same length as East. To achieve the ending that he wanted, East was going to have to follow suit to three heart tricks. That was a little risky, but there was no way around it. Tommy cashed the ace and queen of hearts before leading a heart to dummy’s king. When East followed, Tommy was almost there. He needed to cash one more winner in dummy, so he continued with the 10 of hearts. Had East ruffed, Tommy would have over-ruffed, drawn the trumps and cashed a diamond. When East discarded instead, Tommy discarded his last diamond and he had the ending that he wanted. Any lead from dummy and Tommy scored the last three trump tricks. Nicely played!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/wheres-tommy/article33772601.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Karachi Vice: Life and Death in a Contested City||Samira Shackle  Granta Books  Rs. 1,530 (Kindle price) Pakistan’s largest city is a sprawling metropolis of 20 million people, and a place of political turbulence. Shackle explores the city of her mother’s birth in the company of a handful of Karachiites, including an ambulance driver, an activist and a journalist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/karachi-vice-life-and-death-in-a-contested-city/article33772582.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Land: How the Hunger for Ownership Shaped the Modern World||Simon Winchester  HarperCollins  Rs. 677 (Kindle price) The ownership of land has always been complicated. In this book, Winchester explores the stewardship of land, the ways it is delineated and changes hands, great disputes, and the questions of restoration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/land-how-the-hunger-for-ownership-shaped-the-modern-world/article33772584.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||The Population Myth||S.Y. Quraishi  HarperCollins  Rs. 499 Based on research, the former chief election commissioner busts some myths about the ‘Muslim rate of growth’. With facts to demolish misconception, Quraishi argues why a planned population is in the interest of all communities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-population-myth/article33772586.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||B.R. Ambedkar: The Quest for Justice||Aakash Singh Rathore  Oxford University Press  Rs. 9,995 A five-volume set of papers explores the major themes of research surrounding the oeuvre of B.R. Ambedkar, covering political, social, legal, economic, gender, racial, religious and cultural justice. Contributors include Bhikhu Parekh, Anand Teltumbde, and a host of other writers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/br-ambedkar-the-quest-for-justice/article33772588.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3136||Across  1 Knocked back food – a French dory, filleted – and wine (8) 5 Primarily vulgar, scornful, insulting gestures (not suave)? (1-5) 10 Heartless to steal books; sick to destroy covers (7) 11 Baedeker: it really captures Red Sea land (7) 12 Seconds before games return to racecourse (5) 13 I’m surprised and tense, wearing expensive headgear (5,4) 14 Partitioned while trembling, trembling (11) 18 ‘Shameful’ gin cocktail: not promising to get one in (11) 21 Drink most of champagne, having briefly eaten out (6,3) 23 Finally performed ceremonial dance somewhere in Asia (5) 24 Told a story? Have a little rest (3-4) 25 Mostly insincere, no good and a bit of a chore (7) 26 Deadly reptile on island: my God! (6) 27 Encourages a boy to find something to eat (3,5)  Down  1 Unpleasant to live with poet around (6) 2 Direct section of Cairo bus trip (6) 3 Everyman’s in a tumult, wildly offering threat (9) 4 Losing potency, facing defeat in struggle (14) 6 Scandalous, hearing about the Third Man? (5) 7 Most of singers getting hot drink, shortly, for composer (8) 8 Those whereby duty is getting into going without? (8) 9 Increasing power, Virgin Queen to gain sway (14) 15 Diligent lasses find autocue’s failing regularly (9) 16 Very bad to see yours truly excluded from biomedical engineering (8) 17 Uppishness seen as Southern aristocrat topless, Derby scandalised (8) 19 Judge’s drawn Nigella oddly (6) 20 Uneven judge made criticisms, ignoring knight (6) 22 What’s found in bathroom of India, ultimately? (5)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3136/article33772604.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Myanmar coup||Myanmar’s military detained Aung San Suu Kyi, President Win Myint and other civilian leaders, seized power and declared a one-year state of emergency. The army alleged that last year’s election, which Suu Kyi’s party won by a landslide, was mired in fraud. Many countries condemned the coup, and the U.S. threatened new sanctions. Suu Kyi was later charged with volating import laws and could face years in jail. As a civil disobedience campaign took off in response, the army blocked Facebook access.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/myanmar-coup/article33772538.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Pop power||American pop singer Rihanna, Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg, and other global celebrities tweeted in support of the farmers’ protest. “Why aren’t we talking about this?! #FarmersProtest,” Rihanna tweeted. In an unprecedented move, the Ministry of External Affairs responded with a lengthy statement objecting to such “sensationalist” comments. As if on cue, Indian celebrities and cricketers, including Sachin Tendulkar, chimed in with pro-government tweets, a move that Congress leader Shashi Tharoor called “embarrassing”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/pop-power/article33772540.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Kremlin crackdown||A Moscow court sentenced Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny to more than two-and-a-half years in prison for violating his parole when he was in Germany recovering from poisoning. This ignited protests in Moscow and St Petersburg, but protesters were promptly rounded up by riot police. Reportedly, more than 10,000 demonstrators were detained during this and the preceding days in a crackdown that a Kremlin spokesman called “justified”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/kremlin-crackdown/article33772542.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Tweetstorm||Obeying a “legal request” from the Centre, Twitter blocked around 100 accounts and 150 posts for “provocative” remarks relating to the farmers’ protest using the hashtag #ModiPlanning FarmerGenocide. The accounts, including that ofThe Caravanmagazine, were “unilaterally” restored by Twitter hours later. The Centre then issued a notice to Twitter to abide by its order and remove the content, or potentially face penal action, but the platform resisted the demand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/tweetstorm/article33772544.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Bezos steps down||Jeff Bezos, founder of Amazon, said he‘d step down as CEO. He will become executive chair of the Amazon Board in the third quarter, while Andy Jassy (in pic) — a long-expected successor who runs Amazon’s cloud computing business — takes over as CEO. In an email to his colleagues, Bezos said, “In the Exec Chair role, I intend to focus my energies and attention on new products and early initiatives.” Last year, Bezos led the Forbes list of richest Americans for the third year in a row.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/bezos-steps-down/article33772546.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Farmers besieged||The Delhi Police blockaded farmers’ protest sites outside the capital with barricades, barbed wire and spikes. Farmers’ leaders insisted they would not resume talks until these were removed and detained protesters released. The police denied entry to the sites to visitors and Internet access remained suspended. Meanwhile, the protests gained strength, with a massive ‘mahapanchayat’ in Haryana expressing support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/farmers-besieged/article33772548.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Budget day||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman presented the 2021-22 Union Budget. Highlights include a focus on disinvestment, with the privatisation of two banks and an insurance firm, and taxation reforms, while aiming to reduce the fiscal deficit from 9.5% of GDP. A sum of Rs. 5.54 lakh crore was earmarked for capital expenditure and Rs. 2.24 lakh crore for healthcare. Significant infrastructure spending was promised in four poll-bound States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/budget-day/article33772550.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Rogues among the Ruins||Achala Moulik  Olive Turtle Rs. 495 Portrays the conflict of civil servants caught between ideals and ambition. The first part is a fictionalised account of the workings of the Archaeological Survey of India and the predicament of a naïve scholar. The scholar’s son, a morally neutral bureaucrat, chronicles a later era in the second part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/rogues-among-the-ruins/article33772567.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Cages: Love and Vengeance in a Red Light District||Aabid Surti  Viking Rs. 399 Set in the intersection of the world of prostitution, the Bombay underworld, and Bollywood in the 1970s, the novel is inspired by the true story of Kumud, a sex-worker who dared to play by her own rules. Touches on themes of gendered violence and sisterhood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/cages-love-and-vengeance-in-a-red-light-district/article33772569.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||The Wife Upstairs||Rachel Hawkins  St. Martin's Press Rs. 1,911 In aJane Eyretake-off, Thornfield Estates is a gated community full of bored housewives. Jane arrives as a broke dog-walker. Then she meets Eddie Rochester. They fall in love but Jane is haunted by the legend of Rochester’s first wife, an ambitious beauty who died in an accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-wife-upstairs/article33772571.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Asylum Road||Olivia Sudjic  Bloomsbury Publishing Rs. 1,845 A couple drives from London to Provence. Anya feels their relationship is on the verge. As a child, she escaped from Sarajevo, and the idea of security is alien to her. But they return to London engaged. Will planning a wedding settle Anya’s unease?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/asylum-road/article33772573.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Tool to ease SARS-CoV-2 genome mutation analysis||An automated computational tool – Infectious Pathogen Detector (IPD) – developed earlier by researchers at the Mumbai-based ACTREC, Tata Memorial Centre, to identify the presence of 1,060 different pathogens in any genome sequence sample and perform mutation and phylogenetic analysis has become even more useful with the addition of a module for SARS-CoV-2 virus. The IPD tool has been already designed to perform analysis of diverse genomic datasets, which came handy while analysing diverse data sets of SARS-CoV-2 genome that have been uploaded to the GISAID database from across the globe. The diversity of SARS-CoV-2 genome sequence data in the GISAID database arises because of different sequencing platforms being located across the world. Different sequencing platforms being used generate either high-density but shorter read-length or low-density but higher read-length. “To parse this plural kind of dataset requires distinct downstream pipelines which make the analysis complicated and difficult to compare against each other,” says Dr. Amit Dutt from the Tata Memorial Centre and the lead author of a paper published in the journal Briefings in Bioinformatics. “But we have automated the entire process thereby allowing users to analyse in a stringent and statistically disciplined manner the SARS-CoV-2 genome data without being restricted by the platform used to generate the data.” Unique tool Explaining the uniqueness of the IPD tool, Dr. Dutt says that it can automatically determine the abundance of SARS-CoV-2 genome sequences, carry out mutation analysis with respect to the Wuhan sequence and finally, based on the mutations seen in each sample, assign it to the respective phylogenetic clade. Assigning a sample to a phylogenetic clade is based on the complete profile of mutations seen in the sample. “Researchers can either upload sequence data to the IPD server which then automatically analyses the data for mutations and then assign the sample to the respective phylogenetic clade or download the tool before using it for bulk analysis,” says Dr. Dutt. Using the tool, the researchers analysed over 2,00,000 SARS-CoV-2 genome sequences available in the GISAID database. Only those with high-quality sequence data were included for analysis as the tool automatically rejects those with inferior quality. In over 2,00,000 sequences analysed, they found 2.58 million mutations in all with 6.6 nonsynonymous mutations (that do not alter the amino acid sequence) and five synonymous mutations (that alter the amino acid sequence) per sample. The results are posted on bioRxiv preprint server. Preprints are yet to be peer-reviewed. Hotspot residues “Our analysis revealed 13 hotspot residues across the SARS-CoV-2 genome that occur at least in 40,000 or more samples. This includes the D614G, one of the first mutations described in the spike protein,” says Dr. Dutt. “Interestingly, none of the more recent spike glycoprotein mutations — N439K, S477Y, E484K, and N501Y — were found to be significantly abundant in the current variants in Britain, Brazil and South Africa.” The 13 hotspot mutations are occurring at a high frequency as seen in their presence in at least 40,000 samples. “So there is some kind of repetitive convergent evolution taking place. The 13 hotspot mutations which have been selected for are occurring independently,” he cautions. “Besides hotspot mutations, we also see mutations in specific sub-clades. So there is adaptive and convergent evolution.” They found that the mutation rate of both nonsynonymous and synonymous mutations in 3,361 Indian COVID-19 sequence samples was comparable with the global rate. They also found 4,422 unique mutations that have not been reported outside India. “The hotspot mutations were seen in the Indian samples as well, including the D614G spike protein mutation. However, no significant occurrence of N439K, E484K, or N501Y mutations were found, except in two samples that harboured the S477Y spike protein mutation,” he says. According to Sanket Desai, the first author of the journal paper and the preprint, mutations are taking place randomly and selection will happen over time. It is just a matter of time before mutations that give the virus better fitness emerge. Viruses with such mutations will have either more transmissibility, as seen in the Britain variant or immune escape as seen in the South African variant. Chances of the rise of dangerous mutations that render the virus greater fitness are high due to persistence of the pandemic in some countries. With just over 5,100 sequences from India, of which only 4,041 are complete and high-coverage, there is no way of knowing if new variants first reported in Britain, Brazil and South Africa are already present in India and whether new mutations so far unreported elsewhere that render better fitness to the virus have already emerged here. Far from target Despite the COVID-19 task force mandating 5% of positive samples to be sequenced from all the States and Union Territories, the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) is far from reaching the target percentage. With the SARS-CoV-2 genome being just about 30 kb in size, it is possible to pool up to 1,000 samples into one and carry out the sequencing at high coverage of 1,000x in one go and still be far less than 15 Gb sequencing capacity of platforms routinely used in Indian labs. High throughput will also help cut down the sequencing cost per sample and help have the data after analysis in about 10 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/tool-to-ease-sars-cov-2-genome-mutation-analysis/article33771970.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Decoding how coronavirus mutates||Scientists have identified a pattern of mutations in the novel coronavirus which enable it to evade the immune system’s antibodies, findings that shed light on how the virus may possibly escape existing vaccines and therapeutics. According to the researchers, including those from the University of Pittsburgh in the U.S., the coronavirus undergoes selective deletions in parts of its genetic sequence that encode for the shape of its spike protein. The spike protein is the part of the coronavirus which enables it to infect host cells, and is also the segment of the virus against which the body produces neutralising antibodies. The study, published in the journal Science, assessed nearly 1,50,000 gene sequences of the spike protein collected from many parts of the world, and found that in variants possessing the deletion mutations, formerly neutralising antibodies cannot grab hold of the virus. Based on the analysis, the scientists identified a form of virus “escape” that resulted from a common, strong selective pressure for the coronavirus to undergo such a change. They found at least nine instances where such variants arose in patients whose COVID-19 infections were persistent. According to the study, the scientists first came across these neutralisation-resistant mutations in a sample from an immunocompromised patient, who was infected with coronavirus for 74 days before ultimately dying from COVID-19. The researchers believe this long time of “cat and mouse” play between the immune system and the coronavirus in such patients gives “ample opportunity” to initiate a “co-evolutionary dance”. They said this competition results in “worrisome mutations” in the viral genome that are resulting in variants of the coronavirus such as the ones first reported in the UK and South Africa. “Evolution was repeating itself. By looking at this pattern, we could forecast. If it happened a few times, it was likely to happen again,” said Kevin McCarthy, a co-author of the study from the University of Pittsburgh. While it is yet to be determined how far these mutations erode protection, McCarthy said "At some point, we're going to have to start reformulating vaccines, or at least entertain that idea."  “Evolution was repeating itself. By looking at this pattern, we could forecast. If it happened a few times, it was likely to happen again. Kevin McCarthy University of Pittsburgh||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/decoding-how-coronavirus-mutates/article33771968.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Water scarcity likely in the Himalayan catchment if warming continues||The coldly white snowpacks and glaciers of the Himalayas that make for a picturesque panorama are also important sources of water for about a billion people who live in the basins of the Indus, Ganges and Brahmaputra rivers. But with rising global temperatures, these snowpacks and glaciers, which are highly sensitive, are affected. This, in turn, affects the Himalayan hydrology. India, Nepal, Pakistan and China hugely depend on these Himalayan rivers for their daily needs and energy production. Himalayan rivers A new paper published last month studied how these Himalayan rivers are affected by the different components – rainfall-runoff, snow-melt and glacier-melt – and notes that if drier and warmer scenarios continue in the near future (2031–2050), we are more likely to face water stress in these catchment areas. They also note that if there is increased rainfall, this could lead to a water surplus situation. The team studied five basins in the central Himalaya – Sutlej, Thulo Bheri, Kali Gandaki, Dudh Kosi and Arun. They analysed the daily precipitation, maximum and minimum daily temperatures, wind speeds, land cover, elevation and soil properties. “We developed a new glacier melt model and integrated it to the currently used land surface model. The currently used land surface model – used even by the Ministry of Earth Sciences – does not take into account glacier melt. This could lead to serious errors in the study of north-Indian rivers. Our model helps make the current one complete and turns it into a more advanced and better one,” explains Subimal Ghosh, the corresponding author of the paper published in Water Resources Research. He is from the Department of Civil Engineering at the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay. Wetter scenario The results show that the glacier-melt increases about 15% to 70% in a warmer environment with its present volume, but then decreases to 3%–38% substantially when the glacier volumes shrink. However, such a decrease can be compensated if there is increased rainfall and if a wetter scenario persists. “Snowpacks and glaciers are two important water storage units in the Himalaya. Though snow is lower density and will melt easily in a warming climate, the reduced snowfall will in turn reduce the amount of snow-melt. Though glacier melt will increase initially, they will shrink in size quickly and the amount of glacier melt will also decline in the latter end of the century,” adds Vikram S. Chandel, first author of the paper. He is a research scholar of Interdisciplinary Program in Climate Studies, IIT Bombay. The future study will focus on understanding the predictability of the land-atmospheric processes. The team notes that proper water-management and governance are urgently required. “Changing patterns of precipitation systems — Indian Summer Monsoon and Western Disturbances — are important for the future situation of water resources in Himalayan catchments,” adds the paper.  Our model helps make the current one complete and turns it into a more advanced and better one, Subimal Ghosh IIT Bombay||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/water-scarcity-likely-in-the-himalayan-catchment-if-warming-continues/article33771961.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Silk-protein-based tumour models for testing out cancer drugs||Improving on techniques for testing cancer drugs, researchers from IIT Guwahati have come up with silk-protein–based tumour models. An alternative to testing cancer drugs using patient-derived cell lines or animal models, the research involves fabrication of a bio-active composite of silk proteins from two species of silk moths and building a scaffolding that provides a three-dimensional base for growing tumouroids. Normally, cancer drugs are tested using patient-derived primary cancer cells, on tumours induced in animal models or on genetically modified organisms. However, these models are insufficient to reproduce the three-dimensional morphology and physiology of human tumours and hence show inaccuracies in drug screening. Though animal models are better at this, they can show a variation depending on the species used. Moreover, animal models are expensive to maintain and can increase the cost of drug development. In this context, the silk-protein–based tumour models developed by the group come as a useful intervention. “As an alternative to existing cancer models, this tissue-engineered 3D silk-based tumour model imitates native tumour microenvironment, complex tumour physiology and metastasis, thus improving drug screening efficacy,” says G. Janani, who is an author of the paper published in Journal of Colloid and Interface Science.  Building scaffolds The scientists mixed the silk fibroins extracted from the cocoons of the domestic silk moth (Bombyx mori) and the silk glands of the muga silk moth (Antheraea assama) in equal proportions and used them to build up scaffolds on which they grew breast and liver tumour cell cultures. “The Bombyx mori silk fibroin has been well explored for healthcare applications and is also FDA approved,” says Biman B Mandal of IIT Guwahati who led the study, in an email to The Hindu. The A. assama proteins add their own special strength to the scaffolding. As Prof. Mandal explains, “ A. assama silk fibroin possesses inherent cell-adhesion RGD ligands [cell attachment sites], which provide better cell attachment and growth conditions in a 3D environment; porosity and tuneable mechanical strength [which] assist in proper nutrient diffusion.” As a proof of concept, the researchers created breast and liver tumouroids and these showed similar tumour physiology in 3D spatiotemporal arrangements and drug-resistance, as in native solid tumours. They also tested the screening capacity of the tumours on known anticancer drugs, Doxorubicin and Paclitaxel. The tumoroids grown on the silk composite exhibited increased resistance to cancer drugs (as in native conditions) compared to monolayers and spheroids. Vital step “The proposed silk scaffold-based in vitro tumour model could serve as a vital step in research laboratories to evaluate a variety of anticancer drugs and understand their mechanisms. The cancer model in the current study demonstrated a better response than monolayer [2D] and spheroid models,” says Prof. Mandal. He qualifies it further, saying, “Still, a [range] of conditions needs to be incorporated and optimised to achieve a high similarity to human cancers. Involving different types of cell such as endothelial cells, cancer stem cells, metastatic cells, etc in the same mileu would closely resemble the human tumour environment.” The group next plans to miniaturise the cancer model using microfluidics technology and to mimic the native tumour by adding blood vessels in it. “This improved model would assist in studying cancer metastasis from one tissue to another tissue and drug testing for cancer metastasis,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/silk-protein-based-tumour-models-for-testing-out-cancer-drugs/article33771963.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Magnetic fields in plants||Can plants produce magnetic fields? A recent study (Scientific Reports) from Germany found that the Venus flytrap (Dionaea muscipula) plant is capable of generating small magnetic fields. When these plants send electrical signals to trigger the closure of their traps, to catch an insect, a biomagnetism phenomenon was observed. The leaf stalk, or petiole, is not excitable and is electrically insulated from the trap. The first author of the study Anne Fabricant explained in a release that the magnetic signals in plants are very weak and it was extremely difficult to measure them with the help of older technologies. Using new and advanced atomic magnetometers, the team was able to measure the magnetic signals, which had an amplitude of up to 0.5 picotesla, which is millions of times weaker than the Earth's magnetic field. “The signal magnitude recorded is similar to what is observed during surface measurements of nerve impulses in animals,” explains Fabricant. Interestingly, the trap is electrically excitable in a variety of ways: in addition to mechanical influences such as touch or injury, osmotic energy, for example salt-water loads, and thermal energy in the form of heat or cold can also trigger action potentials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/magnetic-fields-in-plants/article33771962.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Government regulations and tech platforms||The story so far: The Centre has issued notice to Twitter after the micro-blogging site restored more than 250 accounts that had been suspended earlier on the government’s ‘legal demand’. The government wants the platform to comply with its earlier order of January 31 by which it was asked to block accounts and a controversial hashtag that spoke of an impending ‘genocide’ of farmers for allegedly promoting misinformation about the protests, adversely affecting public order. Twitter reinstated the accounts and tweets on its own and later refused to go back on the decision, contending that it found no violation of its policy. Are platforms required to comply with government requests? Cooperation between technology services companies and law enforcement agencies is now deemed a vital part of fighting cybercrime, and various other crimes that are committed using computer resources. These cover hacking, digital impersonation and theft of data. The potential of the Internet and its offshoots such as mail and messaging services and social media networks to disseminate potentially harmful content such as hate speech, rumours, inflammatory and provocative messages and child pornography, has led to law enforcement officials constantly seeking to curb the ill-effects of using the medium. Therefore, most nations have framed laws mandating cooperation by Internet service providers or web hosting service providers and other intermediaries to cooperate with law and order authorities in certain circumstances. What does the law in India cover? In India, the Information Technology Act, 2000, as amended from time to time, governs all activities related to the use of computer resources. It covers all ‘intermediaries’ who play a role in the use of computer resources and electronic records. The term ‘intermediaries’ includes providers of telecom service, network service, Internet service and web hosting, besides search engines, online payment and auction sites, online marketplaces and cyber cafes. It includes any person who, on behalf of another, “receives, stores or transmits” any electronic record. Social media platforms would fall under this definition. What are the Centre’s powers vis-à-vis intermediaries? Section 69 of the Act confers on the Central and State governments the power to issue directions “to intercept, monitor or decrypt…any information generated, transmitted, received or stored in any computer resource”. The grounds on which these powers may be exercised are: in the interest of the sovereignty or integrity of India, defence of India, security of the state, friendly relations with foreign states, public order, or for preventing incitement to the commission of any cognisable offence relating to these, or for investigating any offence. How does the government block websites and networks? Section 69A, for similar reasons and grounds on which it can intercept or monitor information, enables the Centre to ask any agency of the government, or any intermediary, to block access to the public of any information generated, transmitted, received or stored or hosted on any computer resource. Any such request for blocking access must be based on reasons given in writing. Procedures and safeguards have been incorporated in the rules framed for the purpose. What are the obligations of intermediaries under Indian law? Intermediaries are required to preserve and retain specified information in a manner and format prescribed by the Centre for a specified duration. Contravention of this provision may attract a prison term that may go up to three years, besides a fine. When a direction is given for monitoring, interception or decryption, the intermediary, and any person in charge of a computer resource, should extend technical assistance in the form of giving access or securing access to the resource involved, and must comply with the request to intercept or monitor or decrypt the information concerned. Failure to extend such assistance may entail a prison term of up to seven years, besides a fine. Failure to comply with a direction to block access to the public on a government’s written request also attracts a prison term of up to seven years, besides a fine. The Act also empowers the government to collect and monitor data on traffic. When an authorised agency asks for technical assistance in this regard, the intermediary must comply with the request. Non-compliance may lead to a prison term of up to three years, besides a fine. Is the liability of the intermediary absolute? No. Section 79 of the Act makes it clear that “an intermediary shall not be liable for any third-party information, data, or communication link made available or hosted by him”. This protects intermediaries such as Internet and data service providers and those hosting websites from being made liable for content that users may post or generate. However, the exemption from liability does not apply if there is evidence that the intermediary abetted or induced the commission of the unlawful act involved. Also, the provision casts a responsibility on intermediaries to remove the offensive content or block access to it upon getting “actual knowledge” of an unlawful act being committed using their resources, or as soon as it is brought to their notice. In Shreya Singhal vs U.O.I (2015), the Supreme Court read down the provision to mean that the intermediaries ought to act only “upon receiving actual knowledge that a court order has been passed, asking [them] to expeditiously remove or disable access to certain material”. This was because the court felt that intermediaries such as Google or Facebook may receive millions of requests, and it may not be possible for them to judge which of these were legitimate. The role of the intermediaries has been spelt out in separate rules framed for the purpose in 2011. In 2018, the Centre favoured coming up with fresh updates to the existing rules on intermediaries’ responsibilities, but the draft courted controversy. This was because one of the proposed changes was that intermediaries should help identify originators of offensive content. This led to misgivings that this could aid privacy violations and online surveillance. Also, tech companies that use end-to-end encryption argued that they could not open a backdoor for identifying originators, as it would be a breach of promise to their subscribers. Other proposed changes, which have not been acted upon, include rules that intermediaries should deploy automated tools for proactively removing or disabling public access to unlawful information, and to have a 24x7 mechanism to deal with requisitions of law enforcement.  Intermediaries must preserve and retain specified information in a manner prescribed by the Centre. Contravention of this provision may attract a prison term of up to three years, besides a fine||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/government-regulations-and-tech-platforms/article33771888.ece
07 February 2021||New Delhi,||Over 1 lakh have now got COVID-19 jab in Capital||The number of people immunised against COVID-19 till date in Delhi has crossed the one lakh-mark and the majority of them are healthcare workers, officials said on Saturday. The government, however, did not share information on how many of the total beneficiaries were front-line workers and healthcare workers. A total of 9,510 beneficiaries got the COVID-19 vaccination on Saturday and there were nine Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI), said a Delhi government spokesperson. Front-line workers, which include police personnel and teachers, are now being vaccinated following the Centre’s directions. Though there is a daily list of people that are to be vaccinated, individuals not on the list but registered on Co-WIN can also get the jab. The number of people vaccinated on Saturday was 51.87% of the daily target of 17,900. Delhi uses both vaccines for COVID-19, Covaxin and Covishield, and of the nine AEFIs, eight were from Covishield and one was from Covaxin. “Both healthcare and front-line workers were vaccinated at the same sites and we followed the same procedures,” a district official said. The city started the drive by inoculating one lakh healthcare workers whose names were registered with the government. The vaccination drive for front-line workers started earlier this week and about 3.4 lakh have registered with the government till now, said officials. “Delhi has crossed the one lakh-mark in COVID-19 vaccination. District Magistrates have come forward to vaccinate themselves,” said the government spokesperson. Government officials are being considered as front-line workers and many senior officials are taking the vaccine to set an example. District Magistrate (West) Neha Bansal, who took the vaccination on Friday, said she was trying to motivate her colleagues. “I took the vaccine despite having comorbidities and I am completely fine. About 100 employees from my office took the vaccine with me.” The city witnessed 123 fresh COVID-19 cases in 24 hours, taking the total to 6,35,916, as per a health bulletin released on Saturday. Four more deaths have taken the toll to 10,877. There are now 1,174 active cases in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/over-1-lakh-have-now-got-covid-19-jab-in-capital/article33772184.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Can a ‘bad bank’ solve the growing NPA crisis?||The story so far: Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in her Budget speech on Monday revived the idea of a ‘bad bank’ by stating that the Centre proposes to set up an asset reconstruction company to acquire bad loans from banks. While the problem of bad loans has been a perennial one in the Indian banking sector, the COVID-19 pandemic-triggered lockdown last year and the moratorium subsequently extended to borrowers by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) have worsened the crisis. With banks expected to report even more bad loans this year, the idea of a ‘bad bank’ has gained particular significance. What is a ‘bad bank’? A bad bank is a financial entity set up to buy non-performing assets (NPAs), or bad loans, from banks. The aim of setting up a bad bank is to help ease the burden on banks by taking bad loans off their balance sheets and get them to lend again to customers without constraints. After the purchase of a bad loan from a bank, the bad bank may later try to restructure and sell the NPA to investors who might be interested in purchasing it. A bad bank makes a profit in its operations if it manages to sell the loan at a price higher than what it paid to acquire the loan from a commercial bank. However, generating profits is usually not the primary purpose of a bad bank — the objective is to ease the burden on banks, holding a large pile of stressed assets, and to get them to lend more actively. What is the extent of the crisis faced by banks? According to the latest figures released by the RBI, the total size of bad loans in the balance sheets of Indian banks at a gross level was just around Rs. 9 lakh crore as of March 31, 2020, down significantly from over Rs. 10 lakh crore two years ago. While the size of total bad loans held by banks has decreased over the last few years, analysts point out that it is mostly the result of larger write-offs rather than due to improved recovery of bad loans or a slowdown in the accumulation of fresh bad loans. The size of bad loan write-offs by banks has steadily increased since the RBI launched its asset quality review procedure in 2015, from around Rs. 70,000 crore in 2015-16 to nearly Rs. 2.4 lakh crore in 2019-20, while the size of fresh bad loans accumulated by banks increased last year to over Rs. 2 lakh crore from about Rs. 1.3 lakh crore in the previous year. So, the Indian banking sector’s woes seem to be far from over. Further, due to the lockdown imposed last year, the proportion of banks’ gross non-performing assets is expected to rise sharply from 7.5% of gross advances in September 2020 to at least 13.5% of gross advances in September 2021. What are the pros and cons of setting up a bad bank? A supposed advantage in setting up a bad bank, it is argued, is that it can help consolidate all bad loans of banks under a single exclusive entity. The idea of a bad bank has been tried out in countries such as the United States, Germany, Japan and others in the past. The troubled asset relief program, also known as TARP, implemented by the U.S. Treasury in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis, was modelled around the idea of a bad bank. Under the program, the U.S. Treasury bought troubled assets, such as mortgage-backed securities, from U.S. banks at the peak of the crisis, and later resold them when market conditions improved. According to reports, it is estimated that the Treasury through its operations earned nominal profits. Many critics, however, have pointed to several problems with the idea of a bad bank to deal with bad loans. Former RBI governor Raghuram Rajan has been one of the critics, arguing that a bad bank backed by the government will merely shift bad assets from the hands of public sector banks, which are owned by the government, to the hands of a bad bank, which is again owned by the government. There is little reason to believe that a mere transfer of assets from one pocket of the government to another will lead to a successful resolution of these bad debts, when the set of incentives facing these entities is essentially the same. Other analysts believe that unlike a bad bank set up by the private sector, a bad bank backed by the government is likely to pay too much for stressed assets. While this may be good news for public sector banks, which have been reluctant to incur losses by selling off their bad loans at cheap prices, it is bad news for taxpayers, who will once again have to foot the bill for bailing out troubled banks. Will a ‘bad bank’ help ease the bad loan crisis? A key reason behind the bad loan crisis in public sector banks, some critics point out, is the nature of their ownership. Unlike private banks, which are owned by individuals who have strong financial incentives to manage them well, public sector banks are managed by bureaucrats who may often not have the same commitment to ensuring these lenders’ profitability. To that extent, bailing out banks through a bad bank does not really address the root problem of the bad loan crisis. Further, there is a huge risk of moral hazard. Commercial banks that are bailed out by a bad bank are likely to have little reason to mend their ways. After all, the safety net provided by a bad bank gives these banks more reason to lend recklessly, and thus, further exacerbate the bad loan crisis. Will it help revive credit flow in the economy? Some experts believe that by taking bad loans off the books of troubled banks, a bad bank can help free capital of over Rs. 5 lakh crore that is locked in by banks as provisions against these bad loans. This, they say, will give banks the freedom to use the freed-up capital to extend more loans to their customers. This gives the impression that banks have unused funds lying in their balance sheets that they could use if only they could get rid of their bad loans. It is, however, important not to mistake banks’ reserve requirements for their capital position. This is because what may be stopping banks from lending more aggressively may not be the lack of sufficient reserves, which banks need to maintain against their loans. Instead, it may simply be the precarious capital position that many public sector banks find themselves in at the moment. In fact, many public sector banks may be considered to be technically insolvent as an accurate recognition of the true scale of their bad loans would show their liabilities as far exceeding their assets. So, a bad bank, in reality, could help improve bank lending not by shoring up bank reserves, but by improving banks’ capital buffers. To the extent that a new bad bank set up by the government can improve banks’ capital buffers by freeing up capital, it could help banks feel more confident to start lending again.  Former RBI governor Raghuram Rajan argues that a bad bank will merely shift bad assets from the hands of public sector banks into the hands of another bank, both owned by the government||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/can-a-bad-bank-solve-the-growing-npa-crisis/article33771890.ece
07 February 2021||New Delhi,||AAP names candidates for civic body bypolls||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday announced its candidates for the upcoming by-election in five wards (two in the North Delhi Municipal Corporation and three in the East Delhi Municipal Corporation). The bypolls will be held on February 28 between 7.30 a.m. and 5.30 p.m. The results will be announced on March 3. The last date of filing nominations is February 8. In the North Corporation, Ramchandra will contest from Rohini ward C32N, and Sunita Mishra from Shalimar Bagh North ward 62N. In the EDMC, Dhirendra will contest from Kalyanpuri ward 8E, Vijay Kumar from Trilokpuri ward 2E, and Mohammad Isharaq Khan from Chauhan Bangar ward 41E The ceiling on election expenditure to be incurred by a candidate for the by-poll is fixed at Rs. 7 lakh. The by-polls are being looked at as a curtain-raiser for the larger municipal corporation elections next year. In the April 2017 civic polls, the BJP won in 181 of the 272 wards of the city. AAP won in 49 wards. Congress list The Delhi Congress has also announced its candidates for the five wards. Bal Kisan will fight from ward 2E, Dharampal Maurya from 41E, Chaudhary Zubair Ahamad from C32N, Memwati Barwala from 8E, and Mamta from 62N, a party statement said. The Delhi BJP is yet to release its list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-names-candidates-for-civic-body-bypolls/article33772178.ece
07 February 2021||New Delhi,||Social media push for electric vehicles||The Delhi government has started various social media handles for its Switch Delhi campaign, which was launched earlier this week by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. Social media outreach is one of the major components of the eight-week mass awareness campaign to promote the use of electric vehicles (EVs) in Delhi. The aim is to inform, motivate, and encourage Delhiites to accelerate the adoption of EVs. The Dialogue and Development Commission of Delhi will be leading the social media outreach of the campaign. According to government officials, the handles will be used to sensitise Delhiites on the need to switch to Electric Vehicles, the environmental and financial benefits as well as the benefits that can be availed by consumers under Delhi’s Electric Vehicle policy. The social media handles will be used as a medium to directly connect with the public, addressing grievances of people trying to claim subsidies or any other issues they have in buying EVs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/social-media-push-for-electric-vehicles/article33772185.ece
07 February 2021||February 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Push for entrepreneurs||The story so far: In her Budget speech, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced measures to ease norms on setting up one-person companies (OPCs). Ms. Sitharaman said the step — allowing OPCs to grow without any restrictions on paid-up capital and turnover — would directly benefit start-ups and innovators. What is a one-person company? As the name suggests, a one-person company is a company that can be formed by just one person as a shareholder. These companies can be contrasted with private companies, which require a minimum of two members to get going. However, for all practical purposes, these are like private companies. It is not as if there was no scope for an individual with aspirations in business prior to the introduction of OPC as a concept. As an individual, a person could get into business through a sole proprietorship mode, and this is a path that is still available. Why do we need such companies? A single-person company and sole proprietorship differ significantly in how they are perceived in the eyes of law. For the former, the person and the company are considered separate legal entities. In sole proprietorship, the owner and the business are considered the same. This has an important implication when it comes to the liability of the individual member or owner. In a one-person company, the sole owner’s liability is limited to that person’s investment. In a sole proprietorship set-up, however, the owner has unlimited liability as they are not considered different legal entities. Some see Ms. Sitharaman’s proposal as a move to encourage corporatisation of small businesses. It is useful for entrepreneurs to have this option while deciding to start a business. Is this a new idea? No. Such a concept already exists in many countries. In India, the concept was introduced in the Companies Act of 2013. Its introduction was based on the suggestions of the J.J. Irani Committee Report on Company Law, which submitted its recommendations in 2005. Pointing out that there was a need for a framework for small enterprises, it said small companies would contribute significantly to the Indian economy, but because of their size, they could not be burdened with the same level of compliance requirements as large public-listed companies. The report, while talking about giving entrepreneurial instincts of the people an outlet in the age of information technology, said, “It would not be reasonable to expect that every entrepreneur who is capable of developing his ideas and participating in the marketplace should do it through an association of persons.” While making a case for one-person companies, the committee also said, “Such an entity may be provided with a simpler regime through exemptions so that the single entrepreneur is not compelled to fritter away his time, energy and resources on procedural matters.” The law on one-person companies that took shape, as a result, exempted such companies from many procedural requirements, and, in some cases, provided relaxations. For instance, such a company does not need to conduct an annual general meeting, which is a requirement for other companies. A one-person company also does not require signatures of both its company secretary and director on its annual returns. One is enough. There was, however, criticism that some rules governing a one-person company were restrictive in nature. This year’s Union Budget has dealt with some of these concerns. What has changed for these companies with the new measures in this year’s Budget? One of the measures that the Finance Minister has announced in the Budget pertains to the removal of restrictions on paid-up capital and turnover. The 2014 rule, which stated that a one-person company would cease to have that status once its paid-up share capital exceeds Rs. 50 lakh or its average turnover for the preceding three years exceeds Rs. 2 crore, has been lifted. The proposals, the Minister said, also include, “reducing the residency limit for an Indian citizen to set up an OPC from 182 days to 120 days and also allow non-resident Indians (NRIs) to incorporate OPCs in India.” Earlier, only an Indian citizen and an Indian resident could start a single-person company. These changes come alongside a proposal to increase the capital base and turnover threshold for companies that can be classified as ‘small’, which means they can enjoy easy compliance requirements a bit longer. The capital base limit has been increased from Rs. 50 lakh to Rs. 2crore, and the turnover limit has been increased from Rs. 2crore to Rs. 20 crore.  How many OPCsdoesIndia have? According to data compiled by the Monthly Information Bulletin on Corporate Sector, there were 34,235 one-person companies out of a total number of about 1.3 million active companies in India, as on December 31, 2020. The number of OPCs was 2,238 (out of a total of about 1 million companies) as on March 31, 2015. Data also show that more than half of the OPCs are in businessservices.  In 2005, the J.J. Irani Committee Report on Company Law mooted the concept of one-person companies and sought a simpler regime for single entrepreneurs with exemptions on procedures||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/push-for-entrepreneurs/article33771892.ece
07 February 2021||new delhi,||Arrest warrant for LeT chief||A Delhi court on Saturday issued an arrest warrant for Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) chief and 26/11 Mumbai attack mastermind Hafiz Saeed in a money laundering case related to terror funding in Jammu and Kashmir. Besides issuing the non-bailable warrant against Hafiz, Special Judge Praveen Singh also issued warrants against three co-accused who are currently lodged in Tihar jail, seeking their production before the court. The court passed the direction while taking cognisance of a chargesheet filed in the matter by the Enforcement Directorate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/arrest-warrant-for-let-chief/article33772181.ece
07 February 2021||New Delhi,||13 cases of ammunition in bags so far this year||A day after 11 cartridges were found in the baggage of a passenger at the Indira Gandhi International Airport, Delhi Police on Saturday urged travellers to recheck their belongings and warned of legal action against those found with ammunition. Thirteen cases, where ammunition has been found in the baggages, have already been registered this year at the IGIA police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/13-cases-of-ammunition-in-bags-so-far-this-year/article33772180.ece
