10 February 2021||New Delhi,||197 still missing as Chamoli toll touches 32||The operation to rescue about 35 workers trapped inside a 2.5 km NTPC hydel project tunnel in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand continued on Tuesday, while the death toll in the aftermath of what Union Home Minister Amit Shah described in Parliament as a snow avalanche rose to 32. More than 197 people, including the trapped labourers, are still missing. “It is observed from the satellite data (Planet Lab) of February 7, in the catchment of the Rishi Ganga river — at the terminus of the glacier at an altitude of 5,600 m — a landslide triggered a snow avalanche, covering approximately 14 sq km area, and caused a flash flood in the downstream of Rishi Ganga river,” Mr. Shah said. He said the avalanche led to a sudden rise in the water level that triggered a flash flood, destroying the functional Rishi Ganga small hydro project of 13.2 MW and also affecting the under construction 520 MW NTPC hydro-power project, downstream in Tapovan on the Dhauli Ganga river. While 12 persons were rescued by the Indo-Tibetan Border Police from a small tunnel at the NTPC site, 15 were saved at the Rishi Ganga project on Sunday. Four more bodies were found close to the Rishi Ganga project site on Tuesday morning. Only eight of the 32 victims have been identified so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/197-still-missing-as-chamoli-avalanche-toll-touches-32/article33797068.ece
10 February 2021||GUNTUR,||81.67% turnout in first phase of panchayat elections||Barring a few incidents, polling in the first phase to elect sarpanches and ward members across the State went on peacefully on Tuesday. Elections were held for 2,723 gram panchayats to elect sarpanches and 20,157 ward members. An overall polling percentage of 81.67 was recorded, with Krishna district recording the highest of 85.06, followed by Visakhapatnam (84.23) and Kurnool (83.55) districts. Srikakulam district recorded the lowest poll percentage of 75.77. Polling began on a sedate note as just 11.28% was recorded at 8.30 a.m., and gradually increased to 34.28% by 10.30 a.m., 62.02% at 12.30 p.m., 75.55% by 2.30 p.m. and 81.67% by the end of the process at 3.30 p.m. Counting of votes was still going on when the reports came in last but the trends indicated that the candidates supported by the ruling YSRCP were ahead in a majority of the seats. Since the elections were being fought on non-party basis, both YSRCP and TDP backed their respective candidates. The polls would be held in four phases – February 9, 13, 17, 21. Commissioner, Panchayat Raj, M. Girija Shankar monitored the situation from his office. As results started coming in, supporters of the YSRCP celebrated at the party office in Tadepalli.  Polling satisfactory: SEC Vijayawada Special Correspondent adds: The State Election Commissioner (SEC) Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar has expressed satisfaction on the completion of the first phase elections to gram panchayats in the State, on Tuesday. In a statement, Mr. Ramesh Kumar said there was a very large turnout of voters with enthusiasm, to exercise their franchise. The election process had been, by and large, peaceful compared to the previous polls, barring a few stray incidents, he said. The SEC applauded the efforts made by the Collectors and district election authorities, Superintendents of Police and the Observers and complimented the poll staff for their zeal and diligence. He also complimented the police personnel for the excellent security cover provided. Mr. Ramesh Kumar said he was hopeful of the same to continue in the subsequent phases also and added that he viewed the Tuesday’s poll as a good beginning and omen to strengthen the democratic processes and the grassroot institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/8167-vote-in-first-phase-of-panchayat-polls/article33796975.ece
10 February 2021||Kolkata,||BJP not a Bengal party, it’s from Gujarat, says Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday branded the BJP as an “outsider party”. She said “the BJP is not a Bengal party, it’s a party from Gujarat”. Addressing a public rally at Behrampore in Murshidabad district, she said that “people of Bengal will rule the State”. The Trinamool Congress leadership has been targeting the BJP by calling leaders, including those from Delhi, as “outsiders”. Ms. Banerjee accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of spreading lies about West Bengal. “Have you ever heard of prime ministers lying? ... the Prime Minister is saying that government workers [in West Bengal] are not getting their salaries. What kind of nonsense is this? Which government worker has not received salary, show us Modi babu. And you have been selling VSNL, SAIL, coal and LIC, and privatising Railways,” she said. ‘Don’t forgive Mir Jafars’ Ms. Banerjee made repeated references to Mir Jafar, the military general of Nawab Siraj ud-Daullah, who had sided with the British in the Battle of Plassey in 1757. “Do not forgive ‘Mir Jafars’, the traitors who have joined the BJP,” she said, adding that Murshidabad would play a crucial role in the Assembly polls. “Till I live, I will live like a Royal Bengal Tiger,” she said. Ms. Banerjee further said that she would not allow the National Register of Citizens in the State. She accused the Centre of not disbursing funds through PM Kisan Samman Nidhi even though her government had sent the names of 2.5 lakh farmers. The BJP had claimed that the Trinamool Congress had denied benefits of PM Kisan to about 70 lakh State farmers. Earlier in the day, the Chief Minister held a public rally at Kalna in Bardhaman, and reiterated her stand against the three controversial Central farm Bills. Until they were withdrawn, she would continue to extend support to the agitating farmers, Ms. Banerjee said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-not-a-bengal-party-its-from-gujarat-says-mamata/article33797276.ece
10 February 2021||New Delhi,||SC relief from arrest for Tharoor, senior journalists||The Supreme Court on Tuesday protected Congress leader Shashi Tharoor and six senior journalists from arrest in multiple sedition FIRs registered against them for allegedly tweeting and sharing unverified news that a young farmer died at the hands of the police during the tractor rally held by farmers on Republic Day. A Bench, led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde, stayed any coercive action or arrest against Mr. Tharoor, Rajdeep Sardesai, Anant Nath, Paresh Nath, Vinod K. Jose, Mrinal Pande and Zafar Agha. The Bench scheduled a hearing on merits after a fortnight. Notices issued The court issued notice to the States and law enforcement authorities, including the Centre, and the Uttar Pradesh and Delhi police. The Bench noted that the petitions were covered by earlier decisions to protect Republic TV chief Arnab Goswami from arrest in a separate case. “What wrong has been committed by them? No religious sentiments were hurt. The news was corrected,” senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, for Mr. Jose, submitted during the virtual hearing.  But Solicitor General Tushar Mehta reacted that the tweets had a “horrendous effect”. “They have followings in lakhs,” countered Mr. Mehta, who was appearing for the Delhi police. Initially, during the hearing, senior advocate Kapil Sibal, for Mr. Tharoor and some other petitioners, insisted on the court making it clear that there would be no coercive action against the petitioners. “Section 124A IPC (Sedition) has been added for their tweets [in the FIRs]... Protect them during the period of the notice,” Mr. Sibal urged the court. “What is the danger?” Chief Justice Bobde asked him the reason for his apprehension of arrests. “The investigation agency is in Delhi...” Mr. Sibal replied. “So, are you going to arrest by the time we hear you?” Chief Justice Bobde asked Mr. Mehta. Mr. Mehta said he was only appearing for one State. The FIRs were registered in multiple States, including Uttar Pradesh. This led the CJI to go ahead and indicate that a stay on arrest would be necessary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-protects-tharoor-senior-journalists-from-arrest/article33797056.ece
10 February 2021||BENGALURU,||BDA Chairman, Commissioner spar over land allotment||Bangalore Development Authority (BDA), which is already in the eye of the storm over allegations of multiple scams, is once again in the spotlight.BDA Chairman S.R. Vishwanath, a ruling party MLA, and Commissioner H.R. Mahadev had a public spat on Tuesday, making allegations and counter-allegations and holding parallelpress conferences. The bone of contention appeared to be the allotment of 12.5 acres of land to a housing cooperative society towards compensation of land acquired by BDA in 1977-78. While Mr. Vishwanath held a press meet claiming the allotment was illegal, the Commissioner defended the allotment. The trading of allegations between the duo indicated a breakdown of their working relationship. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who also holds the charge of Bengaluru Development, had earlier held a meeting between the Chairman and the Commissioner to broker peace. “However, it did not help. He is expected to hold another such meeting,” said a source. Mr. Vishwanath, speaking to mediapersons in the BDA Board Room, alleged that the Commissioner had not been giving him any of the files that he had requested despite directions from the Chief Minister to cooperate with him. “Despite several reminders, the Commissioner has refused to give me any files. Why is this? What is being hidden? If there are illegal allotments being made, I will be forced to say that the Commissioner is part of these acts,” he said. “I won't tolerate efforts to undercut my authority,” he said, while alleging that the Commissioner has not been following protocol as well. Minutes later, Commissioner Mr. Mahadev addressed the media in his office, which is also in the same building, to counter the allegations levelled against him. “After taking charge, the Chairman wrote a letter to me asking for all files to be submitted to him. It is true I have not submitted all the files he has sought. The BDA Act, 1976 is very clear – the Commissioner is the chief executive of BDA and the Chairman has no executive powers. The Chairman seems to be exceeding his brief and trying to exercise executive powers he doesn’t hold, which I have been legally resisting,” he said. He denied allegations of irregularities and said it was he who has been fighting to unearth many scams in the Authority, to clean it up, over the last few months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bda-chairman-commissioner-spar-over-land-allotment/article33797574.ece
10 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Water in 14 lakes good for drinking: NEERI||Water in at least 14 lakes situated in the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanangara Palike (BBMP) limits is of “excellent” quality and can be used for drinking, said a report submitted to the High Court of Karnataka by the CSIR-National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI). Of these 14 lakes, 11 are situated in Yelahanka zone, and one each in Rajarajeshwarinagar, Dasarahalli, and East zone, stated the Phase-I report, titled “Assessment status of the lakes and need for rejuvenation”, undertaken by the NEERI for BBMP as per the directions issued by the High Court in 2019. NEERI surveyed 210 lakes, 205 with the BBMP and five with the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA). However, water quality of some the lakes were not analysed due to difficulty in getting water samples. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum adjourned further hearing on the PIL petitions related to lakes and drains in city for considering the recommendations made by the NEERI. The lake water samples were analysed for the parameters like pH, temperature, electrical conductivity, total dissolved solids, total suspended solids, turbidity, dissolved oxygen, biological oxygen demand, total organic carbon, nitrate, phosphate, total coliform, fecal coliform, the report stated. Pointing out that of the five lakes under BDA, four have very poor-quality water and hence the water cannot be used for any purpose, the report pointed out that lakes like Bellandur, Varthur, Kommaghatta and Chikkabanvara have dissolved oxygen of less than1.5 mg/l and hence require immediate restoration. Among the lakes in BBMP’sjurisdiction, the report states that water quality in around 68 lakes are of “poor” quality, in around 36 lakes are of “very poor” quality, and in around 10 lakes water is of “good” quality. The domestic sewage is the main source of contamination of water in majority of the lakes, the report stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/water-in-14-lakes-good-for-drinking-neeri/article33797577.ece
10 February 2021||Mumbai,||No active cases of U.K strain of virus in Maharashtra: Tope||Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday said that Maharashtra has at present no active cases of the U.K. strain of novel coronavirus. “Initially, we found certain individuals infected with the U.K. strain of COVID-19. Those individuals were treated and put in strict institutional quarantine. Since then, no new infection of that strain has been found in the State, which is a very positive news,” he said. Mr. Tope further said that over five lakh health and frontline workers in Maharashtra had received the jab in the first two phases of the vaccination programme. “The State is moving ahead as per the directions from the Central government. A total of 652 centres are currently operational for the vaccination drive. Around 40,000-45,000 people are being vaccinated daily in the State,” the minister said after chairing a review meeting of the Health Department. Of the 10.54 lakh health workers, who have registered on the Co-Win portal, 4,68,293 have been vaccinated while of the 5.47 lakh registered frontline workers, 41,453 have been administered the COVID-19 vaccine. “We have not yet received guidelines from the Central government regarding the third phase of the programme when individuals above 50 years of age and those below 50 years with co-morbidities will be vaccinated. We hope that their registrations will start on March 1,” Mr. Tope said. The possibility of increasing train services and the time limit for the general public to travel was also discussed at the review meeting. “Yes, we have received several complaints and suggestions seeking a change in the train timetable. We discussed the issue and will be making a presentation in front of Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray at the State Cabinet meeting on Wednesday,” Mr. Tope said, adding that based on directions of the CM, a decision would be taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-active-cases-of-uk-strain-of-virus-in-maharashtra-tope/article33797757.ece
10 February 2021||GUMTHALA GARHU,||In Kurukshetra, farmers resolve to continue agitation||With a resolve to not let the agitation against the Centre’s farm laws lose its steam, scores of farmers, including women, elderly and youth, on Tuesday gathered at a ‘Kisan Mahapanchayat’ at Haryana’s Gumthala Garhu village in Kurukshetra district. The farmers reiterated that they would continue their protests, be it at the borders of Delhi or across the State. On his way to the ‘mahapanchayat’, 72-year-old farmer Ujaghar Singh told The Hindu that the government at the Centre was “power drunk”, but the unity of farmers would demolish their arrogance. “We are going to the ‘mahapanchayat’ to show our unity. We will not step back until the farm laws are repealed,” said Mr. Singh, who owns two acres in Thol village.   Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait, addre-ssing the gathering, criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s jibe of “ aandolan jeevi ”.  “They are saying in Parliament that they [protesters] are parjeevis . I want to ask them was Bhagat Singh, who laid his life for the country, a parjeevi ? Around 150 farmers have so far died during the ongoing agitation, were they parjeevis ?” he asked. Mr. Tikait said attempts were being made to divide farmers on the basis of region and religions. “They will attempt to divide you on Punjab-Haryana lines, as Sikh and non-Sikh, Hindus and Muslims. We have to be careful. When we stay united, I assure you we will win the battle,” he said, adding that the agitation was nationwide and not limited to just Punjab or Haryana. Mr. Tikait said all the 40 farmer unions spearheading the agitation were united and their leaders would together tour the country in the coming days to expose the government’s “wrong” policies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-kurukshetra-farmers-resolve-to-continue-their-agitation/article33797412.ece
10 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Sharmila promises Rajanna Rajyam in TS||Dropping enough hints about her intentions to take the plunge into active politics in Telangana, Y. S. Sharmila, daughter of former Chief Minister late Y. S. Rajasekhara Reddy and sister of AP CM Y. S. Jaganmohan Reddy asserted that she was determined to bring ‘Rajanna Rajyam’ back in Telangana. “I am determined to bring back the golden rule of my father (Rajanna Rajyam) in Telangana. Father always strived for bringing back smile on the faces of farmers. They used to live like kings, poor had pucca houses, Arogyasri health scheme benefited many and students got best education,” she said speaking to reporters outside the Lotus Pond residence where a meeting of YSR followers and well wishers was organised on Tuesday. The meeting coincided with the 50th wedding anniversary of YSR and Vijayamma today, parents of Sharmila and Jaganmohan Reddy. Stating that Y. S. Jaganmohan Reddy was at the helm of affairs in Andhra Pradesh and was doing a good job, Ms. Sharmila said she too wanted to focus on Telangana. “There is a void left behind by the untimely death of my father. I am overwhelmed by the love and affection shown by the people today,” she said reiterating her commitment to bringing back ‘Rajanna Rajyam’. “Before I make any political announcement, I want to interact with well-wishers and loyalists. I am here only to listen what the ground reality is in the districts,” Ms. Sharmila earlier told a meeting of people from Nalgonda. Over 100 select leaders from old Nalgonda district and Chevella parliamentary constituency attended the meeting and aired their voice. They wholeheartedly welcomed her decision to play an active role in Telangana.  New party Giving further clarity on the issue, former YSRCP Telangana State unit President Konda Raghava Reddy told reporters that Ms. Sharmila would shortly float a new political party in Telangana. “We will contest the next elections on our own and there is no need to forge an alliance with other parties,” he said adding that consultations would continue with well-wishers from other districts. Festive atmosphere Earlier, there was a festive atmosphere outside Lotus Pond residence of Anil Kumar, husband of Ms. Sharmila. As she emerged from her house to wave to the waiting crowd, the loyalists cheered her lustily. They showered her with coloured papers as Flexi boards announcing her entry to politics were erected. Enthusiastic well-wishers danced to the tune of drumbeats||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/i-want-to-bring-back-my-fathers-rule-sharmila/article33796970.ece
10 February 2021||SALEM,||Two held with jewellery at Salem Junction||The Railway Protection Force nabbed two persons for illegal transportation of gold jewellery, weighing about 3.14 kilos, during special checks at the Salem Railway junction on Tuesday. A team led by RPF Inspector Arvind Kumar questioned the suspects and found that they were transporting jewellery without proper bills or vouchers. Bhagirat and Sivaraj reached Salem in a Chennai-Coimbatore express train. The two claimed they bought the jewellery from a jeweller in Chennai, but did not posses any supporting document. RPF officials said the jewellery was worth Rs. 1.41 crore, and that the GST on it amounted to Rs. 9 lakh. They said tax authorities had been alerted for further action. In view of the upcoming Assembly elections, special checks are being conducted by the RPF to detect transportation of valuables by trains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-held-with-jewellery-at-salem-junction/article33797169.ece
10 February 2021||CHENNAI,||Seroprevalence figure for Tamil Nadu stands at 31.6%||The latest State-level seroprevalence data for Tamil Nadu indicates that 31.6% of its population has contracted COVID-19 at some point in time. Chennai’s figure is higher, at 40.9%. The results of the survey were recorded in the pre-print journal medRxiv on February 8. Blood samples were drawn from a total of 26,640 adults from across the 37 districts of the State in October-November 2020 for antibody tests. As per the seroprevalence data released in October last year by the National Institute of Epidemiology, a unit of the Indian Council of Medical Research, the seroprevalence for Chennai alone was 32.8%. The figure as per the results of the first seroprevalence survey in Chennai, which were released in July 2020, was about 20%. With the total population of the State being 72 million, the present study has indicated that at least 22.7 million people had been infected by November 30, 2020 — the last day of serological sampling. Thus, the actual number of infections is roughly 36 times higher than the number of confirmed cases, which stood at 6,70,392 as of October 15. The State has recorded a total of 8.42 lakh cases and just over 12,000 deaths. The overall seroprevalence of 31.6% masks substantial variations across the State, as evidenced in the fact sheet. For instance, in Perambalur district, the seroprevalence was 51%, while it was just 11% in the Nilgiris. As is the trend globally, the seroprevalence in urban areas (36.9%) was higher than in rural areas (26.9%). Further, the working age group — between 40 and 49 years for the purposes of the study — had significantly higher seroprevalence than the youth (18-29 years, 30.7%) and the elderly (70+ years, 25.8%). The estimated seroprevalence implies an infection fatality rate of 0.052%, nominally lower than the figures for Karnataka and Mumbai. “If the percentage of the population actually infected seems lower than we anticipated, we must remember that it might have been the case at the time of conducting the survey. The rate would only continue to go up,” Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan explained. He added that the State was planning to conduct seroprevalence studies regularly, and the next one would be launched possibly by the end of February. “This knowledge of population-level immunity is the basis of epidemiology. This is critical for understanding the epidemiology of the SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) and formulating effective infection control measures, including the allocation of vaccines,” said T.S. Selvavinayagam, Director of Public Health and co-author of the journal report. The study was approved by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine and the Institutional Ethics Committee of the Madras Medical College.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/seroprevalence-figure-for-tamil-nadu-stands-at-316/article33797105.ece
10 February 2021||New Delhi,||No new COVID-19 death reported in the Capital after nine months||For the first time in almost nine months, no new COVID-19-related death was reported in the national capital over 24 hours, a health bulletin issued by the Delhi government said on Tuesday. The last time the city witnessed no COVID-19 death was on May 11, 2020. The death toll stands at 10,882. “Today, no death has been reported due to COVID infection. Delhi’s collective will is gradually winning over the infection. I congratulate the people of Delhi for taking proper precautions and our healthcare and front-line workers who have fought this battle tooth and nail,” Health Minister Satyendar Jain said in a tweet. Congratulating the people of Delhi, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted, “Not a single death occurred in Delhi due to corona. Congratulations to the people of Delhi Corona cases have also reduced, the vaccine campaign is going fast. Delhiites fought very hard against Corona. We still have to take complete precautions.” Hundred new COVID-19 cases were reported over 24 hours, taking the tally to 6,36,260. A total of 56,410 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours. There are 1,052 active COVID-19 cases in the city at present. Highest vaccination As many as 12,717 healthcare and front-line workers were vaccinated in the city on Tuesday, the highest so far, said a Delhi government spokesperson. The number of beneficiaries was 69.1% of the daily target of 18,400. Also, seven Adverse Events Following Immunisation were reported — five were from using Covishield and two from Covaxin — on Tuesday. “A special drive was conducted for the police force and a large number of personnel got the vaccine jab,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-new-covid-19-death-reported-in-the-capital-after-nine-months/article33797663.ece
10 February 2021||Mangaluru,||Trains on Netravathi-Mangaluru Central second line from today||The newly laid second line between Netravathi Cabin and Mangaluru Central Railway Station will be put into operation from Wednesday itself after the Commissioner of Railway Safety (Southern Circle) conducted its statutory inspection and issued the required certificate on Tuesday. CRS A.K. Rai, along with his deputy E. Srinivas and senior officials from Southern Railway, conducted the statutory inspection of the 1.6 km second line, including the track, level crossings, electrical and signal installations and other equipment between 9 a.m. and noon. Divisional Railway Manager of Palakkad Division Trilok Kothari, who accompanied the inspection team, told The Hindu the CRS was satisfied with the system and issued the certificate to operate passenger trains on the section. Thus, the waiting time of trains beyond Ullal Bridge (Netravathi River) to enter Mangaluru Central would get considerably reduced, the DRM said. “When the CRS has issued the track fit certificate, there is no meaning in waiting to operate trains on the new line. Hence, we will operate trains on the new line with immediate effect,” Mr. Kothari said. He appreciated the speed at which the construction wing of Southern Railway executed the second line work in a span of about a year, in the midst of COVID-19 lockdown. As part of the doubling in the section, construction of the new double line was completed with modifications in the existing Points and Crossings, Signalling arrangements, Bridges, Level Crossings and Road Over Bridges. Train operations system at Mangaluru Central has also been upgraded from the Route Relay Interlocking System to state-of-the-art Electronic Interlocking System. Southern Railway is committed to improve Railway infrastructure in Mangaluru region though its presence in Karnataka was very small, Mr. Kothari said. Asked whether the doubling would help introducing more trains to and from Mangaluru Central, the DRM said that would take some more time. As a part of construction of two additional platforms (5 and 6), shifting of the existing pitline (rake cleaning line) was being done and new pitline work was expected to get completed in about six months. Thereafter, work on additional platforms would commence, Mr. Kothari said. After all these works were completed, Mangaluru Central could handle more trains while new trains could be introduced to and from the station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/trains-on-netravathi-mangaluru-central-second-line-from-today/article33797733.ece
10 February 2021||CHENNAI,||CB-CID probing charges involving cops||The Crime Branch-Criminal Investigation Department (CB-CID) personnel are investigating serious allegations of wrongful confinement, criminal intimidation, assault, etc., involving a few officers of the city police. A city-based businessman, in his complaint, said some police officers, including an Assistant Commissioner of Police, who were then serving in Chennai had held him under illegal detention, along with his mother, fiance and her brother, in a farmhouse two years ago. They forced him to transfer valuable properties in the name of some other person. The Director-General of Police has directed the CB-CID to conduct a detailed investigation into the matter, police sources said. The complainant said he entered into a business venture with a couple of friends many years ago and later wound-up operations due to certain issues. The cash dealings were settled via bank transfers among the partners. Though the settlement was done sometime in 2017, the police officers, who were allegedly acting at the behest of one of the partners, took the businessman to the police station in September/October 2019, and threatened him with dire consequences. The complainant said the police forced him to transfer his properties in the name of an unknown person to settle some dues. Confirming that the complaint was received and sent to the CB-CID, the sources said the name of the complainant and the accused persons could not be shared since the investigation was in a preliminary stage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cb-cid-probing-charges-involving-police/article33797620.ece
10 February 2021||February 10 2021 00:00 IST,||NIA files chargesheet in D.J. Halli violence case||Five months after it took over the investigation into the violence at K.G. Halli and D.J. Halli, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) has filed a chargesheet against 247 people in the Special Court. While 109 people have been charged in connection with the violence at D.J. Halli, 138 accused have been booked for the violence at K.G. Halli, sources said. Large-scale violence had broken out in the two localities on the night of August 11 over a derogatory social media post against Islam by Navin Kumar, nephew of MLA for Pulakeshinagar R. Akhanda Sreenivasa Murthy. The mob attacked both their houses as well as the D.J. Halli Police Station. Role of SDPI/PFI In December, the agency arrested 17 SDPI/PFI leaders and party members for their alleged role in instigating the mob. “SDPI leaders held meetings on the day of the violence and mobilised the crowd,” said an official. He added the investigation also revealed the use of social media platforms to spread terror among people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nia-files-chargesheet-in-dj-halli-violence-case/article33797380.ece
10 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||ED searches offices of digital news platform||The Enforcement Directorate on Tuesday conducted searches on the premises of digital news platform NewsClick and several other places in connection with alleged receipt of about Rs. 30 crore from overseas in the past three years, said a senior agency official. “Truth shall prevail. We have full faith in the legal system,” said a brief statement byNewsclickin the evening, adding that the raids were still under way and a full statement would be released only after the process was over. Earlier, speaking briefly on the issue to some reporters,NewsclickEditor Pranjal, accompanied by two ED officials, said: “There has been an ongoing raid since morning. We were shown a notice. Right now, our documents are being checked. We are co-operating and will continue to co-operate.” The ED official said: “The searches have been carried out under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, based on an FIR registered by the Delhi police a few months ago. We have so far found evidence showing receipt of about Rs. 30 crore from abroad. The funds also came from a U.S.-based company, which had already been liquidated. Another U.S. firm, said to be a shareholder, is under the scanner.” According to the agency, the company runningNewsClickallegedly showed exports from a premises, which was closed for the past about two years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ed-searches-offices-of-digital-news-platform/article33797064.ece
10 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Army raises a specialist unit to ‘sniff out’ COVID-19||Since November last, Casper and Jaya have been deployed in Chandigarh and Delhi to screen samples and detect COVID-19 among soldiers posted to forward areas of the Northern Command. The two are ‘specialist’ military dogs, Casper, a two-year-old male Cocker Spaniel, and Jaya, a one-year-old female Chippiparai. They are the first two canines trained to detect COVID-19 cases from sweat and urine samples. “From the trials and operational deployment, it has been inferred that COVID-19 volatile metabolic biomarkers are within the threshold limit of olfactory detection capability of trained dogs and can help in quick and real time detection of disease,” said Lt. Col. Surender Saini, instructor at the Army’s Remount Veterinary Corps (RVC), Meerut. They can detect COVID-19 with 95% accuracy, he said. “They are not medically accepted. They are used to screen large numbers,” Lt. Col. Saini said. Samples identified as positive by the dogs are confirmed through the RT-PCR test. Eight more military dogs are now being trained, and they will be equipped by March. These include two Chippiparais, two Cocker Spaniels and four Labradors. From among the group in the Army, a foreign breed and a desi breed were selected first. The sensitivity and specificity of results from the dogs based on screening of 279 urine and 267 sweat samples during trials were found to be very high, an officer said. The two dogs underwent 12 to 16 weeks of training with exposure to positive and negative samples. They were deployed on November 22 last at a transit camp in Delhi and a total of 806 transients were screened. They were also deployed in Chandigarh , where they screened over 300 samples. Of the over 3,800 samples screened, 22 positive cases were detected. A dog can screen approximately 100 samples in an hour with a rest period of five minutes after every 15 minutes. The U.K., Finland, France, Russia, Germany, Lebanon, the U.A.E. and the U.S. have already trained dogs to detect COVID-19, he added. With the successful trial, more dogs have been inducted for training. The RVC recently started training four Indian dog breeds. These include Mudhol hounds from Karnataka and Chippiparai, Combai and Rajapalayam from Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/army-raises-specialist-unit-to-sniff-out-covid-19/article33797066.ece
10 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Deep Sidhu arrested over Red Fort vandalism||Punjabi actor-activist Deep Sidhu, who was wanted in the Red Fort violence case, was arrested by the Delhi police on Tuesday. He was later produced in court and remanded in police custody for seven days. Metropolitan magistrate Prigya Gupta gave the order after the police said Mr. Sidhu was one of the main instigators of the violence on January 26, leaving several security personnel and protesters injured. Mr. Sidhu’s lawyer, however, claimed that his client had nothing to do with the violence, and he was at the wrong place at the wrong time. The police said Mr. Sidhu had instigated the mob to breach barricades with tractors and deviate from the approved tractor rally route. His custody was required to identify other accused in the case. The police had announced a cash reward of Rs. 1 lakh for information leading to Mr. Sidhu’s arrest. On February 7, the police said pictures of over 70 people involved in the violence had been released, and 126 persons arrested so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/deep-sidhu-arrested-over-red-fort-vandalism/article33797070.ece
10 February 2021||February 10 2021 00:00 IST,||71 migrant workers from U.P. untraced||Shyamu Kumar, 22, from Uttar Pradesh had joined work at the hydro project at Tapovan barely three weeks ago, but the damage caused to the project by the sudden floods has already thrown his life into uncertainty.Page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/71-migrant-workers-from-up-untraced/article33797062.ece
10 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Horatti is Council Chairman||JD(S) leader Basavaraj Horatti, the senior-most member of the Legislative Council, was on Tuesday declared unanimously elected as Chairman of the House in the midst of a protest by Congress members over the passage of the anti-cow slaughter Bill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/horatti-is-council-chairman/article33797375.ece
10 February 2021||February 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Families await reunion with loved ones||Camping at Tapovan since the glacier tragedy struck on Sunday, the hope of being reunited with their kin brings them every morning to the banks of the Dhauliganga, where intense efforts are under way to trace those trapped.Page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/families-await-reunion-with-loved-ones/article33797061.ece
10 February 2021||February 10 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Crashing rock mass may have caused floods’||A rock mass, weakened from years of freezing and thawing, may have led to a weak zone, that resulted in the flash floods in Chamoli, initial observations by scientists of the Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology suggest.Page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/crashing-rock-mass-may-have-caused-floods/article33797063.ece
10 February 2021||February 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Frequent raider||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/frequent-raider/article33797112.ece
10 February 2021||GUNTUR,||‘YSRCP winning with thumping majority’||Minister for Municipal Administration Botcha Satyanarayana said the candidates supported by the YSRCP are winning with a thumping majority in first phase of local body polls. He said that 1,383 panchayats were won by candidates supported by the party by 10 p.m. on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ysrcp-winning-with-thumping-majority/article33797866.ece
10 February 2021||Kolkata,||Probe “abuses of BSF on Bangladesh border”: Rights group||The Human Rights Watch on Tuesday called for an investigation into alleged abuses by the Border Security Force (BSF) along the Bangladesh border. “The Indian government orders to border forces to exercise restraint and limit the use of live ammunition have not prevented killings, torture and other serious abuses,” Meenakshi Ganguly, South Asia director, said in a press statement. Referring to the reports filed by NGOs from both countries, the HRW said the “government’s failure to hold security personnel accountable has led to further abuses and the harassment of very poor and vulnerable populations”. The statement talks about a report published by the HRW named “Trigger Happy” about 10 years ago and claimed that after the publication of the report the Indian government announced “that it would order the BSF to use restraint and rubber bullets, instead of more lethal ammunition, against irregular border-crossers”. The HRW said it knows no cases where Indian authorities have held the BSF soldiers accountable including the much-publicised killing of Felani Khatun, a 15-year-old girl shot dead in January. The statement quotes a Bangladeshi group Odhikar that has alleged that the border forces have killed at least 334 Bangladeshi nationals since 2011.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/probe-abuses-of-bsf-on-bangladesh-border-rights-group/article33797277.ece
10 February 2021||Navi Mumbai,||First Mumbai nearby||A major fire broke out at a chemical company in Taloja industrial area in Navi Mumbai at 12 p.m. on Tuesday. Two fire officials sustained minor injuries while dousing the fire, which erupted in Azeocryst Organic Pvt. Ltd. on plot number 34, and spread to adjoining factories. “An organic chemical company caught fire. Prima facie, it seems that a short circuit caused the blaze,” senior police inspector Kashinath Chavan from Taloja MIDC police station said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/first-mumbai-nearby/article33797758.ece
10 February 2021||Mumbai,||Second Mumbai nearby||Though the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation polls are a year away, the Shiv Sena has already swung into action and has targeted the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). In the last two weeks, around half a dozen leaders from the BJP have switched sides to the Sena, which is likely to dent the saffron party’s prospects in several pockets of Mumbai. On February 5, former Congress MLA-turned-BJP leader Krushna Hegde joined the Sena.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/second-mumbai-nearby/article33797759.ece
10 February 2021||HUBBALLI,||Chief Electoral Officer visits tribal village||In a first-of-its-kind initiative, Chief Electoral Officer for Karnataka and Additional Chief Secretary Sanjiv Kumar visited the tribal village Garadolli in Haliyal taluk of Uttara Kannada district on Tuesday to review the electoral roll revision process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chief-electoral-officer-visits-tribal-village/article33797209.ece
10 February 2021||Kalaburagi,||Private school teachers stage unique protest||Hundreds of teachers working in Kannada medium private schools in six districts of Kalyana Karnataka protested against the government in a unique way by performing ‘Urulu Seve’ outside the office of the KKRDB on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/private-school-teachers-stage-unique-protest/article33797210.ece
10 February 2021||HUBBALLI,||‘It is time to show our community’s strength’||Minister for Major and Medium Irrigation Ramesh Jarkiholi has said that it was time to show the strength of the Valmiki community for getting its rightful demands. He was presiding over the ‘Maharishi Valmiki Jatre’ at Rajanahalli in Davangere.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/it-is-time-to-show-our-communitys-strength/article33797211.ece
10 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC protects AAP MP from arrest in hate speech case||The Supreme Court on Tuesday protected AAP leader and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh from arrest in a hate speech case registered against him in Lucknow. The court also issued notice to the U.P. government on Mr. Singh’s contention that permission of the Rajya Sabha Chairman need to be obtained under Section 196 of the CrPC before prosecuting him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-protects-aap-mp-from-arrest-in-hate-speech-case/article33797414.ece
10 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Bill extending protection to illegal colonies passed||The Rajya Sabha on Tuesday passed the National Capital Territory of Delhi Laws (Special Provisions) Second (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which extends protection from punitive action to certain kinds of unauthorised constructions by three years. The Bill replaced an ordinance brought by the government in December 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bill-extending-protection-to-illegal-colonies-passed/article33797415.ece
10 February 2021||Mysuru,||MCC keen on citizens’ feedback on cleanliness||The citizens’ feedback under Swachh Survekshan for the clean city ranking has crossed the one lakh mark with Mysuru City Corporation going on overdrive to bridge the gap on this parameter in comparison to other cities. The plan is to keep the drive going till March 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mcc-keen-on-citizens-feedback-on-cleanliness/article33797377.ece
10 February 2021||Mysuru,||More key officers in Mysuru take vaccine||After Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri took the jab on day one of the vaccination drive on Monday to encourage her staff to follow suit, other top officials from Mysuru district came forward to get the shot against COVID-19, to send a message to their own staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/more-key-officers-in-mysuru-take-vaccine/article33797378.ece
10 February 2021||Kalaburagi,||Kalyana Karnataka feels short-changed||The people of Kalyana Karnataka are disappointed as Hubballi-Dharwad has been preferred over Kalaburagi for establishing a centre of the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kalyana-karnataka-feels-short-changed/article33797379.ece
10 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre subverting democracy: Farooq||National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah made an impassioned speech in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday, warning the government of not just the perils of pushing farmers groups too hard on the contentious farm laws but also what he termed as attempts to subvert democracy in Jammu and Kashmir by influencing the process of elections of District Development Council (DDC) chairpersons via bureaucratic and police pressure. Speaking during the debate on the motion of thanks to the President for his address to both Houses of Parliament, Dr. Abdullah said while the actual process of polls for the District Development Councils (DDC) in the newly created Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir was carried out fairly and concluded in December, the task of electing chairpersons to these bodies was being subverted by officials under some kind of instructions. “The DDC polls were conducted fairly but now your district collectors and officials are pressurising people to elect other chairpersons,” he said. Dr Abdullah’s party, the National Conference won a large number of seats as part of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) and was expecting to head many DDCs especially in the Valley. However, the newly formed Apni Party, considered close to Delhi, has won Srinagar and these processes were raising comment, he said. The National Conference leader warned that efforts to subvert democracy never have a good effect. “Do not snatch the mandate. Many years ago another mandate was stolen from the NC, and the replacement government didn’t last two years and created much ill feeling among the people,” he said. ‘Not set in stone’ Taking the point further, he also advocated passionately for farmers unions protesting contentious agriculture reform laws. “These laws are not set in stone by God; talk to the farmers, do not stand on prestige,” he urged the government. He said that what was happening with the farmers was reminiscent of what happened with Jammu and Kashmir on August 5, 2019 when Article 370 was read down and 35A removed. “You could have taken us into confidence. Our party lost 1,500 people defending the Tricolour and now you are calling us Pakistani and Chinese agents! I am a Muslim and I am an Indian Muslim,” Dr. Abdullah declared. He asked for the restoration of statehood to Jammu and Kashmir, stating, “You broke the State that was the crown of India into two just to show Muslims their place.” He also said that constant criticism of past prime ministers by BJP leaders was not the tradition of India. “My father was imprisoned by Pandit Nehru but they never had bitterness, they wept when they met each other,” he added. “I appeal with folded hands therefore, do not be arrogant but talk to the farmers.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-subverting-democracy-farooq/article33797027.ece
10 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||MPs target govt. on farm laws||Opposition members in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday targeted the Modi government over the farm laws, with former Union Minister and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal accusing the government of becoming ‘inhuman’ not to see the plight of farmers. The House was discussing the Motion of Thanks on the President’s address to the joint session of Parliament. Defending the farm laws, BJP Meenakshi Lekhi said they were brought in to end farmers’ suicides in India. The fact that the world is now discussing the protests in India over the farm laws instead of the coronavirus indicates that there is an international conspiracy to defame India, she added. Ms. Lekhi alleged that the farmers’ protest was “a Molotov cocktail of Khalistanis, PFI [Popular Front of India] and ISI [Inter Services Intelligence] agendas at the behest of masters sitting in Beijing.” Ms. Badal of SAD, who quit the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) over the farm laws, said that when the laws were first brought in as ordinances by the Modi government, she had urged her Cabinet colleagues to have wider consultation. “We were told that it [consultations] will happen when we bring a law,” she recalled. The SAD leader also claimed that she had submitted a letter to the Agriculture Minister against the farm laws after she had ascertained the views of the farmers. Ms. Badal said while the farmers were braving the biting cold of Delhi for over 70 days at the borders of Delhi, the government had shut its eyes and ears. “Yes, I was in the government for the past six years but when the government becomes inhuman, what’s the point of staying in such a government,” Ms. Badal said. She also questioned the intelligence failure in preventing the January 26 violence and pointed out that it was known a day before (January 25) that there was call to deviate from the laid down route and move towards the Red Fort. Another former NDA ally, Hanuman Beniwal of the Rashtriya Loktantrik Party, said the BJP would pay a price for its arrogance in the 2024 Lok Sabha poll. Trinamool’s Saugata Roy accused Union Ministers of resorting to “political tourism” in West Bengal and accused the BJP of following a divisive agenda. Referring to Prime Minister Modi getting emotional in the Rajya Sabha while giving a farewell speech for Ghulam Nabi Azad, he urged Mr. Modi to also shed a few tears for the farmers who died in the protests. Countering Mr. Modi’s aandolan jivi [professional protester]  jibe, All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen MP Asaduddin Owaisi said, “Yes, there will be andolans as Narendra Modi is not the emperor, and those days are gone.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mps-target-govt-on-farm-laws/article33797565.ece
10 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Investigators’ persistence secured death penalty||Intuition helped catch the culprit and investigation with forensic tools resulted in securing death penalty to the convict. That puts in perspective the heinous crime of a construction worker violating and killing a five-year-old girl in Narsingi police station area of Cyberabad, reported more than three years ago. When investigators arrived at the locality of the girl within a couple of hours of receiving a complaint that a girl was missing, a neighbour Dinesh Kumar Dharne was seen responding to inquiries rather unusually. “Sir, a toy hawker came with a cart and I saw the girl follow him,” he said during routine inquiries. The then Narsingi Inspector G.V. Ramana Goud and Madhapur ACP Shyamprasad Rao became a bit suspicious of his answers like “the girl went this side sir, that side sir”. They picked him up and took him to the police station. Dharne feigned innocence when confronted with questions on the girl’s whereabouts like he did with her parents. But when interrogators changed their style of questioning, he admitted to the offence within an hour. But the investigators did not casually accept his admission and wanted more concrete evidence to connect him to the crime. They continued the grilling, after which he led them to the spot where he sexually assaulted the five-year-old. The crime scene was a secluded place with bushes, nearer to the victim’s house. The girl’s lower body showed severe injuries. Police called in forensic experts. There were some flowery plants at the crime scene. A couple of those flowers and petals were found stuck to the inner wear of Dharne, who emerged as the accused. Similar flowers were found on the body parts of the victim. Samples of semen were collected from the clothes of the accused and the victim’s body. They were sent for DNA testing which eventually matched, emerging as irrefutable evidence. Particles of the mud at the crime scene were also found on Dharne’s clothes which also helped police link him to the crime. By next morning, he was presented before the magistrate who remanded him in judicial custody. Narsingi police did not feel their job is finished and forget the case. As the accused was granted bail later and went to his village in MP, Inspector Ramana Goud moved a petition in court seeking suspension of bail. He got the bail cancelled and brought Dharne back to prison from home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/investigators-persistence-ensured-death-penalty/article33797675.ece
10 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Did not sit on Tagore’s chair: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah tabled a clarification in Lok Sabha on Tuesday saying he did not occupy the chair set aside as Rabindranath Tagore’s at the museum dedicated to the latter at Visva-Bharati University as alleged by Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhary in the House on Monday. Mr. Shah produced a letter from Vice-Chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty, addressed to Mr. Chowdhary, clarifying that the Union Home Minister on his visit to the university had, in fact, occupied a makeshift seating arrangement to sign the visitors’ book in Uttarayan, the museum dedicated to the Nobel laureate and founder of Shantiniketan Rabindranath Tagore. Used by Presidents The seating arrangement, according to Mr. Chakrabarty, has been used by former Presidents Pratibha Patil and Pranab Mukherjee when they visited Visva-Bharati and it was no different for Mr. Shah. The Vice-Chancellor also invited Mr. Chowdhary to Visva-Bharati to “verify the same in person”. In his speech, while making a larger point of BJP leaders not respecting national leaders of the past, Mr. Chowdhary had stated that Mr. Shah had occupied Gurudev Tagore’s seat. Shows photographs “Certain allegations were made against me which are factually untrue and I want to table the clarification before the House so that the record may reflect it,” said Mr. Shah. He also produced photographs of former presidents Patil and Mukherjee occupying the same seat. In fact, said Mr. Shah, there were pictures that showed that it was former Prime Ministers Jawaharlal Nehru and Rajiv Gandhi who may have occupied Gurudev Tagore’s original chair and produced photographs showing the same. Monday’s debate on the motion of thanks to the President for his address to both Houses of Parliament saw a surfeit of references to West Bengal and leaders like Tagore, Subhash Chandra Bose and Syama Prasad Mookerjee as the BJP, the Trinamool Congress, the Congress and the Left invoked history ahead of the upcoming West Bengal Assembly poll.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/did-not-sit-on-tagores-chair-amit-shah/article33797029.ece
10 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Y.S. Sharmila’s entry into Telangana casts a surprise||It is going to be a tight-rope walk for Y.S. Sharmila, daughter of former Chief Minister of united Andhra Pradesh late Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy if she is intending to launch a new regional party to cash in on the legacy of her father. The inimitable YSR, as the late leader was popularly known, had conceived and launched the spree of welfare programmes that have become role models for the country to emulate. Her presence in their Lotus Pond residence with an indication that she is going to make some announcement on the future course of action had sparked off wide speculations. Guessing game Major political parties were left guessing on the outcome of the development amid speculation that the new party was part of the “hidden agenda” of the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) or the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Grapevine is that the party had been conceived with an eye to see that the huge presence of settlers in some districts and their affinity with late YSR could consolidate their votes in favour of either the BJP or the TRS. Regional aspirations Given the dimensions of the regional aspirations and other aspects in Telangana, it will not be an easy task for the proposed party to take root in Telangana. Various reasons are being cited how it would be a Herculean task for her to become a key player by the time the 2023 Assembly elections are held. Irrigation projects The biggest challenge for Ms. Sharmila to set up her presence in Telangana would be her stand on irrigation projects, especially Andhra Pradesh’s works on expansion of the ambit of the Pothireddypadu head regulator in the name of Rayalaseeema Lift Irrigation Project and other contentious issues. Primarily Ms. Sharmila could face the ‘outsider’ tag as there is no evidence of Ms. Sharmila supporting the cause of Telangana at a time when her brother Jagan Mohan Reddy had openly opposed the AP Reorganisation Bill in Parliament. Also, people could view her emergence as a leader with suspicious credentials because doubts are bound to be raised whether she has been propped up by someone. The inter-State issues raging between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh are bound to tie her in a knot. With her brother Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy firmly sitting in the driving seat in Andhra Pradesh as the Chief Minister, it will not be simple for her to take the fight into the rival neighbouring Telugu State with conviction. Doubts are bound to be raised why she is now raking up YSR sentiment and attempting to rally around all the late leaders well-wishers and admirers. Welfare agenda Talk of ‘Rajanna Rajyam’ too might face a roadblock as her contention that the fruits of the welfare schemes launched her father were not reaching the needy is sure to be countered by the ruling TRS regime. Her intention of launching a political party in Telangana has already caught the attention of the political parties. The TRS ruling in the State and the BJP, looking to establish its foothold in the State, have started accusing each other of propping up Ms. Sharmila for their political benefit. The Congress tried to maintain its poise claiming that Ms. Sharmila cannot attract the YSR admirers from their party easily. Establishing a presence Whatever is the argument in support or against the new political party, Ms. Sharmila, according to sources, has set her eyes firmly to make her presence felt in Telangana. She said she would continue her consultations with the well wishers from within the State in the new few days. Sources close to her maintained that visiting Adilabad and Khammam districts to interact with admirers of the late Dr. YS Rajasekhara Reddy was on cards. Maybe undertaking a padayatra as the election time approaches is also being speculated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sharmilas-entry-throws-up-a-surprise/article33797701.ece
10 February 2021||LUCKNOW,||71 from U.P. remain untraced||Shyamu Kumar, 22, from Uttar Pradesh had joined work at the hydro project at Tapovan in the neighbouring Uttarakhand barely three weeks ago, but the damage caused to the project by the sudden floods in the tributaries of the Ganga has already thrown his life into uncertainty. However, for now, he is more than glad to be alive. Kumar, a construction labourer from Lakhimpur Kheri district of U.P., was on night duty on Sunday and sleeping in one of the designated tin rooms for labourers at a safe height above the devastation. In recent days, he was engaged in construction work at a barrage. “When the flood submerged everything, my nephew woke me up saying, ‘Uncle, the glaciers have cracked, we need to get away from here.’ The barrages were all submerged,” Mr. Kumar told The Hindu on the phone from Tapovan on Tuesday. He is still haunted by the spectacle of the mammoth and violent waves of water gushing down the mountains. But he is more worried about the well-being of his colleagues and friends from back home. Are they still trapped in the tunnels? Will they be rescued or have they been washed away? Ramu, 20, his neighbour from Lakhimpur Kheri — Kumar is from Tikunia village — was working inside one of the tunnels when the waters struck. “He used to call me mama [maternal uncle]. We came here together to work. I am saddened... I have little hope that he will be found alive,” Mr. Kumar said. Like thousands of young men from the region, Kumar and his colleagues had come here in search of a better livelihood. At the Tapovan project, he was recruited on a salary of Rs. 14,000, more than thrice the amount he could hope to get back in his village or nearby kasba. “There are not many opportunities there,” he said. Three days after the incident, U.P. has identified 71 persons belonging to the State who are still untraceable after the tragedy from various sites, State Relief Commissioner Sanjay Goyal told The Hindu. The numbers could still go up, he said. Most of these persons (34) belong to Lakhimpur Kheri, followed by Saharanpur (10), Shravasti (5), Gorakhpur (4), Amroha (2), Deoria (2) and Bijnor (2). The list includes labourers, fitters and site engineers, said the official. The details, he said, were yet to be confirmed by their kin. One of those declared dead was reportedly identified as being from U.P. but confirmation was still awaited from the Uttarakhand officials, said Mr. Goyal. Acknowledging the grim situation, he said the chances of tracing missing persons alive after three days were “remote.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/71-from-up-remain-untraced/article33796999.ece
10 February 2021||GUMTHALA GARHU,||In Kurukshetra, farmers resolve to continue battle||With a resolve to not let the ongoing agitation against the Centre’s farm laws lose its steam, scores of farmers, including women, elderly and youth, on Tuesday gathered at a ‘Kisan Mahapanchayat’ at Haryana’s Gumthala Garhu village in Kurukshetra district. The farmers reiterated that they would continue with their protests, be it at the borders of Delhi or across the State. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait, addressing the gathering, criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s jibe of “aandolanjeevi”. “... They are saying in Parliament that they are parjeevis ( aandolan jeevis ). I want to ask them was Bhagat Singh, who laid his life for the country, a parjeevi ? Around 150 farmers have so far died during the ongoing agitation, were they parjeevis ,” he asked. Mr. Tikait said attempts were being made to divide farmers on the basis of region and religions. “They will attempt to divide you on Punjab-Haryana lines, as Sikh and non-Sikh, Hindus and Muslims. We have to be careful. When we stay united, I assure you we will win the battle,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-kurukshetra-farmers-resolve-to-continue-battle/article33797012.ece
10 February 2021||NALGONDA,||‘Thanksgiving’ and poll bugle moment for KCR||Nagarjunasagar dam, one of the world’s largest masonry dams, and the lifeline river Krishna are located along their home side, but the people of Nagarjunasagar Assembly constituency are not its immediate beneficiaries. The project, on the contrary , provides irrigation to more than six lakh acres in Nalgonda, Suryapet and Khammam districts, and Hyderabad, the State capital located 150 km away is transported this water. For Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, the “injustice over the dam’s location” and neellu (water) as the principal right of the Telangana movement were one of the central themes of his State election speeches in December 2018 in undivided Nalgonda. At his Nagarjunasagar Praja Ashirwada Sabha speech, he had assured the people a list of things, including sanction of Nellikal lift irrigation scheme to irrigate the ayacut’s unirrigable lands “the next morning the TRS government is re-elected, and the G.O. for a Degree College within 15 days.” But that ‘short time’ has come to an end only after its legislator Narsimhaiah passed away on December 1 due to illness, which also automatically mandates a by-election within six months. In that same week, the Chief Minister had announced a government degree college for Haliya, the constituency’s business headquarters. And surprisingly, a never-before footfall of TRS leaders was witnessed in the constituency since, including re-launch of various schemes, celebration of festivals and official reviews and developmental plans. On Wednesday, the Chief Minister, as announced earlier, will lay the foundation stone for 13 lift irrigation schemes at a proposed outlay of about Rs. 3,000 crore, at Haliya. The grand ceremony will be followed by a massive public meeting titled ‘Dhanyavadha Sabha’. According to District Minister G. Jagadish Reddy, “KCR has sanctioned a series of lift schemes, is also aiming to complete the Dindi lift scheme and is ready with plans worth thousands of crores for development of Nalgonda. That’s why we want to thank him, on behalf of the people, and that’s why the ‘Dhanyavadha Sabha’.” But for leaders from BJP, Communist Party of India (Marxist), Congress and the general public, the Chief Minister’s public visit to Nalgonda, the first since his promise “I will adopt Nalgonda” made in 2018, is only a harsh reminder of the many pending promises. Nagarjunasagar’s Assembly by-election, going by the December-1 reference date, should be completed by May-end.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/thanksgiving-and-poll-bugle-moment-for-kcr/article33797677.ece
10 February 2021||Kozhikode,||Congress divided over RS seat from Kerala for Azad||A section of the Congress Central and State leaderships are against offering a Rajya Sabha seat from Kerala to the Leader of the Opposition in the Upper House, Ghulam Nabi Azad, whose tenure ends on February 15. The move to renominate Mr. Azad comes at a time when he has fallen out with the Central leadership after writing a letter recently, as part of a group of 23 leaders, to Congress president Sonia Gandhi asking to fix the leadership issue in the party. Simultaneously, the Congress is on the horns of a dilemma, having to scout for a new Leader of the Opposition, a post which Mr. Azad has been holding since 2014. However, a few leaders believe that Mr. Azad who has remained steadfastly loyal to the Gandhis would possibly get a chance from Kerala where three Rajya Sabha seats will fall vacant by April. Under the current dispensation, Kerala is the only State from where the Congress-led United Democratic Front will be able to send him to the Rajya Sabha. The three members who will retire from the Upper House are senior Congress leader Vayalar Ravi, Indian Union Muslim League leader P.V. Abdul Wahab and CPI(M) nominee K.K. Ragesh. A senior functionary of the party said it was for the high command to take a call on Mr. Azad’s renomination from Kerala. Leaders from the State are not keen on the candidature of Mr. Azad. Also, the ECI has not decided on the Assembly elections scheduled to be held in April or May.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-divided-over-rs-seat-from-kerala-for-azad/article33796971.ece
10 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Protest against ‘backdoor’ postings gains momentum||The controversy over back-door appointments has threatened to ignite a youth backlash against the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government. The Congress on Tuesday attempted to capitalise on the perceived outrage at reports of widespread favouritism and corruption in appointments. The allegations seemed to spark a visceral feel of abandonment among hundreds waiting for appointment letters after having cleared Kerala Public Service Commission (PSC) tests for government jobs. A “leaked” audio clip of a solar investment case suspect seeking cash for back-door appointments allegedly at the behest of CPI(M) leaders added a new twist to the dispute. PSC rank-holders agitated across the State against the rampant “nepotism” in job placement. The protesters transcended party lines. The ongoing agitation by the PSC rank-holders in front of the Secretariat took a worrying turn for the second consecutive day on Tuesday. A few youths who had cleared the PSC examination for appointment to the post of civil police officer (CPO) climbed a tall building nearby and threatened to jump down. The police thwarted the attempt. On Monday, the police had foiled an attempt by a PSC rank-holder to set himself on fire. The CPO rank list had come under a cloud after a police inquiry revealed that at least two SFI leaders had cheated in the test. Subsequently, the government froze the list. The CPO rank-holder’s association has demanded that the government commence the suspended appointments. In Kalady, Campus Front and Fraternity activists clashed with the police in front of the Sanskrit university. They were protesting the selection of R. Ninitha, wife of CPI(M) leader M.B. Rajesh, as an assistant professor in the Malayalam department in the Muslim reservation category “overlooking” better-qualified candidates. The police used water cannons to disperse a march taken out by PSC rank-holders in Ernakulam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/protest-against-backdoor-postings-gains-momentum/article33796981.ece
10 February 2021||February 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Joe Biden and Modi talk of democratic institutions, norms||U.S. President Joe Biden discussed democratic institutions and norms with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, as per a White House readout of the call between the two leaders. The White House said they talked about a “free and open Indo-Pacific” and that Mr. Biden underscored “his desire to defend democratic institutions and norms around the world”. He “noted that a shared commitment to democratic values is the bedrock for the U.S.-India relationship”. This is suggestive of an added emphasis on the bilateral relationship, relative to the Trump administration, which had focused on the security aspect, driven in large measure by growing Chinese aggression and assertiveness. The language of the readout is significant in the context of the farmers’ protest around Delhi as this has gained visibility in the U.S., with celebrities and members of Congress making references to them on social media. The Indian External Affairs Ministry’s readout of the call said the two leaders “noted that the India-U.S. partnership is firmly anchored in a shared commitment to democratic values and common strategic interests”. Over the weekend, Brad Sherman, Co-chair of the House of Representatives India Caucus, and some of his colleagues discussed the “norms of democracy” in the context of the farmers’ protest with Indian Ambassador Taranjit Singh Sandhu, according to Mr. Sherman. On the Indo-Pacific, the White House readout of the Biden-Modi call mentioned freedom of navigation, “territorial integrity” (presumably a reference to China’s aggression along the Line of Control) and strengthening the Quad — India, the U.S., Australia and Japan. “President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. spoke today with Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India, committing that the United States and India will work closely together to win the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, renew their partnership on climate change, rebuild the global economy in a way that benefits the people of both countries, and stand together against the scourge of global terrorism. The leaders agreed to continuing close cooperation to promote a free and open Indo-Pacific, including support for freedom of navigation, territorial integrity, and a stronger regional architecture through the Quad,” it said. There was also a discussion on the military takeover in Myanmar and Mr. Modi and Mr. Biden resolved “that the rule of law and the democratic process must be upheld in Burma,” according to the White House. “The leaders agreed to stay in close touch on a range of global challenges and look forward to what the United States and India will achieve together for their people and for their nations,” it stated. Mr. Biden has already spoken with a number of world leaders since he took office, including traditional allies from Europe (the U.K., France, Germany, NATO), Asia and the Pacific (Japan, Australia, South Korea) and the Americas.  Jaishankar, Blinken talk External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar said he had spoken with his American counterpart, Antony Blinken, on Wednesday, a day after the Modi-Biden call. Their discussion included Quad cooperation and Myanmar, as per Mr. Jaishankar. “Welcomed the comprehensive discussion today with @SecBlinken. Reviewed Indo-Pacific developments and the Quad cooperation. Exchanged views on the situation in Myanmar. Look forward to remaining in touch,” Mr. Jaishankar wrote on Twitter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/joe-biden-and-modi-talk-of-democratic-institutions-norms/article33797010.ece
10 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||55% decline in daily COVID-19 fatalities, says Health Ministry||No new COVID-19 deaths have been reported from 15 States/UTs in the last 24 hours with Andaman, Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura, Mizoram, Nagaland, Lakshadweep reporting no deaths due to the virus in three weeks, said Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Tuesday at a press conference. He said India has registered a 55% decline in the average daily COVID-19 deaths in the last five weeks and that 33 States/UTs have fewer than 5,000 active cases. “The average daily deaths continue a sharp decline and from a high of 211 in the second week of January 2021, they have reduced to 96 in the second week of February. The case fatality rate is amongst the lowest in the world at 1.43% while the global average stands at 2.18%,’’ he said. The Ministry said daily new cases continue to manifest a downward trend with 9,110 being registered in the last 24 hours. Asked about the preliminary data on minimal effectiveness of the AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccine at preventing mild to moderate disease caused by the South Africa variant, member (health) NITI Aayog V.K. Paul, said the vaccine offers protection against severe disease, hospitalisation and death. “The South Africa variant is not in India as of yesterday [Monday] but a strict watch is being kept on any mutation and variant entry. We know that it spreads faster,’’ he said. The Ministry said the national committee looking into the adverse event following vaccination had its first meeting on February 5 and discussed eight cases. Causality assessment of five cases (two deaths and three hospitalised) was conducted. “Two cases were diagnosed as anaphylaxis — classified as vaccine-product related reactions (known and expected reactions following vaccinations) and one case was diagnosed as syncope — classified as immunisation-triggered stress response (anxiety reaction). Causality assessment of three [death] cases was deferred and histopathology and chemical analysis report called for,’’ said Mr. Bhushan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/55-decline-in-daily-covid-19-fatalities-says-health-ministry/article33797021.ece
10 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Poland pitches for PM’s visit to Warsaw||As the planning for two trips by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Europe this summer get underway, Poland is pitching for a visit to Warsaw. It is also negotiating with India for a travel bubble arrangement to resume direct flights which have been suspended for nearly a year due to COVID regulations, said its envoy. While Prime Minister Modi’s first trip abroad after the pandemic is scheduled for Bangladesh next month, he has accepted invitations to Brussels for the European Union-India summit (May 8), and to Cornwall, United Kingdom to attend the G-7 grouping where India is a special invitee (June 11-13). “It would be a very nice move if we could have a bilateral visit at the top level from India to Poland or from Poland to India,” Ambassador Adam Burakowski told The Hindu in an interview. “The last visit of Indian Prime Minister to Poland happened more than forty years ago! The last visit of Polish President to India happened more than 20 years ago. We really have a lot to talk on this level also,” he added. MEA officials said it is still unclear whether Mr. Modi will make any stopovers during his visits, and much depends on the coronavirus situation closer to the day. His visit to Brussels scheduled for March 13 last year was cancelled just a ahead due to the sudden spike in he cases. At the top of the agenda for the Prime Minister’s visit this year will be to salvage free trade negotiations for the EU-India Bilateral Trade and Investment Agreement (BTIA), which has failed to make headway since talks were suspended in 2014 over a number of issues including market access for automobiles, dairy products, wines and the movement of professionals. EU-India summit “We have high expectations for the EU-India Summit that will take place in May this year. Despite the COVID-19 pandemic we shall enhance our relations and take them to higher level. BTIA is much needed to significantly improve our trade exchange and to reduce the barriers that unfortunately are still there,” Mr. Burakowski said. On Friday, Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal and EU Trade Commissioner Valdis Dombrovskis held the first EU-India High-Level Dialogue on Trade and Investment that would “feed into the preparation for PM’s meeting with the EU leadership, and agreed to meet again in May,” a press statement said.  Among the issues that Poland hopes will be resolved soon is the resumption of Polish airlines LOT. The direct flights from Delhi-Warsaw had only been started in September 2019 after a gap of 25 years, when they were cancelled along with all other flights as part of the government’s lockdown measures in March 2020. Subsequently, the Ministry of Civil Aviation established “travel bubble” arrangements with 25 countries but no agreement has been reached with Poland. “Full restoration is much needed to give a new impulse to economic and people-to-people relations. I am reading in the newspapers that India soon plans to be more open to international air traffic and I hope that Warsaw-Delhi flight will be on the list,” said Mr. Burakowski. He pointed out that LOT run at 90% capacity before flights were cancelled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/poland-pitches-for-pms-visit-to-warsaw/article33797030.ece
10 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||As Twitter seeks talks, Ministers move to Indian-made app Koo||Amid the ongoing tussle between the government and Twitter over blocking of content and accounts related to the farmers’ protest, Union Ministers and government departments are setting up accounts on Koo, a Made-in-India alternative to Twitter. Union Minister Piyush Goyal on Tuesday announced on Twitter, “I am now on Koo. Connect with me on this Indian micro-blogging platform for real-time, exciting and exclusive updates. Let us exchange our thoughts and ideas on Koo.” Sanjeev Sanyal, Principal Economic Adviser, Finance Ministry, responded to it, stating “See you there shortly.........” Electronics and IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad already has a verified handle on Koo, and so do the departments he handles, including Telecom, IT, India Post. Other government departments such as the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs, and MyGovIndia, are also present on Koo. Koo, which is similar to Twitter, was among the winners of the government’s AatmaNirbhar App Innovation Challenge last year. The platform recently raised $4.1 million from a clutch of investors, including an entity backed by former Infosys CFO Mohandas Pai, Accel Partners, Kalaari Capital, Blume Ventures and Dream Incubator. Twitter, however, said it had reached out to Mr. Prasad for a formal dialogue, and had communicated an acknowledgement to the receipt of the non-compliance notice to the government. “We continue to be engaged with the Government of India from a position of respect and have reached out to the Honourable Minister, Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology,” a spokesperson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/as-twitter-seeks-talks-ministers-move-to-indian-made-app-koo/article33797033.ece
10 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Top court warns Maradu builders||The Supreme Court on Tuesday indicated that builders of the demolished and illegal high-rise apartment complexes at Maradu in Kerala ought to pay 50% of the interim compensation to residents in a time-bound manner or face revenue recovery proceedings. As the Bench led by Justice Navin Sinha expressed its mind that builders should cough up the compensation, senior advocate Kapil Sibal and advocate A. Karthik, representing the builders, sought time to get instructions from their clients. The court scheduled a hearing on February 17. Four complexes were demolished at Maradu in Kochi in January 2020 following a Supreme Court order, for violation of coastal zone regulations. An October 28 report filed by the apex court-appointed committee led by Justice K. Balakrishnan Nair had said the builders were responsible for the constructions and had to pay the compensation. The builders had opposed this recommendation, saying the entire liability for the illegal constructions could not fall upon them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/top-court-warns-maradu-builders/article33796987.ece
10 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC panel meets agribusinesses||The Supreme Court-appointed panel to examine the three contentious farm reform laws met representatives of 18 agribusinesses on Tuesday, as part of its consultations with stakeholders. It has previously met some farmers’ associations and farmer-producer organisations, which are largely in favour of reforms but has yet to meet any of the unions that have been protesting on Delhi’s borders for two and a half months, demanding the repeal of the laws. At its sixth round of consultations on Tuesday, the panel met representatives of Amul, ITC, Suguna Foods and Venkateshwara Hatcheries, as well as industry lobby groups such as the CII and the FICCI. Other stakeholders who gave their views on the farm laws included associations representing seafood exporters, rice millers and exporters, poultry feed makers, grain and pulses traders, cotton mills and traders, and manufacturers of tractors and fertilizers. State-run bodies such as the FCI was also asked to give its views on the laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-panel-meets-agribusinesses/article33797004.ece
10 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Teary-eyed PM bids farewell to Azad||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday gave a teary-eyed farewell to Congress’ Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad. “We have been very close, there has not been an occasion when we have not been in touch,” he said. Mr. Modi choked as he recalled a terror attack when Mr. Azad was the Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir, and eight tourists from Gujarat were killed. “The first call I received was from Ghulam Nabi ji . That call was not only to inform me of the incident, but one of concern, like a family member. His tears were not stopping on the phone. That time, Pranab Mukherjee was the Defence Minister. I asked if an aircraft could be provided to get the bodies back home. Mukherjee Saab ensured that it was provided. Ghulam Nabi ji called again in the night; he was at the airport,” the Prime Minister reminisced, trying to stop his tears. Other than Mr. Azad, Meer Mohammad Fayaz and Nazir Ahmad Laway, both from the Peoples Democratic Party, and Shamsher Singh Manhas of the BJP were given a farewell by the House. With their tenures getting over, the newly created Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir will not have a single representation in the Rajya Sabha. “Not a single session has gone by when Mir Mohammad and Nazir Ahmed have not discussed issues with me in my chamber. Sometimes, they came with their families. The kind of information and insight they provided was unique, their commitment and ability will be useful for the country and to J&K,” Mr. Modi said. Mr. Azad, in an emotional speech, said he is a proud Indian. He recalled that during his college days in Kashmir, where both August 14 and 15 were celebrated, he was among the minority who participated in the Indian Independence Day celebrations. Mr. Azad also said he was proud that he is an “Indian Muslim”. “I am among those fortunate people who never went to Pakistan. When I read about circumstances in Pakistan, I feel proud to be a Hindustani Muslim.” The Indian Muslim believed in peaceful existence unlike strife and war in Muslim nations, he said. At the same time, he sounded a word of caution for the majority community, asking them to be two steps ahead in maintaining peace. There were only a few instances when he cried out loud and these were when Sanjay Gandhi, Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi died. Referring to the massacre of the Gujarati pilgrims, recalled by Mr. Modi, he said it was a time when he could not hold back his tears.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/teary-eyed-pm-bids-farewell-to-azad/article33797019.ece
10 February 2021||KOTTAYAM,||Kappan seeks to meet Pawar again||Even as the Kerala Congress (M) led by Jose K. Mani has started its preparatory works in Kottayam for the upcoming Assembly elections, Mani C. Kappan, MLA, (the regional party’s prospective rival in Pala), is slated to take a decision on his candidature in a few days. Official sources said on Tuesday that Mr. Kappan had left for New Delhi to meet Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president Sharad Pawar to apprise him of the situation and the plan to leave the Left Democratic Front (LDF) in case the Pala seat is denied. He is expected to announce a decision on joining the United Democratic Front (UDF) after one final meeting with party general secretary Praful Patel. “During the meeting, Mr. Kappan is also expected to raise the ‘humiliation’ meted out to Mr. Patel by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who had allegedly denied the former an appointment . With this, he seeks to ensure the support of at least a faction of the NCP State unit while switching the sides,” said an NCP leader. Prior to meeting Mr. Pawar, Mr. Kappan had sent a letter briefing about the recent developments in the Left coalition. Pala candidature The speculation over Mr. Mani’s candidature in Pala notwithstanding, both the KC(M) and the LDF remained tight-lipped on the issue and are yet to announce the official launch of its election campaign in the constituency. Mr. Mani, however, stands a high chance to contest from the seat considering the party’s influence across the constituency at different levels. Election-related works The KC(M), meanwhile, began its election-related works in Kottayam with a district-level meeting at Monipally the other day. Inaugurated by Mr. Mani, the meeting decided to complete the conventions and booth-level discussions in the Assembly constituencies of Poonjar, Vaikom, and Ettumanur by this month itself. The party is also slated to convene its Assembly committees in Kottayam on February 13 and 14 to coordinate the inter-district rally by the LDF on 18 and 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kappan-seeks-to-meet-pawar-again/article33797328.ece
10 February 2021||Hyderabad,||MP Chief Minister lauds Wanaparthy SP||Wanaparthy Superintendent of Police Apoorva Rao received praise from Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday as the latter tweeted about her efforts in rescuing migrant labourers. A team of Sidhi district worked with Ms. Rao’s team after being alerted about 43 migrant labourers from MP who were stranded at Peddagudem village in Wanaparthy Rural mandal. They were working as ‘bonded labourers’ at Peddagudem Sarpanch’s sugarcane fields. “I congratulate the team of Sidhi Dist. Admin. & @SPWanaparthy Ms. Apoorva Rao for the prompt response. Keep up the good work!” he tweeted. Ms. Rao said that a labour contractor brought the workers to the district to harvest sugarcane crops and work at a sugar factory. However, he developed some issues with the factory owner and abandoned them. “As a result, the Sarpanch was treating them as bonded labourers and was getting work out of them at his sugarcane field,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mp-chief-minister-lauds-wanaparthy-sp/article33797820.ece
10 February 2021||BENGALURU,||Bengaluru scientists develop a new marigold variety||Generally the flowers lose their value if they get spoilt either due to rain or delay in harvest. But the new variety of marigold developed by the Hessarghatta-based Indian Institute of Horticultural Research (IIHR) are of value even if they get spoilt after full bloom as they can be used for extraction of crude carotene. “All marigolds have carotene content that ranges up to a maximum of 1.4%. However, the Arka Shubha variety of marigold has high carotene content of 2.8% which is the highest content from plant source,” said Dr. Tejaswini P., principal scientist in the IIHR’s Division of Floriculture and Medicinal Plants, who led the team of scientists that developed this variety. These flowers could be sold for ornamental purpose too like other marigold varieties. But there is also an option of using them for extracting crude carotene, she pointed out. As carotene is mainly used in pharmaceutical sector, there is always a high demand for it. Presently, India imports most of its carotene from other countries, including China. Dr. Tejaswini suggested that farmers consider this variety purely for extraction of carotene. However, it is better to take up the venture through farmers’ groups as it needed a large area for cultivation and investments on extraction, she pointed out. This also provides scope for exports, she said. Arka Shubha variety is used in the poultry sector. Its petals could be used as poultry feed to get quality yolk, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengaluru-scientists-develop-new-marigold-variety/article33796973.ece
10 February 2021||BENGALURU,||How about rose tourism?||You have heard of wine tourism and eco tourism. But the IIHR plans to moot such a concept for farmers and farm entrepreneurs with the many premium rose varieties developed. “We have premium rose varieties like Arka Parimala known for fragrance and used in cosmetics, health and food. These could be used by innovative farmers and entrepreneurs to offer tourists aroma and cosmetic therapies,” said Dr. Tejaswini P., principal scientist, IIHR’s Division of Floriculture and Medicinal Plants. “This is only a broad idea. Entrepreneurs can add any rose related components to such a concept,” the scientist said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/how-about-rose-tourism/article33797382.ece
10 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Sex workers allege police harassment; call for sensitivity training to personnel||Sex workers in the city, whose plight was largely ignored during the COVID-19 pandemic, are now alleging increased police violence, particularly in and around Majestic area. Some of the women The Hindu spoke to said they have been subjected to verbal abuse and even been publicly humiliated. Many also said they were being harassed by male officers even though it is mandated that only a female police officer can question, arrest or detain them. “When we approach the police with our grievances, we are asked to provide CCTV camera footage to corroborate our allegations,” they said. Shobha (name changed), who took up the profession 10 years ago after her husband passed away, said police brutality makes it difficult for them to meet their livelihood. “Police personnel verbally abuse us and take away our belongings so that we are forced to go to the station. Later, they ask us to cough up a fine of Rs. 250 or Rs. 500 without giving us a receipt,” she said. According to the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, sex work itself is not an offence, but soliciting customers or maintenance of brothels is considered a crime. Another 38-year-old sex worker who has been in the profession for the past 15 years said they were badly affected by the pandemic. “During the lockdown, apart from some help from our union, we were left to fend for ourselves,” he said. Geetha M., secretary, Sadhana Mahila Sangha, said there was a need for better sensitivity among police personnel at the lower ranks to ensure that sex workers are not subjected to any form of harassment from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sex-workers-allege-police-harassment-call-for-sensitivity-training-to-personnel/article33797583.ece
10 February 2021||Patna,||Many young faces find place in Bihar Cabinet||The Nitish Kumar Cabinet in Bihar was expanded on Tuesday, with nine Ministers from the BJP and eight from the JD(U). Senior BJP leader and former Union Minister Shahnawaz Hussain was inducted as Industries Minister. Most of those who took the oath of office administered by Governor Phagu Chauhan were young faces. Prominent among them was Mr. Hussain, who was elected to the Legislative Council last month. Other BJP leaders inducted into the Cabinet are Nitin Navin from the Patna West constituency; Samrat Chaudhury, who was an MLC and former Minister; Neeraj Kumar Babloo, who is a five-time MLA from Chhatapur; Alok Ranjan Jha, MLA from Saharsa; Subhas Singh from Gopalgunj; Janak Ram; Pramod Kumar; and Narayan Prasad. The BJP dropped senior leaders like Nand Kishore Yadav and Prem Kumar, who were Ministers in all previous NDA governments. From the JD(U), leaders considered close to the Chief Minister such as Shrawan Kumar, Sanjay Kumar Jha, Madan Sahni and Lessi Singh found place in the Cabinet. The party also brought in young faces such as Jayant Raj; Sunil Kumar (Bhore MLA); Sumit Singh, and Jama Khan, who had won on the BSP ticket from Chainpur in Kaimur district but later joined the JD(U). The BJP now has 16 Ministers with 22 portfolios and the JD(U) 13 with 21 portfolios.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/many-young-faces-find-place-in-bihar-cabinet/article33797020.ece
10 February 2021||KOTTAYAM,||Sabarimala being raked up with eye on votes: NSS||The Nair Service Society (NSS), spearheading the agitation against the entry of women at the hill shrine, on Tuesday lashed out at the three major coalitions in Kerala for attempting to rake up the Sabarimala issue with an eye on the upcoming Assembly elections. In a statement on Tuesday, NSS general Secretary G. Sukumaran Nair said it was really interesting to see that the major coalitions were coming up with new arguments to influence the devotees ahead of the election, even as the issue remained under consideration of a larger Bench of the Supreme Court. “With the Central administration in its hands, what stopped the BJP from sorting out the issue through a legislation? The UDF, while sitting in the Opposition, could have presented a Bill in support of the devotees. So, how sincere can be their statement to carry out legislation in favour of the devotees if returned to power,” Mr. Nair asked. “If the judgment of the five-member Bench of the SC is implemented, it will be applicable to not just Sabarimala, but to the centuries-old customs and traditions existing in all Hindu temples across the State,” he pointed out. NSS objective Holding that the declared objective of the NSS was to protect religious belief and customs and rituals associated with it, Mr. Nair also highlighted the need to ensure protection of Hindu religious institutions as in the case of other religions. The statement also elaborated on the community organisation’s role in addressing the Sabarimala issue by seeking a legal recourse.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sabarimala-being-raked-up-with-eye-on-votes-nss/article33797326.ece
10 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Orders for enforcement squads under TS-bPASS||State government has issued orders on Tuesday constituting district level Enforcement Squads as per the provisions of the TS-bPASS Act. The squads will be entrusted with the task of detection and monitoring of unauthorised constructions, and unauthorised layouts and taking action against them. The district level TS-bPASS committee will act as the District Task Force (DTF) as per the Act, towards constitution of the enforcement squads, a memo said. District collectors have been directed to constitute enforcement squads by drawing officials from Revenue, Police, Fire, and Roads & Buildings departments, or through outsourcing, for taking up demolitions of illegal structures. The number of squads in each district will depend on the quantum of construction activity in the municipalities of the district. The DTF will receive complaints either manually or through TS-bPASS portal, call centres, mobile apps, or social media. Complaints received should be examined in three days after which a site inspection will be done before demolition. No notices will be issued before demolition, and expenses for demolition will be recovered from the owner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/orders-for-enforcement-squads-under-ts-bpass/article33797676.ece
10 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Phase 1 trial of nasal vaccine gets the nod||A subject expert committee of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) has given approval to Bharat Biotech to launch the first phase of clinical trial of an intranasal vaccine candidate for COVID-19. “After detailed deliberation, the committee recommended for conduct of proposed phase I clinical trial,” read the minutes of the SEC meeting held earlier this month. The approval followed the Hyderabad-based vaccine maker presenting its proposal along with revised phase I clinical trial protocol of the Chimpanzee Adenovirus Vectored COVID-19 Vaccine (BBV154) (intranasal) as sought by the committee, at its meeting in January. The committee had then advised the firm to generate safety and immunogenicity data in Phase-I clinical trial, with 75 subjects, in the proposed doses as per the protocol. Bharat Biotech and the Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis had announced a licensing agreement in September for the nasal vaccine candidate, under which the firm bagged the distribution rights in all markets except the U.S., Japan and Europe. Founder and CMD Krishna Ella had been highlighting that the single dose nasal vaccine would be easy to administer and reduce the cost of vaccination since medical consumables such as syringes and needles would not be required. The company has plans to manufacture the nasal vaccine at its facility in Genome Valley here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/phase-1-trial-of-nasal-vaccine-gets-the-nod/article33797566.ece
10 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Lokpal panel minutes need not be disclosed’||The Centre has refused to disclose the minutes of the Lokpal selection committee’s meetings, and its decision has now been upheld by the Central Information Commission (CIC). Right to Information (RTI) activist Anjali Bhardwaj intends to appeal against the CIC’s order in court, pointing out the irony that the Lokpal itselfi s a body meant to augment transparency in governance. A CIC hearing was held in January 2021, more than two years after the RTI query was filed, and the CIC’s final order was published last week. At the hearing, the DoPT argued that “the confidentiality of the said record can be gauged by the fact that the averred minutes of the Selection Committee were received in a sealed cover.” It invoked the exemption clause in Section 8(1)(e) of the RTI Act, claiming that the documents authored by third parties under reference is held in a fiduciary capacity by the Department of Personnel and Training. Ms. Bhardwaj responded that there has been no prior judgment that the recommendations of public officials are fiduciary in nature. “The larger public has a right to know about the basis on which their Lokpal or Lokayukta was selected,” she said during the hearing. Central Information Commissioner Saroj Punhani upheld the Centre’s stance, citing two Supreme Court cases related to a Lokpal search committee and the committees for selecting Information Commissioners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lokpal-panel-minutes-need-not-be-disclosed/article33797568.ece
10 February 2021||February 10 2021 00:00 IST,||SC protects Tharoor, journalists from arrest||“What is the danger?” Chief Justice Bobde asked him the reason for his apprehension of arrests. “The investigation agency is in Delhi...” Mr. Sibal replied. “So, are you going to arrest by the time we hear you?” Chief Justice Bobde asked Mr. Mehta. Mr. Mehta said he was only appearing for one State. The FIRs were registered in multiple States, including Uttar Pradesh. This led the CJI to go ahead and indicate that a stay on arrest would be necessary. However, Mr. Mehta indicated that, in time, in the case, he would be appearing for all the authorities concerned. “But what is the prejudice caused if such a statement is made [by the court]?” Mr. Sibal asked. “We have stayed arrest,” the CJI concluded the discussion. Mr. Tharoor and others had moved the Supreme Court against charges of sedition, promotion of enmity and criminal conspiracy levelled against them for posting “malafide, defamatory, false and misleading” tweets accusing the Delhi Police of killing a farmer during the tractor rally on Republic Day. The FIRs, registered by Delhi and Gurugram Police and Uttar Pradesh, accused them of posting instigating tweets and deliberately circulating fake news accusing the Delhi Police of the murder of a person driving a tractor during the violence on Republic Day. “This was clearly done with an intent to engineer large-scale riots and religious tension among different communities,” the Gurugram Police FIR read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-protects-tharoor-journalists-from-arrest/article33796978.ece
10 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Four held in Hyderabad for human trafficking||The Special Operations Team (SOT) of L.B. Nagar on Tuesday raided the office of a travel agency in Malakpet, and busted a human trafficking racket. Four persons were arrested from Al Hayat Tours and Travels. According to police, the accused are Shaik Mohammed Imtiyaz (35) from Khajipet in Andhra Pradesh, Nune Subamma (27), a resident of Kadapa in Andhra Pradesh, G Subba Rayudu (38), also from Kadapa, and Md Haroon (52), an office assistant of the travel agency. Sumaiyah Fathima (23), owner of the travel agency, her father Md Naseer, MD of the agency, and one Sayeed (45) are absconding. Easy targets Police said that Imtiyaz, Subamma, Rayudu and Sayeed have been working as travel agents. Subamma worked in Muscat as a domestic help for four years and speaks Arabic fluently. She is acquainted with manpower recruitment agencies in Qatar, Oman and Kuwait. Subamma and Rayudu used to send gullible people looking for a job to these countries on a visit visa instead of a work visa. Imtiyaz and Sayeed, who are involved in similar activities, were assisting Naseer who lives in Muscat. Imtiyaz, Subbamma, Rayudu, Haroon and Sayeed were paid a commission of Rs. 1 lakh to Rs. 2 lakh, while Naseer got Rs. 4 lakh to Rs. 5 lakh from his Arab customers, police said. Victim job-seeker The victim from Medipally was poor and looking for a job. Using this to their advantage, they arranged her visa and ticket to Muscat. She was scheduled to leave on February 2, but could not board the aircraft. Imtiyaz convinced her to leave. He introduced the victim to Subamma and booked a ticket for February 7. Police said that the victim was asked to get a COVID test done at a facility in Afzal Gunj. But, Imtiyaz had intended to sexually assault her and instructed her to stay the night with him. The victim did not comply. His behaviour aroused her suspicion and she fled the airport. Five trafficked Police said that two other travel agencies were operating in the same manner. They said that the accused, in the recent past, trafficked as many as five persons from different places to West Asian countries. Police seized 40 Indian passports, photocopies of visa documentation and other items. Rachakonda police have appealed to the public to be careful and approach only agencies that are notified by the Protector of Emigrants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/four-held-in-hyderabad-for-human-trafficking/article33796983.ece
10 February 2021||February 10 2021 00:00 IST,||ED searches offices of digital news platform||“The funds also came from a U.S.-based company, which had already been liquidated. Another U.S. firm, said to be a shareholder, is under the scanner,” the ED official said. According to the agency, the company runningNewsClickallegedly showed exports from a premises, which was closed for the past about two years. The searches started around 10 a.m. at the Saidulajab office of NewsClick in South Delhi. The ED team, which was carrying a notice authorising the search, sought certain documents from the new organisation’s representatives for scrutiny. The agency officials also visited the residential premises of its directors, including the portal’s editor-in-chief Prabir Purkayastha, and editor Pranjal. DIGIPUB News India Foundation issued a statement, strongly condemning the searches “at the office of NewsClick and the homes of its directors and editor Prabir Purkayastha”. “DIGIPUB News India Foundation believes that the ED raids on NewsClick, its editor and directors, is a clear attempt to suppress journalism critical of the government and its allies. Such use of State agencies to intimidate journalists and suppress adversarial journalism is detrimental to not only the freedom of the press, but also the very idea of democratic accountability. Everyone emerges poorer in the long run,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-searches-offices-of-digital-news-platform/article33796985.ece
10 February 2021||February 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Deep Sidhu arrested over Red Fort vandalism||Mr. Sidhu’s lawyer, however, claimed that his client had nothing to do with the violence as he was at the wrong place at the wrong time. The police said Mr. Sidhu had instigated the mob to breach barricades with tractors and deviate from the approved tractor rally route. His custody was required to identify other accused in the case. On February 7, the police said pictures of over 70 people involved in the violence had been released, and 126 persons arrested so far. A senior police officer said Mr. Sidhu was seen in several videos and CCTV recordings of the Red Fort violence obtained from various sources. An FIR was registered at the Kotwali police station and it was later transferred to the Crime Branch for further investigation. In mobile footages, he and others were seen instigating and provoking mob to enter Red Fort and hoist a religious flag. Police said he was detained from the Karnal Highway in Haryana on Monday when he was about to board a car to escape to Bihar, where his wife is staying. He claimed that he was hiding at various locations in Haryana and Punjab after January 26. After he was named in the violence case, he recorded video messages with the help of his friends and the videos were uploaded on social media sites through his friend who is in the U.S. Sanjeev Yadav, DCP (Special Cell) said, “He first came to Singhu border on November 25 where he took a room on rent and arranged a tent for himself. He claimed that he entered in the movement after he got carried away by the farmers’ protest during initial days of the protest back in Punjab. He was in touch with farmers’ leaders but he detached himself from them when he found leaders were soft with the police. Thereafter, he addressed a group of like-minded protesters and planned to take a tractor parade to India Gate but due to heavy police deployment he moved to the Red Fort. On January 27, he was seen running away from the Singhu border”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/deep-sidhu-arrested-over-red-fort-vandalism/article33796988.ece
10 February 2021||February 10 2021 00:00 IST,||197 still missing in Chamoli avalanche||The rescue work in the longer Tapovan tunnel is under way. An ITBP official said a 60-metre patch filled with sludge and debris had to be cleared before they could establish contact with the trapped workers. “The tunnel is up to 15 feet high and the height of the debris is 13-14 feet. We have cleared up to 120 metres so far. It is this 60 metres that is proving to be extremely challenging to clear. There is a gap beyond this mound where this tunnel meets the other and we are hopeful of finding the trapped people there,” the official said. The official said no contact had been established with the workers so far. “We are hopeful because beyond 60 metres, we do not expect any debris. The more debris we are extricating, the more of it is flowing out on its own,” he said. Another official said: “Some people working here have told us that they had complained of the tunnel getting inundated in the past but no action was taken. The floor is marshy, making it difficult to walk. Only heavy vehicles and machines can extricate the debris.” An Unmanned Aerial Vehicle was also flown into the tunnel to collect clues but it did not get enough headroom for manoeuvring.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/197-still-missing-in-chamoli-avalanche/article33796989.ece
10 February 2021||February 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Families await reunion with loved ones||They stand ashen-faced in small clusters near the devastated barrage of the NTPC's Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project, waiting for some news about their missing relatives. Camping at Tapovan since the glacier tragedy struck in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district on Sunday, the hope of being reunited with their missing kin brings them every morning to the banks of the Dhauliganga where intense efforts are under way to trace around 30-35 people trapped inside a tunnel. One of the glum-faced bystanders is Dipak Nagwal of Kanchula village, whose sister’s husband Sateshwar Singh, a contractual mechanic, was at work inside the tunnel at the time of the avalanche. Three men of Chamoli's kimana village are also stuck inside the tunnel. Over 40 people from the village have been camping at Tapovan. Amar Singh of Datunu, who has come to enquire after his fellow villagers, said the entire village is in a state of shock after the calamity. “A total of 25 residents of my village worked at the NTPC project site, of whom six had a day off on Sunday and were luckily saved, but the rest are trapped inside the tunnel,” Mr. Singh said. The scene at Raini, where 46 people went missing at the Rishiganga project site, is similar. Four bodies were recovered at Raini on Tuesday, SDRF commandant Navneet Singh Bhullar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/families-await-reunion-with-loved-ones/article33796993.ece
10 February 2021||New Delhi,||‘Crashing rock mass may have caused flash floods’||A rock mass, weakened from years of freezing and thawing of snow, may have led to the creation of a weak zone, triggering its collapse that resulted in flash floods in the Chamoli district on Sunday, initial observations by scientists of the Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology (WIHG) suggest. The crashing rock mass also brought earth and mounds of snow with it. The friction may have resulted in heating, which could have caused the floods, the observations suggest. Scientists from the institute conducted a helicopter survey to find clues what led to the deadly flash floods that swept everything in its way. Kalachand Sain, Director of the WIHG, said the glaciers where the incident occurred feed the Rishiganga river that ultimately joins the Dhauliganga. “This region has a very steep gradient. Our observations suggest that the rock mass may have weakened due to freezing and thawing. This sometimes leads to the development of a weak zone and fractures,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/crashing-rock-mass-may-have-caused-flash-floods/article33796994.ece
10 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Clashes in Afghanistan must end, says Modi||India supports “immediate comprehensive ceasefire” in Afghanistan, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday. He was speaking during a ceremony to sign a Memorandum of Understanding for the construction of the Shatoot dam to provide drinking water to Kabul. “We are concerned about the increasing violence in Afghanistan. Innocent citizens, journalists and workers are being targeted in a cowardly manner. We have called for an immediate end for violence and we support an immediate comprehensive ceasefire. Violence and peace counteract each other and both cannot co-exist. As close neighbours and strategic partners India and Afghanistan both want to see our region free from the problems of terrorism and extremism. India supports a peace process that is Afghan led, Afghan owned and Afghan controlled,” Mr. Modi said. The Prime Minister ‘s remarks came as clashes between the Taliban and the Afghan military continued in different parts of Afghanistan. In the latest incident, four security personnel were killed in Tuesday in a roadside bomb blast in Herat in western Afghanistan.  India and Afghanistan both want to see our region free from the problems of terrorism and extremism Narendra Modi Prime Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/clashes-in-afghanistan-must-end-says-modi/article33797022.ece
10 February 2021||Hyderabad,||Oppn. says Sharmila is a pawn in KCR’s mind game||Entry of late Y.S. Rajashekhar Reddy’s daughter Sharmila into Telangana politics has stirred a hornet’s nest with political parties accusing each other of her being a ‘tool’ to target their opponents though there is no clarity on who her entry will actually affect finally. TPCC working president A. Revanth Reddy described her as a ‘arrow’ of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to target the Congress party to which Dr. Y.S. Rajashekhar Reddy belonged. He said though YSR continues to enjoy support among people in Telangana no way they would agree to Ms. Sharmila continuing his legacy here. Mr. Reddy challenged her to file cases against Pothireddypadu and Sangameshwaram projects in the High Court to prove her loyalty to Telangana. As the daughter of YSR she would get utmost respect here but people cannot compromise on the interests of Telangana for which they fought for so many years. “If Ms. Sharmila has differences with her brother Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy she should settle the issue in Andhra Pradesh and not in Telangana,” he said. KCR’s ploy The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) too targeted the TRS with state BJP vice president N. V. S. S. Prabhakar claiming that senior Congress leader K. V. P. Ramachandra Rao was behind Sharmila’s entry with the active support of Mr. K. Chandrasekhar Rao. “KCR is losing ground and facing problems internally from the family. So to save the party and split anti-government votes he has created this new drama,” he claimed while speaking with The Hindu . The ruling TRS preferred a little subdued reaction with their leaders questioning her entry on the basis of the anti-Telangana stand taken by her. TRS social media convenor Manne Krishank wanted to know the reasons behind her criticism of the TRS government.  ‘TS is leading’ “Telangana is doing better than all States in terms of water, irrigation, power, education and welfare schemes. Let her prove how YSR government was better than now,” he asked. Huzurnagar MLA Saidireddy said emergence of any new party will have no place in Telangana that is set to sail with KCR for another two decades. It is her right to start a political party but there will be no future for any political party other than TRS in the near future, he told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sharmila-is-a-pawn-in-kcrs-mind-game-oppn/article33797704.ece
10 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Union calls for bank strike on March 15, 16||The United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU) has called for a two-day bank strike from March 15 against the proposed privatisation of public sector banks. An umbrella body of nine unions that between them represent several lakh bank employees and officers, UFBU announced the strike call as well as the decision to launch more agitation programmes after a meeting here on Tuesday. In the run-up to bank strike on March 15 and 16, UFBU has called for a day-long dharna in all State capitals on February 19; and relay dharnas in all States/districts/towns from February 20-March 10. Effectively, no banking is likely for four days from March 13 (second Saturday).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/union-calls-for-bank-strike-on-march-15-16/article33797567.ece
10 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC stays curbs on activist Rehana||The Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed a blanket ban imposed by the Kerala High Court on activist Rehana Fathima using any kind of media to express or share her views. However, a Bench led by Justice Rohinton F. Nariman retained a condition imposed by the High Court that Ms. Fathima should not use the media to hurt religious feelings. The December 2018 and November 2020 orders of the High Court concerned bail granted to Ms. Fathima in a case of committing “deliberate and malicious acts” to hurt religious feelings under Section 295A of the Indian Penal Code. The case was registered by the Kerala police against Ms. Fathima for her Facebook posts concerning the top court’s judgment allowing entry of women into the Sabarimala temple. On December 14, 2018, the Kerala High Court allowed Ms. Fathima bail on the grounds that “she shall not directly or indirectly or through any other person, through print, visual or other electronic media make, share, forward, disseminate or propagate any comment which may affect or has the propensity to affect the religious feelings or sentiments of any community or group of society”. HC order However, on November 23 last year, the High Court went a step further to add that “till the trial is over accused shall not directly, indirectly or through any other person publish, transmit, share, upload or disseminate or publish any material or any of her comments through any visual and electronic media open to the public”. “It is a complete gag,” Justice Nariman remarked to senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, appearing for Ms. Fathima.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-stays-curbs-on-activist-rehana/article33796990.ece
10 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||YouTube takes down songs of protest||YouTube has removed a couple of Punjabi songs related to the farmers’ protest from its platform, including a song called Ailaan , following government orders, a source confirmed. For the song Ailaan by Kanwar Grewal, which had over 60 lakh views before being blocked, YouTube displays a message stating, “This content is not available on this country domain due to a legal complaint from the government.” However, some users have uploaded the video on YouTube via other channels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/youtube-takes-down-songs-of-protest/article33797013.ece
10 February 2021||Mumbai,||Actor Rajiv Kapoor passes away||Actor-director Rajiv Kapoor, son of celebrated filmmaker-actor Raj Kapoor, died on Tuesday after a heart attack. He was 58. His brother Randhir Kapoor said Rajiv Kapoor died due to heart attack around 1.30 p.m. Rajiv Kapoor made his acting debut with 1983 film Ek Jaan Hain Hum , but made his first appearance as a leading man in blockbuster Ram Teri Ganga Maili , which was Raj Kapoor's last directorial venture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/actor-rajiv-kapoor-passes-away/article33797015.ece
10 February 2021||Ahmedabad,||Asthana gets clean chit in bribery case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has given a clean chit to Border Security Force chief Rakesh Asthana, in the Vadodara-based Sterling Biotech bribery case. Mr. Asthana, a front-runner for the post of CBI Director, was under the scanner for certain entries in the diaries maintained by the Sandesara brothers, in which he was allegedly shown to be the “beneficiary” of unaccounted-for money. The Sandesara brothers and other directors of Sterling Biotech are fugitives. The case was among those that former CBI chief Alok Verma had listed against Mr. Asthana, his No. 2 in the organisation, during an open and ugly fight between the two in 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/asthana-gets-clean-chit-in-bribery-case/article33797023.ece
10 February 2021||New Delhi,||V.K. Singh’s LAC statement, Rajiv killers’ release resound in LS||Adhir Ranjan Chowdhary, Leader of the Congress’ legislative party in the Lok Sabha, said on Tuesday that the House needed to discuss the controversy created by Minister of State for Road Transport Gen. V.K. Singh (retd.) with his statement that the India-China border had not been clearly demarcated, and while China had transgressed the LAC, India had “done the same” possibly more times than China, without the government announcing it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vk-singhs-lac-statement-rajiv-killers-release-resound-in-ls/article33797025.ece
10 February 2021||Kochi,||Sunny Leone, husband move HC for anticipatory bail||Bollywood actor Sunny Leone on Tuesday approached the Kerala High Court seeking anticipatory bail in a cheating case filed by a coordinator of stage shows. The complainant alleged that the actor and other accused had taken Rs. 39 lakh for stage shows in Kerala and abroad but did not attend them or return the money.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sunny-leone-husband-move-hc-for-anticipatory-bail/article33796977.ece
10 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Man awarded capital punishment for rape and murder of minor||A local court on Tuesday awarded capital punishment to a man from Madhya Pradesh State, after holding him guilty of raping and murdering a five-year-old girl. Judge B Suresh Babu of MSJ Court pronounced the judgment and sentenced the accused Dinesh Kumar Dharne (23) to death, and imposed a fine of Rs. 1,000. Dharne is a native of Kalimati in Madhya Pradesh and a construction worker. On December 12, 2017 the girl went missing. Dharne emerged prime suspect after the girl’s mother told the police that Dharne had taken her daughter to a tea shop on the pretext of buying her chocolates, but she never returned. The victim’s family is from Odisha.Dharne then took the victim to bushes near a private hospital where he violated her before murdering her. Cyberabad Police Commissioner V.C. Sajjanar said that after committing the crime, Dharne returned to the labour camp and mingled with the inmates. When the girl’s family sought to know her whereabouts, he feigned ignorance. The police reconstructed the crime scene and raided Dharne’s room, seizing incriminating evidence. He then confessed to committing the offence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/man-awarded-capital-punishment-for-rape-and-murder-of-minor/article33797765.ece
10 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Basavaraj Horatti unanimously elected Council Chairman||Janata Dal (Secular) leader Basavaraj Horatti, the senior-most member of the Legislative Council, was on Tuesday declared unanimously elected as Chairman of the Upper House in the midst of a protest by Congress members over the passage of the anti-cow slaughter Bill. As soon as the House commenced business on Tuesday, Congress members termed the passage of the Bill “illegal” since they had asked for division of votes. On Monday night, the Council passed the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill, 2020, through voice vote, even as Congress and JD(S) members asked for division. On Tuesday, the ruling BJP members insisted that the Chairman’s election should be taken up first as per the agenda. Deputy Chairman M.K. Pranesh ruled that he would review the records to find out if the Congress had sought a division of votes or not. BJP leaders, including Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, insisted that the Congress had not done so. Despite strong opposition from Congress leaders, who trooped into the Well in protest, Mr. Pranesh announced that he was going ahead with the election process. While JD(S) members K.T. Srikante Gowda and Thippeswamy proposed the name of Mr. Horatti, a seven-time member, for the post of Chairman, Congress members M. Narayanaswamy and B.K. Hariprasad refused to propose the name of Naseer Ahmed, who had also filed nomination. Following this, the Deputy Chairman announced that Mr. Horatti had been elected unanimously. The election to the Chairman’s post was necessitated afterK. Prathapchandra Shetty tendered his resignation following the no-confidence motion moved by the BJP and the JD(S). The BJP and the JD(S) had come to an understanding over the post, after it was agreed upon that Mr. Pranesh (BJP) would become the Deputy Chairman, a post that had fallen vacant following the death of S.L. Dharme Gowda. In the post-lunch session, when Congress members continued to protest in the Well, the newly elected Chairman requested them to go to their seats. After taking a break to end the impasse, he ruled that the demand for division of votes had not been met since the members did not seek it from their designated seats. The decision of the Deputy Chairman to go for a voice vote was proper, he said, resulting in the Congress members continuing their protest. The House was then adjourned sine die .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/basavaraj-horatti-unanimously-elected-council-chairman/article33796984.ece
10 February 2021||New Delhi,||Akhilesh hits back over PM’s jibe at protesters||The Prime Minister’s usage of the term ‘andolan jeevi’ for professional agitators, while responding to the debate on the President’s address in the Rajya Sabha, got a twist in the Lower House a day later. Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav decried the reference to protesters, especially farmers, saying they were “better than being ‘chanda jeevi’ [creatures who collected donations]”, a reference to the collection of funds for the construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya. Union Minister Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti objected to Mr. Akhilesh’s remark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/akhilesh-hits-back-over-pms-jibe-at-protesters/article33797016.ece
10 February 2021||New Delhi,||DMK MP calls for release of convicts in Rajiv case||DMK MP Jagatrakshakan on Tuesday demanded that the convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, who had served more than 20 years, should be set free. He made this demand during the debate on the Motion of Thanks to the President’s address to both the Houses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dmk-mp-calls-for-release-of-convicts-in-rajiv-case/article33797017.ece
10 February 2021||ARIYALUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Ariyalur Medical College to admit students from 2021-22’||The Government Medical College, Ariyalur, will start functioning with the intake of 150 MBBS students from 2021-22 academic year, according to Government Chief Whip Thamarai S. Rajendran. Reviewing the progress on construction of administrative buildings, classrooms, hostels and the hospital of new medical college here on Tuesday, he said that a sum of Rs. 347 crore had been sanctioned for the project. The new buildings were coming up on 26 acres of land. The medical college hospital would have 6 floors including the ground floor. It would have a built area of 9.63 lakh square feet. Mr. Rajendran said that it had been planned to create facilities for providing 700 beds in the hospital. The medical college would admit students from 2021-22 and necessary infrastructure to start first year classes will be completed within six months. The administrative block and hostels, classrooms should be completed within six months. Staff quarters and pharmaceutical blocks should also be ready before admitting students. The officials had been asked to expedite the work to meet the standard requirements. All other works would be completed within a year, he said. Mr.Rajendran said that the medical college was a dream project for the people of Ariyalur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ariyalur-medical-college-to-admit-students-from-2021-22/article33797132.ece
10 February 2021||CHENGALPATTU,TAMIL NADU||Five killed in road accident||Four members of a family, including three women, and a driver died after the car they were travelling in collided with a lorry on the Chennai-Tiruchi Highway near Madurantakam early on Tuesday. According to police, Subramani, 85, of Karayanchavadi, Poonamalee, his wife Indrani, 75, daughter Mahalakshmi, 50, and granddaughter Shantini, 18, had gone to Samayapuram in Tiruchi in a car driven by Paul Dinakaran, 24, a resident of Mangadu. Early on Tuesday morning, the family was returning to Chennai. When the vehicle was near Athimanam in Madurantakam, the driver of a lorry parked by the roadside started to reverse his vehicle. The car rammed into the lorry and got stuck beneath its rear wheels. All five died on the spot. Passersby alerted the police and the Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services (TNFRS) personnel were called in. The TNFRS personnel used hydraulic cutters and spreaders to remove the bodies from the car. The lorry driver Thangasami, 31, from Manapparai, is on the run. The lorry has been seized by the police. “We are searching for the lorry driver,” a police officer said. Traffic was affected on the highway for a few hours due to the accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-killed-in-road-accident-near-madurantakam/article33797605.ece
10 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Concern over poor adherence to mask wearing in Chennai||Not everyone on roads or public places is wearing a mask in the city. Using face masks, one of the crucial norms to prevent the spread of COVID-19, is dwindling among a large section of the public, even as public health officials keep emphasising the importance of wearing them despite the dip in fresh coronavirus infections. Compliance with the mask rule has declined over the last few months. It has become a common sight to see many not wearing masks or have one pulled down to the chin in public places, such as markets and shops, and while commuting in buses and share autorickshaws. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said the main challenge was in crowded places. “In parts of Chennai and many other districts, except for some organised places, there is a distinct lack of adherence to the mask rule. Through our campaigns, we have been repeatedly pointing out the importance of wearing masks. When we had high positivity, particularly in Chennai, strict adherence to mask wearing was one of the critical reasons the chain of transmission was broken,” he said. The lack of masks was particularly apparent in cultural, political and private gatherings, while adherence was good in shops and hotels, Mr. Radhakrishnan said. “The cases may have come down and case fatality may have also reduced but people should not think the disease transmission is over. We appeal to the public to respect public health guidelines,” he added. Prabhdeep Kaur, Deputy Director of the Indian Council of Medical Research - National Institute of Epidemiology (ICMR-NIE), said, “We feel that mask use might be declining due to the low risk perception as COVID-19 cases are low. It is important to keep wearing masks as a few clusters have been reported in some districts. The situation might be improving here but many countries are witnessing a resurgence in cases with the new variant. So, we should follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour so even if a new variant spreads in the country, we can protect ourselves.” A survey carried out by ICMR-NIE along with the Greater Chennai Corporation during October last year found that nearly 72% of people in slums and 64% in non-slums did not wear a mask covering their noses and mouths. Dr. Kaur noted that a second survey in December found only one-third of people wore masks, though the compliance was better in malls. A senior government doctor, who has been involved in COVID-19 management, said it was disheartening to see only 30% to 40% of the public wearing masks. “We still see patients who are very sick, especially in the older age group,” he said. “If the adherence goes down and if we have a new strain, it could lead to faster spread of infection,” he added. Risk of transmission K. Kolandaswamy, former Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, said, “When persons in the younger age group do not wear masks and go out, they do not stand the risk of developing severe disease. But when they return home, they could expose their elders or high risk groups to the infection. So, it is important to wear masks in crowded places, closed spaces and while travelling.” He added that face masks, handwashing and disinfection should be followed. “It will take at least six months to reach a reasonable level of vaccination. So, herd immunity due to vaccination and herd immunity due to natural infection will take at least six months. Availability of vaccines is a determinant,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/concern-over-poor-adherence-to-mask-wearing-in-chennai/article33797602.ece
10 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||As curbs on suburban trains persist, commuters face hardship||The Tamil Nadu government has unlocked nearly all commercial activity, except for IT offices and some sections in schools, but the retention of certain restrictions in the city’s suburban trains has put hundreds of commuters in a quandary. There is a growing demand from commuters for the complete removal of restrictions and resumption of normal suburban train operations. The demand from thousands of commuters comes from the fact that the State government has allowed 100% occupancy in public transport services, including in buses run by the Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC). As per railway sources, the occupancy in the workmen special trains were 2 lakh against the 6 lakh footfall seen during pre-pandemic times. Hundreds of commuters not eligible to use the workmen special trains are facing severe inconvenience. Those from far off suburbs and daily wage earners are the ones most affected by the travel curbs. Students, mainly boys, have been added to the list after the State government announced the opening of colleges from Monday. Suburban train services have been the only mode of commute for those coming to the city from places like Arakkonam, Thiruvallur, Avadi, Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu, Guduvancherry and Tambaram. Moreover, as the suburban train services are the cheapest public transport even compared to the MTC, commuters want the curbs to be removed at the earliest. Several train commuters’ associations have appealed to the Chennai division of the Southern Railway to remove the curbs prohibiting the general public from travelling during the peak hours — 7 a.m. to 9.30 a.m. and 4.30 p.m. to 7 p.m. These travel restrictions have resulted in unprecedented queues in several ticket counters in the railway stations and heated arguments with the ticketing staff, allege commuters. S. Anbarasan, a construction worker who regularly commutes from Tiruvallur, said before the COVID-19 pandemic, he was travelling by suburban train to reach his place of work in south Chennai but because of the travel restrictions during peak hours, he was forced to either commute by bus or his own vehicle, resulting in an expenditure of over Rs. 100 per day. K.S. Gopalakrishnan, a railway activist from Pattabiram, said when the State government had allowed bus operations with full capacity in the State, the Southern Railway should also ease travel restrictions. He pointed out that thousands residing in the western suburbs, where bus facilities are poor and expensive, had been severely affected by the curbs. Several railway users’ associations of Thruvallur, Thiruninravur, Arakkonam and southern sectors had sent petitions to the General Manager and Divisional Railway Manager of the Southern Railway highlighting the hardships faced by the commuters. They also want the return and season tickets to be issued to all commuters. Commuters also insist that the State government recommend resumption of normal suburban train services to the Union Railway Minister. A senior official of Southern Railway said any direction to relax the restrictions and operation of normal suburban train services would have to come from the Railway Board and would be based on the request of the State government. Regarding any request sent by the State government to the Railway Board, the official said they did not have any information on the subject.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/as-curbs-on-suburban-trains-persist-commuters-face-hardship/article33797616.ece
10 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Engineers in uniform roped in to crack cybercrime cases||Cybercrime investigations are set to scale new heights in Tamil Nadu with the State police identifying as many as 185 young sub-inspectors, mostly graduates in Electronics and Communications Engineering, and hundreds of graduate police constables for deployment in cybercrime police stations in all cities/districts. The sub-inspectors, currently serving in districts across the State, volunteered to join the core team that was trained in advanced investigation skills in cyber offences as part of an initiative carried out in association with IIT-M and SSN College. They would be posted to the 46 cybercrime police stations notified by the State government on Monday. According to police sources, this is the first time in the country that cybercrime police stations were being notified with sufficient manpower and infrastructure in all cities/districts of a State. The latest cyber forensic tools would be procured from the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC). The institution would also provide training to the sub-inspectors and personnel in other ranks in the effective use of the gadgets. Round the clock The cybercrime police stations would be located in all Commissionerates and district oolice offices, with staff functioning round the clock. While Commissioners/Superintendents of Police would refer complaints to these police stations, a State-level CyberCrime Wing, headed by an officer in the rank of Additional Director-General of Police, would facilitate policy decisions and coordination with other agencies. “We are now evolving to have a more specialised cybercrime infrastructure. We have identified hundreds of police constables, a majority of whom are science graduates, who would be trained by the Department of Criminology, University of Madras, in the latest trends in cybercrime environment. Training programmes would be organised at regular intervals since capacity-building is a continuous process,” a senior police official told The Hindu on Tuesday. In the case of cybercrime, the victims were often lured with attractive offers, and ended up sharing their credentials with an unknown caller not knowing that they were walking into a trap, the official said. “The nature of the offence is such that awareness alone is the key to protecting oneself. People should be aware of the dos and don’ts and guard themselves against cyber fraudsters, hackers, stalkers, etc… There cannot be physical policing like in conventional security systems in the cyber world,” he said. In spite of awareness campaigns, at least 50% of cybercrime complaints in the State pertained to voluntary disclosure, as in OTP fraud, where the suspects claim to be calling from a bank, offer loans, cash subsidies or other services and manage to gather the ATM card credentials of gullible people. “After entering the card details, the suspects call the victims to get the OTP, saying it is required for transferring the loan amount, cash prize or COVID-19 grant from the Union government. Once the OTP is shared, the money in the account is siphoned off,” the official said, adding that the fight against cybercrime involved more human elements than technical aspects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engineers-in-uniform-roped-in-to-crack-cybercrime-cases/article33797625.ece
10 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A business journey that turned him into a writer||S.M.L. Lakshmanan Chettiar, as a 27-year-old budding businessman, undertook a marathon visit in 1948-49, covering nearly 40,000 km over six months, in search of business opportunities. Apart from the West, he went to other countries, including Australia and Malaysia. But the journey had a great impact on him as it turned him into a trend-setting Tamil writer in travelogue. Though he wrote initially under his original name, he subsequently adopted the pen name, Somalay, according to a monograph on him which was published by Sahitya Akademi originally in 2001. Within a year of his return to Tamil Nadu, Somalay (1921-1986), whose birth centenary falls on Thursday, came out with three books including the one on the U.S., “ Amerikkavai Paar ,” which attracted a wide attention. There was no turning back since then. Avvai Natarajan, former Vice-Chancellor of Tamil University, says Somalay was known for his power of sharp observation and this quality of his got reflected in many of his works, which covered not only travel but also contributions of the Nagarathar community in the fields of Tamil studies and temples. In travelogue, his work was comprehensive, as he wrote about African countries, States of India and districts of Tamil Nadu. “His book on the composite Ramanathapuram district had information that you can’t find even in the district gazetteer,” Dr. Natarajan points out. Somalay wrote on various other subjects. Among them were his biographies of Omandur P. Ramaswami Reddiar (1895-1970), who was the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu at the time of Independence, and ‘Sardar’ Vedarathnam Pillai (1897-1961), a freedom fighter who played an important role in the Vedaranyam salt satyagraha of 1930. Pointing out that a number of activities had been lined up as part of the centenary celebration, the writer’s son, Somalay Somasundaram, who is an agriculture scientist based in Philadelphia, said that on Thursday, a book on his father, meant for children, would be released at a government branch library, named in honour of the writer, in Nerkuppai, Sivaganga district. The library is being supported by a foundation named after his father. Students from Sivaganga and Pudukottai districts will participate in an event and talk about Somalay’s contributions to Tamil. On the same day, in Paypanayampatti where Somalay was involved in farming prior to becoming a full-time journalist, several villages would take part in the centenary celebration at Somasundara Vinayagar temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-business-journey-that-turned-him-into-a-writer/article33797641.ece
10 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Form SIT to probe fake motor insurance claims, HC tells DGP||The Madras High Court on Tuesday directed the Director General of Police (DGP) to constitute a special investigation team (SIT) to probe exclusively complaints lodged by motor insurance companies and others regarding numerous claims made before tribunals across the State using fake documents and insurance policies. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh insisted that experts in solving cyber crime must be included in the SIT since many false claims were being made on the basis of policies supposedly taken online. He made it clear that First Information Reports could be registered at police stations across the State and then transferred to the SIT for investigation. Observing that the constitution of a SIT would help in coordinated investigation of all false insurance claims, the judge directed Additional Public Prosecutor M. Mohamed Riyaz to ensure that the DGP chalks out a plan of action on the basis of the directions issued by the court for constitution of a SIT and submit it before the court on March 2. The judge ordered that if any false insurance claim petitions get withdrawn from the tribunals after the petitioners come to know about the orders passed by him for constitution of an SIT, those cases would also form part of the investigation to be conducted by the team. He directed the High Court Registry to list the case again on March 2. The interim directions were issued on a writ petition filed by Cholamandalam MS General Insurance Company Limited complaining about nearly 120 motor accident claims having been made against it using fake insurance policies. The court was told that already two false claimants from Namakkal had withdrawn Rs. 22.5 lakh. After recording its submissions, the judge said the issue of false insurance claims gained the attention of the High Court in 2003. In 2006, a Division Bench of the High Court ordered a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into complaints made by National Insurance Company and subsequently, the Supreme Court too dealt with similar cases. A couple of years ago, Justice P.N. Prakash ordered implementation of a Detailed Accident Report regime through which all documents, such as FIRs regarding road accidents, were uploaded on the Crime and Criminal Tracking Network and Systems (CCTNS) portal maintained by the State police and shared with the tribunals concerned. The court also appointed an expert body, headed by Justice K. Chandru, a retired judge, who submitted a host of suggestions. Yet, the online mode of issuance of insurance policies had brought about yet another scam and some skewed minds had taken advantage of the jump in online transactions during the lockdown, Justice Venkatesh said.  The judge said if any false insurance claim petitions get withdrawn after the petitioners come to know about the orders passed by him for constitution of an SIT, those cases will also form part of the investigation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/form-sit-to-probe-fake-motor-insurance-claims-hc-tells-dgp/article33797636.ece
10 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sasikala to continue battle to regain control of AIADMK||Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran on Tuesday said the All-India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK)’s former interim general secretary and former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s aide, V.K. Sasikala, would carry on the legal battle to re-gain her control over the ruling party. Addressing reporters after accompanying Ms. Sasikala during her return to Chennai early on Tuesday, Mr. Dhinakaran said with his aunt out of jail, steps would be taken to fasten the process of hearing a petition filed by her at the Madras High Court. She had challenged the conduct of an AIADMK general council meeting, in which she was sidelined. In his interaction with the media, he identified her as the “general secretary” of the AIADMK. He said the AMMK was the “democratic weapon” that would be used to regain control of the AIADMK. It was founded with the objective of “retrieving the AIADMK and establishing a genuine Amma’s [Jayalalithaa] regime”. It had also been formed so that his supporters could contest in the elections under a common symbol. Mr. Dhinakaran reiterated that “all efforts would be made to prevent the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) from coming back to power.” Earlier in the day, Ms. Sasikala visited the residence of AIADMK’s founder M.G. Ramachandran, in Ramapuram near Chennai, and paid respects to the leader and his wife Janaki Ramachandran [whose mausoleum is located there]. Later, she reached T. Nagar, the current place of her residence, after accepting greetings from supporters en route. The AMMK leader said it took nearly 24 hours for her to reach Chennai from Bengaluru, by road. On the reception that his aunt received, Mr. Dhinakaran said it “demonstrated the perception of the people that she had not committed any offence.” He asserted that those who assembled at various points along the Bengaluru-Chennai stretch “had come on their own”. “At several places, I noticed the AIADMK’s party flag being displayed,” he said. He said when he got his party registered with the Election Commission, the panel intimated to him that its jurisdiction was only over the name and symbol of parties. “It has nothing to do with a party’s flag,” he said. On attempts to bring the AIADMK and the AMMK together, he replied that though he could not hazard a guess, he was confident that the unification would happen. “The timing of such an event is in the hands of the people,” he said. On reports of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) wanting the coming together of the two parties, he answered he had “no information” about any party seeking to mediate between the two. On contesting in polls As for his plans to contest the Assembly election, the AMMK founder said he would try his luck again from R.K. Nagar [where he got elected in December 2017] and a constituency in Theni district, which he had earlier represented in the Lok Sabha. As far as the AIADMK’s former interim general secretary was concerned, it was known that “as on date, she cannot contest in the poll”. “However, I strongly believe that she can take part, making use of provisions in the law. We can seek judicial remedy too,” he said. He added that veteran actor Rajinikanth had spoken to him and enquired about the health of Ms. Sasikala. Mr. Dhinakaran thanked the media for having “covered extensively” the return of Ms. Sasikala.  The AMMK is the democratic weapon that will be used to regain control of the AIADMK. It was founded with the objective of retrieving the AIADMK T.T.V. Dhinakaran AMMK general secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sasikala-to-continue-battle-to-regain-control-of-aiadmk/article33797151.ece
10 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Why is Centre mum on BJP/RSS accounts?’||The Central government, while issuing notice to Twitter about 1,178 accounts that it wants suspended, is not speaking about the accounts of BJP cadres and RSS members and their supporters who spread fake news, Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri said on Tuesday. Mr. Alagiri alleged that the BJP ecosystem on social media was spreading a lot of disinformation, yet the Central government was not taking any action against such accounts. He said the Congress had started a campaign asking the people to join the party’s social media cell and fight the “disinformation campaign” of the BJP. This campaign could bring together around 5 lakh social media warriors for the party and will have 50,000 members nationally, State-wise and at the district levels, he said. The Prime Minister orally assured the farmers that Minimum Support Price for farm produce would remain, but why was he unwilling to provide a legally valid assurance for it, Mr. Alagiri asked. He also said that while the AIADMK government had waived farmers’ loans from co-operative banks, it should also ask the BJP to waive farmers’ loans taken from public sector banks. If the AIADMK government didn’t take steps to prevent the BJP’s attempts to stall the 69% reservation policy in Tamil Nadu, it would have to face severe consequences. He said it had been two years since a stay was ordered on a CBI enquiry against Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami but the BJP was not ready to oppose the stay. He said it was worrisome that the Central government had not made any statements on Sri Lanka clearing a China energy project just 50 km off Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/why-is-centre-mum-on-social-media-accounts-of-bjprss/article33797627.ece
10 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Soil tests under way for proposed flyover at Camp Road and Madambakkam junctions||Soil tests are under way for the construction of a 3-km flyover that will permit the flow of traffic between Camp Road and Madambakkam junctions on Velachery-Tambaram Road. “These are being conducted for the design requirement. It will help us to find the type of soil in locations and thereby decide the kind of foundation required for the construction,” explained a source in the Highways Department. Similar soil tests were conducted for the construction of a bridge that would form the last leg of the Eastern Bypass that runs from GST Road. This 1-km bridge would run along the Rajakilpakkam Eri. “We are going for this option so that we need not land on the Velachery-Tambaram Road, which would require more land acquisition,” said an engineer associated with the project. The combined length of these two structures would be 4 km and both were being taken up as one composite project. On the need for the flyover, another source said the road was a very busy one with each of these junctions witnessing over 15,000 passenger car units (PCU) during rush hour. “According to Indian Roads Congress guidelines, if the number touches 10,000 PCU, there is a requirement for a flyover. The Camp Road junction is very narrow and instead of just widening the location and making it into six lanes, we are constructing a flyover that will add four more lanes,” an official explained. Even as the design for the structures is being done, the land plan schedule that would identify the ownership of the lands, is being readied for land acquisition. M. Venkat, a resident of Rajakilpakkam, said the project would see the completion of the Eastern Bypass, which had been pending. ‘Stick to schedule’ “It will provide one more connecting corridor to GST Road. Also traffic movement slows down near Camp Road junction due to the width. The widening and construction of a flyover will help a lot. What is required is that the Highways Department must ensure the work is completed as per schedule,” he said. The Velachery-Tambaram Road runs parallel to GST Road and connects hundreds of residential localities. It also has two other flyovers that are under construction at Medavakkam junction and at Vijayanagar junction. The Medavakkam flyover is nearing completion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/soil-tests-under-way-for-proposed-flyover-at-camp-road-and-madambakkam-junctions/article33797610.ece
10 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Residents want small bus services to resume fully||While commuters in the city’s outskirts want the Southern Railway to resume normal suburban train services, residents in the suburbs want small bus operations, which were stopped citing COVID-19 pandemic, to be reintroduced fully. The MTC which was operating nearly 200 small buses in several routes linking Metro and railway stations in the suburbs was yet to fully operationalise the small buses. Officials of the Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) have been claiming that small buses were not remunerative because of poor occupancy even before the COVID-19 pandemic. Now the State government has allowed full occupancy in buses and as normal MTC buses fail to see full occupancy, people fear that small bus services will be stopped permanently. T. Maheshkumar, a resident of Ullagaram-Puzhithivakkam, said small buses were operated on the southern arm of the Inner Ring Road between Velachery railway station and Alandur Metro, linking several residential colonies. But these services have been stopped completely. Similar kind of complaints are being raised by residents of Thirumullaivoyal, Avadi, Pattabiram, Poonamallee, Thiruninravur, Nanganallur, Adambakkam and Hasthinapuram about the complete halting of small bus services. A senior official of the MTC denied that the full fleet of small buses had been halted permanently, said the services were being operated but in limited routes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-want-small-bus-services-to-resume-fully/article33797613.ece
10 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rotary learning centre opened at Indian Council for Child Welfare in Shenoy Nagar||A Rotary learning centre for children was inaugurated on the premises of the Indian Council for Child Welfare (ICCW) in Shenoy Nagar on Tuesday. Inaugurating the centre, Rotary district governor S. Muthupalaniappan said the learning centre had been developed to help underprivileged children get access to the right kind of learning material. “Children who have an intense desire for success are likely to become great achievers. We have to motivate them to hunger for greatness. We should take initiatives to provide more modern facilities for underprivileged children. Education will continue to fuel growth and development. Books are crucial for success in life,” Mr. Muthupalaniappan said. Stressing the need to create awareness about important aspects for their professional achievement, Mr. Muthupalaniappan said children should be encouraged to think about various new fields at the learning centre. Kamalesh, one of the child beneficiaries, said he wanted to become a police officer by utilising such learning facilities. Issac, another child of the same batch, said he wanted to become a scientist. ICCW president Andal Damodaran said the learning centre has been developed in a building that was originally used by children living with polio. “All children from the community will be allowed access to the centre. Story reading sessions at the centre will be an attraction for children,” said Ms. Damodaran. According to the old inscription on the building, the “special school for the handicapped” for the Indian Council for Child Welfare was declared open on April 15, 1987 by then Minister for Food and Local Administration S. Ramachandran in Shenoy Nagar, Third Main Road West. Currently, at least 50 underprivileged students in the facility are expected to use the learning centre. Children from the locality will also be permitted to use the centre. The centre will be open from 3 p.m. to 7.30 p.m. On Saturdays, the centre will be open from 10 a.m. to 7.30 p.m. On Sundays, the centre will be open from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. The facility has been sponsored by M. Anandan, chairman and MD, Aptus Value Housing Finance India Limited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rotary-learning-centre-opened-at-indian-council-for-child-welfare-in-shenoy-nagar/article33797618.ece
10 February 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||City startup fires single-piece 3D-printed rocket engine||A Chennai-based startup, Agnikul Cosmos, has successfully fired its higher stage semi-cryogenic rocket engine — Agnilet. This is a unique rocket engine because it is completely 3D printed, as a single component, in one run of a 3D printer. “Agnilet was ground tested at IIT-Madras on Saturday evening,” Srinath Ravichandran, CEO and co-founder of Agnikul Cosmos, said. “This entire engine — Agnilet — is just one piece of hardware from start to finish and has zero assembled parts. We don’t think anyone in the world has ever pushed a 3D printing of a rocket engine to this extent,” he said.  Satellite launch vehicle Mr. Ravichandran explained, “This is the engine that will power the second stage of Agnibaan rocket. This was tested on the ground, as is standard practice before actually flying it. This is done repeatedly to understand all performance parameters of the engine.” Agnikul is building India’s first private small satellite launch vehicle called Agnibaan, a rocket that will be capable of carrying up to 100 kg of payload to low earth orbits up to 700 km, with a plug-and-play engine configuration. Rocket engines usually have hundreds of parts, starting from injectors that inject fuel into the engine to the igniter that is necessary to ignite the propellants. Agnilet was designed to encapsulate all of these into just one piece of hardware. So, this automates the making of an entire engine. “Everything about this engine is Indian,” said Moin SPM, co-founder and COO of Agnikul Cosmos. “From Agnikul’s operations standpoint, we are relieved that we will not have to track or manufacture numerous parts to realise a rocket engine from now on,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-startup-fires-single-piece-3d-printed-rocket-engine/article33797622.ece
10 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||UGC seeks Anna varsity’s response on violation of norms||The University Grants Commission (UGC) has sought a response from Anna University on a complaint from an applicant for the post of assistant librarian. The Commission has written to the Registrar of Anna University, advising him to follow the UGC norms in faculty recruitment and change the advertisement as per UGC regulations. In a letter dated February 4, Supriya Dahiya, education officer, UGC, cited a letter received from one A.S. Puhazhenthi, who said the University had violated the UGC norms for recruitment for the post of assistant librarian.  ‘Cannot be overlooked’ Ms. Dahiya, in her letter, cited Clause 4.7 of the UGC regulations on Minimum Qualifications for Appointment of Teachers and other Academic Staff in Universities and Colleges and Measures for Maintenance for Standards in Higher Education Regulations, 2018, and said they are mandatory and “cannot be overlooked at any stage in any circumstances”. University officials, however, said the institution was governed by the All India Council for Technical Education guidelines. “The norms for the University are implemented through a Government of Tamil Nadu G.O. [government order]. In fact, while all universities implemented the revised UGC pay scales as per guidelines in 2019, we implemented it only three months ago. It was only in the beginning of 2020 that the State government issued the G.O. for the same,” said an official. The University has technical positions that are considered as non-teaching cadres but the qualification requirement for such posts was higher, said J. Kumar, former Registrar. “For example, a clerical assistant in Annamalai University may be appointed with just a degree. But in Anna University, we have special guidelines as per the nature of the institution. We would require the person to have knowledge of and certification in typewriting, and proficiency in working on the computer,” he said.  In Anna University, we have special guidelines as per the nature of the institution J. Kumar Former Registrar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ugc-seeks-anna-varsitys-response-on-violation-of-norms/article33797624.ece
10 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hashish and meth crystals seized at Chennai airport||Forty-four kilograms of hashish and methaphetamine crystals worth Rs. 5.1 crore, which were hidden in digital weighing machines, were seized by the Chennai Air Cargo Customs and two persons were arrested. Officials checked an export consignment that was headed to Doha, which they suspected could contain narcotic drugs, in the air cargo export shed. The bill showed that there were seven packages and that they contained 55 weighing machines, according to a press release. When they were opened, the machines were unusually heavy and hence, officials dismantled them. In 52 machines, they found there was a specially designed metal box fixed to the bottom of the scale. This contained two pieces of dark brown material covered in plastic strips and sheets, the release said. “The material tested positive for hashish. A total of 44 kg of hashish, valued at Rs. 4.4 crore, was recovered from 44 machines. A total of 700 g of methaphetamine crystals, valued at Rs. 70 lakh, was recovered from two machines. Valued at Rs. 5.1 crore, both were seized under the NDPS Act,” the release said. Prescription drug seized They also seized 1,620 g of pregabalin capsules, a prescription drug for anxiety disorder and fibromylgia, that were found in six machines. The exporter was Sree Aalaya and searches were carried out. The exporter and a staff in the Customs House Agent were arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hashish-and-meth-crystals-seized-at-airport/article33797600.ece
10 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No fresh case in 3 districts; State reports 469||Three districts — Perambalur, Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga — reported no new case of COVID-19, even as the State added 469 cases to its tally on Tuesday. A total of 22 districts had fewer than 10 cases each. In Chennai, 139 persons tested positive for the infection, followed by Coimbatore with 53. There were 37 cases in Chengalpattu, 35 in Tiruvallur and 25 in Erode. The State's tally rose to 8,42,730. As many as 491 persons were discharged, taking the total figure to 8,26,011. The State reported four more deaths, including two in Chennai and one each in Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur. A total of 12,391 persons have died of the infection so far. Among those whose deaths were recorded on Tuesday, two were in their 50s. The State accounts for a total of 4,328 active cases. As many as 51,174 samples were tested in 24 hours. As many as 10,550 persons were vaccinated across the State on Tuesday. A total of 1,85,299 persons have been inoculated till date. Vaccines were administered to 7,436 healthcare workers, 1,480 frontline staff and 1,634 police personnel. Covishield was administered to 7,317 healthcare workers, all the 1,480 frontline workers and 1,612 police personnel, while 119 healthcare workers and 22 police personnel received Covaxin. The vaccination was carried out in 631 sessions with a total capacity of 64,400.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-fresh-case-in-3-districts-state-reports-469/article33797156.ece
10 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC slams corrupt practices in Bar elections||Playing religious and caste cards, exhibiting money power and offering liquor generously to woo voters happen not only in general elections but also in elections held for advocate associations and even to the Bar Council, the Madras High Court has lamented. “Due to such corrupt practices, election process in our country has become a mockery,” observed Justices N. Kirubakaran and R. Pongiappan while ordering that henceforth no office-bearer of an advocate association should be allowed to contest for consecutive terms.  Ending monopoly In an attempt to prevent monopoly that helps office-bearers to indulge in illegal activities, such as land grabbing and threatening judicial officers to pass favourable orders, the Bench ordered that advocates should contest in association elections only during alternate terms. Passing elaborate orders on a case related to conduct of elections to the Salem Bar Association, the judges said: “Sadly, our Bar leaders are not properly elected by following a democratic process and without any malpractices. Present members of the so-called ‘noble profession’ are readily selling their votes for money, liquor, foreign tours, etc. This is the practise in almost every election to the Bar association or Bar Council. One Bar association election is the subject matter of this case.” The judges added: “This court cannot lose sight of the fact that the office-bearers get elected continuously by hook or crook and have monopoly over the associations. The Bar associations cannot, as a matter of right, be controlled by lawyers with criminal or tainted background. “Office-bearers of Bar associations have to be in touch with judicial officers for smooth functioning of courts and for sorting out problems. If disgruntled elements control Bar associations, it would definitely affect the administration of justice.” Authoring the verdict, Justice Kirubakaran noted that the court gets many complaints from judicial officers about threat and blackmailing attitude of the office-bearers of Bar associations for judicial orders because disgruntled elements are continuously getting elected. “Besides, nowadays, numerous Bar associations are formed on communal and political basis. These are all the realities in the lower courts and this court cannot lose sight of the same. Hence, necessarily, this court has to give directions even regarding the functioning of Bar Associations,” Justice Kirubakaran said. The Division Bench expressed concern over the Bar association leaders who misuse their official positions to attract briefs and conduct kangaroo courts. Many litigants prefer to engage Bar leaders than efficient lawyers because of the presumption that the former could get orders easily.  Sorry state “Though it is a sorry state of affairs, it is the reality… Sometimes political parties also have their role in getting their party cadres elected as Bar leaders so that they could be used during political protests, agitations and processions,” the judges said. “This kind of malpractices and wrong methods of elections should be prevented and prohibited; otherwise, the courts/judges will become puppets in the hands of this kind of unruly office-bearers of the associations,” the Bench cautioned. It further ordered that the Bar association office-bearers should not mention the official positions held by them in the association while filing ‘vakalatnamas’ (an authorisation given by a litigant to a lawyer to appear on his/her behalf) before the courts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-slams-corrupt-practices-in-bar-elections/article33797629.ece
10 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Persons with disabilities begin indefinite protest across State, demand increased allowance and employment||Members of the Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of All Types of Differently Abled and Caregivers (TARATDAC) began indefinite protests across the State in front of government offices. In Chennai, members took part in protests at Chepauk, Guindy, Tambaram and Tondiarpet. The protesters said they had reiterated their long-standing demand for an increase in the monthly financial allowance given to them. “Telengana is giving persons with disabilities Rs. 3,016 every month and Puducherry is giving Rs. 3,000 per month. For the last 10 years, our monthly assistance has only been Rs. 1,000 and it is very difficult for us to manage with this given how much the prices of essentials have risen,” said S. Namburajan, general secretary, TARATDAC. The association has further pointed out that there were nearly 1.10 lakh persons with disabilities waiting for jobs and that the Tamil Nadu government had not taken steps to fill the backlog of vacancies in government departments. In the private sector as well, members of TARATDAC alleged that nothing had been done by the State and Central governments to ensure the 5% reservation for persons with disabilities as mandated by the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act 2016. The TARATDAC office-bearers were invited for talks with the Secretary of the Department of Social Welfare on Tuesday. “The talks were inconclusive and we are continuing with the protest,” Mr. Namburajan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/persons-with-disabilities-begin-indefinite-protest-across-state-demand-increased-allowance-and-employment/article33797611.ece
10 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TNUEF to unveil election manifesto||The Tamil Nadu Untouchability Eradication Front (TNUEF), affiliated to the CPI (M), will unveil a election manifesto exclusively aimed at ensuring social justice and improving the livelihood of Dalits on February 11, which is the death anniversary of noted communist leader M. Singaravelan, at Valluvar Kottam here. TNUEF general secretary Samuel Raj said the document would focus on not only the differences between people but also on how governance itself is discriminatory in nature. Mr. Raj added that the TNUEF would be urging all political parties, especially alliance partners, to include the Dalit election manifesto in their own election manifestos that will be released before the election. “There is a gap between Dalits and other communities... We will highlight how the laws that are in existence are not implemented properly and how there is a need for new laws. It will also focus on the needs of Dalit women... There are differences in basic facilities that are seen in Dalit and non-Dalit dwellings. All these issues will be addressed,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnuef-to-unveil-election-manifesto/article33797621.ece
10 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Amrita varsity launches online courses||Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham, a deemed-to-be university, launched a slew of online degree programmes under the brand ‘Amrita Ahead’ in the undergraduate and postgraduate levels. Besides BBA, MBA, BCA and MCA, two other MCA programmes in Artificial Intelligence and Cybersecurity are being offered. Students will receive placement support from the university’s career assistance programme as well. The programmes are recognised by the University Grants Commission, officials said. For more details visitwww.amrita.edu/aheador email ahead@amrita.edu||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/amrita-varsity-launches-online-courses/article33797598.ece
10 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Conduct scientific studies on use of land, water resources’||Deforestation, desecration of waterbodies and use of agricultural land for non-agricultural purposes cannot go on endlessly since land and water have become the scarcest of commodities on earth, the Madras High Court said on Tuesday. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy impressed upon the State government the need to give up mindless conversion of lands and instead carry out scientific studies to identify lands that could be given to the landless. The first Division Bench called for a comprehensive report from the government on the issue within six weeks. Stating that there must be an ecological balance, the Chief Justice said the government must have a futuristic vision on such issues. “Elephant corridors are gone, and forest lands are being encroached,” he lamented and said, “You have to preserve waterbodies. Cities will die if you kill waterbodies. If we need more space, we have to go vertical and not horizontal.” The Chief Justice also said that there has to be a scientific study regarding use of land and water resources in all major cities and a cap should be fixed on conversion of vast tracts of agricultural lands into residential or commercial plots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/conduct-scientific-studies-on-use-of-land-water-resources/article33797630.ece
10 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Prime Minister urged to provide priority for education||The Education Promotion Society for India (EPSI) has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to provide top priority to the education sector and assign more funds to resolve issues. A press release said EPSI president and VIT Chancellor G. Viswanathan, in a letter addressed to Mr. Modi, pointed out that in this year’s Budget, allocation for education had been cut by 6% from Rs. 99,311 crore last year to Rs. 93,224 crore. While educationists expected a significant increase in allocation, cutting down Rs. 6,000 crore is highly discouraging, he said. “This year’s Budget missed out on introducing measures to support the timely implementation of the National Education Policy, 2020. It requires massive investments both in school and higher education,” he said. In the post COVID-19 scenario, schools, colleges and universities are required to make adequate provisions for the health, safety and well-being of 25 crore school students and four crore college and university students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pm-urged-to-provide-priority-for-education/article33797205.ece
10 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK functionary attacked, fights back||The police on Monday nabbed three persons in connection with the assault on an AIADMK union deputy secretary in Ayapakkam. According to the police, M.M. Murthy, 45, an AIADMK union deputy secretary and former councillor, had previous enmity with one Prabhakaran. On Monday, he was attacked by a man while on the street but managed to snatch the weapon. On recognising Prabhakaran, Mr. Murthy chased and attacked him several times. Personnel from the Thirumullaivoyal police station arrived and sent the injured to the hospital. Three persons were arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-functionary-attacked-fights-back/article33797606.ece
10 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||EC officials to visit Chennai, Puducherry||Election Commission of India (EC) officials, led by Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sunil Arora, will be visiting Chennai on Wednesday and Thursday to hold meetings with political parties and officials who will be overseeing the process for the upcoming Assembly poll. The team will comprise the CEC, Election Commissioners Sushil Chandra and Rajiv Kumar, Secretary General Umesh Sinha, Deputy Election Commissioner Chandra Bhushan Kumar, Assistant Director General Sheyphali B. Sharan, Director Pankaj Srivastava and EC Secretary Malay Mallick. The team is scheduled to arrive in Chennai around 11 a.m. on Wednesday morning, and hold meetings with recognised political parties from noon to 2 p.m. Following that, the team will hold a meeting with the Chief Electoral Officer, Tamil Nadu, and police nodal officer, and a meeting with the District Electoral Officers and Superintendents of Police. On Thursday, the team will have a meeting with election-related regulatory agencies. Around 11 am., Mr. Arora and the ECI officials are scheduled to meet Chief Secretary Rajeev Ranjan, the Home secretary and other senior State officials. They will then hold a press conference. The team will then vist Puducherry, where they will hold a series of meetings on election preparedness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poll-panel-officials-to-visit-chennai-puducherry/article33797633.ece
10 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chief Minister inaugurates sub-stations, new buildings||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami inaugurated a number of projects via video conferencing on Tuesday. He inaugurated a sub-station of the Electricity Department at Vedaranyam, set up at a cost of Rs. 23.81 crore, and six sub-stations in Chengalpattu, Dharmapuri, Karur, Thanjavur, Tiruvannamalai and Villupuram districts at a cost of Rs. 42.05 crore. He also inaugurated a new office building for the Tamil Nadu Transmission Corporation Ltd. in Chennai, was built at a cost of Rs. 56.1 crore. Honouring achievers Mr. Palaniswami also inaugurated buildings of the Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu, which was built at a cost of Rs. 21 crore, and presented a cheque of Rs. 40 lakh to K. Sagayabharathi, who won medals at the 5th World Carrom Championships and Rs. 5 lakh to D. Gukesh, who qualified as an International Grand Master in chess in 2019. The Chief Minister also inaugurated buildings of the Animal Husbandry Department at a cost of Rs. 3.2 crore, the Dairy Development Department at a cost of Rs. 90 lakh, and the Fisheries Department, costing Rs. 8.46 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-minister-inaugurates-sub-stations-new-buildings/article33797139.ece
10 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested under POCSO Act||The All Women Police have arrested two persons, including a tuition teacher, for sexually assaulting a 11-year-old and 10-year-old in Adyar and M.K.B. Nagar respectively. In one incident, the Adyar All-Women police arrested Sasikumar, 44, a tuition teacher, for sexually assaulting a 11-year-old girl student. When the girl returned home with injuries on her private parts, her foster father took her to a hospital. The doctor informed him that she was a victim of sexual assault and informed ChildLine. Later, a police complaint was lodged and the teacher was arrested under the POCSO Act. He has been remanded in judicial custody. In another incident, personnel from the M.K.B Nagar police station arrested a 60-year-old man for sexually assaulting his 10-year-old granddaughter. The incident happened when the girl’s mother stepped out. Based on a complaint, the police arrested Ragu and remanded him in judicial custody on Tuesday.  (ChildLine operates a toll-free helpline for children in distress -1098)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-arrested-under-pocso-act/article33797603.ece
10 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TenderCuts to scale up operations||TenderCuts, an omnichannel meat and seafood brand, has raised Rs. 110 crore ($15 million) in a round led by Paragon Partners, a mid-market PE fund founded by Siddharth Parekh and Sumeet Nindrajog, with participation from NABVENTURES, a agri-food tech VC fund backed by NABARD. The funding will allow the Chennai-based firm to expand its operations and pursue organic and inorganic growth opportunities. The company plans to scale up its supply chain and technology infrastructure to support innovation and accessibility of its products and services. Nishanth Chandran, founder and CEO of TenderCuts, told The Hindu that this financial year the company would expand to new cities like Delhi, Bengaluru and Mumbai. “We will double our presence in our existing market like Chennai and Hyderabad,” he said. At present, the company has 25 stores and “we intend to reach over 100 stores in the next one year,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tendercuts-to-scale-up-operations/article33797619.ece
10 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corporation starts biomining to dispose of accumulated waste||Coimbatore Corporation has started in a limited way the process to dispose of the waste it had accumulated over the years without segregating it as degradable, wet waste and recyclable and inert dry waste. The Rs. 60.01-crore project, called the bio-mining process, involves conveying 9.4 lakh cubic metre waste over sieves to segregate the waste, based on size. While the finest of the segregated waste would go in a landfill, the other waste would undergo various process – either segregated and sold category-wise or sent to various companies for further processing. The responsibility of processing and selling the waste lay with the company that had won the bid, the sources said and added that the company would take two years to completely process the 9.4 lakh cubic metre. The Corporation had asked the company to process 2,000 to 2,500 cubic metre waste a day and would pay Rs. 555 a cubic metre. The entire exercise would help the Corporation reclaim around 60 acres of land in the Vellalore dump yard, where the waste had caused such an environment hazard that the residents in the vicinity dragged the civic body to the National Green Tribunal. The sources said the company had started the project in a limited way before going full throttle because it was yet to get power connection. At present, it was using generators to run the plant. The Corporation had engaged a team of experts from Anna University, Chennai, as consultants to assess the progress of the scheme. Though the project would help the Corporation dispose of most of the waste, the civic body would not be able to clear the entire 15 lakh cubic metre waste in Vellalore, said sources. The sources said the civic body could not include the remaining six-lakh cubic metre of waste because it was left with funds to cover only nine lakh cubic metre. As a result, the remaining waste plus the 500-odd tonnes that the Corporation would dump there every day would deny a complete solution to the problem the residents faced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-starts-biomining-to-dispose-of-accumulated-waste/article33797648.ece
10 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Around 1,000 bulls to take part in jallikattu on February 21||Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani on Tuesday participated in the kaal kol event for the jallikattu to be held on February 21. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Velumani said the AIADMK government issued orders to re-conduct the sport that was not held for a long time. Based on the order, the sport was held on January 28, 2018, February 17, 2019 and February 23, 2020. For the fourth time this year, the district administration and the Maanila Jallikattu Peravai would hold the event on a ground near the L&T Bypass Road in Chettipalayam. This year the administration would make arrangements for the participation of around 1,000 bulls and 900 tamers. To ensure smooth conduct of the event, personnel from police, Revenue, Rural Development, Public Health, Animal Husbandry and Municipal Administration departments had been roped in. Prior to the start of the event, the bulls as well as tamers would be screened for fitness, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/around-1000-bulls-to-take-part-in-jallikattu-on-february-21/article33797645.ece
10 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Amrita varsity to offer online degrees||Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham will start offering five online degree programmes, as a part of its Amrita AHEAD initiative, Vice-Chancellor P. Venkat Rangan and his team of faculty said at press conference held online on Tuesday. The deemed university would be offering BBA, BCA, MBA, MCA in artificial intelligence and MCA in cyber security, which were in alignment with the Central Government’s New Education Policy. Faculty, who addressed the press conference, said as per the UGC guidelines the degree programmes that would be open in January and June-July were on a par with offline/regular degree programmes and made candidates eligible for higher studies as well. The varsity had tied-up with industry to provide internship and placement services as well for the management programmes and leading global companies to provide online lab facilities for the computer science programmes. The university had developed curriculum for the programmes, roped in leading national and international faculty. Students could download course content including video lectures and be available online for once-in-a-week live session. The tests too would be online. There was no cap on the number of student that the university could admit for the programmes. Working professionals looking for career enhancement, students looking for a second degree among others could also opt for the programmes. The university had also entered into partnerships with a few institutions to offer the five online programmes as a second degree option in dual degree programmes. The varsity is also offering a six-week certificate programme in Mahabharat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/amrita-varsity-to-offer-online-degrees/article33797207.ece
10 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK, BJP part of same team, says H. Raja||The AIADMK and BJP were part of the same team and there are no ‘B’ teams in the State ahead of the Assembly election, senior BJP leader H. Raja asserted here on Tuesday. Speaking to mediapersons, he denied the allegations made recently by DMK women’s wing leader M.K. Kanimozhi that the AIADMK was the ‘B’ team of the BJP. The seat-sharing talks between the two parties in the run-up to the Assembly election would be smooth, he said. The return of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s aide V.K. Sasikala from prison would not harm the AIADMK in any manner, he said.  Asserting that the three farm laws were not against the minimum support price (MSP) or mandis, he pointed out that the Union Budget had announced the integration of 1,000 additional mandis to the electronic National Agriculture Market (eNAM). “When the government is creating and modernising mandis, how will it remove them?” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-bjp-part-of-same-team-says-h-raja/article33797184.ece
10 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Builders to go on strike on February 12||Builders and related construction activity members will stop work for a day on February 12, as part of a nation-wide strike called for by the Builders’ Association of India (BAI). The main demand is measures to control steel and cement prices. The Joint Action Committee of Coimbatore -- representing the Association of Consulting Civil Engineers (India), Builders Association of India, Contractors Welfare Association, Coimbatore Builders and Contractors Association, Coimbatore Civil Engineers Association, Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India, The India Institute of Architects, and Paver Block Manufacturer Association -- has decided to take out a rally from the Women’s Polytechnic to VOC Park on February 12 and submit a memorandum to the District Collector. The price of steel has increased from nearly Rs. 42,000 a tonne to Rs. 72,000 a tonne in three months and the price of cement has gone up by almost Rs. 100 for a bag of 50 kg. With the diesel price increase, cost of wires and pipes are also up, said Paneerselvam, chairman of BAI, Coimbatore. This has resulted in construction costs escalating 25 % to 30 % per sq.ft here in the last few months. “The market is good. We cannot stop or slow down the work we have taken up. But we are unable to bear the spiralling prices of raw materials,” he said. The one-day strike by the builders and related association members will be throughout the district, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/builders-to-go-on-strike-on-february-12/article33797649.ece
10 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Venil Krishnamoorthy passes away||Poet and publisher Venil Krishnamoorthy passed away following a brief hospitalisation here on Tuesday. He was 60. Sources close to his family said that he was admitted for a week in a private hospital for heart-related ailments. He is survived by his wife and his son. In a statement, the Tamil Nadu Arts and Literature Forum said that Krishnamoorthy was the owner of Nandini Pathippagam and has brought out the works of many literary personalities such as poets Sirpi Balasubramaniam and Puviarasu. He was well known in the literary circles of Coimbatore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/venil-krishnamoorthy-passes-away/article33797206.ece
10 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Relief given to differently abled||Collector K. Rajamani ordered immediate disbursement of Rs. 10,000 to a differently abled person who submitted a petition to him at the weekly grievance meet on Monday. According to a release, Mr. Rajamani ordered the fund to be given from his discretionary fund to Palanisamy who lost his legs. District Revenue Officer T. Ramaduraimurugan presented the cheque to Mr. Palanisamy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/relief-given-to-differently-abled/article33797646.ece
10 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Woman, daughter found dead||A woman and her 17-year-old daughter were found dead in a well in Uthupalayam near Annur on Tuesday. According to police Dhanalakshmi (38), a cook at a government primary school, and her daughter allegedly left their residence on Monday night and ended their lives. The girl had completed Class 12. The bodies were sent to Government Hospital, Annur for autopsy.  Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-daughter-found-dead/article33797651.ece
10 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Minister launches flyover construction work||The Ukkadam flyover work, taken up at a cost of Rs. 233 crore, will be completed shortly, Minister for Municipal Administration S.P. Velumani said here on Tuesday. Launching the construction activities for extension of the flyover, he said the extension would be from Karumbukadai to Aathupalam junction (2.4 km) at a cost of Rs. 265.44 crore. The flyover will ease traffic congestion and make vehicle movement towards Pollachi and Palani easier. The flyover is a 30-year demand of the public, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-launches-flyover-construction-work/article33797656.ece
10 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco grievances meeting today||L. Stalin Babu, Superintending Engineer, South - Tangedco will conduct a grievance day meeting on February 10 (Wednesday) at 11 a.m. at the office of the Executive Engineer - Tangedco - Somanur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedco-grievances-meeting-today/article33797655.ece
10 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Govt. urged to issue order to establish school at Vilankombai||With works yet to begin for establishing a government primary school at Vilankombai tribal settlement here, Tamil Nadu Tribal People Association has urged the State to issue a government order (GO) for establishing the school until which the forest department building in the hamlet can be used for taking classes. The settlement with 38 families is located inside the buffer zone of Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve and has no school, except for a special training centre run under the National Child Labour Project. School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan had on September 11, 2020, announced the establishment of a school at Vilankombai and the forest department had demarcated 50 cents of forest land for the school. However, a resolution needs to be passed in the gram sabha meeting in the Kongarpalayam Panchayat which did not happen so far. S. Mohan Kumar, District Coordinator, Tamil Nadu Tribal People Association, told The Hindu that a resolution should be passed in the Vilankombai village gram sabha, established under Section 2(g) of Recognition of Forest Rights Act, 2006 and not in the gram sabha meeting by Kongarpalayam panchayat. The gram sabha mentioned in the act was the village assembly consisted of all adult members of the village, he said. Under Section 3(2) of the Act, less than one hectare of forest land could be diverted for development projects for which the gram sabha needed to adopt a resolution. The user agency, which was the School Education department here, should submit the proposal along with the resolution to the Range Forest Officer (RFO) who would inspect the site and recommend to the Divisional Forest Officer (DFO) for executing the work. The DFO would send his approval to the RFO and the forest land would be demarcated for diversion and would be handed over to the user agency. “The entire process should be completed in four weeks,” he said. Mr. Mohan Kumar wanted a GO for establishing the school and using the building in the village for conducting classes until the new building was established.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-urged-to-issue-order-to-establish-school-at-vilankombai/article33797199.ece
10 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Action sought against unit owners for polluting Kalingarayan Canal||Members of Kalingarayan Pasana Sabai have urged the district police to initiate criminal action against textile processing unit owners who discharged effluents into Kalingarayan Canal. In a petition submitted to Superintendent of Police P. Thangadurai, sabai president V.M. Velayudham said 35 units functioning in Vendipalayam areas were found discharging effluents into the canal during the inspection by Modakurichi MLA V.P. Subramani on February 7. The petition said the units had laid plastic pipes and were discharging the effluents into the canal, leading to its pollution. Officials of the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board had disconnected power supply to the units and sealed them. Water from the canal was used for irrigating their land and also used as a drinking water source for farmers and cattle. Hence, sealing the unit was not enough and cases should be registered against the owners and they should be arrested, the petition said. The petition said the unit owners had committed grievous crime by letting toxic chemicals into the canal and cases should be registered against them under appropriate sections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/action-sought-against-unit-owners-for-polluting-kalingarayan-canal/article33797196.ece
10 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘CM will write to PM on Tamil in Kendriya Vidyalayas’||School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan has said that Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami would soon write to the Prime Minister over the issue of Tamil not being compulsory in Kendriya Vidyalaya schools run by the Central government in the State. The Minister told presspersons in Gobichettipalayam on Tuesday that only now they (government) have come to know that Tamil is not mandatory for students of Kendriya Vidyalayas. The issue would be taken up with the Prime Minister by the Chief Minister. The Minister said that the required number of teachers was available in all the government schools and after reopening of schools for all classes, vacancies would be filled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-will-write-to-pm-on-tamil-in-kendriya-vidyalayas/article33797657.ece
10 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Eye screening camp held||A free eye screening camp was organised for traffic police personnel, who are exposed to dust, pollution and sunlight for long hours, here on Tuesday. The camp was organised at Vasan Eye Care Hospital on E.V.N. Road in which doctors screened the personnel for cataract, glaucoma and other defects. Organisers said more tests would be done for the needy personnel and consultations would be given to them. A senior police official said many personnel complained of eye irritation as they worked amidst heavy vehicle movement and dust. About 40 personnel and their family would be screened on Tuesday and Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eye-screening-camp-held/article33797194.ece
10 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘CM will write to PM on Tamil in KV schools’||School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan has said that Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami will soon write to the Prime Minister over the issue of Tamil not being compulsory in Kendriya Vidyalaya schools run by the Central government in the State. Addressing the media in Gobichettipalayam on Tuesday, the Minister said that only now they (the government) had come to know that Tamil was not mandatory for students of Kendriya Vidyalaya. The issue would be taken up with the Prime Minister by the Chief Minister. The Minister distributed appointment orders to 1,240 candidates recruited by private companies during a mega private job mela held at Gobichettipalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-will-write-to-pm-on-tamil-in-kv-schools/article33797634.ece
10 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Due to cabling works in the Erode sub-station - Market electric line, power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on February 12 in the following areas: E.V.N. Road (one part), Power House Road, Kalaimagal Kalvi Nilayam Road, Periyanna Street, Vamalai Street, Meenatchi Sundaranar Road, SEIT Colony, Thillai Nagar, Kamaraj Street, NMS Compound, Eswaran Kovil Street, T.V.S. Street, Nethaji Street, Jinnah Street, Periyar Mandram, Cutchery Street, Marapalam Road, Mani koondu, Muthurangan Street, Ramasamy Street and Venkatachalam Street.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article33797197.ece
10 February 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Differently abled demand hike in monthly allowance||Over 100 members of Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of All Types of Differently Abled and Caregivers (TARADAC) staged a demonstration in front of Madurai Collectorate on Tuesday, demanding higher monthly allowance/pension to the differently abled. The protesters said that in States like Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, the governments provided around Rs. 3,000 as monthly pension/allowance to the differently abled. “The Tamil Nadu government also must provide Rs. 3,000 as monthly pension or allowance to the differently abled. For the severely disabled persons, the government must provide a monthly allowance of Rs. 5,000,” said district president of the Association T. Nagarajan. The protesters also demanded 5% jobs be reserved for the differently abled in the private sector as mandated by the Rights of Persons With Disabilities Act. “It is the duty of the government to ensure that the Act is properly implemented in the private sector,” said Mr. Nagarajan. The differently abled suffered financially during the COVID-19 pandemic. Hence, the government must take steps to revive their livelihoods, he added. The protesters were arrested by police and later released.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/differently-abled-demand-hike-in-monthly-allowance/article33797726.ece
10 February 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Kudimaramathu works should be uploaded on official website, says HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday directed the State to take steps to upload details of kudimaramathu works on the official website. The public were entitled to know the details and this would also help the government perform better, the judges said. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi observed that transparency was the foundational factor for the government while implementing schemes in a free and fair manner. Except for confidential information, other details of the works could be uploaded, they said. The judges said that the details of the works, the extent to which the works were carried out, details of the completion of the works and the photographs before and after the completion of the works could be uploaded for the benefit of the public. There was no logic behind only the department assessing the information, the judges said and directed that the exercise should be implemented in 12 weeks. The court was hearing a public interest litigation petition filed by advocate R.M. Anbunithi of Madurai, who sought a direction to authorities to display details of kudimaramathu works on the website of the district administrations. The petitioner said that details pertaining to the extent of waterbodies and expenditure of the works should be uploaded. Through this information, the general public, villagers and social activists would come to know if the works achieved their real purpose or if there were any irregularities in their implementation, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kudimaramathu-works-should-be-uploaded-on-official-website-hc/article33797638.ece
10 February 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Minority communities in T.N. being misled by Cong, DMK’||BJP State general secretary R. Srinivasan on Tuesday alleged that the Congress and DMK were misleading the minorities in Tamil Nadu. The minority communities in Tamil Nadu were being misled by the Congress and the DMK as many Christians and Tribals were representing people in the Assembly in Goa, Northeast States and in Parliament, he said. Alleging that the parties were spreading a false image of the BJP, he appealed to pastors not to be misguided by this. In Tamil Nadu, the minority population was about a crore, he said. Stating that he had interacted with pastors in Velankanni church recently, he said, “I briefed them about the misconceptions they had about the BJP and invited them for a dialogue with our leaders.” In BJP-ruled Goa, Christians were MLAs and the highest number of Tribal MPs were from the BJP, he said. The minorities could not be ignored in a society by any political party, which promised to bring in development and growth in all spheres. The BJP leader said that in none of the temples, the priests directed devotees to vote for a party as it was the individual’s prerogative. He said the Union Budget was widely appreciated by experts and economists. It was wrong to say that the BJP had earmarked funds for projects to States which were facing elections. “If the Centre had not done so, then the critics might have said that the BJP had ignored Tamil Nadu,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minority-communities-in-tn-being-misled-by-cong-dmk/article33797732.ece
10 February 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK has mortgaged State’s rights to the Centre: Kanimozhi||The AIADMK government has mortgaged the rights of Tamil Nadu to the Centre to retain power; so the people of Tamil Nadu must vote for the DMK in the Assembly election and teach a lesson to the ruling party, said DMK women’s wing leader and Thoothukudi MP M.K. Kanimozhi. Addressing the people in K. Pudur, as part of her two-day campaign in the city on Tuesday, Ms. Kanimozhi said the AIADMK government had supported NEET, the Citizenship Amendment Act and the recently passed agricultural laws so that it could stay in power. “Although Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami calls himself a farmer, he is supporting the agricultural laws, which will allow corporates to exploit farmers,” she said. She said the AIADMK had betrayed its own leader and former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa as the panel constituted to probe the circumstances leading to her death had not made any progress. Under the AIADMK government, no job opportunities were created for youth and none of the basic civic infrastructural needs of the people, including roads and drinking water, had been fulfilled, she said. “Women feel unsafe under this rule and conviction rate in crimes against women is extremely low. Hence, DMK president M.K. Stalin has promised that each district will have a separate court to hear women-related cases,” she said. Ms. Kanimozhi said the State government indulged in corruption while procuring COVID-19 testing kits. Although Rs. 45 lakh had been allocated for rejuvenating the Sellur tank in Madurai, no work was undertaken. She inspected the Sellur tank and interacted with weavers and construction workers. She also took part in a meeting with members of the Sourashtra Chamber of Commerce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-has-mortgaged-states-rights-to-the-centre-kanimozhi/article33797142.ece
10 February 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Woman kills two children, ends life||A 25-year-old woman killed her two children before ending her life by self-immolation at Paravai near here on Tuesday. While the children, Kavidarshini (3) and Sangeswaran (2), were charred to death on the spot, the woman, V. Karthigaselvi, died at Government Rajaji Hospital here. Police said Karthigaselvi, who was married for four years to Velmurugan, a loadman, had frequent quarrels with him. Velmurugan, who was an alcoholic, was not regular to work and this led to problems between them. After he left the house following a quarrel on Tuesday, Karthigaselvi took the extreme step. Samayanallur police have picked up Velmurugan for interrogation. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-kills-two-children-ends-life/article33797731.ece
10 February 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Take steps to protect slender loris: PIL plea||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday ordered notice to the Centre and the State on a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to declare the habitats of slender loris (thevangu in Tamil) in the State a sanctuary, conservation/community reserve or a biodiversity heritage site, in order to protect the species. In his petition, taken up by a Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi, K. Pushpavanam of Madurai pointed out that slender loris habitats could be found in Kadavur hills in Karur district, Ayyalur forest in Dindigul district and parts of Tiruchi district. These places should be identified as a sanctuary for the animal, he said. The petitioner said that slender loris was listed as ‘endangered category’ under Schedule I of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, and by International Union for Conservation of Nature. Therefore, conservation measures must be initiated to protect them. The main reason for the decline in their population was encroachments on their habitats for firewood, cultivation, farming and widening of roads, he said. Slender lorises played an important role in forest regeneration. They spent most of the time on trees and the rate of felling of trees had a direct impact on their population. Their habitats must be recognised as a sanctuary in order to protect them, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/take-steps-to-protect-slender-loris-pil-plea/article33797730.ece
10 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||PIMS launches centre for children with special needs||The paediatrics department of the Pondicherry Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS) has started a full-fledged Child Guidance and Rehabilitation Centre to empower children with special needs and help their integration with mainstream society. As an interdisciplinary unit drawing experts from the paediatrics, psychiatry, ENT and physiotherapy departments, the focus will be on early identification and treatment of delays in development. According to Shanti Kannan, centre coordinator, a child with a delay of any kind is first seen by a paediatrician, who then refers the child to a psychologist for assessment. While medical problems like seizures are managed by the paediatrician/neurologist, parents then go to different centres for various therapies as advised by the psychologist, and often abandon the treatment due to the hassles. By offering a range of expertise under a single roof, the centre will tackle a spectrum of developmental disabilities that can occur in Down’s Syndrome and other chromosomal disorders, cerebral palsy, autism, attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), sensory processing disorder, or speech and intellectual disability. The rehabilitation process will be led by physiotherapists to improve motor milestones, and occupational therapists to build a child’s attention and gain independence in daily activities. Special educators will help in developing concepts of size, colour and shape, and improve reading, writing, comprehension and mathematical skills through customised routines, while speech therapists will help the children express themselves and forge relationships with others. The Centre also has a sensory integration therapy room focused on improving the child’s ability to use incoming sensory information (auditory, tactile, smell, vision, and taste).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pims-launches-centre-for-children-with-special-needs/article33797808.ece
10 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘BJP will form the next government’||Union Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs Arjun Ram Meghwal on Sunday asserted that the BJP and its allies will definitely form the next government in Puducherry. Talking to reporters here, he said that the people would reject the DMK-Congress combine in the coming poll and the BJP, which would form the next government, would focus on the development of the Union Territory. Mr. Meghwal said Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy was always engaged in fighting with Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi and was opposed to Central schemes, such as Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT). He has also not accepted the DBT scheme although several States had taken to that scheme, Mr. Meghwal also said. Referring to the Union Budget presented by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Seetharaman, the Minister said it was “pro-people” and promoted infrastructural development across the country. He said that several demands of Puducherry, including port development, had been announced in the Budget.  BJP, which will form the next government, will focus on the development of the U.T.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-will-form-the-next-government/article33797812.ece
10 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Amend U.T. Act, says Minister||Minister for Social Welfare M. Kandasamy has suggested making an amendment in the Union Territory Act to give more powers to the Council of Ministers. Talking to reporters at the Assembly, the Minister said since granting Statehood was a long-drawn-out affair, political parties should jointly meet the Prime Minister and the Home Minister to prevail upon them to amend the Union Territory Act as an immediate step. Join delegation He urged AINRC leader Rangasamy to join the delegation. “The Act should be amended to make the Council of Ministers replace the role of administrator. So, the final authority will be the Cabinet. Much of the problem can be solved if the amendment is made. We should do this as an immediate measure,” the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/amend-ut-act-to-give-power-to-the-cabinet-says-minister/article33797810.ece
10 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||I favour boycotting polls till Centre accords Statehood: CM||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Tuesday said he “personally” agreed to the call given to political parties by Opposition leader and AINRC chief N. Rangasamy to boycott the Assembly election till the Centre accords Statehood to Puducherry. “On the question of Statehood, all parties are united and should jointly fight for it. I personally agree with the idea of boycotting the election. If all parties come together and take a common stand to boycott the poll, we will get the concurrence of [our] party high command. After facing the obstructions created by the Lt. Governor with the support of the Centre, a question arises whether to get elected again and be powerless,” he said, addressing a press conference at the Legislative Assembly. Asked whether he would take the initiative to bring about a consensus among political parties, the Chief Minister said he would certainly apprise the party high command on the subject and act accordingly. The relevance of conducting election in the context of day-to-day interference by the Lt. Governor would be taken up with the Election Commission during the ECI’s visit to assess poll preparedness in the Union Territory this week, he said. “When an elected government does not have the right to execute a proposal for even relaying roads, the relevance of conducting elections should be examined. The government has forwarded the file for relaying the damaged roads by cyclone Nivar to the Lt. Governor immediately after the natural calamity struck our coast. It has not yet been approved,” he said. Sudden decision Questioning the AINRC chief’s sudden decision to raise the issue of Statehood, the Chief Minister charged that Mr. Rangasamy never took up the cause of Statehood in the house or outside in the last five years. He also did not join the delegation of legislators when they called on Union Home Minister Amit Shah to demand Statehood, he said. The former Chief Minister also did not join the debates in the Assembly when the government passed a resolution demanding Statehood. He also maintained silence on the style of functioning of the Lt. Governor. The AINRC was in government when the National Democratic Alliance came to power at the Centre in 2014. The former Chief Minister had attended NDA meetings but did not raise the issue, he said. “The AINRC took up the Statehood issue before the 2011 poll and after being silent for several years, just before the Assembly election, he has again taken up the issue for electoral gains,” Mr. Narayanasamy alleged. Parliamentary Secretary to the Chief Minister K. Lakshminarayanan said after witnessing the events for the last four-and-a-half years, every person has doubts about contesting elections. “Such interference by the Lt. Governor has never happened. Why should someone get elected without having any power?” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/i-favour-boycotting-puducherry-polls-till-statehood-is-granted-cm/article33797632.ece
10 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||BJP to organise street campaigns across U.T.||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Puducherry will launch street campaigns from February 18 to 25 across 30 locations in all Assembly constituencies, as part of the party’s efforts to galvanise cadres at the booth-level. At a meeting of the BJP executive committee chaired by V. Saminathan, MLA and State president in Puducherry, it was also decided to conduct meetings with the party functionaries and workers as a prelude to the “power centre meetings” proposed over four days from February 11. The “power centre meeting” will assemble functionaries across the hierarchy. The BJP executive committee also directed functionaries to strengthen messaging, including through wall posters, at the booth-level across constituencies in the Union Territory.  The power centre meeting will assemble functionaries across the hierarchy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-to-organise-street-campaigns-across-ut/article33797809.ece
10 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||CM to call on President today||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, along with Social Welfare Minister M. Kandasamy and Minister for Health Malladi Krishna Rao left for New Delhi on Tuesday evening. The delegation will be calling on President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday, seeking the recall of Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi. Member of Parliament V. Vaithilingam will be also be joining the delegation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-to-call-on-president-today/article33797813.ece
10 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Minister firm on not contesting elections||Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao on Tuesday reiterated that he was firm on not contesting the upcoming Puducherry Assembly poll. “Despite the demand raised by my supporters at a programme in Yanam on Saturday, I am not going to change my stand. I will not contest in the coming polls,” he told The Hindu on his return to Puducherry. “I am at my peak as a politician. After remaining in active politics for around 30 years — I was a Minister thrice and represented my constituency for the last 25 years — I need some rest and want to devote more time to family,” he said. Immediate priority The immediate priority was to strengthen the old age home he founded decades ago. “I will spend more time in strengthening the institution. The Andhra Pradesh government has offered me the post of one of the directors at Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam,” Mr. Rao said. At the same time, he said that a key reason for not entering the electoral fray this time was that there was no “respect” for elected representatives in the Union Territory. “There is no purpose in getting elected without having the power to execute the responsibilities. What is the use of getting elected when you don’t have any power?” Mr. Malladi Krishna Rao asked.  There is no purpose in getting elected without having power to execute the responsibilities. What is the use of getting elected when you don’t have any power||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/health-minister-firm-on-not-contesting-assembly-polls/article33797815.ece
10 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. adds 35 cases while 37 patients recover||Puducherry added 35 new COVID-19 cases to its tally while 37 patients recovered and were discharged on Tuesday. No deaths were reported in the Union Territory during the last 24 hours. The new cases, which were confirmed from 2,686 tests, were reported from Puducherry (20), Karaikal (8) and Mahe (7). No new cases emerged from Yanam. The active cases in the Union Territory stood at 307. Of this, 131 were in hospitals and 176 in home isolation. The tally stands at is 655 deaths, a total of 39,353 cases and 38,391 recovered patients. The test positivity rate was 1.3%, case fatality rate 1.66% and recovery rate 97.56%. The Health Department has so far conducted an estimated 5.93 lakh tests, of which about 5.49 lakh returned negative. Four test positive Cuddalore district reported four fresh cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday, taking the district’s tally to 25,012. While 24,657 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 68. In Villupuram district, two persons tested positive, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 15,215. Kallakurichi district reported four positive cases, taking the overall count to 10,891.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-adds-35-cases-while-37-patients-recover/article33797816.ece
10 February 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||No adverse reaction to vaccines yet: Minister||Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar on Tuesday said as many as 1,74,749 persons had been administered COVID-19 vaccines in the State till Monday, and no case of adverse reaction had been reported so far. Mr. Vijayabaskar told journalists in Pudukottai that on average, around 8,000 to 10,000 persons were being vaccinated in the State every day. Many Collectors and District Superintendents of Police had voluntarily come forward to get vaccinated and this was appreciable, he said. Frontline staff from the Health Department were vaccinated first, and now they are being administered to frontline staff from the Police and Revenue departments, he said. Tamil Nadu has been supplied with 12.34 lakh doses of COVID-19 vaccines, he said, adding that the Centre had conveyed that more would be provided. To a query, he said the fact that more than 1.74 lakh persons had come forward to get inoculated against the infection indicated that there was awareness about the vaccines. People need not entertain any doubt, fear or hesitancy, the Health Minister said. After personnel from the Police and Revenue departments get vaccinated, the plan is to administer vaccines to journalists and people’s representatives next. Thereafter, it will be administered to those aged over 50 with comorbidities. Permission had been sought for this, he added.  The plan is to administer vaccines to journalists and people’s representatives next C. Vijayabaskar Health Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-adverse-reaction-to-vaccines-yet-minister/article33797148.ece
10 February 2021||Rameswaram,TAMIL NADU||Sri Lankan court orders release of fishermen||Nine fishermen from Rameswaram, who were detained by the Sri Lankan Navy for violating the International Maritime Boundary Line (IMBL) on January 9, were released by a Sri Lankan court on Monday, fishermen’s association leader S.R. Sesu Raja said on Tuesday. He said nine fishermen from the coastal hamlet had ventured into the sea after obtaining a token from the Fisheries Department. However, they were caught by the Sri Lankan Navy, along with their mechanised boat. After repeated pleas that they had not crossed the IMBL, authorities of the island nation produced them before a court and sent them to judicial custody. During the hearing, which came up on Monday, the judge ordered the release of the nine fishermen. However, the court directed their boat to be handed over to the Sri Lankan government. In a day or two, the fishermen will be allowed to travel back to India, according to Mr. Raja. He appealed to the Central and State governments to also get the boat released from the Sri Lankan government. In the event of non-release, the Indian government should compensate the fishermen, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sri-lankan-court-orders-release-of-fishermen/article33797140.ece
10 February 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Doctors observe a fast demanding withdrawal of ‘mixopathy’||Doctors under Indian Medical Association observed a relay fast at the IMA Hall here on Tuesday condemning the Central government’s move to allow Ayurveda doctors to perform certain surgeries done in modern medicine. The doctors from IMA branches in Attur, Krishnagiri and Kallakurichi took part in the fast. According to IMA authorities, there are 34 active IMA branches in the west zone of the State and the members would take part in the relay fast till February 13. The doctors demanded that the Centre should withdraw the move as it would severely affect the public. According to the doctors, the Central Council of Indian Medicine recently permitted Ayurveda postgraduates to conduct 58 kinds of surgeries. The protesters said the move would deprive the public of the option to choose between modern medicine and Ayurveda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/doctors-observe-a-fast-demanding-withdrawal-of-mixopathy/article33797201.ece
10 February 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Public demand speedy completion of Smart Road works in Salem||Residents and motorists on Kottai Main Road have demanded speedy completion of Smart Road works. The Kottai Main Road is one of the main and busy roads in city and the road is an important link between the Salem District Collectorate junction and Tiruchi Road and other important points in the city. Smart Road works are being carried out on the stretch for over a year now. Kottai Main Road is one of the main roads included under Smart Cities Mission and about 833 metres of the road will be developed into Smart Road. Once completed, the road is expected to have separate lines for storm water drains, ducts for utility cables like electricity and internet, footpaths for pedestrians, cycle track and better motorable road space. However, the public in the locality complained that the road was dug for various works earlier and motorists were forced to travel through the dusty road for over a year now as the works were continuously delayed. This caused inconvenience to road users, they said. They also said that as the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital was situated nearby, ambulances often plied through the road. Hence, the works must be completed soon. Corporation Commissioner N. Ravichandran said authorities had been advised to complete the works at the earliest and bring the road to the public use.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/public-demand-speedy-completion-of-smart-road-works-in-salem/article33797203.ece
10 February 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||CPI (M) alleges corruption in issuing pensions||Members of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) staged a protest in front of the Collectorate here on Tuesday alleging corruption in issuing welfare pensions to the public. Protesters led by N. Praveen Kumar, urban district secretary of the party, raised slogans demanding action on officials who demanded bribe to issue old age pension, widow pension and others. The protesters alleged that many were forced to wait for a year to receive the pension amount. An applicant was demanded up to Rs. 7,000 for issuance of pension by the respective department officials, they alleged and urged the Collector to intervene in the matter and ensure speedy issuance of welfare pensions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-m-alleges-corruption-in-issuing-pensions/article33797200.ece
10 February 2021||SALEM/Erode,TAMIL NADU||Bonded Labour System Abolition Day observed||Bonded Labour System Abolition Day was observed at government offices in Salem and Erode on Tuesday. At the Collectorate, Collector S.A. Raman administered the oath to staff and distributed awareness pamphlets on bonded labour. In the Corporation, Commissioner N. Ravichandran administered the pledge to office staff. In Namakkal, Collector K. Megraj administered the oath to staff at the Collectorate. Mr. Megraj also took part in a signature campaign to create awareness on bonded labour. In Erode, District Revenue Officer S. Kavitha administered pledge to government employees at the Collectorate. Officials said The Bonded Labour System Act, 1976 came into force on February 9, 1976 and hence the day was observed to eradicate bonded labour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bonded-labour-system-abolition-day-observed/article33797195.ece
10 February 2021||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||Do not indulge in character assassination, Stalin told||Khadi and Village Industries Minister G. Baskaran on Tuesday countered DMK president M K Stalin, who had alleged that he had done nothing for his constituency, saying the people of Sivanganga respected him as a “decent politician.” On Monday, Mr. Stalin said he had never seen the minister speak in the Assembly and raised doubts whether the people in the district had ever seen him. Talking to journalists in Manamadurai, Mr Baskaran said he had been trained by former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa. “I am an ordinary worker in the AIADMK. My leader Amma had trained me and given me this ministership. I am doing my duty as per the directions of my Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami,” he said. Unlike the DMK legislators, he said, “we are not taught to behave in an unruly manner whether inside the Assembly or outside. We are humble. We are ordinary workers.” He questioned whether anyone else (other than Mr. Stalin’s son), especially a Dalit, could become the youth wing leader in the DMK. The DMK, as the opposition party, may criticise the policies of the government, but they cannot indulge in character assassination. The language used by Mr. Stalin’s son was in bad taste and had come in for criticism from women, Mr. Baskaran said and added that the AIADMK cadre are disciplined. Asked to comment if the AIADMK would reconsider taking in V. K. Sasikala, the minister said that it was for the party high command to take a call on the issue. Later at a public meeting organised by the AIADMK, former Minister Vaigai Selvan compared Ms. Sasikala with a drug that had expired. “I proposed her name for general secretary, but that is a closed chapter today. Both Mr. Palaniswami and Panneerselvam are doing good for the people of Tamil Nadu,” he summed up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/do-not-indulge-in-character-assassination-stalin-told/article33797164.ece
10 February 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Take over crop loans sanctioned by commercial banks’||Farmers’ representatives of Thanjavur district have pleaded with the State government to take over the crop loans sanctioned by commercial banks and relieve farmers of debt burden fully. Raising the demand at the agricultural grievances meeting chaired by Collector, M.Govinda Rao here on Tuesday, the farmers thanked the State government for waiving the crop loans to the tune of Rs. 12,000 crores disbursed through the cooperative institutions. Pointing out that in the recent past many farmers have lost their eligibility to draw fresh loans from the cooperative institutions as they were not able to repay the earlier loans on time due to crop losses, the farmers representatives such farmers had to necessarily depend on commercial banks for loans to continue cultivation. “The State Government should come to the rescue of such farmers by allocating sufficient funds in the forthcoming State Budget for repayment of such crop loans on behalf of the farmers to the commercial banks,” said Sundara Vimalanathan, secretary, Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association. Urging the officials to ensure that the loan waiver benefit reaches genuine farmers, Chinnadurai from Thiruvonam block suggested that this could be achieved by proper examination of the loan accounts as the possibility of non-agriculturalists availing crop jewel loans by presenting fake documents or without submitting necessary documents in connivance with the society people could not be ruled out.  A progressive farmer from Pudur in Thiruvidaimaruthur block made a call to the officials to consider the offer from the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited to improve the green cover in the Delta region. Yuvaraj of Pudur pointed out that there was a strong belief that burning of natural gas emanating from oil wells affect the prospects of rainfall in that region and to some extent, he claimed, this contention seems to be true. Though heavy rain was recorded all over the district in the recent past, the Thiruvidaimaruthur region particularly the areas situated on the periphery of Kuttalam block had not received that much rain received in other areas in the region. Hence, he urged the District Administration to study the impact of burning of natural gas emanating from the oil wells in Kuttalam block on the environment and come forward to utilize the offer extended by the ONGC to improve the green cover in the region under its corporate social responsibility activity. “I am not sure whether the burning of natural gas will impact the environment and thereby affect the prospects of rain. But I am sure that with the help of ONGC green cover can be improved and maintained as the Corporation is willing to support the maintenance of the saplings also”, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/take-over-crop-loans-sanctioned-by-commercial-banks/article33797131.ece
10 February 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Immunoassay testing facility launched||Immunoassay testing facility has been made available in Kumbakonam to ensure effective monitoring and management of patients’ health. The bio-analytical method that measures the presence or concentration of analytes in a solution through the use of an antibody or an antigen as a bio-recognition agent ensures early-stage detection of analytes which is an essential requirement for all bio-analytical settings to effectively diagnose, monitor and manage the patients’ health, according to a release from Meenakshi Labs, Kumbakonam, which has commissioned a latest Access 2 Immunoassay Analyser. It was commissioned by Indian Medical Association president, Kumbakonam chapter, S. Paramasivam, on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/immunoassay-facility-in-kumbakonam/article33797130.ece
10 February 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||‘Ensure victory for DMK in all seats’||DMK youth wing secretary Udayanithi Stalin on Tuesday said the overwhelming crowd in every meeting he addressed indicated that the people wanted a change in the State. Addressing a meeting at Andipatti, where party functionaries led by MLA Maharajan accorded a rousing reception to him near the bus stand, he said the people supported the DMK front in 2019 Lok Sabha and made it the third largest party in the Lok Sabha. The AIADMK could win only in Theni constituency. The mood of the voters for a change in the government should not make the DMK workers overconfident. Instead, they should ensure not just success but 100% victory in the Assembly polls, he said. Assailing Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam, he contended that anybody who travelled across the length and breath of Theni district would not vote for the AIADMK. The roads are so bad. People suffered every day commuting from one end to another. The Deputy CM was more interested in only taking directions from the BJP, he said. The DMK, if elected to power, would give a better meaning to lives of the common man as promised by the party president M K Stalin. Also, the BJP’s adamant attitude would see an end in Tamil Nadu. He criticised the Centre and State government for not doing anything to contain the rising prices of essential commodities. When prices of petroleum products and vegetables had touched an all-time high, the ruling party was releasing advertisements claiming achievement in every sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-victory-for-dmk-in-all-seats/article33797165.ece
10 February 2021||THOOTHUKUDI/Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Properties of Ilavarasi, Sudhakaran attached||Properties belonging to V.K. Sasikala’s relatives J. Ilavarasi and V.N. Sudhakaran, co-convicts in the disproportionate assets case, continued to be attached by government authorities for the third consecutive day. On Tuesday, the Thoothukudi district administration attached 23 properties, spread over 1,200 acres, belonging to the two. The properties were ordered to be attached by the Supreme Court in February 2017, while upholding the trial court verdict convicting the accused. The Supreme Court had held that charges against former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, the prime accused in the case, stood abated in view of her death. The 23 properties were registered in the name of Riverway Agro Products Private Limited, jointly promoted by Ilavarasi and Sudhakaran. They were attached after Collector K. Senthil Raj inspected the properties in four villages on Tuesday afternoon. While 11 properties (580 acres) are in Serakulam village, five (270 acres) are in Vallakulam village and two (62 acres) in Kaalvaai village, all near Srivaikundam. Another five properties (300 acres) are in Meeraankulam village in Sattankulam taluk. All these properties were attached after Dr. Raj inspected them.  One in Thanjavur One more property, belonging to Lex Property Development Pvt. Ltd., also owned by Sudhakaran and Ilavarasi, was confiscated by the district administration in Thanjavur. The property, comprising 26,540 sq ft land, is situated in V.O.C. Nagar, Thanjavur. Stating that the process of effecting the change of ownership had begun, Collector M. Govinda Rao declared that following the confiscation, the property and any income from it belonged to the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/properties-of-ilavarasi-sudhakaran-attached/article33797149.ece
10 February 2021||TIRUCHENDUR,TAMIL NADU||CM to resume campaign in southern districts from Feb. 17||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami will resume his election campaign in Thoothukudi and Tirunelveli districts for three days from February 17. During informal interaction with the reporters here on Tuesday, Minister for Information Kadambur C. Raju, after participating in the inauguration of additional building in Tiruchendur Government Hospital, said the Chief Minister, who had already visited around 20 districts during his first phase of electioneering, had to cut short his election campaign when he visited Thoothukudi district on January 3 last as he had to attend the swearing-in ceremony of Chief Justice of Madras High Court on January 4. He is coming to the district on February 17 to resume the election campaign in Thoothukudi, Ottapidaaram, Srivaikundam and Tiruchendur Assembly segments. Mr. Palaniswami will be electioneering in Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts on February 18 and 19. “The Chief Minister, who will be completing the fourth year in office on February 16, has scaled unprecedented heights to bag several awards from the Union Government for having stood first in entire country. He has made Tamil Nadu numero uno. People are overwhelmingly backing the AIADMK rule,” Mr. Raju said. On DMK president M.K. Stalin’s assertion that their party would return to power after winning over 200 seats in the ensuing Assembly polls, he said the Opposition Leader, who had anticipated split in the AIADMK after the demise of Jayalalithaa in December 2016, was predicting the DMK’s return to power in the same month by engineering defections. Mr. Stalin’s anticipation and prediction continued even as the AIADMK rule was going on steadily with the people’s backing, who had ensured the continuation of “Amma’s rule” by supporting the ruling party in 9 Assembly constituencies in the by-polls held in 2019. “Any political party having the people’s support alone can come to power and the party, which tries to fish in muddy water by engineering split among their political opponents, can never come to power. We trust the people, who always pin their hope on AIADMK. We’ll defend our rule comfortably this time also with Mr. Palaniswami leading from the front,” Mr. Raju hoped. The minister criticized Mr. Stalin’s claim that the crop loans given by cooperative societies had been waived by the Tamil Nadu Government only after his party had given it as poll promise. “He is talking out of frustration,” Mr. Raju noted. Collector K. Senthil Raj, Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar, Srivaikundam MLA S.P. Shanmuganathan were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-to-resume-campaign-in-southern-districts-from-feb-17/article33797161.ece
10 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 8.5 cr. sanctioned for concrete road at Chathiram bus stand||The State government has sanctioned Rs. 8.5 crore for providing concrete road at the Chathiram bus stand, which is being remodelled to accommodate additional buses and handle more passengers. As per the plan, the entire surface of the Chathiram bus stand, will be replaced with concrete structure so as to ensure endurance and life of it. In addition to it, nearly 10% of the sanctioned amount will be spent for providing elevation to the bus terminal. A senior official of the Tiruchi Corporation told The Hindu that after completing the tender formalities, work order had been issued to the contractor and preliminary work of laying cement concrete work had already begun. It had been decided to complete the work as early as possible. When asked whether the additional work would delay the opening of remodelled Chathiram bus stand within this month, the official said that since laying cement concrete was a major component of the additional work it would be laid at a stretch. Mobilisation of men and materials had been started. As per schedule, the remodelling project should be completed within May. Considering the importance of bringing back the Chathiram bus stand for operating city buses as early as possible, the contractor had been asked to complete the work within February. Hence, chances were bright for opening the bus stand by the end of this month. As far as the remodelling of Chathiram bus stand was concerned, the official added that 90% of the work had been completed. Construction of 30 bays, a waiting hall for passengers, cloakroom, feeding room for lactating mothers, ticket counters, food court and retiring room for the police and bus crew were among the completed work. Provision had been given to 33 shops-17 on the ground floor and 16 on the first floor. Almost all works of the roof of the terminal were over. The official further said that painting and fine turning works were pending. All other remaining work had been expedited so as to open the Chathiram bus stand by this month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-85-cr-sanctioned-for-concrete-road-at-chathiram-bus-stand/article33797849.ece
10 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Persons with disabilities held, released||Several persons with disabilities resorted to protests in Tiruchi, Thanjavur, Pudukottai and other places on Tuesday in support of their demands. A group of 65 of them came to the Collectorate here where they staged a protest demanding the State government to provide them Rs. 3,000 as monthly assistance and Rs. 5,000 to those with severe disabilities. They urged the State government to enact a special law providing 5% reservation for persons with disabilities in employment in the private sector. A group of police personnel were deployed at the Collectorate following the State-wide protest call given by the Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of All Types of Differently Abled and Caregivers (TARADAC). The stir was led by the TARADAC Manikandam union secretary Arokiaraj. Those staging the protest were later arrested, said police sources. In Pudukottai Town, a group of 22 persons with disabilities resorted to protest in support of the same demands. They were led by the TARADAC district in-charge Girija, said the sources. Thanjavur Members of Tamil Nadu All Types of Differently-abled and their Attendees Rights Forum were arrested when they attempted to stage demonstrations inside the Collectorate in Thanjavur and other Revenue Divisional / Taluk offices in the district on Tuesday. They also sought reservation in the private sector . The protesters were prevented from entering into the government offices at Thanjavur, Orathanadu, Pattukottai, Thiruvidaimaruthur, Kumbakonam and Papanasam and were arrested. All those persons arrested in the morning were later released in the evening, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/persons-with-disabilities-held-released/article33797135.ece
10 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||48 fresh cases from eight central districts||Forty-eight fresh cases of COVID-19 were reported in the eight central districts on Tuesday. According to the bulletin issued by the Health Department on Tuesday, all districts except Tiruchi and Thanjavur districts reported less than 10 cases. Of them, the maximum number of cases were reported in Thanjavur district with 15 patients testing positive for the virus followed by Tiruchi with 14 new cases. Pudukottai and Nagapattinam districts recorded five new cases each. There were six new cases in Karur district. Tiruvarur recorded two fresh cases and Ariyalur one. No new case was reported in Perambalur district. A total of 53 patients, who had been receiving treatment for COVID-19 in various hospitals in central districts, were discharged on Tuesday. While 12 patients were discharged in Thanjavur, 10 recovered patients went home from hospitals in Tiruchi district. Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur discharged nine and eight patients, respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/48-fresh-cases-from-eight-central-districts/article33797133.ece
10 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Gold jewels found stolen from a locker in BHEL cooperative bank||Gold jewels weighing about 30 sovereigns were reportedly found stolen from one of the lockers in BHEL Employees Cooperative Bank's main branch situated inside BHEL quarters on the city's outskirts on Monday. The locker was reportedly found not properly locked by one of the employees of the bank in the morning following which an alert was sounded to its hirer, S. Tilak. The locker was originally hired by Tilak's father Shankar, a BHEL employee who died in September last. Subsequently, the locker was being jointly hired by Tilak and his mother. Police sources said the previous time Tilak had opened the locker was in December last year and had not done any operation thereafter. The bank has a total number of 1,878 lockers of which only the one hired by Tilak was found not properly locked. The sources said one of the bank employees found the locker opened and alerted Tilak who came in the evening. He lodged a complaint with the Boiler Plant police on Tuesday about the incident stating that 30 sovereigns kept inside the locker had been stolen. A senior police officer said there was no disturbance to the locker which was not found broken as well. The police would conduct an investigation by examining the footage generated by the surveillance cameras at the bank, besides checking the ledgers as part of their investigation. A case under IPC section 380 (theft in any building) has been registered. Further investigation was on in the case. In October 2019, a sum of Rs. 1.43 crore was stolen from the bank's sub-branch situated in another place within the BHEL area. The burglary case is still under investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-jewels-found-stolen-from-a-locker-in-bhel-cooperative-bank/article33797851.ece
10 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Build an elevated corridor’||Representatives of the Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peramaippu and the Tiruchi-Thanjai NH67 Salai Virivakka Panikalal Bathikapaduvor Kootammaippu (Federation of Persons Affected by Widening of Tiruchi-Thanjavur Highway) petitioned the Collector here on Tuesday demanding construction of an elevated corridor along the city stretch of the Tiruchi-Thanjavur Highway. The organisations have suggested the construction of the elevated corridor to avoid displacement of a large number of property owners and traders due to land acquisition for the proposed service lanes planned to be laid between Ariyamangalam Palpannai and Thuvakudi, a distance of 14.5 km. Ve. Govindarajalu, general secretary, Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peramaippu, along with the federation coordinators, R.M.Ravisankar and M.Samsudeen, presented the petition to Collector S.Sivarasu. The livelihood of a large number of property owners and businessmen would be affected due to the land acquisition. Businesses built over several years of toil and investment would be brought to a nought, they contended and urged the district administration to take steps to build an elevated corridor without affecting the livelihood of any person.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/build-an-elevated-corridor/article33797853.ece
10 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Dharna by research scholar||A Ph.D scholar caused a flutter by staging a dharna on the premises of Bharathidasan University on Tuesday alleging that he was being forced to do domestic chores by his research guide. University sources said the scholar was previously working as a research associate for a project awarded by Department of Science and Technology (DST) and his employment was terminated a year back. He had lodged a written complaint with the university subsequently. A Syndicate Sub-Committee conducted enquiries and decided to request the DST to take a call on the issue. There was no activity for a year due to the pandemic, it is learnt. After the research scholar staged a dharna on Tuesday, the university issued a letter to him stating that he had been reinstated as an associate for the Department of Science and Technology project with the acceptance of the guide, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dharna-by-research-scholar/article33797128.ece
10 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mentally ill man kills pastor||A 25-year-old man, said to be mentally ill and staying in a private home meant to accommodate such persons, allegedly murdered a 65-year-old pastor who was staying in the home on Tuesday. The incident occurred in the morning at the home situated at Navalpattu Pazhanganangudi on the city's outskirts. Police gave the name of the deceased as G. Victor Gnana Acharyam and that of the accused as V. Ashok Kumar of Thalavaipalayam in Karur district. The home accommodates six mentally ill persons. Police said an altercation broke out between Victor and Ashok Kumar due to which the latter allegedly attacked the pastor with a tumbler on his forehead and hand causing his death on the spot. Navalpattu police registered a case of murder and detained Ashok Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mentally-ill-man-kills-pastor/article33797129.ece
10 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||IRCTC’s Nava Jyothirlinga Yatra from March 8 to 20||The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC), South Zone, will operate a Bharat Darshan special tourist train tour 'Mahasivarathri Nava Jyothirlinga Yatra' from March 8 to 20. The tour will cover nine Jyothirlingas during Maha Sivarathri namely Mahakaleshwar, Omkareshwar, Somnath,Trimbakeshwar, Bhimashankar, Grishneshwar, Aundha Nagnath, Parli Vaijnath and Mallikarjuna Swamy. The special tourist train will leave from Tirunelveli via Virudhunagar, Madurai, Dindigul, Karur, Erode, Salem, Jolarpettai, Katpadi, Perambur, Nellore, Vijayawada and Warangal. The features of this tour are train journey in sleeper class; accommodation in non air-conditioned hall / dharmashalas; road transfers; South Indian vegetarian food; tour escort and security for each coach and protection kit such as sanitiser, mask, face shield and gloves. The package cost for the 13 days tour is Rs. 15,350 per person. This exclusive budget tourist train package could be availed by the people residing in the States of Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana,a press release from IRCTC, South Zone, Chennai said. For reservation and details, Tourism Information and Facilitation Centre, Tamil Nadu, could be contacted in the numbers: 82879-31974/ 82879-31977.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/irctcs-nava-jyothirlinga-yatra-from-march-8-to-20/article33797850.ece
10 February 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Yatri Nivas to reopen for guests||The Yatri Nivas run by the Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple would reopen for guests from Wednesday. Situated at Panchakarai, it remained closed in view of the pandemic. Reservations will be open for accommodation at the Yatri Nivas and visitors are requested to make bookings online, a temple press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/yatri-nivas-to-reopen-for-guests/article33797137.ece
10 February 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Differently abled want aid to be enhanced||The police arrested 62 members of Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of All Types of Differently Abled and Caregivers (TARATDAC) including 22 women on Tuesday as they attempted to stage wait-in protest on the Collectorate premises. They said the monthly assistance for them should be increased to Rs. 3,000 as being given in Telengana and Puducherry and the seriously affected physically challenged beneficiaries given Rs. 5,000 a month. The physically challenged persons should be given 5% reservation in education and employment. As the protesters were released, they assembled at Vannarpet in the evening and resumed their agitation even after the officials held talks with them. When they refused to give up the agitation, the police detained 35 agitators, including 7 women. In Thoothukudi, the differently-abled protestors tried to stage wait-in at Thoothukudi Taluk office from where the police arrested 34 persons. They were released in the evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/differently-abled-want-more-aid/article33797166.ece
10 February 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||2011 booths for Tirunelveli district||Since the Election Commission has directed the District Election Officers to ensure a polling booth for every 1,000 voters instead of 1,500 in the wake of COVID-19 outbreak across the country, number of polling booths in the district goes up from 1,475 to 2,011 for the forthcoming Assembly polls. Addressing the meeting of the representatives of recognised political parties held here on Tuesday, Collector V. Vishnu said the increase in the number of polling booths had been done after the field visit by the Polling Officers and the Assistant Polling Officers in all five Assembly segments. “These 536 auxiliary polling booths will expedite the polling process and make the exercise easier. Accordingly, we’ll deploy additional polling personnel. We’ll send the increased number of polling booths and its nomenclature for the mandatory final approval of Chief Electoral Officer,” he said. He said the district has 3,319 ballot units, 2,506 control units and 2,653 VVPAT (Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trail) ready after the first level checking. On receiving the EVMs from Maharashtra on December 19, a team of technicians from Bharat Electronics Limited checked the ballot units, control units and the VVPATs and withdrew the faulty units from this pool to be sent for overhauling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2011-booths-for-tirunelveli-district/article33797862.ece
10 February 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||200 ration shop workers arrested||Over 200 ration shop workers were arrested when they laid siege to the Office of Joint Registrar of Cooperative Societies in Palayamkottai on Tuesday. Led by Paulraj, president of Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Workers’ Association, they took out a procession, raised slogans alleging “20% shortage” in essential commodities supplied to ration shops and laid siege to the Office of the Joint Registrar of Cooperative Societies in Palayamkottai. He alleged that the ration shops were getting essential commodities with the knowledge of officials even after ration cardholders were provided with smartcards. Ration shop employees were being compelled to manage the short supply. He urged the government to supply all the commodities in packets so as to ensure correct weight. They were released immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/200-ration-shop-workers-arrested/article33797857.ece
10 February 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK must stay united, says Velumani||Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani on Tuesday called for unity among AIADMK cadre to work in the Assembly election to defeat the DMK. He was addressing functionaries as part of a consultative meeting held for the arrival of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on February 11 and 12. “Whatever problems we might have, those are among brothers. A family will always face problems. Tomorrow, if a problem is caused by our enemy, we will come together. Our enemy is the DMK,” Mr. Velumani said. People are clear that Mr. Palaniswami should become the Chief Minister again and the AIADMK cadre must work to ensure this in the upcoming poll, he said. Minister for Animal Husbandry Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan and Deputy Speaker of the Legislative Assembly Pollachi V. Jayaraman were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-must-stay-united-says-velumani/article33797152.ece
10 February 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Over 1,000 acres of temple land retrieved in Tiruppur dist.||Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Minister Sevvoor S. Ramachandran on Monday inaugurated the Joint Commissioner office on Palladam Road. According to a HR&CE release, a total of 2,041 temples in Tiruppur and Karur districts will come under the control of the Joint Commissioner of Tiruppur Zone. Under the Joint Commissioner for the Tiruppur Zone, there will be two Assistant Commissioners and 30 Executive Officers, according to the release. The release said that HR&CE Department has retrieved 1,006.33 acres of temple lands worth Rs. 150 crore in Tiruppur district since 2011.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-1000-acres-of-temple-land-retrieved-in-tiruppur-dist/article33797650.ece
10 February 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Loan waiver certificates in a fortnight’||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said farm loan waiver certificates would be distributed to farmers in a fortnight. He was speaking after kicking off the campaign in Ranipet district on Tuesday morning. The Chief Minister addressed people in the Arakkonam, Sholingur, Ranipet, Anaicut, K.V. Kuppam and Vellore Assembly constituencies. “The loan waiver will benefit more than 16 lakh farmers. So we are fulfilling all the promises that we made,” he said. Throughout his campaign in Ranipet, he outlined the government’s achievements and took a dig at DMK president M.K. Stalin. Mr. Palaniswami said the DMK president was going around districts and collecting petitions in a box. “He says all grievances will be attended to soon after he becomes Chief Minister. But when is that going to happen?” he asked. The Chief Minister said since Mr. Stalin did not attend Assembly sessions or know about government schemes, he was spreading false propaganda that the AIADMK government had not done anything for the people. “He does not know that under the Chief Minister Special Grievance Redressal Scheme, the AIADMK government has collected over 9.77 lakh grievance petitions, and of this, over 5 lakh have been attended to,” he said. The Chief Minister said that apart from this, revenue officials were going to every village and giving receipts after taking petitions. “Mr. Stalin is also giving receipts, but they are not valid. Mr. Stalin has started meeting people only now, despite being in politics and occupying important positions over the past several years. But we have been meeting people regularly, even during the pandemic,” he added. He said Mr. Stalin was reluctant to have a face-to-face meeting to discuss the achievements of the AIADMK and DMK-led governments. “He does not agree, as his party has not done anything for the people. Mr. Stalin says that we have been spending crores of rupees on media advertisements. We are just announcing our achievements, as Opposition leaders do not know about it. This will put an end to their false propaganda,” he added. He said it was during the AIADMK government that Vellore district was trifurcated. “It was a demand of Vellore residents,” he said. He later proceeded to Sholingur and highlighted the importance of the  kudimaramathuscheme. “Ranipet mainly comprises agricultural families. Most of their children are studying in government schools and to help medical aspirants in these schools, we introduced the 7.5% reservation, and due to this, 435 such students are all set to be doctors. They are complaining about NEET exams, but it was introduced by the DMK and the Congress,” he said. Speaking at Kandhaneri in Anaicut constituency, he said the people were the true Chief Ministers. “Mr. Stalin became DMK president as his father was a party leader. But I came up the ladder and know the pain involved,” he added. The Chief Minister added that there was no safety for women under the DMK regime. Ending the campaign on Tuesday at Anna Kalai Arangam in Vellore, he said 2,000 mini clinics would be opened across the State by the month-end. “To reduce traffic congestion in Vellore, flyovers and an outer-ring road will come up. But the DMK tried to stop the implementation of many people-friendly schemes introduced by us,” he said. The Chief Minister will be campaigning in Ambur, Vaniyambadi and Tirupathur on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/loan-waiver-certificates-in-a-fortnight/article33797145.ece
10 February 2021||Vellore,TAMIL NADU||‘Variyar’s birth anniversary a State event’||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday announced that the birth anniversary of Lord Murugan’s devotee and spiritual teacher Kirupananda Variyar will be celebrated as a State event. He made the announcement towards the end of his campaign speech at Anna Kalai Arangam in Vellore constituency. “Kirupananda Variyar was born on August 25, 1906, in Kangeyanallur in Vellore. He started giving religious discourses at a very young age,” said the Chief Minister. Mr. Palaniswami said the money the former earned through his discourses were spent on social welfare activities, such as providing education, healthcare and organising marriages for members of the economically weaker sections of society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/variyars-birth-anniversary-a-state-event/article33797639.ece
10 February 2021||Vellore,TAMIL NADU||TTV criticised||The Chief Minister said T.T.V. Dinakaran was trying to seize power from the AIADMK. “After former CM Jayalalithaa’s death, he said he had rejoined the party and lured away 18 MLAs, and then left them in no-man’s land. Those who go after him will meet the same fate,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ttv-criticised/article33797146.ece
10 February 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Man held with grenade lighters||A drunk man who drove the car into a crowd, was nabbed by the public and handed over to the police. An air gun, pistol and grenade cigarette lighters and fake number plates were found in his vehicle. According to the police, they are ascertaining the identity of the man who is suspected to be from a village near Pernambedu. "As there were number plates in the vehicle and an air pistol, people became anxious. After they saw a toy grenade in the car, they panicked thinking it was an original one," a police officer said. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-with-grenade-lighters/article33797865.ece
10 February 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Inspector convicted||A Judicial Magistrate Court here on Tuesday convicted Thangadurai, Inspector of Police, to one year conviction for producing a fake witness statement in a criminal case before the court. The Judicial Magistrate – I , A. Maruthupandi, imposed a fine of Rs. 2,000 on Mr. Thangadurai, who has retired from service. Bright Singh of Ganesh Nagar had lodged a private complaint against the then Inspector, Virudhunagar West police station. In his complaint, he said that he was not satisfied with the investigation of the case relating to his neighbour poisoning to death three hens reared by him due to previous enmity. Based on the witness statement of Baby Saroja, mother-in-law of Mr. Bright Singh, submitted by the Inspector of Police in the court, the complainant got a reply from the Inspector through Right to Information Act about the witness statement. While the witness had expired in September 2012, the date on which the statement was purportedly got was four months later, January 2013. One year jail term The JM found the Inspector guilty of producing fake statement and ordered him to undergo one year jail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inspector-convicted/article33797167.ece
10 February 2021||February 10 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||25 new cases in Erode district||Erode district reported 25 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 14,552. While 18 persons were discharged, 190 persons continue to be under treatment. In Salem, 17 indigenous cases were reported. In Namakkal, 10 cases were reported. Four patients returned from Salem, Chennai, Karur and Tiruchi. In Krishnagiri, one case was reported, and Dharmapuri saw eight cases. Coimbatore district reported 53 new cases on Tuesday, taking the overall tally to 54,905 cases. The Health Department did not report any deaths as the district’s death toll remained as 674. The district saw 53,773 recoveries and 458 patients were active cases. Tiruppur district reported 10 fresh cases, taking the tally to 18,058 cases. No deaths were reported in the district. The Nilgiris district reported four cases taking its tally to 8,252.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/25-new-cases-in-erode-district/article33797190.ece
10 February 2021||February 10 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district reports 53 cases||Coimbatore district reported 53 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the overall tally to 54,905 cases. The Health Department did not report any deaths as the district’s death toll remained as 674. The district saw 53,773 recoveries and 458 patients were active cases. A total of 51 patients were discharged from various treatment centres in the district. Tiruppur district reported 10 fresh cases taking the tally to 18,058 cases. No deaths were reported in the district. As many as 17,699 patients have recovered and 138 were active cases. Tiruppur district reported 221 deaths overall. On Tuesday, 27 patients from the district were discharged from various treatment centres. The Nilgiris district reported four cases taking its tally to 8,252. The number of deaths in the district stood at 47 on Tuesday while 45 people are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district-reports-53-cases/article33797652.ece
10 February 2021||February 10 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Frequent raider||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/frequent-raider/article33797187.ece
10 February 2021||February 10 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||State-level seroprevalence stands at 31.6%||The State has recorded a total of 8.42 lakh cases and just over 12,000 deaths. The overall seroprevalence of 31.6% masks substantial variations across the State, as evidenced in the fact sheet. For instance, in Perambalur district, the seroprevalence was 51%, while it was just 11% in the Nilgiris. As is the trend globally, the seroprevalence in urban areas (36.9%) was higher than in rural areas (26.9%).  Further, the working age group — between 40 and 49 years for the purposes of the study — had significantly higher seroprevalence than the youth (18-29 years, 30.7%) and the elderly (70+ years, 25.8%). The estimated seroprevalence implies an infection fatality rate of 0.052%, nominally lower than the figures for Karnataka and Mumbai. “If the percentage of the population actually infected seems lower than we anticipated, we must remember that it might have been the case at the time of conducting the survey. The rate would only continue to go up,” Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said. He said the State was planning to conduct seroprevalence studies regularly, and the next one would be launched possibly by February-end. “This knowledge of population-level immunity is the basis of epidemiology. This is critical for understanding the epidemiology of the SARS-CoV-2 and formulating effective infection control measures, including the allocation of vaccines,” said T.S. Selvavinayagam, Director of Public Health and co-author of the report. The study was approved by the Directorate of Public Health and the Institutional Ethics Committee of the Madras Medical College.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-level-seroprevalence-stands-at-316/article33797143.ece
10 February 2021||February 10 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||ERODE||RD National College of Arts and Science: Training on PC Hardware and Software installation by B. Vivek, System Administrator, Royal Wings Honda Pvt. Limited, Erode, 10 a.m.      Selvamm Arts and Science College: Founder’s Day celebrations. 11 a.m.  Muthayammal Engineering College: IMPACT -2K21, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode/article33797193.ece
10 February 2021||February 10 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore today||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University: 80th annual conference of the Indian Society of Agricultural Economics, 9.30 a.m.  Aram Foundation and HCL Foundation: Inauguration of online studio facility (15 schools), distribution of COVID preventive kits, Collectorate GDP Hall, 9.30 a.m.  Sankara College of Science and Commerce: Workshop on bar tending, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-today/article33797653.ece
10 February 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Postal ballot facility to senior citizens, COVID-19 patients||The Election Commission will extend the facility of postal ballots to COVID-19 patients, senior citizens above 80, and persons with disabilities, Chief Electoral Officer Sanjiv Kumar said in Belagavi on Tuesday. This was part of the precautions being taken in the wake of the pandemic whose threat had not abated yet, he told journalists. “We will follow COVID-19 protocol and other safety measures while conducting the bypolls to Belagavi Lok Sabha seat and a few vacant Assembly seats in the State,” he said. According to him, the ECI had begun preparations for the bypolls, but the dates were yet to be announced. He said that the Revenue, Police, Health and other Departments will work in coordination to ensure smooth conduct of polls. Voters can enroll their names till the last day of filing nominations. Voters with physical disabilities can notify the elector registration officer about their requirement of assistance in polling. Belagavi had around 38 lakh voters and around half of them are in Belagavi Lok Sabha constituency. The others were in Chikkodi Lok Sabha seat, he said. Mr. Kumar met officers earlier. M.G. Hiremath, Deputy Commissioner, K. Thiyagarajan, Commissioner, and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/postal-ballot-facility-to-senior-citizens-covid-19-patients/article33797225.ece
10 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘My priority is to stick to the rules’||Since 1980, Basavaraj Shivalingappa Horatti has represented Karnataka West Teachers’ constituency to the Legislative Council seven times. On Tuesday, the senior-most Council member was unanimously elected the Chairman. He had been interim Chairman for six months in 2018. Mr. Horatti started his professional career as a physical education teacher in Hubballi in 1975. In the past, he has been a Minister and held portfolios such as RDPR, Primary and Secondary Education, and Law and Parliamentary Affairs. In a brief interview after his election, he spoke on his priorities in bringing order to the House, which has been marred by unsavoury incidents recently. You were elected amid din. What are your thoughts on the incident?  It is not a good parliamentary procedure. Standing in the Well and shouting slogans is not the right thing to do. Over the past 10 years or so, standards in the conduct of business in the House have fallen. Four decades ago, when I took oath, it was not like this. To get an answer for a question posed by a member on an issue of State significance sometimes cost as much as Rs. 4 lakhto the exchequer. What do you intend to do about it? My priority is to strictly stickto Parliamentary rules. Question hour means for an hour and not more. Right now, everyone participates, making the question hour longer. I will try to bring about these changes from the Budget Session. Parliamentary procedures have to be followed and young members need to be guided. Do you think the members will cooperate? The members have formed certain habits that are not as per the rules. I will try to change the mindset. I will seek individual feedback from them on the measures needed to improve House business and will also convene a meeting of leaders from all parties, seeking their cooperation. Do you think the House rules need to be changed? No. There are already rules and they just need to be followed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/my-priority-is-to-stick-to-the-rules/article33797237.ece
10 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Section of RTC staff to protest today; services won’t be hit||A section of employees of road transport corporations, including those from BMTC and KSRTC, will be protesting on Wednesday against a range of issues, including delay in payment of salaries and alleged harassment. However, the employees as well as the transport corporations have said bus services will not be affected. Uday Kumar G.S., from the joint forum of road transport corporation employees’ associations, said the 300 to 400 employees, who are expected to participate, will be those off duty. “There will be no bandh tomorrow. Services will not be hit. We do not wish to inconvenience commuters. The staff are enduring problems, which we want to bring to the notice of the authorities concerned through a protest on Wednesday,” he said. Listing out the demands and grievances, a press statement from the Karnataka Rajya Raste Sarige Nigamagala Karmika Sanghatengala Janti Vedike said employees were being targeted with disciplinary action, had not been paid full salaries making it difficult to fend for themselves and their families, and they were being overworked, among other things. BMTC officials maintained that the protest was being called by a section seeking to highlight internal labour problems, and demanding timely payment of salaries and reduction of work hours for women, among others. “They will submit a memorandum which we will look into, but services will not be affected,” an official said. In December last year, bus services across Karnataka were crippled after thousands of drivers and conductors of State-run road transport corporations decided to go on a strike demanding that they be made government employees with all benefits. The stand-off between road corporation workers and the State government caused much inconvenience to people. Savadi’s appeal Deputy Chief Minister and Transport Minister Laxman M Savadi appealed to the employees to understand the financial distress that the road transport corporations are in due to the pandemic and co-operate. In a press release, he also said that the government is working towards releasing the full salaries with half of the salaries for December and January already disbursed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/section-of-rtc-staff-to-protest-today-services-wont-be-hit/article33797584.ece
10 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Town planning official suspended||The BBMP has suspended Assistant Director, Town Planning, who was allegedly caught red-handed, while taking a bribe, by the Anti-Corruption Bureau on February 5. The ACB claimed that the official, S.N. Devendrappa, was accepting a bribe of Rs. 27.4 lakh from the owner of a brewery for issuing an Occupancy Certificate. An order issued by the civic body’s Deputy Commissioner (Administration) states that the official has been suspended as under Government Employees (Conduct) Rules, 1966, and Classification, Control and Appeal Rules, 1957. Senior officials from the BBMP’s Department of Administration said a government employee cannot be dismissed outrightly or directly. “The official has been suspended as of now and an inquiry will be held, giving him reasonable opportunity to be heard. Based on the inquiry and if charges are proven, a final decision will be taken by the competent authority,” an official clarified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/town-planning-official-suspended/article33797589.ece
10 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Nutrient load reduction, ecological restoration vital for lake rejuvenation’||Nutrient load reduction and ecological restoration are the best mitigation strategies for rejuvenation of water quality in the city’s lakes, according to a report of the CSIR-National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) submitted to the High Court of Karnataka. “In many undeveloped lakes, where the external nutrient loading is the predominant factor regulating the eutrophication severity, the control of non-point source pollution is the most effective approach and a variety of best management practices are available to control pollution from urban sources,” the NEERI’s Phase I report stated while analysing causes for pollution of lakes. As the inlet to the lake mostly carries sewage along with stormwater, the report suggested the use of two technologies developed by NEERI for treatment of drain water and let the treated water into the lakes. The report suggested that de-silting and dredging are essential to restore the water storage capacity of lakes. De-silting operations need to be assigned top priority for many lakes, especially for developing and undeveloped lakes, Bellandur and Varthur in particular. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum said that it would consider the report, particularly the restoration plan for Kamakshi Palya, Arehalli and Thavarakere lakes, on Wednesday. It was observed, the report stated, during the study that many undeveloped lakes are being polluted by solid waste, which include domestic garbage, construction and demolition waste (C&D), agriculture waste and industrial wastes, such as plastic and polystyrene packing materials. Groundwater recharge “Conservation and upkeep of lakes need to be given top most priority. Proper maintenance of these lakes helps in groundwater recharge, improves the groundwater quality, helps in rainwater harvesting,” the report said while pointing out that of the 210 lakes, 189 exist and the remaining lakes were totally encroached.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nutrient-load-reduction-and-ecological-restoration-vital-for-rejuvenation-of-lakes/article33797593.ece
10 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Make all languages in 8th Schedule official languages’||A Bhasha Bharata Round Table Conference held in the city that saw representatives of 17 languages participate adopted a “Bengaluru Resolution” on Tuesday calling on the Centre to amend Article 343 of the Constitution to make all languages listed in the Eighth Schedule official languages of the Union. The deeply contested Article 343 presently says Hindi will be the official language of the Union, while making temporary provision for English. The round table was organised by the Kannada Development Authority (KDA) and saw the participation of two BJP Union Ministers — D.V. Sadananda Gowda and Pralhad Joshi. The BJP has traditionally been accused of prioritising Hindi and recently waded into controversy over the non-usage of Kannada at key Union government programmes in the State. The Bengaluru Resolution demanded that all laws, rules, and notifications be published in all the 22 languages of the Eighth Schedule. It also suggested clauses that mandate that the Union government hold all examinations for entrance to educational institutes and for recruitments in all the 22 languages. Furthermore, the resolution called upon the Union government to provide all services (to the best of their abilities) in all 22 languages. “This is a historic resolution piloted by the KDA. Article 343 of the Constitution is the crux of all language issues in the country, and its amendment as we have resolved will ensure all languages are treated equally,” said T.S. Nagabharana, chairman of KDA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/make-all-languages-in-8th-schedule-official-languages/article33797233.ece
10 February 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||KSDL pays dividend to govt.||Karnataka Soaps and Detergents Ltd. (KSDL) on Thursday paid dividend of Rs. 15.91 crore and also Rs. 3 crore towards the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. The cheques for this were handed over to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa in the presence of Minister for Large and Medium-Scale Industries Jagadish Shettar.. KSDL, in a release, said thatduring 2020-21, the company has made steady progress and has already achieved a gross turnover of Rs. 750 crore. This is poised to increase to Rs. 900 crore bythe end of March 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksdl-pays-dividend-to-govt/article33797231.ece
10 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Schools want order on fee cut revoked||Eight school associations comprising members affiliated with the State and Central boards, who met on Tuesday, decided to urge the government to revoke its order on collection of school fees. They have threatened a Statewide protest on February 23 if the government does not fulfil their demands. The Department of Primary and Secondary Education had last month issued an order stating that school managements can collect only 70% of the tuition fees for the 2020–21 academic year. It had also stated that they could not collect any other fee. D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary of the Associated Managements of English Medium Schools in Karnataka said, “The decision on how fees has to be collected should be left to schools. We will provide concessions to students based on the parents’ financial condition. One rule cannot apply to all schools and all parents,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/schools-want-order-on-fee-cut-revoked/article33797400.ece
10 February 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Motor vehicles rally||As a part of the 32nd National Road Safety month between January 18 and February 17, Regional Transport Office, Bengaluru (East), Kasturinagar, is organising a motor vehicle rally on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/motor-vehicles-rally/article33797590.ece
10 February 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Some people are misleading farmers, says Eshwarappa||Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa has said that the people protesting against farm laws in Bengaluru were not farmers. Speaking at a press conference in Shivamogga on Tuesday, Mr. Eshwarappa said the laws passed by the Centre were framed in the interest of farmers. “Some people are engaged in misleading the farmers. This is a conspiracy involving foreign elements. The true patriots should not give importance to the protest.” The Prime Minister had clarified the doubts raised about the farm laws. Opposition parties had similar policy assurances in their manifestos before the elections. Now they had been opposing the laws for political reasons, he said.  ST tag Answering a question, Mr. Eshwarappa said he would fight for all the communities that deserve reservation. “I am not in favour of Kuruba community alone. All the backward classes, that deserve higher reservation, should get their due”, he said. Reacting to BJP MLC Ayanur Manjunath’s comment on Ministers leading the protests seeking reservation, he said his role in the agitation for ST tag for Kuruba community was a link between the government and the people. There was nothing wrong in playing that role, he added. Shivamogga Mayor Suvarna Shankar was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/some-people-are-misleading-farmers-says-eshwarappa/article33797393.ece
10 February 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Task force to defend use of areca||The State Areca Task Force has decided to constitute a five-member expert committee to argue that areca is not harmful to health, said BJP MLA Araga Jnanendra, who is also president of the task force. Addressing a press conference after chairing a meeting of the task force in Shivamogga on Tuesday, Mr. Jnanendra said the committee would include experts from technical institutes, agriculture universities and areca growers. “The task force is prepared to place its argument in defence of areca in the courts”, he said. It has also appealed to the Centre to restrict import of areca so that the native growers get good price. Similarly, the scheme of minimum support price should be extended to areca as well, the MLA said.  Funding The task force had appealed to the State government to earmark Rs. 10 crore in the next budget for the task force’s activities. The government had already released Rs. 3.5 crore.. Sagar MLA Hartal Halappa, Malnad Development Authority chairman K.S. Gurumurthy and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/five-member-panel-set-up-to-defend-arecas-use/article33797226.ece
10 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Chief Electoral Officer visits tribal village, encourages residents to vote||In a first-of-its-kind initiative, Chief Electoral Officer for Karnataka and Additional Chief Secretary Sanjiv Kumar visited the tribal village Garadolli in Haliyal taluk of Uttara Kannada district on Tuesday to review the electoral roll revision process. The Chief Electoral Officer accompanied by Deputy Commissioner of Uttara Kannada K. Harish Kumar interacted with the residents of the tribal village, heard their grievances, and thoroughly checked whether additions to the electoral roll, particularly those of persons with disabilities had been done properly. Subsequently Mr. Sanjiv Kumar sensitised the residents on the significance of election process and the importance of voting. He appealed to them that being members of the tribal community, they should not keep themselves away from the electoral process. “Participate in the electoral process and thereby come to the mainstream of the society,” he told them. Expressing happiness over being able to meet the tribal members and interact with them, Mr. Sanjiv Kumar said that upholding democracy meant that everyone in the society took part in the democratic process of election. Mr. Harish Kumar, along with officials of the Revenue Department, provided details about the electorate in the village and answered queries from the CEO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/chief-electoral-officer-visits-tribal-village-encourages-residents-to-vote/article33797223.ece
10 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘It is time to show our community’s strength’||Minister for Major and Medium Irrigation Ramesh Jarkiholi has said that it was time to show the strength of the Valmiki community for getting its rightful demands. Presiding over the third ‘Maharishi Valmiki Jatre’ at Rajanahalli in Davangere district on Tuesday, Mr. Ramesh Jarkiholi said that there was a need for upholding the social and cultural values of the Valmiki community and showcasing its organisational strength for getting reservation in education and employment. Referring to Dr. B.R. Ambedkar, he said that for strengthening and taking the community forward on the path of progress both awareness and organisation were crucial. For this purpose, awareness conventions were being held across the State to sensitise the community members and also introduce the culture of the Valmikis to other communities of the State. He said that in around 150 Assembly segments in the State, the decision of the Nayaka community was crucial in choosing the elected representatives and through conventions the attention of the Chief Minister had been drawn towards the rightful demands. KPCC working president Satish Jarkiholi said that for getting the facilities required for the community all the leaders from community, irrespective of their party affiliation, would work together. Referring to Ministers B. Sriramulu and Mr. Ramesh Jarkiholi, Mr. Satish Jarkiholi urged upon them to use their influence and prevail upon the Chief Minister to get the reservation increased for the Valmiki community “We will also come with you,” he said. Mr. Satish Jarkiholi said that his (Congress) government should have increased the reservation but was not done. Consequently the people of the community had taught a lesson and if the present government too delayed taking a decision on the issue, it would have to repent later, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/it-is-time-to-show-our-communitys-strength/article33797229.ece
10 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Seer withdraws threat of fast after CM’s assurance||The ‘Maharshi Valmiki Jatre’, a convention of members of the Valmiki community held at Rajanahalli in Harihar taluk of Davangere, witnessed dramatic developments on Tuesday with the seer of Valmiki Guru Peetha announcing an indefinite fast in front of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, only to withdraw it a little later. During the convention, which saw the participation of both current and former Ministers, apart from the Chief Minister, Sri Prasannanand Swami of Valmiki Guru Peetha made an emotional appeal for an increase in reservation for the community under the Scheduled Tribe category. “If the government does not increase the reservation for the community as per the population to 7.5% by March 9, I will launch an indefinite fast,” the seer announced, adding that he would continue to fast unto death if the demand was not met. Mr. Yediyurappa cut him short and promised to increase the reservation shortly. Satisfied, the seer announced withdrawal of the threat of fast. Subsequently, Mr. Yediyurappa said, “The reservation percentage will be increased soon. We will discuss the issue with Ministers of the community.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/seer-withdraws-threat-of-fast-after-cms-assurance/article33797236.ece
10 February 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Kalyana Karnataka feels short-changed by plans for AIIMS at Hubballi-Dharwad||Back in 2015, Raichur saw a series of agitations demanding that an Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) be set up there. However, the Union government announced the establishment of the premier institute in Hubballi-Dharwad, leaving the people of Kalyana Karnataka region very disappointed. Over five years on, a similar feeling is palpable in the region with the Centre preferring Hubballi-Dharwad over Kalaburagi for establishing a centre of another premier institute, the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). In his response to a question raised by Shobha Karandlaje, Lok Sabha member from Udupi-Chikkamagaluru, the Union Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare, Ashwini Kumar Choubey, said in Parliament that the Government of Karnataka had offered a site in Hubballi-Dharwad for setting up an AIIMS centre. “The site offered by the State government has been inspected by a Central team.” Mr. Choubey said. He also made it clear that the State government’s earlier proposal to “upgrade the ESI Hospital in Kalaburagi to an AIIMS” was not agreed to. The Central team’s land inspection at Hubballi-Dharwad about three months ago had drawn little attention. MLA for Chittapur and former Minister Priyank Kharge took to Twitter to “congratulate the BJP for snatching another opportunity from the people of Kalyana Karnataka”. He listed out the various opportunities “denied” to the region, including a textile park, NIMZ (National Investment and Manufacturing Zone), railway division, and now AIIMS. Setting up an AIIMS centre was one of the assurances informally given to the agitating people of Raichur when the IIT for Hubballi-Dharwad was announced. The State government had proposed to upgrade the ESI Hospital in Kalaburagi to an AIIMS centre. Delegation “If the successive governments continue to do injustice to the backward Kalyana Karnataka region by snatching one development project after other, the very purpose of special status accorded to Kalyana Karnataka under Article 371(J) of the Constitution will be defeated,” said Basavaraj Kalasa, the president of IIT Horata Samiti. He said he would shortly take a delegation to the State government demanding that it send only one district’s name — Raichur — to the Union government for the establishment of AIIMS. “Political leaders such as Jagadish Shettar and Pralhad Joshi should think of the development of the entire State, and not just their own region of Hubballi-Dharwad. Only polluting industries such as cement factories and thermal power stations are generously given to Kalyana Karnataka, while the high-profile institute such as IIT and AIIMS are taken to Hubballi-Dharwad. The government should reconsider its decision to ensure that AIIMS is established in Kalaburagi,” said Amarnath Patil, president of the Hyderabad Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kalyana-karnataka-feels-short-changed-by-plans-for-aiims-at-hubballi-dharwad/article33797235.ece
10 February 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Private school teachers stage unique protest||Hundreds of teachers working in Kannada medium private schools in six districts of Kalyana Karnataka protested against the government in a unique way by performing ‘Urulu Seve’ and carrying empty plates outside the office of the Kalyana Karnataka Regional development Board (KKRDB) in Kalaburagi on Tuesday. The teachers, under the banner of the Kalyana Karnataka Private School Management Federation, took out a protest march from Sardar Vallabhai Patel Chowk and reached the KKRDB office and submitted a memorandum with a charter of demands to KKRDB chairman Dattatraya Patil Revoor. The federation demanded the State government provide grant-in-aid to the private Kannada medium schools established between 1995 and 2015. Federation president Lokesh Talikaatti and divisional organiser Sunil Hudgi stated that private Kannada medium schools are facing a severe financial crunch and the government should be encouraging these education institutions by releasing funds through the KKRDB.  The Union government in its recent budget has announced to set up 100 new Sainik schools across the country and the federation demanded that the government establish at least one Sainik school in Kalyana Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/private-school-teachers-stage-unique-protest/article33797221.ece
10 February 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Modi’s remark on farmers slammed||Condemning the statement by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, leader of the Raitha Karmika Dalita Ikya Horata Samiti and former legislator B.R. Patil demanded immediate withdrawal of the remarks and an apology from Mr. Modi to the farming community. Addressing a press conference here on Tuesday, Mr. Patil stated around 214 farmers have died so far at the agiation on the Delhi border. The Modi-led Union government’s nonchalant and arrogant attitude towards farmers cause is the reason for these deaths, he alleged. Though international celebrities and lawmakers in the UK and the U.S. have backed the protesting farmers, Mr. Patil accused the government of being “insensitive” and “Inhumane” towards farmers. He added that a 52-year-old farmer Karambir from Jind district died by suffocation near the Tikri border on Sunday and in a note accused the government of failing to protect farmers and their interests. “The Modi government is giving only dates for discussion… no one knows when the dark laws [on farming] will be repealed,” the note stated. Although the Union government has offered to suspend the implementation of farm laws for 18 months, Mr. Patil accused the State government of not taking any measures to suspend the laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/modis-remark-on-farmers-slammed/article33797219.ece
10 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Congress seeks reintroduction of KSRTC city buses in Udupi||The Udupi Block Congress on Tuesday urged the Deputy Commissioner to immediately ensure recommencement of city bus services of Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) in Udupi. As many as 51 city buses under Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission were deployed on different city routes in Udupi when Pramod Madhwaraj was the Minister, the Congress said. Mr. Madhwaraj did not succumb to private bus operators lobby thereby helping thousands of students, senior citizens, and other eligible persons to avail subsidised travel facility. However, the present government has not shown any interest in reintroducing the services that were stopped following the COVID-19 lockdown. The corporation was citing low occupancy despite reopening of majority of educational institutions, said Block Congress President Satish Amin Padukare in a statement. The party also suspected the hands of private bus operators lobby in delaying reintroduction of KSRTC services. Mr. Padukare, district Congress publicity committee president Dinesh Puthran, former ZP member Divakar Kundar, and others said the party would be forced to launch an agitation if the administration fails to reintroduce the services immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-seeks-reintroduction-of-ksrtc-city-buses-in-udupi/article33797737.ece
10 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Chinks in coastal railway seen||A suggestion by Dakshina Kannada MP and State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel, purportedly at the behest of a few, to detain the Karwar-Bengaluru overnight express for a few minutes to facilitate the smooth running of the Bengaluru-Mangaluru Central overnight express appears to have ruffled coastal unity on railway issues. Mr. Kateel in his January 30 letter to South Western Railway’s General Manager A.K. Singh welcomed SWR’s proposal to run Train Nos. 16511/12 Bengaluru-Mangaluru-Kannur overnight express via Kunigal on all seven days instead of four days. However, the train takes over 10.30 hours in both the directions as it gets detained at Sakleshpur-Subrahmanya Ghat to facilitate unhindered crossing of Karwar services. The MP suggested that SWR detain Karwar-Bengaluru Express at the Ghat to allow the crossing of Bengaluru-Mangaluru Express while detaining Mangaluru-Bengaluru Express at the Ghat for crossing of the Bengaluru-Karwar Express. The letter was written ostensibly at the behest of some officebearers of the Pashchima Karavali Rail Yatri Abhivriddhi Samiti, that has been fighting for coastal Karnataka Railway causes for long. Signal upgrade Activist Kundapura Gautam Shetty said both Karwar and Mangaluru trains operated smoothly in March last before getting cancelled during the lockdown. Problems arose after signal upgradation in the Ghat section, which actually should have augmented train operations. SWR and Southern Railway could address the issue if demanded aggressively. On Saturday, Udupi-Chikkamagaluru MP Shobha Karandlaje wrote to SWR demanding speeding up of Karwar-Bengaluru express by curtailing its slack running time between Sakleshpur and Bengaluru. Thanking SWR for introducing the speedy service skirting Mangaluru, she said Karwar-Bengaluru Express could reach the capital by around 7 a.m. instead of the present 8 a.m. The train’s timetable and its route via Padil were the reasons for its success. Uttara Kannada Railway Seva Samiti Secretary Rajeev Gaonkar said activists in Udupi and Uttara Kannada were ready to sit with those in Mangaluru to find a solution for the delay of Mangaluru train. However, a few Mangaluru activists used every channel to prove Karwar train ‘illegal,’ to get it extended to Goa, to alter its timetable and get Mr. Kateel’s letter written. “Rail users can agitate for speedy service; but we cannot dictate terms on train operation, like train detention, which is the exclusive domain of the Railways,” Mr. Gaonkar said. West Coast Samiti president G. Hanumanth Kamath was in agreement with this view; but could neither justify nor disagree with the acts of fellow activists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/chinks-in-coastal-railway-seen/article33797746.ece
10 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Bengaluru-Karwar Express gets AC 1st Class coach||On the eve of Bengaluru-Karwar-Bengaluru overnight express celebrating its anniversary, the South Western Railway (SWR) has decided to permanently augment the train with one composite First AC and 2-Tier AC coach on a permanent basis. A release from Konkan Railway here said one second sitting coach would permanently be taken off the rake in the meanwhile. Thus, Train No. 06585/06586 Bengaluru-Karwar-Bengaluru Express Special would run with a total of 16 coaches from February 25 ex-Bengaluru and February 26 ex-Karwar. The Yeshwantpur-Karwar overnight Express via Padil bypass was flagged off by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on March 7 at Bengaluru. Subsequently, its terminal in Bengaluru was shifted to KSR Bengaluru City. A dedicated forum to fight for railway causes of Uttara Kannada, the Railway Seva Samiti, Uttara Kannada district, was formed at Ankola on Sunday. Forum promoter Rajeev Gaonkar said it intends to work towards making Karwar station at the terminal; speed up work on Hubballi-Ankola new line; get adequate jobs commensurate to educational qualifications of families of land losers of Konkan Railway project, and to improve services of Bengaluru-Karwar-Bengaluru express. The meeting elected George Fernandes as president, Mr. Gaonkar as secretary and Mangaldas Kamath as working president. It placed on record the services by Bengaluru-based High Court advocate Ravindra G. Kolle for lending free legal service for railway causes of the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bengaluru-karwar-express-gets-ac-1st-class-coach/article33797745.ece
10 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||CSC operators hit after govt. blocks ID cards||Village-level entrepreneurs (VLE), who are operating Common Service Centres (CSC) and Seva Sindhus in the district, have accused the State government of blocking their IDs thereby making it difficult for them to provide services, namely senior citizen pension, Sandhya Suraksha, construction labour welfare card issuance, and enrolment to Ayushman Bharat-Arogya Karnataka health scheme. Talking to reporters here on Tuesday, Haji S. Aboobaker Arlapadavu, general secretary of the Dakshina Kannada CSC VLE Society, said the government abruptly blocked the CSC ID from December 31, 2020, on the ground that the service charge received by the Government since 2018 was lesser than prescribed charge. “It was because of the fault in the system that a lesser amount was going to the government from our CSC wallet. The VLEs, who earn a living out of CSEs, are severely affected by this action,” Mr. Aboobacker alleged. President of the society Rohit Kumar said the VLEs are being asked to pay amounts ranging between Rs. 200 and Rs. 70,000 for unblocking IDs. “The charge that has gone to the State government is what we have collected from the customer. It is difficult for us to search the customer and get the extra amount. We are not in a position to generate funds necessary to unblock our IDs,” said Mr. Kumar from Munnur village of Mangaluru, who has been asked to pay Rs. 46,000. Hyder Ali, the VLE from Belthangady, said the 300-odd VLEs have been providing various services through CSC and Seva Sindhu centres. Of the 300, nearly 200 VLEs operate in rural areas. “With blocking of our IDs, people in rural areas are unable to get services at CSC and Seva Sindhus,” he said. If the government fails to restore our IDs, the VLEs will be forced to launch an agitation, said Sunil Kumar, an office-bearer of the society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/csc-operators-hit-after-govt-blocks-id-cards/article33797740.ece
10 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||DLSA to look into property records of Panchhanady garbage slip victims||The Dakshina Kannada District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) on Wednesday will look into land records of the 40-odd residents of Kudupu Mandara who were affected by garbage slip from the Panchhanady landfill site in 2019. The Karnataka High Court recently ordered the Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) to pay interim compensation to the affected families and the DLSA was asked to oversee the process. According to Chandrahas Kottari, a member of the DLSA panel, the DLSA on Wednesday will scrutinise the property records of the residents that have been submitted earlier to the MCC. The victims have been asked to appear before the authority with documents.  Rajesh Mandara, one of the affected victims, said few days ago a meeting was held at the office of the Deputy Commissioner where authorities agreed for payment of compensation by taking into consideration the prevailing market value of their lands. Victims have been paid compensation for loss of horticulture and other crops, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dlsa-to-look-into-property-records-of-panchhanady-garbage-slip-victims/article33797741.ece
10 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Agitation for caste-based reservation not right’||Udupi Pejawar Mutt Seer Vishwa Prasanna Tirtha Swami on Tuesday said agitations for caste-based reservation were wrong moves. A statement to the media from his office said leaders of respective castes should lend their voice to get reservation for their people based on the economic status. The seer said many people from backward communities have told him that financially strong people in their own communities were enjoying the fruits of reservation. The seer also said the donations collected for Ram temple has crossed the Rs. 1,000-crore mark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/agitation-for-caste-based-reservation-not-right/article33797742.ece
10 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Virtual meet on entrepreneurship promotion on February 12||A virtual meet on ‘Promoting Entrepreneurial Ecosystem in Coastal Karnataka’ open to all will be organised by various stakeholders of the education system on February 12 between 10 a.m. and 12.30 p.m. via the Webex platform. A release from Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE) said the meet will be jointly organised by MAHE, Mangalore University, NITK Surathkal, Nitte (Deemed to be University), Yenepoya University, Srinivas University, CII Mangalore Chapter, and IKP. Various State and Union government departments have supported the programme. T.V. Mohandas Pai, Chairman, Manipal Global Education Services Pvt. Ltd., will deliver the keynote address. The meet is open to the students, faculty, entrepreneurs, industry professionals and all associated with developing the entrepreneurial ecosystem of the region. The Webex link to join ishttp://tinyurl.com /2767nq2p.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/virtual-meet-on-entrepreneurship-promotion-on-february-12/article33797747.ece
10 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||briefly||The Central Arecanut and Coca Marketing and Processing Cooperative Ltd., (CAMPCO) on Tuesday inaugurated its branch at Parappa in Kasaragod district. Cooperative’s former director Rajagopal and senior areca growers of the region inaugurated the branch in the presence of president Kishore Kumar Kodgi, vice-president Shankaranarayana Bhat Khandige, and others.       The Karnataka State Planning Board has invited proposals from interested individuals and institutions to boost economic activities and set up new ventures. Details may be had from the Karnataka Coastal Development Authority, Lal Bagh, Mangaluru, phone 0824-2457389.      Manipal Academy of Higher Education and Udupi District Amateur Athletic Association have postponed the fifth edition of Manipal Marathon 2021 due to COVID-19 pandemic uncertainties. A release here quoted MAHE Pro Chancellor H.S. Ballal as saying the marathon would be conducted this year itself. He regretted the inconvenience.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article33797739.ece
10 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||More key officers take vaccine to encourage their staff||After Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri took the jab on day one of the vaccination on Monday to encourage her staff to follow suit, other top officials from the district came forward to get the shot against COVID-19, to send a message to their staff on the need for taking it without fail. Mysuru Zilla Panchayat CEO B.A. Paramesh and Mysuru City Corporation Commissioner Gurudatta Hegde were among the key officers who were administered the vaccine on the second day of the second phase of vaccination for the frontline workers here on Tuesday. While Mr. Paramesh got the vaccine at the district hospital, the Commissioner got the jab at the Trauma Care Centre of Mysore Medical College and Research Institute (MMCRI). As the pourakarmikas are among the frontline workers eligible to be vaccinated, the MCC has taken up the task of vaccinating its staff registered on the CoWIN app. An SMS had been sent to them with the date and venue of the vaccination. MCC Health Officer D.G. Nagaraj, who was present during the DC’s vaccination, said 3,700 staff of the MCC would be vaccinated in the next three to four days. Sources in the Health Department told The Hindu that the department has not received any communication on the second dose for healthcare workers whose vaccination had commenced on January 16. Some of those vaccinated in the beginning may soon be completing 28 days of receiving the first dose. There is no word on when they were supposed to receive the second dose. “The vaccination had been stopped for the healthcare workers with the launch of the second phase of vaccination for frontline workers. Those among the healthcare workers who missed the immunisation for various reasons may get another chance but when it will happen is uncertain since the schedule of vaccination for various categories has been fixed,” they add. Around 52% of the healthcare workers had been vaccinated in the district with many missing the jab despite calls from their higher authorities. The turnout on day onefor frontline workers was not encouraging. The Health Department had planned to complete the vaccination of 16,000-plus frontline workers in about three to four days. The drive may be completed in time if all of them promptly turn up at their respective centres to receive the vaccine, sources said. The officers and staff of the Revenue Department, police, pourakarmikas, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department, Home Guards and other frontline workers were eligible to receive the first dose. As many as 22 vaccination centres are functioning in the district and authorities were ready to open more if demanded. About 34,000-plus healthcare workers had been registered to receive the first dose of vaccine in the first phase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/more-key-officers-take-vaccine-to-encourage-their-staff/article33797227.ece
10 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||MCC keen on citizens’ feedback||The citizens’ feedback under Swachh Survekshan for clean city ranking has crossed 1 lakh mark with the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) going on an overdrive to bridge the gap on this parameter in comparison to other cities. In the previous surveys, the MCC lost out on the “cleanest city’’ due to a vast gulf that existed on the citizens’ feedback parameter when compared to the other cities which were ranked ahead of it by the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs. MCC health officer D.G.Nagaraj told The Hindu that it crossed the one lakh mark and plans to keep the drive going till March 31 – the last date to provide the feedback. This is expected to narrow the gap on the public feedback parameter where other cities traditionally scored higher than Mysuru. In the 2020 survey Mysuru secured 1181.25 out of 1500 marks earmarked for citizens feedback while Indore in Madhya Pradesh – which was ranked the cleanest city in India – scored 1416.12 marks. Surat secured 1369.32 marks, Navi Mumbai scored 1327 marks and Ambikapur in Chattisgarh scored 1263.48.. More participation through apps or providing feedback on line would have helped Mysuru surge ahead of other cities and hence the authorities, while focusing on real issues on the ground, are not taking citizens’ feedback lightly this time around, said Dr. Nagaraj. An additional score of 200 in the feedback parameter would have pushed Mysuru’s status to be ranked among the top 3 as other cities above Mysuru in ranking had a higher citizens’ feedback score. Though Mysuru was ranked 5th in the country overall, cities ranked above it secured less on direct feedback which is more realistic as it is based on the spot visit by the surveyors. On this parameter, Mysuru had edged out even Indore and had scored 875.15 against 874.85 secured by Indore. The MCC will not ignore the key issues related to garbage collection through door-to-door visits and their disposal apart from identifying black spots and sprucing them up. In addition to the regular pourakarmikas on the rolls of the MCC, the authorities have also roped in additional personnel to take up city cleaning during night. As part of the Swachh Survekshan the local authorities have also taken up the cleaning up of the Outer Ring Road which had emerged as a dumping yard for the city’s garbage. The issue also figured in the MCC Council meeting and hence it was decided by all the departments to coordinate and each of them have taken up a specific stretch of the nearly 43-km-long road so as to clean it up. This comes ahead of the complete asphalting of the ORR to be taken up by the National Highway Authority of India. While the citizens’ feedback will be elicited online or through the app till March 31, the face-to-face feedback will be elicited during March. Higher weightage This year the citizens feedback has been accorded higher weightage – 1800 marks out of 6000 marks which 30 per cent against 25 per cent accorded in the last survey (1500 marks out of 6000). However, Dr. Nagaraj said this is being integrated with other activities which will make ground-level changes to shore up the cleanlinesss quotient of Mysuru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mcc-keen-on-citizens-feedback/article33797392.ece
10 February 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Cheated depositors stage dharna||“I sold my land and deposited Rs. 1 lakh in the company about 8 years ago. I lost my land as well as the money” rued Siddaraju, 35, a resident of Dandikere village in Varuna near here, who is now eking out a living as a construction worker to feed his family. He was among the several cheated depositors of Green Buds Agro Farm Company, who had gathered outside the Deputy Commissioner’s office in Mysuru for an indefinite dharna against the delay by the authorities to refund their deposits by auctioning the seized properties of the company that defrauded them. Similiarly, Hussain Peer, a native of Challakere in Chitradurga district, had not only deposited his own Rs. 4 lakh, but also deposits running into several lakhs of rupees belonging to his fellow villagers. “After I deposited the money, I was encouraged by the company to act as an agent and collect the deposits of people from my village. After the company’s fraud came to light, I was attacked in the village and beaten black and blue. I have now fled my village and am staying in my sister’s house in Davangere”, said. Nagaraj from Baradanpura in Mysuru taluk, who was also one of the “agents”, said the company sourced much of its deposits from such agents instead of directly accepting the deposits. “Not only have we lost our deposits, we find it difficult to explain to the people, who had deposited their hard earned money in the company”, he said. The depositors, who began their indefinite dharna on Monday, cooked food at the protest site near the Deputy Commissioner’s office and held an “urulu seve” programme on Tuesday. During the protest, one of the depositors from Ballari tried to take his life. However, alert police officials and other protesters managed to prevent Peer Sab, 57, from doing so and rushed him to K.R. Hospital, where he is undergoing treatment. Leader of the Green Buds Agro Farm Company Depositors Protection Forum Lakshmidevi told The Hindu that the company had a number of deposit schemes – fixed, recurring deposit and pigmy collection – for doubling the deposit in five years. More than 1.8 lakh depositors from different parts of Karnataka had paid varying sums of money through more than 73 branches of the company. But, when they were unable to return the deposits, a case was filed against the promoters of the company in 2013, leading to their arrest. “A total of 123 FIRs have been filed”, she said. Subsequently, then State government headed by Chief Minister Siddaramaiah ordered a CID probe, which submitted a report to the government after which orders were issued in 2016 to confiscate the company’s properties in Kodagu and Koppal, besides the land it had acquired in Mandya, Davangere, Chamarajanagar and Mysuru district out of the deposits collected from the people. Though more than 1.8 lakh people had submitted their claims in 2018 to the Assistant Commissioner of Mysuru, the Competent Authority appointed by the Government, the authorities are yet to submit the details of the seized property to the special court and begin the process of auctioning the property to refund the money to the depositors, said Karnataka Sugarcane Growers’ Association President Kurubur Shanthakumar, who joined the protesters.  A depositor from Ballari tried to take his life at the protest venue  More than 1.8 lakh depositors had paid varying sums of money through more than 73 branches of the company||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cheated-depositors-stage-dharna/article33797395.ece
10 February 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Answer positively, says MCC||People of Mysuru keen to give their feedback under Swachh Survekshan 2021 can do so using any one of the platforms available to them. This includes downloading the Swachhata app, SS2021 Vote for your city app, MyGov app, Swachhsurvekshan2021.org/citizensfeedback or call the tollfree number 1969. The MCC has released posters urging the citizens to participate in the drive which says ‘’You have the power to make Mysuru No.1 by giving your valuable positive feedback’’. All that the citizens have to do is to tick the answers to the 8 questions and the MCC has prompted the citizens to answer positively to all the questions. The expected answers too are being circulated to ensure a higher score to shore up the overall score which has a bearing on the national ranking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/answer-positively-says-mcc/article33797391.ece
10 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||On day two, only 21% vaccinated in Mysuru district||On Tueday — day two of the vaccination drive for frontline workers (FLWs) — only 21% of the registered beneficiaries could be vaccinated. Of 3,877 identified, only 801 got the vaccine at 18 centres across Mysuru district. No AEFI case was reported. Unlike in the first phase where the staff had been told to vaccinate a maximum of 100 people a day at each centre, the centres had been asked to vaccinate a maximum of 200 in a day. Though the Health Department sources were hoping to improve the target, covering more beneficiaries from Wednesday, the response from FLWs has worried the administration. Department heads were motivating the staff. In Kodagu, 16% of the target was achieved on day one. Until 5 p.m., in 10 vaccine session sites across the district, 309 of 1,935 beneficiaries were vaccinated, said Kodagu District Health Officer K. Mohan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/on-day-two-only-21-vaccinated-in-mysuru-district/article33797396.ece
10 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah pushes for more inter-caste, inter-religious marriages||Siddaramaiah, former Chief Minister, on Tuesday spoke in favour of inter-caste and inter-religion marriages. Speaking at a mass marriage programme organised by Suttur Mutt as part of its annual Jatra Mahotsava, Mr. Siddaramaiah said simple marriages had become the need of the hour in society that is undergoing difficult economic conditions. He said inter-caste marriages would help society become casteless. He recalled that social reformer Basavanna had organised inter-caste marriages about 850 years ago. He regretted that untouchability still existed. Mr. Siddaramaiah went on to support inter-faith marriages too. “Inter-religious marriages should happen,” he said while criticising the opposition to such marriages from right wing ideologues citing ‘love jihad’. “Everybody is born as human and dies as a human,” he said while recalling poet laureate Kuvempu’s words on how a child is human when he is born, but comes petty as he grows and ages. Referring to the ostentatious display of wealth at weddings, he sought the continuation of restrictions in force during the pandemic. He criticised the tendency of the rich to display their wealth at weddings. Mr. Siddaramaiah also criticised the variety of food served to the people at weddings. At weddings inwealthy families, one can find as many as 30 variety of dishes, most of which goes to waste. He recalled how the late seer of Suttur Mutt Sri Rajendra Swami had gifted him Rs. 5 after a folk dance performance at the mutt in 1954. Mr. Siddaramaiah said he was around 9 or 10 then and had used the Rs. 5 to buy a sheep. A total of 23 couples tied the knot on the day. Suttur mutt seer Sri Shivarathri Deshikendra Swami, Minister for Co-operation S.T. Somashekar, who is also the Minister in-charge of Mysuru district, and the president of Karnataka’s Mahila Congress Wing Pushpa Amarnath, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/siddaramaiah-pushes-for-more-inter-caste-marriages/article33797228.ece
10 February 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Officer to be sent on leave||A resolution was unanimously passed at the general body meeting of the Yadgir Zilla Panchayat on Monday to send the Deputy Director of Public Instruction, Srinivas Reddy, on leave after members alleged that the officer was not efficient in executing government projects in the education sector. Looking into the allegations, Basanagowda Patil Yadiyapur, ZP president, discussed with other members about the charges and published that the DDPI should go on leave and also asked officials concerned to take further action. “The officer was unable to give proper replies on any queries,” Mr. Yadiyapur said over phone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/officer-to-be-sent-on-leave/article33797230.ece
10 February 2021||February 10 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CM stays allotment of 12.5 acres of land to Bhavani Housing Co-op Society||Chief Minister B. S. Yediyurappa on Tuesday stayed the allotment of 12.5 acres to Bhavani Housing Co-operative Society, which Bangalore Development Authority Chairman S.R. Vishwanath alleged was ‘illegal’. The CM, who also holds charge of Bengaluru Development, has sought a report from BDA over the issue before a final decision is taken. Mr. Vishwanath said he had briefed the CM on ‘illegal’ efforts to allot this valuable land worth nearly Rs. 500 crore to the Society late Monday night, following which a decision was taken to stay the process. He claimed that engineers were being pressured. BDA acquired 32 acres and 36 guntas owned by Bhavani Housing Co-operative Society in Katriguppe in 1977-78 to develop Banashankari BDA Layout. The Society was not paid any monetary compensation, but was awarded 20 acres of alternate land in the same area in 1988. Since then, the Society has been waging a legal battle demanding that they be allotted the remaining 12.5 acres of alternate land. Following two High Court orders directing BDA to consider the case as per law in 2017, the BDA Board then chaired by incumbent minister S.T. Somashekhar decided to allot 12.5 acres in an equivalent layout in 2019. The BDA had recently taken steps to allot the land. Mr. Vishwanath termed this ‘bulk allotment’, banned as per BDA Act, 1976 and hence ‘illegal’. However, BDA Commissioner H.R. Mahadev said this was not a bulk allotment, but alternate land for land acquired by BDA but not compensated for, and hence ‘nothing illegal’. Mr. Vishwanath alleged that prime land in Nadaprabhu Kempegowda Layout and HBR Layout was being allotted to the Society. “Land worth Rs. 500 crore is being given away causing loss to exchequer,” he alleged. However, Mr. Mahadev said allotment of alternate land was usually done in equivalent layouts, and did not involve monetary transactions.  Land worth Rs. 500 crore is being given away causing loss to exchequer S.R. Vishwanath, Chairman, Bangalore Development Authority||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-stays-allotment-of-125-acres-of-land-to-bhavani-housing-co-op-society/article33797587.ece
10 February 2021||February 10 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Chairman unhappy with ‘delay in SIT probe into scams’||Almost two weeks after the Chief Minister announced a probe by a Special Investigation Team (SIT) into multiple scams in the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA), the inquiry is yet to begin. BDA Chairman S.R. Vishwanath blamed Commissioner H.R. Mahadev for the delay. “Despite several reminders, the Commissioner is yet to send a formal proposal for instituting the inquiry,” he said. Mr. Mahadev said there were several legal hurdles to be cleared before investigation into certain scams are handed over to the SIT. At the review meeting chaired by the Chief Minister a few weeks ago, it was decided to hand over probes into alleged irregularities in corner site cutting, alternate sites and bulk allotment to SIT. The hurdles “Corner site cutting scam was already being probed by the Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB), which has been stayed by the High Court. The High Court has also given a stay on Shashidhar Committee Report that probed irregularities in allotment of alternate sites. We need to clear these stay orders before a new probe is instituted,” explained Mr. Mahadev. He added that the Seshadripuram police were investigating the bulk allotment scam, in which nearly 120 persons have been probed, several agents unmasked and arrests likely. “At this stage, it may not be advisable to hand over the investigation to another agency,” he said. “I will discuss all these issues with the Chief Minister who will take the final call on the issue,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/chairman-unhappy-with-delay-in-sit-probe-into-scams/article33797588.ece
10 February 2021||February 10 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BDA Chairman, Commissioner spar||Mr. Vishwanath, speaking to mediapersons in the BDA Board Room, alleged that the Commissioner had not been giving him any of the files that he had requested despite directions from the Chief Minister to cooperate with him. “Why is this? What is being hidden? If there are illegal allotments being made, I will be forced to say that the Commissioner is part of these acts,” he said. “I won't tolerate efforts to undercut my authority,” he said, while alleging that the Commissioner has not been following protocol as well. Minutes later, Mr. Mahadev addressed the media in his office, which is also in the same building, to counter the allegations levelled against him. “After taking charge, the Chairman wrote a letter to me asking for all files to be submitted to him. It is true I have not submitted all the files he has sought. The BDA Act, 1976 is very clear – the Commissioner is the chief executive of BDA and the Chairman has no executive powers,” he said. He denied allegations of irregularities and said he has been fighting to unearth scams in the Authority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bda-chairman-commissioner-spar/article33797585.ece
10 February 2021||February 10 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Water in 14 lakes good for drinking: NEERI||Water in lakes with “excellent” quality index can be used for drinking, industrial and irrigation purposes; water classified as “good” can be used for domestic, industrial and irrigation, and classified as “poor” can be used only for irrigation, “very poor” quality water in the lakes can be made restricted use for irrigation, and water in other lakes required proper treatment before use,it has been stated in the report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/water-in-14-lakes-good-for-drinking-neeri/article33797591.ece
10 February 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||New lease of life for 17,620 families||As many as 17,620 houses have been constructed under the Livelihood Inclusion and Financial Empowerment (LIFE) Mission in the district. According to officials, most of the eligible beneficiaries included in the first three phases of the mission have now been provided houses. Of the total houses, 2,000 were constructed in the Alappuzha municipal area. Around 500 each were built in Kayamkulam and Cherthala municipalities. More than 3,000 houses were constructed in Mannancherry, Pattanakkad, Chennam Pallippuram, Mararikulam South, Cherthala South, Kanjikuzhy, Thanneermukkom, Aryad, Thrikkunnappuzha and Panavally grama panchayats. Another 2,500 houses were built in Kumarapuram, Mararikulam North, Vayalar, Muhamma, Purakkad, Aroor, Thuravoor, Palamel, Muthukulam, Thycattusserry, Kodamthuruth and Kadakarappally grama panchayats. Work on 2,497 more The officials said that construction of another 2,497 houses was progressing in different parts of the district. Meanwhile, the construction of apartment complexes at Paravoor, Pallipad and Mannancherry under the mission is progressing. The housing complex at Paravoor is being constructed on 2.15 acres of land for 156 families. The two seven-storey blocks will have 78 flat units each. The 500-sq.ft. units will have two bedrooms, a kitchen, hall, among other facilities. Besides, a hi-tech anganwadi, rainwater harvesting facility, solar plant, drinking water facility, waste treatment system, park and parking space will be set up. The total cost of construction is estimated at Rs. 35 crore. The apartment complex is aimed at providing houses to those who have neither a house nor land. The complexes in Pallipad and Mannanchery are being constructed on the land provided by the respective panchayats. Each complex could house 44 families. Fourth complex A fourth complex, which could accommodate 140 families, will be constructed at Thazhakara on revenue land. In the first phase of LIFE Mission, the government had undertaken the construction of incomplete houses under various schemes, whereas, in the second phase, it provided homes to land-holding homeless. The third phase aims at providing houses to those who have neither a home nor land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-lease-of-life-for-17620-families/article33797335.ece
10 February 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Pinarayi calls for collective decisions||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] has started gearing up for the Assembly polls in the district. A meeting of the CPI(M) district secretariat attended by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday reviewed the poll preparations. Sources said that Mr. Vijayan, citing the recent rumblings in the party, had issued stern warnings to those stepping out of the line. He has given instructions to avoid controversies and called for collective decisions. In December, the displeasure in the CPI(M) over the party’s choice of Alappuzha municipal chairperson came out in the open with a section of party workers staging a protest march in Alappuzha town. It is also facing infighting in Kayamkulam and Aroor. Despite a good show in the local body polls, Mr. Vijayan reportedly pointed out the party’s failure in certain pockets. He asked the party district leadership to make effective interventions to resolve issues in Aroor, where the party tasted defeat in the Assembly bypoll in 2019. Citing the rise of BJP in some parts of the district, he called the party cadres to do enough grassroots work to regain the lost ground in Mavelikara, Chengannur and other parts of the district in the local body polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pinarayi-calls-for-collective-decisions/article33797347.ece
10 February 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Ramakkalmedu gets a facelift||Giving a facelift to Ramakkalmedu, the Tourism Department has completed beautification and infrastructure work there at Rs. 1.38 crore. A walkway, flower garden, snack bar, children’s playground and a parking area are among the new facilities. Besides solar lighting, concrete benches and fencing, work had also been done near the Kuravan-Kurathi statue, said District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC) secretary in-charge Gireesh P.S. Tourists on their way to Munnar from Thekkady often visit Ramakkalmedu, which is the fourth largest tourist destination in the district. Ramakkalmedu provides a panoramic view of the vegetable fields in Tamil Nadu. The wind farm and Anappara are the other attractions nearby. Mr. Gireesh said that infrastructure work at Rs. 2.25 crore was being taken up at Anappara. It included a watch tower, entrance, walkway and protection wall. The works were nearing completion, he said. After the lockdown period, tourist arrivals have steadily increased at Ramakkalmedu. As many as 37,204 tourists visited the destination from October to December last year.  Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurated the Ramakkalmedu tourism project online on Tuesday. Tourism Minister Kadakampalli Surendaran presided. Power Minister M.M. Mani, Idukki MP Dean Kuriakose and Tourism Principal Secretary Rani George attended the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ramakkalmedu-gets-a-facelift/article33797332.ece
10 February 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||5 held with ganja||A narcotic enforcement squad seized 100 gm of ganja and one ml of MDMA from a car and arrested five youths at Adimali on Tuesday. They were proceeding to Munnar, an excise official said. The youths sped away while asked to stop on a routine check-up and were arrested after a chase of nearly 15 km.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/5-held-with-ganja/article33797353.ece
10 February 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Rosewood timber worth Rs. 60 lakh seized||A team of Forest officials led by Meppadi Range Forest Officer N.K. Shameer seized 54 pieces of illegal rosewood timber worth Rs. 60 lakh from a saw mill at Perumbavoor in Ernakulam district on Monday. The timber logs were transported from Wayanad to the saw mill without valid documents, Mr. Shameer told The Hindu . The saw mill owner said the logs were transported by one Roji Augustine on behalf of Surya Timbers at Vazhavatta in Wayanad, Mr. Shameer said. Though the saw mill owner demanded Roji to produce documents, the latter failed to do so, Mr. he said. Officials could not find documents such as stock register and sale and purchase register at the wood depot at Vazhavatta. However, Roji had put hammer mark on the logs. A case has been registered. Meanwhile, Anto Augustine, State general Secretary, Kerala Congress (P.C. Thomas faction), accused Forest officials of harassing farmers who had axed the trees as per a State government order issued in November 2020. According to the order, no permission is required to cut trees, except sandalwood, grown on title deed land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rosewood-timber-worth-rs-60-lakh-seized/article33797254.ece
10 February 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||CM opens boat terminal||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday inaugurated the Mavilakappuram boat terminal which was constructed as part of the Malanad Malabar River Cruise Tourism project. The project is envisioned by the Tourism Department to connect rivers and lakes in Kannur and Kasaragod districts. The boat terminal is the first completed project in Kasaragod under infrastructure development for smooth navigation from Parassinikkadavu to Kottapuram. The facility, located in Valiyaparambu panchayat, was constructed at a cost of over Rs. 2 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-opens-boat-terminal/article33797255.ece
10 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||A panchayat in the throes of water scarcity||The New Year seems to have brought little respite to the water woes of Cheranalloor residents as they were forced to undertake the first major protest of the year to the Kerala Water Authority (KWA), which, in fact, has become a way of life for them over the years, demanding restoration of drinking water supply on Tuesday. The protesters led by Ernakulam MLA T.J. Vinod and panchayat members including, Cheranalloor panchayat president K.G. Rajesh, laid siege to the office of KWA Superintending Engineer for more than two hours eventually eliciting a written assurance from the official to restore water supply in a couple of days. 15 wards affected A day-long shut down of the Aluva treatment plant on January 8 was the latest bug to hit the water supply in the panchayat. “Even a single day’s shutdown hits the water supply in our areas for over more than a month and a longer shutdown could be even worse. Water supply is yet to be restored in 15 of the 17 wards in the panchayat since the latest shutdown. It has now almost become a ritual to stage a protest to get the supply restored,” said Mr. Rajesh. KWA official, he said, has promised to restore the water supply to normal levels within two days by boosting the pumping. Mr. Vinod said that a lasting solution to the problem could be found within a year by commissioning a Rs. 21-crore project whereby new pipelines will be laid directly from the pump house at Thammanam to Cheranalloor and storing water in an overhead tanker to be constructed at Kunnumpuram. “The laying of the pipeline near the Edappally railway cross will begin on Wednesday while permission is awaited from the Public Works Department, Kochi Corporation, and National Highways Authority of India for the rest of the area,” he said. Manoj Bhaskar, district treasurer of the Ernakulam District Residents Association Apex Council and a resident of Cheranalloor, said that the prolonged disruption in water supply has become a way of life for people in most parts of the panchayat. While admitting to the problem, Water Authority officials attributed it to the location of the panchayat along the tail end of the supply line. Any disruption in the Aluva water treatment plant affects the supply in Cheranalloor and lingers even after the pumping is resumed and it takes days before the supply gets stabilised, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-panchayat-in-the-throes-of-water-scarcity/article33797717.ece
10 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||ESZ marking to trigger slugfest||Fresh efforts to demarcate the Eco Sensitive Zone (ESZ) are turning out to be a volatile issue in at least five districts with public protests brewing against the move. It is the rejection of the zero ESZ marked for the Thattekad Bird Sanctuary, and the Idukki, Aralam and Kottiyoor wildlife sanctuaries that has forced the State government to revisit the ESZ of these protected areas. The redrawing of the ESZ by incorporating densely populated areas in the zones could emerge as a political talking point in at least a few constituencies of Ernakulam, Idukki, Wayanad and Kannur districts. The government has gone for zero ESZ in these protected areas by excluding the densely populated areas from the ambit of the zones after bowing to public pressure. Onus on State However, with the Centre turning down the proposal, the onus is on the State government to convince the masses and include populated areas lying close to the boundary of the protected areas in the zones. The government has no other way but to prepare the ESZ as prescribed by the Centre, said government sources. Incidentally, these areas had earlier witnessed massive protests against the move. Zero ESZ is not acceptable as indicated by the expert committee of the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, said Surendrakumar, Chief Wildlife Warden. The case of each protected area would have to be taken up on a case-to-case basis and the zones redrawn, he said. In the case of Aralam, some of the areas of the Aralam farm allotted for tribal rehabilitation and areas next to the Cheenkanni river and Kanichar will have to be included as the earlier proposal has been turned down, said Shajna Karim, wildlife warden. Clarification sought A clarification on the suggestions of the panel regarding the Kottiyoor wildlife sanctuary has been sought. The ESZ of Kottiyoor will be redrawn after obtaining the clarification, she said. In the case of Idukki, the committee has noted that the justification of the State government for zero ESZ is unacceptable. It has also highlighted the fact that Idukki is highly landslip-prone area and the State should be mindful of permitting developmental activities in such a region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/esz-marking-to-trigger-slugfest/article33797349.ece
10 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Freedom Food set to expand business in district||The district jail authorities are set to scale up the market of products being sold under the Freedom Food Factory brand by opening a new takeaway counter on the District Court premises and deploying an additional mobile sales unit to meet the increased demand. At present, there are three counters for the food brand at Kaloor, Kacherippady and in front of the district jail at Kakkanad. Besides, two mobile units are deployed that make rounds of Thripunithura and Kochi Refinery areas and boat jetty and High Court junction respectively. “We are also planning to add variety beyond the items on offer now. We have submitted a proposal for buying a Rs. 2 lakh-worth idli unit that could churn out around 120 idlis in 30 minutes. Once that is inducted, we will be able to add variety other than chapathi to the breakfast menu,” said P. Vijayan, Jail Superintendent. The timing of the takeaway counters and deployment of mobile units have been advanced to find more consumers for breakfast. The counters now open as early as 8 a.m. and operate till around 6 p.m. whereas the counter attached to the jail functions till 8.30 p.m. The jail authorities are also looking for sponsorship to deploy another mobile unit so as to serve the areas adjoining Government Medical College, Kalamasserry. The existing mobile units were sponsored by Cochin Shipyard Limited and BPCL. The Freedom Food Factory fetches a daily revenue of around Rs. 85,000 and it dropped only marginally even during the lockdown as the jail counter functioned all along. “We now also have a tie-up with Milma whereby a room attached to our jail counter is being used for the sale of all their products other than milk and curd at a discounted price of 10%,” said Mr. Vijayan.  Charity project The jail also associates with a charity project Hunger Hunt on the first of every month whereby biriyanis are being delivered for orphanages and old age homes. The existing food production capacity is utilised to the hilt while the jail authorities remain open to further scaling up the capacity in tune with the demand. Around 30 inmates are associated with the production of food, including chapathis, chicken, vegetable, and egg dishes, and chicken and vegetable biriyanis. “Many inmates with an affinity for cooking are volunteering to be part of the project and hopefully they will make a living out of that once they are released. Our food brand also had an effect in bringing down prices of food in the open market. For instance, biriyanis started becoming available for as less as Rs. 65 after we started marketing it for that price,” said Mr. Vijayan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/freedom-food-set-to-expand-business-in-district/article33797722.ece
10 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Foundation laid for petrochemicals park||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday laid the foundation stone for the petrochemicals park coming up on 229 acres at Ambalamugal. He said the facility pointed to the growth of Kerala as one of the favoured industrial investment destinations in the country. The petrochemicals park is coming up on land acquired from the public sector Fertilizers and Chemicals Travancore, close to the Bharat Petroleum Corporation’s Kochi refinery. The State had acquired nearly 482 acres from FACT. BPCL refinery was given 171 acres on lease for its development and expansion activities. Thirty-three per cent of the land is being set aside to create a green belt as per the recommendation of the Ministry of Environment. The Chief Minister said the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government had succeeded in creating an atmosphere of confidence among investors. Both in the innovations index brought out by NITI Ayog and in the ranking in ease of doing business, Kerala had earned good position, he added. “The Palakkad mega food park has begun operations while the Cherthala mega food park is complete. Work on the Thiruvananthapuram Life Sciences Park is in progress and the second phase of the Palakkad Light Engineering Park is complete. Work on the Ottappalam Defence Park is under way and foundation was laid for the Spices Park in Thodupuzha on Tuesday,” he said. Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan presided over the virtual function. He also gave away the allotment letters from Kinfra to 17 units that have proposed investments in the petrochemicals park under the early bird scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/foundation-laid-for-petrochemicals-park/article33797715.ece
10 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Frequent fires raise an alarm at Kalamassery||In the latest in a series of fire incidents in the area, a huge heap of plastic refuse dumped on land owned by HMT Machine Tools at Kalamassery along the extension route of the Seaport-Airport road was ablaze for some time on Tuesday. The fire was reported close to where the gas pipelines of the City Gas Project pass through around 2 p.m. The presence of plastic and containers used for storing tar meant that thick black smoke billowed from the area covered with dry grass. A fire tender from Eloor fire station put out the fire within 45 minutes. The fire was caused intentionally or by someone who tossed away a burning cigarette butt, it was assumed. “It was the fifth such incident since the start of the year and the presence of gas pipelines in the vicinity makes it a grave potential threat. The general public, police, and local body authorities should be alert to the danger,” said T.B. Ramakrishnan, Station Officer, Eloor Fire and Rescue Services. ‘HMT non-cooperative’ Nishad A.K., Health Standing Committee chairman of the Kalamasserry municipality, attributed the problem to the alleged indifference of the HMT authorities. “We had issued multiple notices to HMT officials drawing attention to the dumping of waste on their property. It is their responsibility to ensure that their property is not turned into a waste dumping ground. But they have not been cooperative so far,” he said. However, HMT employees said that the company in its precarious financial condition and reduced deployment of security personnel can hardly do anything about waste dumping unless the public changed their attitude about it. “Previously, the company used to have over 300 security personnel guarding its premises whereas it is now scaled down to a fourth of that. Also, even a business seems to be thriving in dumping waste from outside the Kalamasserry municipality on HMT’s property,” said P. Krishnadas, secretary, CITU-affiliated HMT Employees Union. “Frequent fires, besides causing air pollution, also pose a threat to the wilderness over the unused HMT land that acts as the region’s air coolers. We are going to lose this little patch of green should there be a major fire. But no one is taking this seriously,” says a nature enthusiast who alerted the fire services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/frequent-fires-raise-an-alarm-at-kalamassery/article33797719.ece
10 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Plan for logistics park at petrochem facility||The array of industrial units coming up at the petrochemicals park here, for which Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan laid the foundation on Tuesday, includes a logistics park, neopentyl glycol plant, PVC pipe-making and PVC foam units, besides a sulphur processing facility. The petrochemicals park is coming up on 229 acres, acquired from the public sector Fertilizers and Chemicals Travancore (FACT) at Ambalamugal, close to BPCL’s Kochi refinery. The concept of a petrochemicals park came up more than a decade ago with BPCL’s Kochi refinery deciding to expand capacity to 15.5 million units. Ever since, keen interest has been shown by industries across the globe in being part of the project in Kochi. Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan on Tuesday issued letters of allotment under the ‘Early Bird Scheme’ to 17 units that had made proposals for investment in the park. Among those issued letter of allotment is Cellaspace, promoted by the Sri Kailas Group. The group has been allotted 25 acres, on which it will build a plug-and-play space, spread over 6.5 lakh sq ft. The space will include storage for COVID 19 vaccines, company executive director Visakh Rajkumar said.    Rs. 180-crore investment He said the logistics park, which involves an investment of around Rs. 180 crore, was a takeoff from the conventional space and would include space for assembly, repacking, and green manufacturing.  A communication said that the company had formed a special purpose vehicle (SPV) to complete the Kochi project and would increase Cellaspace’s portfolio of industrial/logistics space close to one million sq ft. Ozone Life Private Ltd, a PVC foam board unit, is among those allotted space in the upcoming park. E.P. Shereef, who received the letter of allotment from the Minister, said the company had won recognition for its performance and expressed optimism to continue the good performance at the upcoming park.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plan-for-logistics-park-at-petrochem-facility/article33797351.ece
10 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Man held on charge of molestation bid||The Kalady police on Tuesday arrested a person on the charge of attempting to molest a woman. The arrested person was identified as Manoj, 36, of Manjapra. The incident took place last Wednesday when the accused on a scooter tried to molest the victim who was riding a bicycle from behind along the University-Inchakkaval Road. He then fled the scene. A team led by Kalady Inspector Santhosh B, Sub Inspectors Prashanth P. Nair, Jose M.P, and James, and Assistant Sub Inspectors Nawab K.A, Noufal, and Jayanthy made the arrest. He was produced before the court and remanded.  Petrol pump theft The Aluva East police arrested the second accused in connection with the theft of Rs. 3.43 lakh from a petrol pump at Ambattukavu. The arrested was identified as Sabith, 21, of Kasaragod. The money was stolen from the office of the petrol pump last October. A team led by Inspector Rajesh P.S., Sub Inspectors Vinod R and Shaju T.V., and civil police officers Haris, Mahin Shah, and Niyas made the arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-on-charge-of-molestation-bid/article33797720.ece
10 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Ganja dealer arrested||The Ernakulam Rural police on Tuesday arrested an alleged lynchpin of a gang accused of smuggling in ganja in large quantities reportedly from the Maoist-infested areas of Andhra Pradesh. The accused, Sharafudheen, a native of Palakkad, was arrested from a village in Vishakapatnam. The police had in November seized 150 kg of ganja. The arrest followed a probe by a special investigation squad formed by District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik and led by Angamaly Inspector Sony Mathai. The Rural police had secured clear information on the supply chain of the narcotic. This helped them trace back the epic centre of supply to the Maoist-infested areas of Andhra Pradesh. Subsequently, the team visited the areas and conducted preliminary inquiry. Later, another team was sent to verify the information collated by the first team. The team identified the village central to the supply of ganja to Kerala. Ganja obtained from the village at cheap rates was allegedly sold at 10 to 15 fold in other States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ganja-dealer-arrested/article33797721.ece
10 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||District police chief’s office wins farm award||The office of District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik received a recognition of a different kind when its backyard farm was adjudged the third best farm to be nurtured in the public sector. The farm was the brainchild of Mr. Karthik who nurtured it despite his busy schedule. Produce from the farm was distributed to the public freely. The award was instituted by the Agriculture Development and Farmer Welfare Department. Mr. Karthik urged society to return to its agrarian roots. His kitchen garden challenge during the lockdown period was much appreciated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-police-chiefs-office-wins-farm-award/article33797713.ece
10 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Rummy to come under gaming Act||The State government on Tuesday informed the Kerala High Court that the government had proposed to remove the exemption given to online rummy game by issuing a notification under the provisions of the Kerala Gaming Act, 1960. The submission was made by government pleader Aravid Babu when a petition seeking to ban the online games came up for hearing. The government submitted that the State Police Chief had already given a proposal to bring online rummy playing under the provisions of the gaming law. In fact, the proposal had been forwarded to the Law Department for vetting, he submitted. According to petitioner Pauly Vadakkan of Thrissur, gambling through online platforms had now become a growing menace in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rummy-to-come-under-gaming-act/article33797354.ece
10 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Entries invited||Entries are invited for the Dakshayani Velayudhan Award, presented by the Department of Women and Child Development to women who work towards uplifting and empowering women. The award comprises Rs. 1 lakh and a certificate. Applications are to be submitted at the ICDS project office, Paravur. The last date is February 15. Applications can be collected from ICDS offices or from www.wcd.kerala.gov.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/entries-invited/article33797709.ece
10 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||615 fresh COVID cases in district||As many as 615 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Tuesday. Six health workers were infected. Thripunithura recorded 24 new cases, Rayamangalam 22, Kadavanthra 19 and Thrikkakara 17. The source of infection could not be traced in 28 cases. With 605 recoveries on Tuesday, the active caseload is now at 10,247. A total of 8,026 samples were sent for testing on the day. While 8,346 people are recovering at home, 45 patients are at the Government Medical College Hospital, 59 are at PVS Hospital, 21 are at the Fort Kochi Taluk Hospital and 692 patients are recuperating at private hospitals. At FLTCs, 157 people are being monitored, and 208 patients are being treated for the infection at SLTCs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/615-fresh-covid-cases-in-district/article33797710.ece
10 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Makam Thozhal on February 26||The Makam Thozhal fest at the Chottanikkara Devi Temple will be held on February 26 in compliance with COVID-19 protocol. A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting of Cochin Devaswom Board officials and the district administration. The Makam Thozhal will be held between 2 p.m. and 10 p.m. People aged above 60 years, below 10 years, pregnant women, people with COVID-19-like symptoms, those who recovered from it recently and those from containment zones will not be allowed. Devotees from other States should produce a ‘COVID-19 negative’ certificate obtained within 24 hours before the darshan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/makam-thozhal-on-feb-26/article33797339.ece
10 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Man rescued from drowning||An unidentified man was saved from drowning in the Venduruthy channel near the Venduruthy-Vikrant bridge by personnel of the Navy’s Seamanship School/Watermanship Training Club on Tuesday. He regained consciousness at the Naval Hospital Sanjeevani from where he was shifted to the Govt. Medical College for further assistance. The police was intimated about the incident, the Navy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-rescued-from-drowning/article33797711.ece
10 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Webinar||K. Kasturirangan, Chairman, drafting committee on National Education Policy and former Chairman of ISRO, will inaugurate an online workshop on the education policy held by the Bhavan’s Research and Development Centre under Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, Kochi, on Wednesday. Principals and vice principals of Bhavan’s schools across India will take part in the workshop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/webinar/article33797714.ece
10 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||KEL on comeback trail: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said that Kerala Electric and Allied Engineering Company Limited (KEL) is on a strong comeback path leveraging new technology. The company is now selling its distribution transformers not only to KSEB but also to power utilities in other States. Mr. Vijayan said when the LDF government came to power in 2016, public sector units were in a weakened state. However, they were strengthened during the LDF rule. He was inaugurating the power transformer plant and an electrical vehicle charging station at the Mamala unit of the company on Tuesday. Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan said the government would address the issue of unemployment. He claimed that the Industries Department had provided jobs to 26,000 people, and 63,000 micro, small and medium industrial units were issued licences, which resulted in the creation of 2.25 lakh new jobs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kel-on-strong-comeback-trail-says-cm/article33797724.ece
10 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Bamboo festival from February 16||The 17th edition of the Kerala Bamboo Festival will be held between February 16 and 20. An exhibition and business meets on bamboo and allied products will be the key features of the festival, which will be held online for the first time in view of the pandemic situation. The Kerala Bamboo Festival is organised by the Kerala State Bamboo Mission in collaboration with the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI), Kerala Bureau of Industrial Promotion (K-BIP), and Industries Department, said a press release here. This year’s festival is being organised with the support of artisans, public and private institutions, agencies, and all involved in the bamboo industry. National and international buyers will participate in the festival, and buyer-seller meetings will be part of the exhibition. There will also be B2B and G2B sessions. The exhibition will feature office stationery, bamboo blinds, kitchen utensils, decorative items, interior design, bamboo furniture, building materials, and bamboo seedlings. For details and registration, call: 0484 4058041/42, 9746903555 or visitkesc@ficci.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bamboo-fete-from-feb-16/article33797334.ece
10 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Talks fail to resolve Muthoot issue: observer||The observer appointed to monitor the conciliatory talks for resolving the dispute between the Muthoot Finance Limited and its striking employees on Tuesday informed the Kerala High Court that the talks had failed to find a solution. The submission was made by the observer and High Court lawyer Liji J. Vadakkedam when a writ petition filed by Muthoot Finance Ltd. seeking police protection for its officer and employees from the striking employees came up for hearing. Senior government pleader P.P. Thajudeen also submitted that the Chief Minister and the Labour Minister had tried to resolve the strike but to no avail. The court then ordered that the Labour Commissioner submit a report before the government in this regard and the government in turn refer the report to the labour court for proper adjudication. The court also directed that police protection be provided to those employees who were willing to work. George Poothottam, senior counsel for the Muthoot company, submitted that the striking workers, with the assistance of outsiders, were causing physical hurt to those willing to work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/talks-fail-to-resolve-muthoot-issue-observer-tells-hc/article33797348.ece
10 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Court to consider ED plea for transfer of Rauf||The Principal Sessions Court, Ernakulam, will consider on Friday the plea of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to transfer K.A. Rauf who has been arrested in connection with a money laundering case here to a court in Uttar Pradesh. The Assistant Director of the ED from New Delhi moved the application for transferring Rauf to the judicial custody of the Principal District and Sessions Judge, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, who is also the Special Judge for cases booked under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. Rauf, according to the ED, was involved in the act of criminal conspiracy along with activists of the Popular Front of India and Campus Front of India who were settled abroad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/court-to-consider-ed-plea-for-transfer-of-rauf/article33797373.ece
10 February 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||KFL launches low-cost goat feed||In a bid to promote goat farming in the State, Kerala Feeds Ltd. (KFL) has launched its low-cost goat feed ‘Kerala Feeds Regular’. The new product, manufactured at KFL’s plant in Karunagapally, costs Rs. 480 a bag. “We have launched ‘Kerala Feeds Regular’ to offset the absence of a low-cost product in the market. It contains nutrients essential for the growth of goats, their breeding and milk production. Though we have ‘Kerala Feeds Malabari Premium’ in the market, it is to raise goats for their meat,” said KFL Managing Director B. Sreekumar. The KFL has been offering cattle feed at low rates to the farmers interested in integrated farming chosen under the company’s Entrepreneurial Vigour project. KFL Chairman K.S. Indusekharan Nair who formally released ‘Kerala Feeds Regular’ here on Monday pointed out that the company was successful in getting close to its turnover target of Rs. 500 crore in the last financial year. “Despite the floods and COVID-19 outbreak, the company recorded a turnover of Rs. 496 crore. From a cumulative loss of Rs. 64 crore in 2016-177, the KFL made a profit of Rs. 2.37 crore in 2017-18. In the current fiscal, the PSU has achieved a profit of Rs. 12 crore after the first three quarters.” Mr. Indusekharan Nair observed the opening of a plant in Thodupuzha in Idukki district and fixing three shifts for KFL’s production unit in Kozhikode as the PSU’s other recent achievements. 1,750 tonnes a day “The company’s daily production of cattle feed rose from 950 tonnes to 1,750 tonnes in the past five years,” he said, The chairman added that the company could distribute cattle feed to farmers in 2018 and 2019 when floods affected their livelihood. “Similarly, the company delivered its products to farmers who were struggling to carry out dairying after the outbreak of the coronavirus. We also found 53 fresh distributors last year when the listed sources showed a reluctance to send raw materials. Today anybody can distribute raw material to KFL as per e-tender guidelines.” At present the company produces three varieties of cattle feed, besides feed for goat, hen, rabbit and mineral-rich Keramin and haystacks. “We are completely dependent on the northern States for the raw material for our products. If the farmer’s protest continues like this for an extended period, it can affect our distribution network in spite of all the precautions,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kfl-launches-low-cost-goat-feed/article33797346.ece
10 February 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam’s tally goes up by 555||As many as 555 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Tuesday. Of the fresh cases, all but two contracted the virus through local contact. The fresh cases also included 39 children and 83 persons aged above 60. With 116 cases, Kottayam municipality led the tally, followed by Changanassery with 20 cases. With 1,194 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 4,426 active cases. 496 in Pathanamthitta As many as 496 persons tested positive in Pathanamthitta. Of the fresh cases, 488 contracted the virus through local contact and among these, the contact source of 29 cases is yet to be identified. Among the local bodies, Thiruvalla reported 31 cases, followed by Pathanamthitta with 26 cases. The disease claimed four more lives in the district and the victims were identified as a 55-year-old woman from Kalanjoor, a 90-year- old Kaviyoor native, a 68-year-old pallickal native and a 53-year- old Cherukol native. With 436 recoveries, the district currently has 5,911 active cases. 338 cases, two deaths Alappuzha reported 338 cases. It also recorded two COVID-19-related deaths. The fresh cases include 334 patients who contracted the disease through local contact. The source of infection of three persons remains unknown. One person who came from abroad also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 Meanwhile, 279 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district recovered. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 4,498. As many as 391 people in the district received COVID-19 vaccination on Tuesday.  (With inputs from Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kottayams-tally-goes-up-by-555/article33797341.ece
10 February 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam to be made experiential tourism hub||The Responsible Tourism Mission Kerala has launched a special project to convert Kottayam into a special hub of experiential tourism in the post-COVID-19 period, K. Rupesh Kumar, State coordinator of the mission, has said. Addressing a one-day training class for the newly elected representatives of the three-tier local bodies in the district, he said tourism would undergo a major change in the post-pandemic scenario with the concept of village tourism gaining prominence. “Rural lifestyles, art activities, taste diversity and agriculture are all set to become major tourist attractions. Taking this into consideration, the RT mission has prepared experiential tour packages with special focus on villages, including Vaikom, Kumarakom, Aymanam, Thiruvarp, Munnilav, Melkavu Matom and Manimala. The local self-government institutions have a key role in making this project a sucess,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kottayam-to-be-made-experiential-tourism-hub/article33797333.ece
10 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Education dept. steps up surveillance in schools||The Education Department in Kozhikode district has intensified surveillance in view of students and teachers of a school at Maranchery near Ponnani in Malappuram testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 en masse on Sunday. As many as 150 students and 34 teachers of Government Higher Secondary School, Maranchery, had tested positive for the virus. V.P. Mini, Deputy Director of Education (DDE), Kozhikode, told The Hindu on Tuesday that the COVID cells in schools would meet every day to take stock of the situation there, and reports would be submitted to the departments of Education and Health. Assistant education officers and district education officers would inspect schools on a regular basis to ensure compliance with the pandemic protocol and report to the DDE. Ms. Mini said not more than four cases had been reported from below 60 schools in the district so far. There are over 200 schools in the district. At present, only two students are allowed to sit on a bench and there should be a maximum of only 20 in a class. Some schools are running two shifts and some have a single shift. “The officers will check if physical distancing protocols are being observed by students and teachers. They will have to ensure that there is no mingling during lunch hours and in washrooms and on playgrounds. It should also be checked if the students are crowding at bus stops. Teachers will be deputed to keep a watch on all these,” said Ms. Mini. The official pointed out that details of suspected cases and possible primary contacts were being collected and intimated to the Health Department every day. Some health officials, however, claimed that though health inspectors and junior public health nurses were part of the COVID cells in each school, it would be impossible to keep a tab on all the activities of teachers and students. Though the government directive was to reduce the number of contacts of infected persons, it was difficult to implement, they said. One official pointed out that a government school in the district had to be closed down for two weeks in December after a teacher there tested positive for the virus.  COVID cells in schools will meet every day to take stock of the situation and reports will be submitted to departments of Education, Health V.P. Mini Deputy Director of Education, Kozhikode||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/education-dept-steps-up-surveillance-in-schools/article33797261.ece
10 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Freedom Square, cultural space to come up on beach||The rich and eventful history of the Kozhikode beach remains rather oblivious to anyone visiting its shores. The Zamorin rule, trade relations with foreigners, British colonial influence, and the fiery struggles during the Independence movement continue to be somewhat hidden. Freedom Square, a project to be launched on Thursday, seeks to close this gap. A cultural space titled ‘Cultural Beach’ too would be opened along with it, A. Pradeepkumar, Kozhikode North MLA, told the media on Tuesday. According to Mr. Pradeepkumar, Kozhikode beach was part of a glorious chapter in India’s freedom struggle, when leaders such as Mohammed Abdur Rahman Sahib  and P. Krishna Pillai braved colonial police batons to stage the Salt Satyagraha here. “The Freedom Square will give a gist of that historical phase to the younger generation. The walls erected here as part of the project will also have plaques on Kozhikode’s trade relations with the Arabs, Chinese and the Portugese and the Zamorin rule,” he said. The project area includes the open stage where political conferences are now being held. The MLA said the beach also stood out as a unique cultural space in the city where events such as the Kerala Literature Festival are held. “The area from Freedom Square to Lion’s Park is designated as Cultural Beach. A long conference hall, small halls, washrooms and other facilities are arranged here,” he added. Architects Vinod Cyriac and P.P. Vinod have designed the spaces. Details about the rent and execution of the projects are being worked out. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will open the two projects on Thursday evening online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/freedom-square-cultural-space-to-come-up-on-beach/article33797252.ece
10 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘India witnessing steady rise in spice production’||Trilochan Mohapatra, Secretary, Department of Agricultural Research and Education, and Director General, Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), opened the four-day international symposium on spices, Symsac X, on Tuesday. Inaugurating the virtual event, Dr. Mohapatra stressed the importance of spices in preventing infections and respiratory issues. Spice production in the country along with the production of other horticultural crops is witnessing steady increase, and the country is producing around 9 million tonnes of spices annually, said Dr. Mohapatra. Citing international research papers, he said COVID-19 infection rate was lower in countries where consumption of spices is high. Participants in the symposium can share their expertise to help India prepare better for cultivation, marketing and export of spices, he added. Dr. Vikramaditya Pandey, Assistant Director General (HS-I), ICAR, New Delhi, presided over the programme, hosted by the Indian Society for Spices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/india-witnessing-steady-rise-in-spice-production/article33797256.ece
10 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||DPC nod for Rs. 250-cr. development projects||The District Planning Committee (DPC) has approved development projects worth Rs. 250.79 crore under the Kozhikode district panchayat, its president Kanathil Jameela has said. A release said on Tuesday that the development seminar to be held on February 16 would give the final approval for the projects. The district panchayat will implement the ‘Jeevalspandanam’ project to buy 40 units of oxygen cylinders for bed-ridden patients with breathing difficulties. It will be implemented through pain and palliative care units. Automatic sanitiser dispensers and infra-red thermometers will be installed at 44 high schools and higher secondary schools under the district panchayat. The project will be launched on February 12. Ms. Jameela said various schemes would be launched for women who lost jobs during the pandemic period. Effective projects are being designed for waste disposal, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dpc-nod-for-rs-250-cr-development-projects/article33797257.ece
10 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Active COVID caseload drops in Kozhikode||The active caseload in Kozhikode district dropped to 7,157 on Tuesday, when the number of recoveries exceeded that of new COVID-19 cases here. According to the District Medical Officer, 477 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 and 797 others recovered. There were 464 locally acquired infections and the source of 11 others was not known. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 126 cases of local transmission, Moodadi 20, Atholi 17 and Koodaranhi 16. As many as 6,570 samples were tested and the daily test positivity rate dipped to 7.26%. A total of 523 health workers got vaccinated at 13 centres on Tuesday, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/active-covid-caseload-drops-in-kozhikode/article33797263.ece
10 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Perambra bypass to be reality||Minister for Public Works G. Sudhakaran will lay the foundation stone for the 2.73-km-long Perambra bypass project on February 14. According to a release on Tuesday, Roads and Bridges Development Corporation Kerala (RBDCK) has been named the special purpose vehicle. The Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) has allocated Rs. 99.15 crore for the construction. Over 400 acres have been acquired.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/perambra-bypass-to-be-reality/article33797262.ece
10 February 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Premarital counselling programme launched||The Directorate of Minority Welfare recently launched its premarital counselling programme. Palakkad Railway Divisional Manager Trilok Kothari inaugurated the State-level programme at Amal College of Advanced Studies, Nilambur. Underscoring the significance of offering premarital counselling, Mr. Kothari said both men and women should take counselling before entering wedded life. “People in villages need premarital counselling much more than their counterparts in towns and cities,” he said. Mr. Kothari said premarital counselling should be included in modern syllabus from high school level as part of reforming the country’s educational system. P.V. Abdul Wahab, MP, presided over the function at the college. Additional Railway Divisional Manager M. Sakeer Hussain, Amal College manager P.V. Ali Mubarak, Principal T.V. Sakariya, Perinthalmanna Coaching Centre for Minority Youth Principal Rajeena, Minority Cell coordinator C. Shihabuddin, and faculty members K.A. Dhanya, C.H. Ali Jaffer and Ameer Hasan spoke. The department of psychology and the Minority Cell are jointly holding an eight-day premarital counselling camp at the college.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/premarital-counselling-programme-launched/article33797802.ece
10 February 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Islamic scholar passes away||Islamic scholar and Samastha Kerala Jamiyyathul Ulama Mushawara member O.T. Moosa Musliar died at his house at Mudikkode, near Pandikkad, on Tuesday. He was president of the Eranad taluk unit of the Samastha Kerala Jamiyyathul Ulama. He was a member of Samastha’s central Mushawara, the organisation’s highest body of scholars since 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/islamic-scholar-passes-away/article33797265.ece
10 February 2021||NEW DELHI,KERALA||Builders may have to pay damages||The Supreme Court on Tuesday indicated that builders of the demolished and illegal high-rise Maradu apartment complexes in Kochi ought to pay 50% of the interim compensation to residents in a time-bound manner or face revenue recovery proceedings. A Bench led by Justice Navin Sinha expressed its mind that the builders should cough up the compensation when senior advocate Kapil Sibal and advocate A. Karthik, representing the builders, sought time to get instructions from their clients. The court scheduled a hearing on February 17. Concrete plan In November, the court had stopped short of putting the builders on a two-week deadline to provide a “concrete plan” to compensate the residents or, in the alternative, face the sale of their attached properties to cover the payments due. The court had, however, put that course of action on hold after the builders had pointed out that it should first adjudicate on certain issues. The builders had referred to a September 27, 2019 order of the apex court which ordered the State government to pay Rs. 25 lakh each to residents whose flats were demolished. These amounts were then to be reimbursed to the State government by those responsible for the flats coming up illegally in violation of the coastal regulation zones. SC-appointed panel An October 28 report filed by the apex court-appointed committee led by Justice K. Balakrishnan Nair had said the builders were responsible for the constructions and had to pay the compensation. The builders had opposed this recommendation, saying the entire liability for the illegal constructions cannot fall upon them. An October 16 affidavit filed by Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta said 27,735 building violations of coastal regulations had been detected by coastal district committees in 10 districts. The court had slammed the State for “patent breach of law” by allowing illegal structures to come up along a fragile coastal zone even as thousands perish or are rendered homeless by natural tragedies like floods.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/builders-may-have-to-pay-damages/article33797374.ece
10 February 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Surgery for Ayurveda: IMA to launch stir||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) is on a warpath against the Central government’s decision permitting Ayurveda postgraduates to perform 58 surgical procedures. IMA leaders said here on Tuesday that they would be forced to launch an agitation against the order of the Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM), a statutory body that regulates the Indian medical systems such as Ayurveda, Siddha, Sowa-Rigpa, and Unani following the Central government’s adamant stand. Doctors across the country had struck work on December 11 in protest against the Centre. But the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government is unfazed. IMA State president C.K. Chandrasekharan, district president P. Rajagopalan Nair and district convener M.B. Ali said that doctors would go on a hunger strike in all districts until February 14. “Each medical stream has its strengths. Ayurveda students and practitioners should focus on their stream and strengthen it through research. If they are allowed to practise surgical procedures of modern medicine, they will in effect be turning to modern medical streams, and at loss will be Ayurveda,” IMA leaders said. People’s health They said that apart from harming Ayurveda by promoting its practitioners to take up modern medical procedures, the new move would also pose a challenge for the people’s health.  If they are allowed to practise surgical procedures of modern medicine, they will in effect be turning to modern medical streams, and at loss will be Ayurveda||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ima-on-warpath/article33797338.ece
10 February 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Crackdown on rash driving in Palakkad||Speeding, helmetless riding of bikes, non-wearing of seat-belts and lack of enough light on the road were found to have been the main reasons for a recent spurt in accident deaths in Palakkad district. As many as 34 people died on the road in the district from various accidents last month. More than 240 had suffered injuries. Figures released by e transport authorities showed that Palakkad taluk stood ahead of others in the district in the number of accidents. When nine lives were lost in Palakkad taluk, eight died in Chittur, seven in Alathur, four each in Ottapalam and Mannarkkad, and two in Pattambi taluk. Regional Transport Officer (Enforcement) V.A. Sahadevan said that stringent punitive measures were being initiated against those violating road rules.  The country is observing road safety month from January 18 to February 18. A special inspection drive was launched in the district under the Motor Vehicle Department’s enforcement wing on Sunday. The drive lasting until February 17 will have special focus to prevent drunk driving, use of mobile phone while driving, zebra crossing, stopline crossing, and parking near the opening of medians. Special checks will be conducted in school premises as part of detecting speeding of vehicles from February 10 to 13. Mr. Sahadevan said that motorcyclists were found to be responsible for most accidents. “Out of the 216 accidents, 87 were caused by motorcyclists,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/crackdown-on-rash-driving-in-palakkad/article33797843.ece
10 February 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Train services rescheduled||Track repair work at the Mulankunnathukavu and Wadakkanchery yards will necessitate changes in train services from February 12. The work will be taken up between 4 p.m. and 10 p.m. on specified days until February 28, said railway officials here on Tuesday. Kannur-Alappuzha daily special train (06308) and Kannur-Ernakulam daily special train (06306) will be short-terminated at Shoranur Junction on February 12, 13, 14, 19, 20, 21, 26, 27, and 28. Its pairing train (06307) will be partially cancelled between Alappuzha and Shoranur. It will be operating from Shoranur instead. Palakkad-Tirunelveli daily special train (06792) will be partially cancelled between Palakkad and Thrissur on February 12, 13, 14, 19, 20, 21, 26, 27, and 28. Its pairing train (06791) will also be cancelled partially between Thrissur and Palakkad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/train-services-rescheduled/article33797803.ece
10 February 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Youth Congress march begins in Palakkad today||The Youth Congress will take out a four-day march from Wednesday in support of the striking farmers of North India. The march on foot will also raise a banner of protest against the alleged back-door appointment by the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government. Youth Congress district president T.H. Firos Babu will lead the march titled Hum Chale. Youth Congress State president Shafi Parambil, MLA, will inaugurate the march at Koottanad on Wednesday afternoon. V.T. Balram, MLA, will flag it off. The march will cover 81 km on foot across Palakkad district in four days. On the inaugural day, it will move from Koottanad to Pattambi. The march on Thursday will be up to Ottapalam from Pattambi. On Friday, it will move up to Parali. On Saturday, the marchers will disburse, said Mr. Firos Babu here. There will be 120 permanent members for the march representing the 12 Assembly constituencies in the district. Mr. Babu said that COVID-19 protocol would be observed throughout the march. A youth rally will be organised in Palakkad town on February 16 afternoon. Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy will inaugurate a public meeting at Fort Maidan here after the rally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-congress-march-begins-in-palakkad-today/article33797804.ece
10 February 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Chennithala compares Isaac to Modi||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has said that Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac is allergic towards strikes and protests. He was speaking here on Tuesday after visiting the Walayar girls’ mother who has been on an agitation seeking action against the police officer who investigated her the minor children’s death case. Comparing Dr. Isaac to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Mr. Ramesh said that both were allergic to strikes and protests. Mr. Modi had described protesters as ‘aandolan jivi’ or professional agitators. Mr. Ramesh said the United Democratic Front (UDF) would support the protests by the youth against the government’s backdoor appointments. He said the government was trying to protect the CPI(M) workers in the Walayar case. “The government has been cruel to the parents of the two children,” he said. He said the UDF would oppose the appointment of outgoing Chief Secretary Viswas Mehta as Chief Information Commissioner (CIC). Mr. Chennithala had lodged a complaint against Dr. Mehta with the Vigilance and Anti Corruption Bureau, citing irregularities in appointing private consultancy firms in certain projects of the Water Resources Department. According to Mr. Ramesh, only a man with integrity should be considered for the post of the CIC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chennithala-compares-isaac-to-modi/article33797846.ece
10 February 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Nominations sought for Kalasagar awards||Nominations have been invited from art aficionados for the 12th Kalasagar Awards given in memory of Kalamandalam Krishnankutty Poduval for excellence in the field of Kathakali and related arts. Awards will be given to artists in Kathakali costume, music, chenda, maddalam and chutti, and artistes of Ottanthullal, Chakyarkoothu, Koodiyattom, Mohiniyattom, Bharatanatyam, Kuchipudi, Thayambaka and Pachavadyam. Panchavadyam artistes who excel in thimila, maddalam, edakka, ilathalam and kombu will be considered for the award. The artistes should be between 40 and 70 years of age and should be living in Kerala. The nomination can be sent to the Secretary, Kalasagar, Kavalappara, Shornur, Palakkad - 679523. The awards will be given away at the 97th birth anniversary celebrations of the late Kathakali maestro Kalamandalam Krishnankutty Poduval on May 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nominations-invited-for-kalasagar-awards/article33797352.ece
10 February 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Chennithala registers dissent on CIC choice||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has registered his dissent in the minutes of a meeting held to appoint outgoing Chief Secretary Viswas Mehta as the new Chief Information Commissioner (CIC). He registered his dissent in the minutes here on Tuesday morning. Signing the minutes As the meeting had been held online to choose the new CIC, Mr. Chennithala could not sign the minutes. Without signing the minutes, the recommendation could not be sent to the Governor. The decision to appoint Dr. Mehta was made by a three-member committee comprising the Chief Minister, the Law Minister and the Leader of the Opposition. Difficulties Mr. Chennithala said he had difficulties in conveying his displeasure and dissent as the meeting had been held online. “Technical snags had caused communication barriers. So I had sent a letter registering my dissent. But the government said the decision to appoint Dr. Mehta was unanimous. That is not right,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chennithala-registers-dissent/article33797337.ece
10 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State to draw lessons on transmission from school cases||Public health experts have called for a deeper epidemiological study and documentation of the transmission of COVID-19 in two schools in Malappuram district and draw lessons from the incident as schoolchildren may play a key role in augmenting disease transmission through the community. This is especially so as children, while they are as susceptible as adults to the disease, have mostly asymptomatic or mild infection. Chance for repeat Schools in the State are set for reopening in full strength and similar incidents are likely to be repeated. Finding and breaking disease transmission among them is a priority or else huge outbreaks can result in the community, says T.S. Anish, Associate Professor of Community Medicine, Government Medical College here. “Many adults have had natural infection and are in the process of getting vaccinated and this herd immunity has kept the children too protected inside homes. Despite the herd immunity, schools can easily become disease transmission hubs as all children are un-immune,” he points out.  School clusters Many school transmission studies point to the fact that unlike adults, children remain largely asymptomatic even after contracting COVID-19. It is highlighted that only a small proportion of children have been identified as infected through testing, which was performed concurrent with the onset of symptoms (JAMA editorial, August 28, 2020). The study, Symptomatic and Asymptomatic Viral Shedding in Paediatric Patients Infected With SARS-CoV-2, referred to by JAMA, says a surveillance strategy that tests only symptomatic children will fail to identify those children who are silently transmitting infection while moving about their community and schools. Malappuram District Medical Officer K. Sakeena says that in both schools where clusters were identified, only one child each were found to have symptoms. The rest were all asymptomatic. Large-scale testing thus initiated has helped prevent many potential school and community clusters. “The focus of surveillance should shift to the contacts and households of children and grandparents at home should be either kept away from home or kept protected. If infection is spreading from a classroom to rest of the school, it is more likely that teachers are carrying the disease from classroom to classroom. The focus of surveillance and testing should shift to teachers if there are large clusters inside schools,” according to an epidemiologist. Guidelines Apart from the Education Department’s general guidelines, it should be communicated clearly that any child with respiratory illnesses must be kept at home and that if any adult at home has the symptoms, the child should not be sent to school. In Malappuram, testing will now move to rest of the schools and tuition centres, Dr. Sakeena says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-to-draw-lessons-on-transmission-from-school-cases/article33797362.ece
10 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||BJP blames Mayor for not taking part in meet||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) organised a protest in front of the city Corporation on Tuesday accusing Mayor Arya Rajendran of skipping a development seminar of the civic body to participate in a CPI(M) event. However, Ms. Rajendran refuted these allegations. She posted a notice on Facebook of the said meeting on February 6, which indicated that it was a general body meeting of working groups ahead of the preparation of the People’s Plan for the year. BJP’s allegations Inaugurating the protest meeting, BJP district president and Corporation councillor V.V. Rajesh accused the Mayor of deceiving the city’s public by not taking part in a meeting for the city’s development. Mr. Rajesh accused senior CPI(M) leaders of pulling the levers of power in the Corporation from behind. Mayor clarifies Ms. Rajendran, in her Facebook post, said that the development standing committee was the organiser of the meeting. The Mayor said that she skipped the said meeting because she had to take part in a training programme that was organised by the Kerala Institute of Local Administration (KILA) as well as an organisational event. The Deputy Mayor, who was supposed to chair the meeting in her absence, could not do so because of ill health. Yet, the meeting went ahead as per schedule and the Mayor was apprised of the proceedings as soon as she was back in office, said the post. Preliminary meetings She said that this was one of the preliminary meetings ahead of the development seminar, which would be organised soon on a bigger scale. Ms. Rajendran, in her Facebook post, also accused the parties opposition of wilfully misleading the public through such allegations against her.  The Mayor says that she skipped the meeting as she had to take part in a training programme organised by KILA||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-blames-mayor-for-not-taking-part-in-meet/article33797838.ece
10 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||City keeps the date with IFFK||Despite the COVID-19 pandemic, the city is keeping its date with the International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK). The much-anticipated 25th edition of the festival will begin at Nishagandhi on Wednesday. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the festival at 6 p.m. Lighting of 25 lamps as a symbol of 25 years of the festival will be a highlight. Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan will be the chief guest. Minister for Culture A.K. Balan will preside. Director Adoor Gopalakrishnan will receive the Lifetime Achievement Award on behalf of Jean Luc Godard, French-Swiss filmmaker who pioneered the French New Wave film movement. Mr. Godard will attend the ceremony online in the wake of COVID-19. Bosnian film Quo Vadis, Aida? will be the inaugural film of the festival. The film will be screened at Nishagandhi after the inaugural ceremony. MLAs V.K. Prashanth and Mukesh; Rani George, Principal Secretary, Department of Culture; T.K. Rajeev Kumar, former chairman, Kerala State Chalachitra Academy; and current chairperson Kamal and vice-chairperson Beena Paul will be present at the function. Only guests and reserved delegates will be allowed to attend the opening ceremony of the festival, which declares solidarity with the survivors of the pandemic. The inaugural ceremony will be held under strict COVID-19 preventive measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/25th-iffk-opens-today/article33797712.ece
10 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rank holders’ agitation turns violent||The two-week long stir by job aspirants in front of the Secretariat escalated on Tuesday with the agitators threatening to commit suicide for the second consecutive day. The vicinity turned into a battleground with the opposition parties joining the struggle and clashing with the police. A day after two last grade servants’ post rank holders attempted suicide, four job-seekers who figured in the Kerala Public Service Commission (PSC) rank list for civil police officers’ (CPO) posts threatened to commit suicide from a two-storeyed building opposite the Secretariat by around 5.30 p.m. While they were soon taken into custody by the police and fire force officers and shifted to the Armed Reserve camp, 100-odd agitators laid siege to a lane of the MG Road demanding their immediate release. They also refused to budge from their positions until the government extended the validity of their rank list. According to them, the CPO rank list had expired last year even while numerous vacancies remained unfilled in various police battalions. The protesters alleged that the government had not reported several vacancies for reasons that were unknown to them. Besides, appointments from the rank lists had been suspended for several months at various points in time, including against the backdrop of the stabbing incident at University College as well as the COVID-19 crisis. Soon, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers, led by district president V.V. Rajesh, marched to the Secretariat and pledged support to the agitators’ demands. It was not long after the Youth Congress’s rally to the Secretariat when the Chief Minister in effigy was burnt. Their demonstration took a turn for the worse when the activists attempted to topple the barricades that were erected in front of the Secretariat gate. This prompted the police to use water cannons and lathi charge at the Youth Congress workers, resulting in some of them sustaining injuries. Congress legislators V.S. Sivakumar and K.S. Sabarinadhan agitated in front of the Armed Reserve camp demanding the release of the four protesting rank holders. Reacting to the rank holders’ agitation, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac told media persons that the protesters were being incited by opposition parties and their feeder organisations. This was evident from statements made by leaders of the opposition parties. He also alleged that many rank-holder associations were launched with political interests. While pointing out that it was impractical to employ each person who figured in PSC rank lists, Dr. Isaac said contractual workers had not been regularised in vacancies that were reported to the PSC.  (Suicide prevention helpline: DISHA: 1056, 0471-2552056)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rank-holders-agitation-turns-violent/article33797841.ece
10 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Film lovers to hit cinemas as IFFK capital leg begins today||In the post-COVID-19 world, film festivals are happening online. Yet, the Kerala State Chalachitra Academy, the main organisers of the International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK), has chosen to organise one physically, in a decentralised manner, becoming the first film festival in the country to spread its wings out of its home city. In the elaborate arrangements for COVID-19 testing of every single delegate and in ensuring safety protocols in the cinema halls, the resolve to make the festival a success even in trying circumstances is quite evident. For the fourth consecutive year, the festival is being organised in such circumstances. The previous three editions were organised in the aftermath of Cyclone Ockhi and two major floods. The crowd will be much smaller, around 2,000, bringing back memories of some of the earlier editions of the festival, compared to the around 10,000 usually. It will instead be distributed across the three more phases of the festival in Kochi, Thalassery, and Palakkad. Consequently, the coming together of the festival crowd from across the State, one of the elements that make the IFFK special, will be missing this year. The idea of decentralising the festival did lead to some initial controversies, but the logic did sink in with the majority a few days later. For the many in towns far away from the capital, and unable to make the trip for the annual festival, the IFFK coming closer home at least for a year could be something to look forward to. Fare on offer Just like the number of the audience, the number of films has come down to 80 this year from the usual 180. But, delegates are still somewhat spoilt for choice from the fare on offer, from the old masters, including Israeli filmmaker Amos Gitai's Laila in Haifa and Russian filmmaker Andrei Konchalovsky's Dear Comrades , to Uberto Pasolini's Nowhere Special and French 'new' wave filmmaker Francois Ozon's Summer of 85 . Among the Indian films to look forward to are Tamil film Kuthiraivaal directed by Manoj Jahson and Shyam Sunder, Sajin Baabu's multi-award winning Biriyani and Don Palathara's 1956, Central Travancore . Mohit Priyadarshi's Kosa and Lijo Jose Pellissery's Churuli vie for honours in a strong International Competition section. Virtual presence One of the highlights of this festival will be the virtual presence of French new wave pioneer Jean Luc Godard, the recipient of the Lifetime Achievement award at the IFFK this year. Six of his films are also being screened. Also on offer is a retrospective of South Korean filmmaker Lee Chang-Dong, known most for the 2018 psychological thriller Burning . The festival will be paying homage to nine film personalities who passed away this year, with screenings of their works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/film-lovers-to-hit-cinemas-as-iffk-capital-leg-begins-today/article33797369.ece
10 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||5,214 new cases, 6,475 recoveries||The State on Tuesday reported 5,214 new cases of COVID-19 when 69,844 tests were done in the past 24 hours, taking the cumulative case burden to 9,77,394. While 49,658 of these tests were rapid antigen assay, RT-PCR tests numbered 17,608, while other molecular diagnostic tests such as Truenat and CBNAAT constituted the remaining tests. The test positivity rate was 7.47%. With 6,475 patients reported to have recovered from their disease on the day, the active case pool dropped further to 64,131 cases. The cumulative recoveries till date has risen to 9,09,102. With 19 more deaths added to the official list of COVID-19 fatalities, the toll ever since the pandemic began has reached 3,902. Thiruvananthapuram reported six deaths, Kozhikode four, Thrissur and Alappuzha two each, and Kollam, Idukki, Malappuram, Wayanad and Kannur reported one each. Official reports said the number of critically ill patients being treated in ICUs in various hospitals was 803 with 227 of them requiring ventilator support Among districts, Ernakulam reported 615 cases, Kollam 586, Kottayam 555, Thrissur 498, Pathanamthitta 496, Kozhikode 477, Thiruvananthapuram 455, Malappuram 449, Alappuzha 338, Kannur 273, Palakkad 186, Kasaragod 112, Idukki 100 and Wayanad 74.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-reports-5214-new-cases/article33797367.ece
10 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Regularisation bid in Kerala Bank alleged||The Kerala Bank Clerk/Cashier PSC Rank Holders Association has alleged that steps are on to regularise 1,856 contract staff in all districts, except Malappuram. The director board of Kerala Bank has prepared a list of 1,856 contract personnel to be regularised and another list of those who had completed 10 years on contract from the former and a letter has been submitted to the government, it says. S. Ajith Kumar of the association said the move was to regularise those in the posts of part-time sweeper to general manager grade. The association said all except collection agents and part-time sweepers would have to be recruited through the Kerala Public Service Commission. Those being listed for regularisation included security personnel, night watchmen, part-time sweepers, collection agents, clerks, lift operators, electricians and even gunman. A case filed by the rank-holders on the PSC list for cashiers and clerks in district cooperative banks was pending in the Kerala High Court. Mr. Ajithkumar said although they secured an interim verdict to report vacancies, the Cooperative Department was of the view that it was not possible as the District Cooperative Banks did not exist. From the 6,000 on the PSC rank list published in 2017, only 700 had been posted in three years.  Bank’s stance Responding to the concerns, Kerala Bank president Gopi Kottamuraickal said the posts referred to the PSC would not be filled by other means. “How can we make appointments to posts in the bank that had been reported to the PSC,” he asked. The government had taken a policy decision to regularise contract staff having more than 10 years of service. “We have compiled a list of daily collection agents, part-time sweepers and others with service of several years. Discrepancies and the concerns raised by the association will be looked into and will be acted upon in 24 hours,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/regularisation-bid-in-kerala-bank-alleged/article33797355.ece
10 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||New platform for digital empowerment||The State government on Tuesday formally launched the Kerala Knowledge Mission to promote innovations, coordinate knowledge initiatives and upskill the educated youth in tune with the changing trends in the global job market. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurated the Digital Workforce Management System, a digital platform for the empowerment and engagement of knowledge workers, at a function held here. The platform (www.knowledgemission.kerala.gov.in), created by the Kerala Development and Innovation Strategy Council (K-DISC) in association with the Kerala University of Digital Sciences, Innovation and Technology and other State-run agencies, will enable job aspirants to register for the programme that was announced in the State Budget recently. According to Mr. Vijayan, the digital platform will enable unemployed youths to connect with global employers after being imparted the necessary skills required for various job profiles. The mission is expected to benefit several people who failed to land jobs commensurate with their qualification. The endeavour has gotten off to a good start with K-DISC initiating talks with some global companies. He expressed optimism that at least three lakh jobseekers would be registered in the platform within a year. Around 20 lakh people could become part of the mission by the next five years.  Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac presided over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-platform-for-digital-empowerment/article33797363.ece
10 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||455 new cases in capital||The COVID-19 case graph in the capital district rose to 4,443 on Tuesday when 455 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. As many as 422 recovered from the illness during the last 24 hours. Almost all of the fresh cases have been attributed to local transmission of the infection. Four of those infected are health-care workers. The death toll also continued to rise unabated to reach 778. Four more deaths, which occurred in the district on February 4 and 5, were attributed to COVID-19. The deceased included an 82-year-old woman and three men, aged 85, 76, and 70 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/455-new-cases-in-capital/article33797836.ece
10 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Satyamev Jayate launched||As smartphone and Internet use increases, news also spreads fast. This has led to huge changes in the news sector. This change, though, should be for the good of society and mankind. For this, a mechanism to identify falsehoods and expose them should come up, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He was speaking at the inauguration of Satyamev Jayate, a comprehensive information-literacy programme targeted at the next generation, as part the government’s 10-point programme. Mr. Vijayan said news dissemination and reception had changed fundamentally in the past decade. Truth and facts took a step back when the main consideration was for information to reach maximum number of people. Even anti-social elements were using it for their vested interests. Through the Satyamev Jayate project, the new generation would be taught not to believe everything blindly and accept information only after verifying the truth, the Chief Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/training-the-young-to-choose-the-right/article33797342.ece
10 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Fuel prices reach a new high in State||Diesel and petrol prices reached a new high as rates were hiked by oil companies on Tuesday after a three-day hiatus. Petrol prices were hiked by 35 paise per litre and diesel by 36 paise per litre, according to price notifications of State-owned fuel retailers. Prices of petrol and diesel were last hiked by 30 paise each on February 5. After Tuesday’s hike, a litre of diesel costs Rs. 83.31 and petrol Rs. 89.16 in Kerala with slight change in prices in districts. Rates have risen by Rs. 3.59 per litre for petrol and Rs. 3.61 for diesel in the first 40 days of 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fuel-prices-reach-a-new-high-in-state/article33797359.ece
10 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||RT-PCR rates go up in private labs||The charges for RT-PCR test for COVID-19 have gone up in private labs by Rs. 200. Following an order by the High Court, the State government has refixed the RT-PCR test charges for COVID-19 in the private sector at Rs. 1,700. There will be no change in the charges for other testing modalities. The government had earlier refixed the RT-PCR rate at Rs. 1,500 for the private sector. This had been challenged in the High Court by private sector labs and hospitals, which claimed that given the costs of lab reagents and consumables, they could not afford to perform the test at the rates fixed by the government. The rates for XpertNat would continue to be Rs. 2,500, Truenat Rs. 1,500, RT Lamp Rs. 1,150 and Rapid Antigen Assay Rs. 300. The charges would include protective kit and swabbing charges. All government hospitals would continue to conduct COVID-19 tests free of cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rt-pcr-rates-go-up-in-private-labs/article33797372.ece
10 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Trains to be regulated||Railways have partially cancelled and regulated special trains to enforce traffic block for track maintenance in the Mulankunnathukavu yard on February 12, 13, 14, 19 and the Wadakkanchery yard on February 20, 21, 26, 27 and 28. The 06791 Tirunelveli Junction–Palakkad Junction daily special scheduled to leave Tirunelveli Junction on February 11, 12, 13, 18, 19, 20, 25, 26 and 27 will be short-terminated at Thrissur. The 06792 Palakkad Junction- Tirunelveli Junction daily special scheduled to leave Palakkad Junction on February 12, 13, 14, 19, 20, 21, 26, 27 and 28 will commence service from Thrissur. The train will not run between Palakkad Junction and Thrissur. The 02625 Thiruvananthapuram Central-New Delhi Daily superfast special train will be regulated for two hours en route on February 12, 13, 14, 19, 20, 21, 26, 27 and 28. The 02640 Alappuzha- Chennai daily superfast special train will be regulated for 30 minutes en route on February 12, 13, 14, 19, 20, 21, 26, 27 and 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/trains-to-be-regulated/article33797833.ece
10 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Action against KSRTC staff||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has taken disciplinary action against an employee who tore up a differently abled elderly man’s travel pass issued by the KSRTC. The KSRTC’s action follows an intervention by the State Human Rights Commission. On August 3, 2018, a clerk at the KSRTC’s Attingal office tore up the travel pass of 75-year-old Sukumaran of Pallikkal. Following a complaint, commission chairperson Antony Dominic had asked the KSRTC Managing Director to inquire into the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/action-against-ksrtc-staff/article33797834.ece
10 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Pinarayi interacts with vloggers||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan interacted with social media influencers, including prominent vloggers, here on Tuesday to understand their aspirations for the development of the State. The invited participants are known for their popular vlogs. Mr. Vijayan credited the vloggers for going into great depths to understand issues that concerned their fields of interest. Being effective communicators, they have also played a significant role in sensitising the public on various topics by putting the social media to good use. Their insight could play an instrumental role in shaping tomorrow’s Kerala, the Chief Minister said. The social media personalities raised a host of proposals including a centralised licensing system to fast-track applications submitted by entrepreneurs, assimilate grassroots-level innovations in various spheres of activity, addressing various inadequacies that existed in Kochi, improving basic infrastructure in tourism destinations, and steps to rein in moral policing in tourist hotspots. Some of the attendees also flagged the dearth of public toilets and proper waste management system in prominent places in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-interacts-with-social-media-influencers/article33797343.ece
10 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Walkway, seats to be removed||The walkway and two seats on the Shanghumughom beach that hamper the smooth conduct of the Arat rituals of the Sree Padmanabhaswamy temple will be removed. A decision to remove the walkway and the two seats being constructed as part of Kerala Tourism’s Rs. 20-crore beach beautification works near the ‘Kalmandamapam’ was taken at a meeting between the members of the erstwhile royal family of Travancore and Tourism authorities at Kowdiar Palace. Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran said the officials had been asked to remove the walkway and seats in a week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/walkway-seats-to-be-removed/article33797842.ece
10 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Partial cancellation of train||Due to a scheduled traffic block for maintenance works, the 06305 Ernakulam Junction-Kannur daily special train will be short-terminated at Thrissur on February 10 and 17. The train will remain partially cancelled between Thrissur and Kannur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/partial-cancellation-of-train/article33797356.ece
10 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||National honour for IIMC Regional Director||Anilkumar Vadavathoor, Regional Director, Indian Institute of Mass Communication (IIMC), Kottayam, has bagged the national award for outstanding efforts in science and technology communication through print media. Instituted by the Union Department of Science and Technology, the award will be presented on February 28, National Science Day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/national-honour-for-iimc-regional-director/article33797358.ece
10 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Only 5,000 devotees daily to Sabarimala||A maximum of 5,000 devotees will be allowed darshan on a day at the Ayyappa temple at Sabarimala that opens for the five-day monthly pujas on February 13 during the Malayalam month of Kumbhom. The increase in the pilgrims from 5,000 daily to 15,000 sought by the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) was opposed by the Health Department. TDB president N. Vasu said the board had given only a proposal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/only-5000-devotees-daily-to-sabarimala/article33797360.ece
10 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Webtalk||The 14th session of the Webtalk series organised by the Kerala Council for Historical Research will feature a talk by Prof. Kesavan Veluthatt on ‘the economic aspects of agricultural extension’. The session scheduled for 3 pm on February 10 can be accessed on the Google Meet platform through the linkwww.kchr.ac.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/webtalk/article33797364.ece
10 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘A’ list of SSLC exam published||The ‘A’ list of the SSLC exam to be conducted in March has been published onhttps://sslcexam.kerala.gov.in. The candidate data part certificate view can be accessed on the website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-list-of-sslc-exam-published/article33797365.ece
10 February 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||CPI(M) dividing people: Chennithala||The CPI(M) is trying to create divide among people along communal lines, Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has said. He was speaking at a function organised at Chelakkara on Tuesday to give reception to his ‘Aiswarya Kerala Yatra.’ “The CPI(M) is leading communal campaigns using cyber comrades. The statement of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan that the IUML will decide on the leadership of the Congress and the UDF indicates the beginning of a BJP-CPI(M) alliance in Kerala.” The one and only objective of the CPI(M) and the BJP was to defeat the Congress. Now they were united in their path towards the goal. The secret alliance between them was strong. The greed to continue in power forced the CPI(M) to make such comments, Mr. Chennithala said. The statements made by BJP State president K. Surendran would be repeated by CPI(M) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan in the evening. It was good that Mr. Vijayaraghavan had become the CPI(M) secretary. His statements showed his lack of experience. “The efforts to hush up the gold smuggling case shows the secret alliance between the BJP and the CPI(M). The investigation into the gold smuggling case has come to halt after the Chief Minister wrote to the Prime Minister,” Mr. Chennithala said. He asked whether the LDF had the guts to withdraw the affidavit in the Sabarimala issue. He said he was not taking the statement of CPI(M) Polit Bureau member M.A. Baby very seriously. He asked whether the Chief Minister had the courage to admit that his government made a mistake in the Sabarimala issue. The yatra was accorded reception at various centres in the district. Mr. Chennithala also addressed a public meeting held at the Thekkinkadu maidan in the evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-dividing-people-chennithala/article33797798.ece
10 February 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||498 cases in Thrissur||A total of 498 COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Tuesday while 506 people recovered from the pandemic. There are 4,288 active cases in the district and 93 people from the district are undergoing treatment in hospitals in other districts. So far 91,496 COVID-19 cases have been reported from the district and 86,592 people have recovered. According to the official statistics, 485 people, including four health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Tuesday. Of them, 77 people are above the age of 60 and 30 children are below the age of 10. In all, 2,906 people are under home care. In all, 134 people were admitted to the hospital for treatment of the COVID-19 on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/498-cases-in-thrissur/article33797799.ece
10 February 2021||February 10 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Santhwana Sparsham comes as a succour||Varkala resident Sulfiker is a heart patient. He was advised surgery by the hospital where he receives treatment. In severe financial straits, he was wondering what his options. At the government’s Santhwana Sparsham adalat on Tuesday, Sulfiker was sanctioned Rs. 25,000 for the surgery. Shaji Lal of Nagaroor who was suffering from a condition that causes his bones to crumble received Rs. 15,000 at the adalat. The adalat, at Government Boys Higher Secondary School, Attingal, is being held to speedily dispose of grievances. Complaints from Varkala and Chirayinkeezhu taluks were being taken up in the morning and afternoon sessions, respectively. Ministers J. Mercykutty Amma and T.M. Thomas Isaac inaugurated the adalat at which 1.517 complaints were taken up. The affected The physically challenged, those with heart and kidney problems, and people with many other ailments, reached the adalat. They were provided with treatment assistance from the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund (CMDRF). Radhakrishnan of Kallambalam who returned to the State after 20 years following an accident at his workplace abroad was abandoned by his family when he developed heart and other problems. He spent his nights sleeping on shop verandahs. At the adalat, Ms Mercykutty Amma directed the Life Mission district coordinator to take a decision on Radhakrishnan’s rehabilitation and announced Rs. 20,000 from the CMDRF for his treatment. The adalat also found a solution to the problem of excess land at Manamboor village that had been caught up in a legal tangle for 50 years. Visually challenged Ravi from Nagaroor was taken aback when Mr. Isaac asked him how much money would he need to complete his house. He replied Rs. 1.5 lakh, which was sanctioned. Mini of Alamcode reached the adalat with aid from the Welfare Society for the Blind. She had taken a loan to build a house and had fallen behind on repayments. The Minister assured her of steps to stop the recovery proceedings. In all, more than Rs. 1.04 crore was given as assistance from the CMDRF.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/santhwana-sparsham-comes-as-a-succour/article33797840.ece
10 February 2021||February 10 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||On the warpath||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/on-the-warpath/article33797845.ece
10 February 2021||February 10 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Ride on||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ride-on/article33797345.ece
10 February 2021||February 10 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||In campaign mode||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-campaign-mode/article33797371.ece
10 February 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Controversy over Dalits’ food during elections||The panchayat polls witnessed a freak incident over the food being served to Dalits during the lunch hour. According to information, residents of the Dalit Colony were cooking food for their community members, when police Sub-Inspector Anwar Basha arrived there and warned them against serving food, which was against the model code of conduct. However, on finding the process continuing unabated, he reportedly doused the flame to prevent the cooking. Later, he allegedly took the paste made of coriander, ginger and garlic and dumped it into the boiling pot, before leaving the spot. Video goes viral However, the incident went viral on the social media platforms that the police official had resorted to ‘inhumane behaviour’ by dumping cow dung and mud into the food meant to be supplied to Dalits, who were suggested to be ‘TDP sympathisers’. Superintendent of Police B. Satya Yesu Babu brushed aside the rumour, but directed the Deputy Superintendent of Police (Kadiri) Bhavya Kishore to conduct a probe into the incident. After the investigation, the police clarified that the officer reached the village on getting information about biryani being served as allurement to voters and warned them to leave. While the YSRCP group left the place , the TDP sympathisers continued with cooking, which made him pour water into the fire and the “masala paste” into the cauldron, the police claimed. Mr. Yesu Babu blamed it to be the handiwork of some ‘mischief mongers’ in spreading such hate message on the social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/controversy-over-dalits-food-during-elections/article33797785.ece
10 February 2021||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||80% voting in W. Godavari||More than 80% percent polling was recorded in many gram panchayats in the first phase elections on Tuesday. Officials are making arrangements for the next three phases of elections. In West Godavari district, 80.29 percentage of polling was recorded by 3.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/80-voting-in-w-godavari/article33797079.ece
10 February 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP has no expansion plan in Telangana, says Sajjala||With Y.S Sharmila, sister of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy dropping hints of floating a political party in Telangana, Adviser to the|Government (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy on Tuesday said the YSR Congress Party has taken a clear stand against expanding it in the neighbouring Telugu State. The decision was taken by Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy in the interests of the party and the people of the State, he said. Hours after Mr. Sharmila announced that she was keen on bringing back the ‘Rajanna Rajyam’ in Telangana during a meeting with the loyalists of her father and former Chief Minister of undivided Andhra Pradesh Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy in Hyderabad, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy sought to clear the air over the speculation of the ‘differences’ in the YSR family. ‘Not in favour of a new party’ “I can assure you that there are no personal differences between Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy and Ms. Sharmila. But yes, there is difference in opinions over setting up a new political party in Telangana. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy is of the view that it would be prudent that both A.P. and Telangana governments work in harmony in the larger interests of the people of the two States. He does not support the idea of floating a new party in Telangana,” Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy told the media here. “Ms. Sharmila, however, has a different view on it and we respect it. Everyone knows that Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy speaks straight from his heart,” he said. Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy further said that it was not an easy task to run a political party and the leader should be always ready to take many blows. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy worked hard for 10 long years before people voted him to power with a massive mandate. After the death of YS Rajasekhara Reddy, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy came out of the Congress flold, and floated the YSRCP. Millions of people have supported Mr. Jagan Mohan through out his journey, said Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy. Ms. Sharmila too had worked hard and taken out a padayatra across the State, when Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy was imprisoned, he pointed out. Ms. Sharmila is the dear sister of Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy and we have no doubt that the YSR family is loved by people of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. But as a party, we do not approve of her decision to float a new political party,’’ added Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy.  Jagan Mohan Reddy feels that it would be prudent that both A.P. and Telangana governments work in harmony in the larger interests of the people. Sharmila has a different view and we respect it. Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy, Adviser to the Government (Public Affairs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-does-not-support-the-idea-govt-adviser/article33796976.ece
10 February 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||State moots multi-member SEC||Adviser, Public Affairs, Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy has said that there is a proposal to make the State Election Commission (SEC) a multi-member body on the lines of the Central Election Commission (CEC) which would keep a check on misuse of power by an individual. Speaking to reporters at the party central office here on Tuesday, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said despite the cheap politics of N. Chandrababu Naidu and his ‘front man’, holding the high office, the welfare schemes introduced by Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy would speak for themselves in the gram panchayat elections which were being held on non-party basis. “We understand that the overtures of the SEC clearly lean towards the lead Opposition party, and so the State government has sent a proposal to adopt a multi-member election commision, as it was done earlier in the CEC, so that decisions can be taken by a majority vote. Discussions are taking place at a national level in regard,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-moots-multi-member-sec/article33797776.ece
10 February 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Separate police stations will be set up for farmers, says CM||Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy has asked the Agriculture Department officials to ensure that the laws enacted to protect the farmers are not violated at any cost. “The government has already taken a decision to start separate police stations for farmers. The officials must work with the Police Department and complete the modalities,” he said. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy also said that tenant farmers should be educated about their rights and awareness should be created to dispel the myths about the tenant protection and land tilling acts. “The schemes being implemented to ensure the welfare of farmers through Rythu Bharosa Kendras and village secretariats should be given a wide publicity. The officials should work on the proposal of setting up crop insurance companies by the government,” he said. The Chief Minister also asked the officials to ensure that the first phase of Rythu Bharosa benefits is paid in the first week of May and focus on natural farming. He also reviewed the project launched by the Amul in collaboration with the government and aquaculture hubs and multi-purpose centres. ‘Janata Bazaar’ Referring to the proposal of setting up ‘Janata Bazaars’, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that the facilities should be set up in areas not exceeding 5,000 square feet. “In the first phase, 5,000 Janata Bazaars should be set up,” he said. Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Mission Vice-Chairman M.V.S. Nagireddy, Special Chief Secretary Poonam Malakondaiah, Special Secretary (marketing) Y. Madhusudan Reddy, Agricultural Marketing Commissioner S. Prayudmaa and APTDC Managing Director Ahmed Babu were present in the review meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/separate-police-stations-will-be-set-up-for-farmers-says-cm/article33797778.ece
10 February 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan writes open letter to volunteers||Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy has appealed to the village and ward volunteers to discharge their duties without showing any favouritism and not be influenced by vested interests. In an open letter to the volunteers who have protested across the State demanding hike in salaries, the Chief Minister said: “The volunteers should remember that the nature of their job is purely voluntary and they are being paid a monthly honorarium of Rs. 5,000. ‘Discharge your duties without fear’ “`We have introduced the volunteer system to ensure that all the welfare schemes are delivered at the doorstep of the beneficiaries. I am proud to say that 95% of volunteers are doing their job and we are satisfied with their performances. However, volunteers should remember that their salaries are just honorarium and they should not treat this work as a regular job. I also know many forces are trying to provoke them, but I appeal to them not to get provoked and discharge duties without any fear and favouritism,’’ said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-writes-open-letter-to-volunteers/article33797867.ece
10 February 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Village volunteer sacked for participating in election campaign||A village volunteer was removed from service on Tuesday for allegedly participating in an election campaign in the Rajapudi village secretariat limits in Jaggampeta mandal in East Godavari district. In an official release, Jaggampeta Mandal Development Officer K.V.S.N. Suryanarayana Murthy said Jetti Jogiraju was found to be present in an election campaign of the gram panchayat election on February 7. He had been removed from service based on the report submitted by the village secretariat. The district authorities swung into action against the volunteer in response to a complaint lodged by local residents, who provided video footage and other evidence, seeking action for violating the directives from the State Election Commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/village-volunteer-sacked-for-participating-in-election-campaign/article33797767.ece
10 February 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two injured as YSRCP, TDP men clash||At least two village elders were injured in a clash between the supporters of the TDP and the YSRCP at Chinna Jaggampeta village in Gollaprolu police limits of East Godavari district on Tuesday. According to Gollaprolu sub-inspector N. Ramalingeswara Rao, the trouble began when the activists of the both the parties reportedly tried to woo the voters while the polling was under way. Both the groups exchanged heated arguments. The village elders tried to pacify the warring groups and two elderly people sustained minor injuries in the melee. “The police brought the situation under control and the polling continued without disturbance. The situation in the village remained peaceful for the rest of the day,” said the SI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-injured-as-ysrcp-tdp-men-clash/article33797780.ece
10 February 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||80% turnout in Prakasam, Nellore||Amid high security, panchayat elections were held in a peaceful manner in Kavali division and Ongole division in Nellore and Prakasam districts respectively on Tuesday. People came in large numbers wearing masks to the polling booths and waited for their turn while maintaining physical distance to cast their vote in the first phase of the elections. Long queues were seen right from 6.30 a.m. when polling started and continued till 3.30 p.m. Over 80% of the 26.5 lakh voters had come to cast their vote in Nellore district. Prakasam district recorded over 80.92% turnout in the elections held for the remaining 192 sarpanch and 1,415 ward member seats in 14 mandals as 35 sarpanch and 907 ward member seats were decided unanimously, said District Collector Pola Bhaskar. After conducting a whirlwind tour of the poll-bound mandals, including sensitive and hyper-sensitive polling booths in Kothapatnam, Ethamukkala and Tangutur, Prakasam Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal said people could cast their vote without fear or favour, thanks to beefed up security. The district police were fully geared to prevent any post-poll clashes, said the SP while monitoring the polling process in villages through 7,800 CCTV cameras. He urged people to pass on information in case they came across any untoward incidents by dialing 100 or sending a message through WhatsApp on 9121102266. Chittoor Chittoor registered over 80% turnout on the first day of the polls, with mandals of Bangarupalem, Irala, Puthalapattu, Tavanampalle in Puthalapattu assembly constituency receiving overwhelming response from the voters. Deputy Superintendent of Police (Law and Order) N. Sudhakar Reddy inspected the booths in Chittoor, Irala, Puthalapattu and SR Puram mandals. He said over 3,000 police personnel were deployed in the first phase, and additional forces were posted at 115 sensitive areas, followed by three-tier security pattern. He said that the polling was peaceful in the entire Chittoor revenue division. By 7.00 p.m., as the counting of votes had progressed, trends showed that it was a landslide victory for candidates of sarpanch and ward members supported by the ruling YSR Congress Party in the first phase. Meanwhile, according to reports, the first phase of panchayat polls was peaceful in Kurnool district, with no trouble reported from anywhere. Collector G. Veerapandian said that by 10.30 a.m., the voting percentage was 45.86, and it was 70.60 by 12.30 p.m.. By the time the voting was closed, the percentage had crossed over 80. East Godavari A total of 82.81% of voters have exercised their franchise in Kakinada and Peddapuram Revenue Divisions in East Godavari district on Tuesday. Polling was conducted in the 20 mandals: 12 mandals in Peddapuram Revenue Division and 8 in Kakinada Revenue Division. Rangampeta mandal has witnessed the highest voting percent of 89.06 and the lowest polling percent of 77.89 was recorded in Sankavaram mandal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-80-turnout-in-prakasam-nellore/article33797770.ece
10 February 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP will fight ‘false’ cases, says Atchannaidu||Former Minister and Telugu Desam Party State president K. Atchannaidu on Tuesday said that the TDP would fight against the ‘false cases being filed by the YSRCP government’. “The YSRCP government is unable to digest the peoples’ support to teh candidates supported by the TDP in the panchayat elections,” he said. Mr. Atchannaidu was arrested a week ago on the charges of threatening and preventing a candidate from filing nomination for the sarpanch post at his native village Nimmada. He was released from Ampolu sub-jail on Tuesday morning after the court granted him bail on Monday evening. He was a given a rousing reception at the sub-jail. Srikakulam TDP MP Kinjarapu Rammohan Naidu, TDP Srikakulam Parliamentary wing president Kuna Ravikumar and other leaders received him. Later, he proceeded to Nimmada village and exercise his franchise during the local body election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-will-fight-false-cases-says-atchannaidu/article33797783.ece
10 February 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||76.69% votes polled in Srikakulam district||The district administration heaved a sigh of relief with the completion of the first phase of the local body polls as 76.69% of the voters exercised their franchise on Tuesday. People queued up at the polling booths from the early hours of the day in all the 10 mandals including Tekkali, Santabommali, Kotabommali and Laveru. As many as 720 candidates were in fray in 282 panchayats of the total 321 in the district. As many as 39 panchayats saw unanimous elections. Srikakulam Collector J. Nivas and District Revenue Officer B. Dayanidhi and other officials expressed satisfaction over the peaceful polling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/7669-votes-polled-in-srikakulam-district/article33797784.ece
10 February 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP-backed candidate wins in Nimmada||The TDP-backed sarpanch candidate K. Suresh has won the Nimmada panchayat election by a huge margin over his nearest rival and YSRCP-backed candidate K. Appanna. Mr. Suresh was polled 1,670 votes and Mr. Appanna 157. The poll caught the attention of everyone with the arrest of K. Atchannaidu a few days before the polling . TDP leaders said, “It is a lesson for the ruling party which tried to show the TDP in poor light.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-backed-candidate-wins-in-nimmada/article33797781.ece
10 February 2021||TIRUMALA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Arrangements in place for Ratha Saptami||Elaborate arrangements are in place for the grand conduct of the annual Ratha Saptami festival on February 19. The religious event, which is also referred to as Surya Jayanti festival in local parlance, will witness the procession of Lord Malayappa Swamy being brought out on seven different vahanams along the Mada streets encircling the sacred shrine. The festival will take off to a religious start at 5.30 a.m. with the procession of Surya Prabha vahanam followed by Chinna Sesha vahanam (9 a.m to 10 a.m.) Garuda vahanam (11 a.m. to 12 noon), Hanumantha (1.00 p.m. to 2.00 p.m.) Chakrasnanam (2.00 p.m.-3.00 p.m.), Kalpavriksha (4 p.m. to 5 p.m.), Sarvabhoopala (6 p.m. to 7 p.m.) and finally conclude with Chandraprabha vahanam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/arrangements-in-place-for-ratha-saptami/article33797794.ece
10 February 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Maritime Board official visits Sri City, hails its infrastructure||Lieutenant Commander Ravindranath Reddy, Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Andhra Pradesh Maritime Board, hailed the industrial infrastructure at Sri City industrial city and termed it a ‘world-class facility’. The official, who recently assumed charge, paid a visit to the world class industrial facility on Tuesday where he said he had an ambition of building a string of ports and fishing harbours along the State’s 975-km coastline. Sri City Founder and Managing Director Ravindra Sannareddy formally ushered him into the sprawling compound and explained him its features. Mr. Reddy was impressed at the brisk activity in the industrial units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/maritime-board-official-visits-sri-city-hails-its-infrastructure/article33797775.ece
10 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||People glued to televisions at tea stalls, discussing chances of their candidates||Many people were seen glued to television sets at home, tea stalls, hotels and pan shops at the main junctions on Tuesday to know the results of the first phase of gram panchayat elections held in the State. After the polling was completed at 3.30 p.m, people were seen discussing the winning chances of the candidates. Supporters of YSRCP, Telugu Desam Party, Bharatiya Janata Party and independents waited near the counting centres and were analysing the winning chances of their candidates. Celebrations Villagers were seen waiting in groups at the centres and junctions for the results. Election staff started counting process in many polling stations and the counting continued till late in the night in many gram panchayats. In some villages, activists of various political parties burst crackers expecting the success of their sarpanch and ward nominees. In some villages, the supporters distributed sweets and celebrated the victory of their candidates, before the official announcement was made. Festive atmosphere was seen in many villages as the sarpanch and ward member candidates, who got majority in the first phase of the local body elections, were seen celebrating the victory by carrying the party flags. Tight security Police stepped up security to prevent any untoward incidents in the villages. Counting may continue post mid-night and early hours of tomorrow in some polling centres, said the officials. At Veeravasaram, Palakoderu, Palakol, Mogalturu, Narsapuram and Poduru mandals in West Godavari district, women were seen waiting in groups for the election results. “Hoping the victory of our candidate we distributed sweets. We are sure that our candidate will win as sarpanch as he got good majority. However, the result is not officially announced,” said the villagers in Palakol Rural mandal. Tension prevailed in some villages for ward member posts as the competition was fierce in some panchayats. Police imposed Section 144 at polling centres and red zones have been declared near the counting centres as a precautionary measure. Some villagers, party cadres, realtors and traders bet high on the winning chances of different political parties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/people-glued-to-televisions-at-tea-stalls-discussing-chances-of-their-candidates/article33797085.ece
10 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||e-Watch: HC tells SEC to answer queries of APTS||A Division Bench of the High Court comprising Chief Justice Arup Kumar Goswami and Justice C. Praveen Kumar has directed the State Election Commission (SEC) to reply to the queries raised by the AP Technology Services Limited (APTS) on the e-Watch app by February 17, and posted the matter to that day for further hearing. During the Tuesday’s hearing on a PIL which challenged the usage of e-Watch app brought out by the SEC, government pleader C. Sumon said the APTS had conducted preliminary tests and submitted a report to the SEC on the flaws and security concerns found in the app. The APTS had informed that a glaring security issue in the app was that the source code of the AP Social Welfare Department was used in its development. Source code Mr. Sumon said the SEC did not produce any document to show that the Social Welfare Department had given permission to use its source code for developing the app. Further information in this regard had been sought from the SEC by the APTS. It was observed that if the source code was used without permission, there was a possibility of a major cyber security threat to the Social Welfare Department. The counsel for the SEC said it was willing to use the c-Vigil app developed by the Election Commission of India if allowed to do so and that Nighaa, the app developed by the State government was not working. The court also enquired whether the State government had any objection to usage of its app by SEC, to which Mr. Sumon replied that the State would indeed let its app to be pressed into service. The matter was then adjourned to February 17 with a direction to the SEC that it should not use its app (e-Watch) until the mandatory security certificate is obtained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/e-watch-hc-tells-sec-to-answer-queries-of-apts/article33797789.ece
10 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||85% turnout for phase I of panchayat polls in Krishna||The first phase of the gram panchayat elections in 14 mandals of the Vijayawada revenue division saw 85.06% voter turnout on Tuesday. The GP election was conducted in 211 gram panchayats in 14 mandals including Chandarlapadu, G. Konduru, Ibrahimpatnam, Jaggaiahpeta, Kanchikacherla, Kankipadu, Mylavaram, Nandigama, Penamaluru, Penugranchipolu, Thotlavalluru, Vatsavai, Veerullapad and Vijayawada Rural. The polling was conducted in a total of 2,593 polling stations where a total of 6,01,784 voters were polled. Vijayawada Rural witnessed the lowest voter turnout of 76.45% while Nandigama witnessed the highest turnout of 89.38%. After polling came to end, officials began counting and as of 8 p.m., results of elections for sarpanches in four panchayats and that of ward members in 16 panchayats were declared. Elections were conducted to elect 211 Sarpanches and 2,110 ward members. Over 6,000 polling staff were deployed and 320 micro observers, 87 route officers and 43 zonal officers led by the Collector A.Md. Imtiaz oversaw polling activity. The counting process was being observed by the district administration through web casting. Polling staff were given a compensatory leave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/85-turnout-for-phase-i-of-panchayat-polls-in-krishna/article33797072.ece
10 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Japan envoy calls on Jagan||Consul General of Japan in Chennai, Masayuki Taga, on Wednesday met Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and discussed possible avenues of collaboration between Andhra Pradesh and Japan. Mr. Taga is in the State as part of a two-day visit. Opportunities in infrastructure financing and partnership with Japan in skill development came up for discussion among other things. Industries Minister M. Goutham Reddy, meanwhile, chaired a round-table with senior officials from the State and apprised Mr. Taga on the potential avenues for collaboration. The Minister said that the focus of the government was on attracting long-term investments, and said Japan was an important country for industrial partnership. He said with its long coastline, infrastructure and logistics advantage, Andhra Pradesh could be a conduit for Japanese companies to venture into South Asian markets. He also explained to the Japanese envoy about the concept cities proposed in Anantapur, Tirupati and Visakhapatnam, integrating residential, manufacturing, services, leisure and social infrastructure to form a self-sustaining ecosystem. Special Chief Secretary Industries, Karikal Valaven, spoke about the existing strong partnership between Japan and Andhra Pradesh. CEO, Andhra Pradesh Economic Development Board, J.V.N. Subramanyam, explained the steps taken to reduce the cost and risk of doing business and also the potential for Japanese investors in key sectors like electronics, automobiles, pharmaceuticals and textiles and food processing. He also spoke about the infrastructure push that was being given through development of industrial corridors, ports, fishing harbours and airports. Referring to the Japanese Industrial Townships proposed in the State, he also explained about the JIT planning in Srikalahasti. He said A.P. had immense potential for investments and expressed interest for partnership in the areas of irrigation and improvement in livelihoods of people. He suggested that the model of the Japanese Institute of Manufacturing at Sri City be replicated to attain excellence in the manufacturing sector. Principal Secretary, IT, Electronics and Communications G. Jayalakshmi was present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/japan-envoy-calls-on-jagan/article33797074.ece
10 February 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mary Matha Utsavams off to grand start||Scores of pilgrims, peetadipathis and fathers from different places attended Gunadala Mary Matha Mahotsavams on the first day at Gunadala Matha Shrine on Tuesday. Bishop Telagathoti Joseph Raja Rao, Rev. Fr. Mallavalli Balaswamy, Rev. Fr. Valle Vijay Joji Babu, Mansignore Muvvala Prasad, and Gunadala Shrine Rector Fr. Eleti William Jayaraju performed the ‘Samisti Divya Balipuja’ and inaugurated the three-day festival on Gunadala hill. They performed sacred prayers and offered blessings to the devotees who attended the festival. The devotees had darshan of Goddess Mary Matha and offered ‘mokkulu’ on the hill. Vijayawada peetadipathi Raja Rao, Fr. Prasad, Jayaraju and other priests offered ‘prasadam’ to the devotees and performed special prayers on the occasion. Devotees lit candles, offered hairs, performed ‘Annaprasana’ to the children and tied ‘vuyyalas’ to the trees atop Gunadala hill. The temple was decked up for the utsavams and for ‘Navadina Japalu’, which concluded on Monday. The temple management made elaborate arrangements for the devotees attending the utsavams as per the COVID-19 protocol. Medical camps, drinking water, toilets and other facilities were put in place at Gunadala Shrine. Priests appealed to the devotees to wear masks and carry sanitisers. A lot of emphasis was laid on ensuring hygiene and cleanliness at the shrine, the Bishop said.  The Mary Matha shrine was decked up for the festival. A total of 10 lakh pilgrims are expected to have darshan, said Muvvala Prasad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mary-matha-utsavams-off-to-grand-start/article33797082.ece
10 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSRTC team goes to Gujarat to study development of bus ports||A team of the AP State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) officials, led by its Vice-Chairman and Managing Director R.P. Thakur, is on a three-day visit to Gujarat to study the best practices and the PPP model for development of international standard bus ports (terminals) developed by the Gujarat State Road Transport Corporation (GSRTC) and replicate the same here. Mr. Thakur, along with Chief Engineer Srinivas, CEO of AP Urban Infrastructure Asset Management Ltd (APUIAML) Prakash Gaur and senior officials Raj Dabburi and Narayana Reddy, visited Ahmedabad and Vadodara. On the first day on Monday, Mr. Thakur met his counterpart from GSRTC S.J. Haider whose team made a presentation on operations and other key factors at the seven bus terminals developed as bus ports at Ranip and Geeta Mandir in Ahmedabad, CBS and Makarpura Vadodara, Surat, Mehsana and Rajkot. The AP team visited the Ranip and Geeta Mandir bus ports to assess the development model, the various facilities there and the commercial amenities developed in PPP mode. On Tuesday, they visited the BRTS Command and Control Station and the electric buses operating on the BRTS corridor. Operation of electric buses and the charging infrastructure were a special area of interest for the team members. Being run by private operators, the electric buses have reduced pollution. The APSRTC is exploring different means of developing its bus stations and introducing electric buses in the State. The idea is to implement the best practices being followed in Gujarat in the State to improve the commuting facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apsrtc-team-in-gujarat-to-study-best-practices-for-developing-bus-ports/article33797869.ece
10 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dairy farmers urge officials to supply high-yield cattle||Dairy farmers from several districts urged the government to put in place quality checks in the procurement of milch cattle, alleging that buffaloes and cows that they had bought in recent years were of poor health. The farmers alleged that irregularities were taking place in the procurement of milch buffaloes and cows, and appealed for measures to ensure procurement of high-yield cattle in order to save the dairy sector. In 2007, then Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy had launched the ‘Pasu Kranthi Scheme’ for the benefit of farmers, which the government relaunched as YSR Cheyuta (supply of milch animals) to women beneficiaries in the State. Under the scheme, milch cattle of Murrah, Gir, Shahiwal, CB Jersey and other varieties will be supplied by agencies from Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Karnataka, Maharashtra and Haryana to the farmers in Andhra Pradesh. However, some companies were allegedly supplying poor quality buffaloes and cows for the last few years. A few persons, who were facing allegations of scams and irregularities, had also filed tenders for supply of animals and caused huge loss, the farmers alleged. “Each buffalo should give about eight litres of milk per day as per the guidelines issued by the government, but the animal is not giving even one litre, and the veterinary doctors have also confirmed this. The government has ordered an inquiry into the scam in 2019, which is pending,” said a beneficiary B. Venkata Rao. “We request the government and Animal Husbandry officials to take measures to keep out middlemen and allot tenders for genuine agencies,” said P. Ram Babu, a farmer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dairy-farmers-urge-officials-to-supply-high-yield-cattle/article33797083.ece
10 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu urges SEC to publish candidate list in Thamballapalle||Telugu Desam Party national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Tuesday wrote a letter to the State Election Commission (SEC), requesting it to publish the final list of the candidates for panchayat polls in Thamballapalle mandal in Chittoor district. Mr. Naidu, in his letter, said that Thamballapalle Mandal MPDO Divakar Reddy was not publishing the final list of the candidates deliberately in violation of the election code of conduct. “The MPDO is favouring the ruling YSRCP. Thamballapalle SI Sahadevi has been threatening the candidates backed by the political parties other than the YSRCP to withdraw their nomination papers,” alleged Mr. Naidu. The former Chief Minister accused Thamballapalle MLA Peddireddi Dwarakanatha Reddy of manipulating the final list by threatening the candidates. “Mr. Dwarakanath Reddy, brother of Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy, along with his relative Bhanu and personal assistant , are involved in threatening the candidates with dire consequences if they do not withdraw their nominations,” alleged Naidu. Given the circumstances, the TDP chief said, it was necessary to publish the final list of candidates so that they can go ahead with campaigns. He sought action against the officials who are not publishing the final list of candidates deliberately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-urges-sec-to-publish-candidate-list-in-thamballapalle/article33797786.ece
10 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hike salary of village, ward volunteers: CPI||CPI leader K. Ramakrishna has urged Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to take the necessary steps to hike the salaries of village and ward volunteers. In a letter to the Chief Minister on Tuesday, he said the volunteers have been launched agitation across the State, demanding revision of their salaries and job security. “We request the government to increase the salary of Rs. 12,000 per month,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hike-salary-of-village-ward-volunteers-cpi/article33797790.ece
10 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19: no new cases reported in three districts||The State witnessed 70 COVID-19 positive cases and no deaths in the last 24 hours ending Tuesday morning. The new cases took the tally to 8,88,555. The toll remains at 7,160 and the number of recoveries increased to 8,80,478 with 115 new recoveries in the past day. As of Tuesday morning, there were 917 active cases in the State. In the past day, 26,844 samples were tested with a positivity rate of 0.26% and so far 1.339 crore samples were tested. Their positivity rate was 6.63%. Meanwhile, for the first time, three districts reported no new infections and four districts reported only one each in a day. Chittoor reported 24 new cases, while East Godavari registered 11 and Visakhapatnam 10. Krishna reported nine, Guntur eight and Kadapa four new infections. Anantapur, Prakasam, Srikakulam and Vizianagaram reported one new case each, while Kurnool, Nellore and West Godavari reported no infections. District-wise tallies were: East Godavari (1,24,336), West Godavari (94,259), Chittoor (87,157), Guntur (75,587), Anantapur (67,678), Nellore (62,369), Prakasam (62,187), Kurnool (60,839), Visakhapatnam (59,872), Kadapa (55,296), Krishna (48,785), Srikakulam (46,150), Vizianagaram (41,145).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-no-new-cases-reported-in-three-districts/article33797791.ece
10 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Judgment on plea of Peddireddi reserved||The High Court reserved its judgment on the petition filed by Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy against the State Election Commission’s order that he should not speak to the media till February 21. A division bench of the court, led by Chief Justice Arup Kumar Goswami and Justice C. Praveen Kumar, heard the arguments on both sides on Tuesday and reserved their verdict following an undertaking given on behalf of the Minister that he would not make inciteful remarks against the SEC. It may be noted that the High Court dismissed the SEC order for confining Mr. Ramachandra Reddy to his residence till February 21 for vitiating panchayat elections by allegedly threatening the Collectors and other officials on poll duty and making objectionable comments in the media. However, the court barred the Minister from interacting with the media till the above date, which was contested by him. His advocate argued that the right to free speech and liberty are provided under Articles 19 and 21 of the Constitution and it could be curbed only on reasonable grounds that are liable to be tested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/judgment-on-plea-of-peddireddi-reserved/article33797787.ece
10 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||RGUKT admissions for vacancies post counselling||The Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies (RGUKT) has decided to fill the seats that have remained vacant after the completion of the counselling. University Chancellor K.C. Reddy said counselling for the six-year integrated course in Engineering in RGUKT, including for special category seats, had been completed. However, there were a few vacant seats available in all four campuses as some of the admitted students had not reported to their respective campuses and some had taken transfer certificates after reporting. There were also a few vacant seats due to change of campus by the admitted students during the special category counselling, he explained. Mr. Reddy said all candidates, including those already admitted in the university who wished to attend counselling, need to register their names via the link provided on the university websitewww.rgukt.inbetween 11 a.m. on February 10 and 5 p.m. on February 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rgukt-admissions-for-vacancies-post-counselling/article33797870.ece
10 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pawan urges Shah to rethink VSP divestment||Jana Sena Party president Pawan Kalyan has requested Union Home Minister Amit Shah to reconsider the decision to privatise Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) considering the people's sentiments, and give it an impetus by allotting captive mines and easing its debt burden. In a memorandum, which he personally submitted to Mr. Shah in New Delhi on Tuesday, Mr. Kalyan stated that the VSP was a symbol of struggles and determination of the Telugus and said 32 persons sacrificed their lives for it in the 1960s. He cited lack of raw material as the reason for its underperformance. As a result, VSP was forced to buy iron ore at Rs. 7,000 per ton compared to just about Rs. 1,500 which is the rate at which other steel plants were able to procure it. Because of this, the net losses mounted to approximately Rs. 3,000 crore. The VSP had 18,000 permanent employees and 20,000 contract workers and more than a lakh people were earning their livelihood in ancillary industries, Mr. Kalyan stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pawan-urges-shah-to-rethink-vsp-divestment/article33797076.ece
10 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Applications called for proficiency test||The APPSC has invited applications for an online qualifying test in proficiency in office automation with usage of computers and associated software for employees appointed on compassionate grounds in HoD/Directorate/ AP Secretariat, VRO and in service VRA. The last date for payment of fee is March 1. The computer proficiency test is likely to be held on April 6. A detailed notification will be available onhttps://psc.ap.gov.infrom February 10. The Commission has also called for applications for the entrance examination to admissions in Class-VIII in Rashtriya Indian Military College (RIMC), Dehradun, for the term commencing in January, 2022. The entrance exam will be on June 5 (Saturday) in Vijayawada. The last date for receiving the applications is April 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/applications-called-for-proficiency-test/article33797075.ece
10 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Don’t politicise VSP issue, Muttamsetti tells Naidu||Telugu Desam Party leaders, particularly its national president N. Chandrababu Naidu, should not make the proposed privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant a political issue, said Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao. Speaking at a media conference here on Tuesday after attending a meeting with trade unions and the CPI, the Minister said:“People of the State, particularly those in Visakhapatnam, are emotionally attached to the VSP and all parties should rise above their political affiliation to fight against the Union government’s move to sell the plant to a private company. The goal should be to save the plant from being sold and not to politicise it.” He pointed out that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy spontaneously reacted to the decision and has written a letter to the Prime Minister to reconsider the decision. He also reacted to the LG Polymers styrene vapour leak and had immediately paid the compensation. Accusing the local BJP leaders of keeping silent on the VSP issue, the Minister said the leaders should pressurise the Union government to give more funds for projects like Polavaram and get the Kadapa Steel Plant sanctioned. They even could not get funds for the new railway zone that has been sanctioned for Visakhapatnam, the Minister alleged. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that YSRCP MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy has already met Union Finance Minister Niramala Sitharaman and represented the VSP’s case. He would also meet the Steel Minister and the Prime Minister later. ‘Faulty valuation’ CPI State assistant secretary J.V. Satyanarayana Murthy pointed out that the valuation of VSP at Rs. 1,350 crore was ‘atrocious’, when the 22,000 acres of land itself costs over Rs. 2 lakh crore. In the VSP’s 30 years of operation, it has made losses for about 14 years and profit for 16 years. It has also paid taxes to the tune of Rs. 42,000 crore since its inception. Despite that, the Union government plans a strategic sale, said Mr. Satyanarayana Murthy. According to him, VSP has always been making operating profits and its losses are due to the interests that it has been paying towards its debts and non-availability of captive mines. If VSP was allotted mines today, it would bounce back with profits within a year, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dont-politicise-vsp-issue-muttamsetti-tells-naidu/article33797796.ece
10 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anakapalle revenue division records 84.23% voting||The first phase of gram panchayat elections, which were held in 12 mandals of Anakapalle revenue division in Visakhapatnam district on Tuesday, recorded 84.23% polling. A total of 4,64,036 votes were polled. Atchutapuram mandal reported the highest poll percentage (87.75%) and Anakapalle mandal reported the lowest (76%). No untoward incidents were reported in the district during the polls. Though the polling percentage was just 17.11% at around 8.30 a.m., it gradually increased to 40.80 % by 10.30 a.m., 65 % by 12.30 p.m and 84.23 % by the end of the day. A large number of people of all ages were seen going to the polling booths to cast their votes in the division. Elderly persons and many carrying infant children were seen reaching the booths in interior villages of Anakapalle mandal. According to the details given by the district administration, among the 12 mandals, next to Atchutapuram, K. Kotapadu registered the second highest with 86.94 % voting followed by V. Devarapalle with 86.77 %. As many as 767 candidates contested for 296 sarpanch posts. Similarly and 5,260 candidates contested for the 2,441 ward member posts in the revenue division. A total of 2,935 polling stations have been set up in 296 gram panchayats. Officials have made arrangements keeping in view the COVID-19 pandemic and ensured that people form a queue by maintaining social distancing to cast their votes. Earlier, District Collector V. Vinay Chand visited A.M.A High School at Kotturu gram panchayat. He said that the elections were going on in a very peaceful manner and no untoward incidents were reported. Deputy Inspector General (Visakha Range) L.K.V. Ranga Rao, Superintendent of Police, Visakhapatnam, B. Krishna Rao, and Deputy Superintendent of Police (Anakapalle) K. Sravani inspected Thallapalem polling station in Kasimkota mandal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anakapalle-revenue-division-records-8423-voting/article33797879.ece
10 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Move to privatise VSP has tacit support of CM, alleges TDP||TDP North Andhra in-charge Buddha Venkanna has alleged that the Centre’s decision to privatise Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) has the tacit support of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. This is the reason why the Chief Minister and Rajya Sabha Member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy are not talking against the decision, he alleged. Addressing a media conference here on Tuesday, Mr. Venkanna wondered as to why the Chief Minister was silent on the issue so far. He recalled that the representatives of POSCO, the South Korean steel company, had met the Chief Minister in the past and held discussions with him. The TDP leader alleged that the YSRCP leaders were issuing statements, opposing the Centre’s decision, only to mislead people. He also alleged that Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy was busy with the identification of land in Visakhapatnam for taking forward the three capitals proposal of the State government. TDP leader and former MLA Palla Srinivas demanded that those in the ruling party quit their posts and join the agitation for the VSP. TDP leader Sanapala Panduranga Rao was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/move-to-privatise-vsp-has-tacit-support-of-cm-alleges-tdp/article33797874.ece
10 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six held in 3 robbery cases||The police cracked the gold jewellery workshop robbery case, that took place at Kurupam Market in the Old Town area February 2, by arresting six persons, including three receivers, on Tuesday. Police have found that the accused had also committed two more thefts in One Town area during the same period. Police have recovered all the stolen property worth over Rs. 12 lakh, including 570 grams of gold, from the accused in the three cases. The arrested were identified as Pheer Zaelha Sayeed Navazis Hussain (28), a TV mechanic, Chalapaka Lakshman (30), a goldsmith, (both from One Town area) and S. Sagar (25), a painter and resident of Town Kotha Road. Three receivers in the case — P. Satyanarayana (30), Gowri Pattapu Nanaji (60), both from One Town area, and L. Srinu of Kancharapalem were also nabbed. Addressing the media, Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha said that the trio had entered into the gold workshop of K. Venkata Satyanarayana in the intervening night of February 2 and 3 after breaking the door locks by using a hacksaw. The trio made good with about 552 grams of gold ornaments. Acting on a tip-off, the special teams nabbed the accused and recovered the stolen gold jewellery. After they were caught, police found that the accused were involved in two more cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/six-held-in-3-robbery-cases/article33797881.ece
10 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Actor takes part in traffic awareness campaign||Film actor Sharwanand took part in a traffic awareness campaign which was organised by the city police near Kali Mata Temple on Beach Road here on Tuesday. Mr. Sharwanand interacted with several motorists explaining them benefits of using helmet and appealed to the youth not to involve in either rash driving or drunken driving. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Ch. Adinarayana said that the traffic police have been conducting awareness programmes over various traffic issues in the city. After they came to know about actor Sharwanand shooting for his film in the city, they invited him to be part of their awareness campaign. Thanking the actor for his time, the ADCP said that more campaigns would be conducted further. ACP (CCS) Sravan Kumar, ACP (East) Harshita Chandra and other officials took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/actor-takes-part-in-traffic-awareness-campaign/article33797885.ece
10 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||44 sarpanch candidates unanimously elected||A total of 44 candidates were declared unanimously elected for the sarpanch posts out of 340 posts, which were notified for election in the first phase in 12 mandals of Anakapalli revenue division, in Visakhapatnam district, on Tuesday. The highest number of unanimous sarpanch candidates was seven in Rambilli mandal, followed by six in Butchayyapeta, five each in Atchutapuram, Cheedikada and K. Kotapadu mandals, four in V. Madugula, three each in Chodavaram and Munagapaka, two each in Devarapalli, Kasimkota and Elamanchili and there were no unanimous candidates in Anakapalle mandal. Of the remaining 296 sarpanch posts, the results of 244 sarpanch posts were declared till 10.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/44-sarpanch-candidates-unanimously-elected/article33797877.ece
10 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP leaders resent MLA’s remarks on PM||BJP Parliamentary district president Medapati Raveendra and BJYM State president K. Surendra Mohan have taken strong exception to the statements reportedly made by YSR Congress Party MLA Gudivada Amarnath. Addressing a media conference here on Tuesday, they said that Mr. Amarnath had made uncalled for remarks against Prime Minister Narendra Modi while saying that Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy had taught a lesson to the 130-year-old Congress Party. Securing 151 Assembly seats has made the YSRCP leaders arrogant, they said. Mr. Amarnath does not have the stature to talk about Mr. Modi, they said. They also said that no other party has the right to talk on Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) except the BJP. This was because when VSP was on the verge of being referred to the Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction (BIFR), the then Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee had pumped funds and gave a new lease of life to it, they said. MLC P.V.N. Madhav on getting the news about the privatisation of VSP had rushed to Delhi and appealed to the Centre to reconsider its proposal. The BJP leaders from the State would go to Delhi and meet the Prime Minister and other Ministers on February 14 to impress upon them the need to reconsider the decision. The BJP leaders claimed that it was only the BJP, which had rushed to the aid of VSP, whenever it was in financial difficulties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-leaders-resent-mlas-remarks-on-pm/article33797876.ece
10 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ensure all shops have red, blue dustbins: Srijana tells officials||Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner G. Srijana has instructed the Sanitary Inspectors to ensure all the big and small shops have red and blue dustbins on the premises to segregate wastes. She asked the officials to impose fines if they do not maintain dustbin for the first and not to renew their licence if caught for the second time. Taking part in a review meet with Zonal Commissioners, Public Health officials and a few others here on Tuesday, Ms. Srijana asked the officials to put in effort to make Visakhapatnam waste-free. She said that it is the responsibility of the owners to ensure wastes that are dumped in their vacant lands are cleaned. She said that the civic body would impose fines of Rs. 10,000 for the first time and Rs. 15,000 for the second time. Further strict action would be initiated, she warned. Ms. Srijana also asked the officials to have a communication handset in every Ward Sachivalayam office. She also sought support from major establishments like King George Hospital, Railway, Andhra University, government and private institutions to check their premises and see that no wastes are dumped. She also enquired about the waste transportation procedure in the zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ensure-all-shops-have-red-blue-dustbins-srijana-tells-officials/article33797882.ece
10 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VSP privatisation: Ganta hails Jagan’s letter to PM||TDP leader and Visakhapatnam North MLA Ganta Srinivasa Rao has hailed Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for writing a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to reconsider the decision on privatisation of Visakhaptnam Steel Plant (VSP). In a letter to the Chief Minister on Tuesday, Mr. Srinivasa Rao also appreciated Mr. Jagan for suggesting measures to strengthen the VSP. He also appealed to the Chief Minister to convene an emergency Cabinet meet with a single point agenda on the prevailing issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vsp-privatisation-ganta-hails-jagans-letter-to-pm/article33797795.ece
10 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GITAM and NU to organise Ready-Set-Go||The Venture Development Centre (VDC) of GITAM University and Northeastern University (NU), Boston, are jointly organising a Ready-Set-Go programme, VDC Director Leben Johnson said here on Tuesday.  He informed that to enrol in the programme, all that a student needs is an idea. The last date for enrolling into the 2nd cohort is February 15. One can visitwww.vdc.gitam.edu.  GITAM has partnered with Northeastern University (NU) Boston, in 2019, and is now offering NU-IDEA Ready-Set-Go Programme to its students in 2020, Mr. Leben Johnson said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gitam-and-nu-to-organise-ready-set-go/article33797872.ece
10 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Forum: revoke decision to privatise steel plant||The Forum for Development of North Andhra (FDNA) has said that a massive people’s movement over 50 years ago had resulted in the Central government establishing the steel plant near Visakhapatnam. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday, the FDNA leaders appealed to the Prime Minister to revoke the decision to privatise the VSP, allot a captive iron ore mine and allow the plant to expand its capacity to enable it to become a strong player in the domestic and overseas steel markets.     FDNA general secretary A. Aja Sarma, chairman K.V. Ramana and 22 others signed the letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/forum-revoke-decision-to-privatise-steel-plant/article33797873.ece
10 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman found dead||A homemaker in her 30s allegedly ended her life by hanging herself from a ceiling fan at Hukumpeta mandal in Visakhpatnam district on Tuesday. The Hukumpeta police said that they came to know about the incident, but are yet to get further information. The police said that no complaint has been lodged in the case so far. Those having suicidal tendencies can contact police helpline No.100.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-found-dead/article33797883.ece
10 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||3-day workshop begins at AMC||A three-day day workshop, organised as part of the 14th revised basic course workshop for training in Medical Education Technology for medical teachers, was inaugurated by P.V. Sudhakar, Principal, Andhra Medical College(AMC), here on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-day-workshop-begins-at-amc/article33797875.ece
10 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Steel plant sets up rooftop solar power plant||The Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) installed a rooftop solar power plant at administrative building on Tuesday. It was inaugurated by Kishore Chandra Das, Director (Personnel) and K.K. Ghosh, Director (Projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/steel-plant-sets-up-rooftop-solar-power-plant/article33797886.ece
10 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Book on journalism released||A book on ‘professional skills for journalists’ was released by G.S.N. Raju, Vice-Chancellor of Centurion University, here on Tuesday. The book was authored by P. Bobby Vardhan, Krishnaveer Abhishek and Vijaykumar. He congratulated the authors for presenting professional skills for journalists in a clear and lucid way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/book-on-journalism-released/article33797888.ece
10 February 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM urged to intervene in MANSAS Trust row||Former MP Pusapati Ananda Gajapathi Raju’s daughter Urmila Gajapathi Raju on Tuesday urged Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to intervene in the affairs of the MANSAS Trust. Addressing a press conference here, Ms. Urmila said that she was trying to meet the Chief Minister to explain the situation of the MANSAS Trust. She said that she had a legitimate right over the Trust and the same was explained in her petition filed in court. “I was appointed as member of the Trust when I was in the UK for my studies. Now, I am willing to take the oath if arrangements are made,” she added. Ms. Urmila’s mother Sudha Gajapathi Raju and Lok Satta Party State executive president Bhisetti Babji were present at the press meet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-urged-to-intervene-in-mansas-trust-row/article33797793.ece
10 February 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Release fee arrears, govt. urged||Andhra Pradesh State Affiliated College Teachers’ Association vice president G.V.S. Jayapala Rao on Tuesday urged the State government to release all the arrears of fee reimbursement amount to ensure smooth running of MR College and other institutions affiliated to the MANSAS Trust. Lecturers and non-teaching staff would not have been resorted to agitate if fee reimbursement amount was released within the scheduled time. He clarified that the association had never said that fee reimbursement amount was diverted. He has also urged staff to abide by rules and regulations of the MANSAS Trust to overcome all the problems very soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/release-fee-reimbursement-amount-govt-urged/article33797771.ece
10 February 2021||February 10 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Elections in Kadapa marred by anganwadi workers’ protest||The polling for panchayat seats was by and large peaceful in Kadapa and Anantapur districts in the first phase on Tuesday. As many as 162 of the 206 panchayats went to polls in the first phase in Kadapa district, which means polling was held in 1,617 out of the 2,129 polling stations. As many as 2,63,839 out of 3,43,859 voters exercised their franchise, taking the poll percentage to 76.73. The poll scene took a hot turn when anganwadi workers staged a protest at Khajipet polling centre, decrying the slash in remuneration. While they were promised a batta of Rs. 1,300 for two days, they were reportedly given a mere Rs. 500, which was not even handed over till dusk. The mandal officials remained stubborn at the amount, forcing many women from outside towns to either accept the paltry sum or leave empty-handed. In Anantapur district, the first phase elections witnessed an impressive turnout of 81.19%, while remaining largely free from incidents. District Collector Gandham Chandrudu said the polling was conducted for the 163 panchayats in twelve mandals falling under Kadiri revenue division. As many as 3,43,420 voters exercised their franchise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/elections-in-kadapa-marred-by-anganwadi-workers-protest/article33797773.ece
10 February 2021||February 10 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eco-friendly||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eco-friendly/article33797891.ece
10 February 2021||February 10 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rasta roko||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rasta-roko/article33797078.ece
10 February 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||20 copper wire thieves nabbed||Sleuths of the Central Crime Station (CCS) on Tuesday arrested 20 members of a gang of copper wire thieves at Annapureddypalli and seized 13 quintals of stolen copper wire worth Rs. 8 lakh and Rs. 9,20,500 cash from their possession. Acting on a tip-off, a joint team comprising the CCS personnel and local police launched a vehicle checking drive on the main road near Sivalayam at Annapureddypalli mandal headquarters town on Tuesday morning. The team intercepted two four-wheelers heading towards Palvancha and found a huge quantity of the stolen copper wire concealed in the vehicles, sources said. On questioning, the members allegedly confessed to their involvement in several copper wire theft cases. Superintendent of Police Sunil Dutt said the gang led by G. Venkateswarlu, a scrap contractor of the coal belt region, had committed three property offences in the past couple of months. The gang was involved in the theft of copper wire at three separate project sites of the Sita Rama Lift Irrigation Project, Guptha Power Infrastructure Limited and Pennar Solar Private Limited respectively. Efforts are on to apprehend two more members, who are at large.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/20-copper-wire-thieves-nabbed/article33797824.ece
10 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Majority of TS population still susceptible to COVID-19: study||Rural parts of Telangana are a long way off attaining any kind of herd immunity for COVID-19 with the third round of the sero-surveillance led by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)-National Institute of Nutrition (NIN) in the three Telangana districts — Jangoan, Nalgonda and Kamareddy putting the sero-positivity rate, indicative of the silent, prior exposure to SARS-CoV 2, at 24%. The survey was conducted in December last year as part of the ICMR-National Sero-survey in 70 districts of 29 states. The first round of sero-survey was done in May last year in the same districts when the sero prevalence was found to be 0.33%, the second round in August showed 12.5% prevalence and the current exercise showed 24.1%. Sero-prevalence at the national level went up 3.1 times between August and December last year whereas in TS, it went up by two times and latest sero-prevalence shows it is now “equal to the national average of 24%”. The strategy has been to conduct repeat cross-sectional sero-studies in the same geographic locations so that the infection transmission trends could be documented and studied, said NIN Director R.Hemalatha on Tuesday. “This shows the effectiveness of robust containment measures in Telangana, including quarantine, contract tracing and testing strategies,” she maintained. ICMR nodal officer Dr. Laxmaiah said the “good compliance and cooperation” showed by the public in adopting universal mask wearing and other COVID-19 protocols before the survey has ensured the virus transmission remained “slow and steady” in Telangana. However, the rising rate also show the virus is “gradually spreading” and “three-fourths of TS rural population is still susceptible to the infection”. Safety measures Therefore, ICMR-NIN scientists advocate all non-pharmacological COVID-19 measures like wearing of face masks, hand sanitisation and physical distancing should be complied with. “The herd immunity is expected when 60% of the population is exposed to the infection but since 75% of the rural population is still vulnerable and as it may take up to three months for vaccinations to reach every citizen, safety protocols should be continued even as most restrictions have been removed,” Dr Laxmaiah said. City sero-survey ICMR-NIN in association with the TS government, sister organisation of National Institute of Epidemiology (Chennai) and the CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) is also doing serum studies on 9,500 blood samples collected from 300 people each from 30 divisions of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation to check for the sero-positivity rate in the twin cities. “This is the first time such a major exercise is being attempted to know the COVID-19 spread and going by the rural spread, it could easily be double in the capital due to the population density and economic activity. It will give us a glimpse on how far we are away from the herd immunity here too,” said Dr. Laxmaiah. A limited sero-surveillance study on 500 samples in the 10 containment zones was done in May last year when the infection rate was found to be 5% while the CSIR-CCMB study of sewage samples study in association with CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT) in August last year showed 6.6 lakh of the population to be infected.  Herd immunity is expected when 60% of the population is exposed to the infection... as it may take up to three months for vaccinations to reach every citizen, safety protocols must be continued. Laxmaiah, ICMR nodal officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/majority-of-ts-population-still-susceptible-to-covid-19-survey/article33797686.ece
10 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC imposes costs on State govt. in ‘encroached’ land case||The Telangana High Court on Tuesday imposed costs of Rs. 10,000 on State government officials, taking a serious note of their failure to file counter affidavit in a writ petition relating to alleged encroachment of government land in Kothapet of Saroornagar. Virtual hearing A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy directed the Revenue department principal secretary to attend the virtual hearing of the matter on June 8 if the counter affidavits by the officials concerned were not filed by then. A resident of the locality, Bikkamanlu Bhaskar, knocked the High Court doors in 2016 through a writ petition seeking direction to stop encroachment of government land admeasuring 2.18 acres in survey no. 143, 159 and 160. Tahsildar jurisdiction The land comes under Uppal Tahsildar jurisdiction. The petitioner’s counsel Vladimeer Khatoon, during previous hearings, said the petitioner approached the court after his multiple representations to the officials failed to stall the grabbing of government land by some private persons. When the matter was taken up on Tuesday, CJ Hima Kohli took an exception to the officials not filing counter affidavits in the case even after more than four years. The government pleader informed the bench that there were other writ petitions on the same matter and the court issued status quo orders. “Why did you not get the status quo order vacated?”, the CJ asked. The GP replied that eventually that order got vacated in 2018. “Then the government officers did not do anything except twiddling their thumbs?’ the CJ observed, and sought to know what steps were taken to remove the encroachments. The GP’s explanation that a temple was built on the encroached land along with other structures did not impress the bench. Referring to construction of temple on government land, the CJ remarked that the deity should not be on an unauthorised land. Making further inquiries about the matter, the CJ asked who was in-charge of the matters. Illegal structures When the GP said it was the Collector, the CJ noted that then all the details should be with the government and wondered how the authorities were unable to provide complete details of the issue as to how much land was grabbed, how many illegal structures sprang up and how many of them were removed. “This is most unacceptable explanation...the court gets an impression that the State is not interested in protecting its land,” the Chief Justice said. The HC bench then gave four weeks time to government to file counter affidavits.  This is the most unacceptable explanation...the high court gets an impression that the State is not interested in protecting its land. High Court Bench||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-imposes-costs-on-state-govt-in-encroached-land-case/article33797691.ece
10 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rs. 3-crore renovation plan for iconic OU Arts College||The Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority will carry out repair work on the ceiling of the iconic Osmania University’s Arts College building. Principal Secretary Municipal Administration and Urban Development Arvind Kumar on Tuesday announced a Rs. 3 crore budget for the makeover. Mr. Kumar listed other steps to boost education infrastructure, including developing a new building on the Nizam College premises. “Officials and engineers from Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority visited the campus and shared the plans for restoring the building. The priority is the ceiling which is leaking at many places and there is seepage,” said D. Ravinder, principal of University College of Arts and Social Sciences. The 1-lakh square feet ceiling of the building is the main concern as unscientific repairs over the past 50 years have led to leakages at many places as well as blockage of the rainwater outlets. “I have been pursuing the issue with a single-point agenda. The October rains did a lot of damage this year. In 2019, the CPWD had pegged the cost of repair at Rs. 2.58 lakh. There is a separate provision for internal repairs,” informed Mr. Ravinder. Over the past few years, alumni and the teaching staff of OU raised the issue of upkeep of the building build during Nizam’s time and which has a proud history of producing brilliant academicians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rs-3-crore-renovation-plan-for-university-arts-college/article33797683.ece
10 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||SSC exams to be held from May 17 to 22||Schedule for the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) exams has finally been officially released by the Department of School Education on Tuesday and they are set to begin on May 17 with the first language paper. Timings The exams will be conducted from 9.30 am to 12.45 pm and conclude on May 22 with Social Studies paper. The OSSC exams will be held on May 24 and 25, while the one for SSC vocational course (theory) will be conducted on May 26. The director of School Education also made it clear that the schedule will not be changed and that exams will be conducted even if the government declares a holiday on the dates already fixed for the exam. The director also said students cannot write the exam at centres other than those allotted to them. Their exams will be cancelled if they violate the norm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ssc-exams-to-be-held-from-may-17-to-22/article33797687.ece
10 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||14k more frontline workers immunised||Health department staff administered COVID-19 vaccine to 14,638 frontline workers on Tuesday out of the targeted 39,756 beneficiaries. That is 37% of the target achieved. Five cases of minor Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI) were reported. Employees of Municipality, Panchayat Raj, Police, Revenue department, and Central Armed Police Forces, are being immunised as part of the ongoing drive. The drive so far From January 16 to February 9, as many as 2,43,483 healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers were given the jab. The vaccination drive will continue on Wednesday along with routine immunisation for children in all districts of the State. Along with Covishield, Covaxin is being given to recipients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/14k-more-frontline-workers-immunised/article33797681.ece
10 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KCR should apologise to tribals before campaigning: Bandi||Telangana BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar has demanded Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao apologise to the tribal community for the “injustice being done to them in protecting them against landgrabbers from the ruling party leaders, take action against such persons and order an inquiry into such ‘forcible’ occupation of assigned lands”. In a press statement on Tuesday, the BJP leader wanted Mr. Rao to explain his stand on the recent incidents of tribal lands being occupied and police protection being provided to such “land grabbers” in Huzurnagar constituency before seeking people’s support for the forthcoming bypoll to the Nagarjunasagar constituency. Tribals form a significant section of the population in the area and are being deprived of their legitimate land rights and the government has been ‘usurping’ the same in the name of ‘Harithaharam’or handing over to the ‘big time industrialists’ without providing ‘adequate compensation’. Mid-term poll Earlier, former MLA N. V. S. S. Prabhakar questioned if Mr. Rao is ready for a mid-term poll in light of the fast changing political scenario in Telangana. “If he thinks he is so sure of his policies and actions why can’t go back to the people? Earlier, he has been quitting posts and seeking re-election so why not now? His days as CM are numbered with his own ministers expressing dissent openly and a family drama is going on to make K.T. Rama Rao sit in the CM’s chair,” he claimed. At a press conference, the State vice president accused Mr. Rao of ‘doing politics’ with the lives of the people in the last six years and “misusing the police force to subjugate the Opposition, especially the BJP by filing false cases and non-bailable warrants”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-should-apologise-to-tribals-says-bandi/article33797702.ece
10 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Revanth interacts with farmers, youth on new farm laws||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) working president A. Revanth Reddy continued to meet farmers and youngsters during the third day of his padayatra that started from Atchampet in Nagarkurnool district three days ago. Mr. Reddy, who started his “Rajiv Rythu Bharosa Yatra” against the controversial farm laws of the Central government also blamed the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) of being hand-in-glove with the Centre on the farm laws. The TRS government had supported the farmers agitation initially but has backtracked as a part of an understanding with the BJP not to pursue corruption cases against Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. The Malkajgiri MP will cover more than 130 kms before reaching Hyderabad and he covered 9 kms before resting in a make-shift tent on the Achampet-Hyderabad road. He was accompanied by MLA D. Seetakka, former MP Mallu Ravi and hundreds of his supporters. He walked for 25 kms on the second day to reach Chintapalli while on the third day his padayatra covered Polkampalli, Rangapur and Ellikal where he stayed for the night. Along the route, the Congress MP interacted with the farmers working in their fields understanding their issues. Farmers and youngsters who vied with each other to interact with him explained their problems and asked him to raise their issues with the government and in Parliament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/revanth-interacts-with-farmers-youth-on-new-farm-laws/article33797828.ece
10 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC Mayor, Deputy Mayor polls tomorrow||Election for the Mayor and Deputy Mayor posts in the new GHMC Council will be conducted at 12.30 p.m. on February 11. GHMC Election Officer and Commissioner D.S. Lokesh Kumar informed this to the representatives of political parties during a meeting to explain the procedure of election on Tuesday. Mr. Lokesh Kumar said the members should arrive by 10.45 a.m., carrying an identity card, and the notice issued by GHMC about the meeting. Oath taking ceremony for the new members will be conducted in four languages, English, Telugu, Urdu and Hindi. Full quorum of 97 members is mandatory for the election, which will be conducted by show of hands. The whole election process will be video-graphed, a statement informed. MLC Srinivas Reddy from TRS, MLC Syed Aminul Jafri from MIM, Niranjan from Congress, and Shankar Yadav and Devara Karnakar from BJP attended the meeting. Meanwhile, T-BJP announced that it would contest for the posts. “We have won 48 seats and the difference between us and TRS is a mere few thousand votes, so we will be putting up our candidates,” said city president and MLC N. Ramchander Rao on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmc-mayor-deputy-mayor-polls-tomorrow/article33797692.ece
10 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘CM succumbed to BJP’s pressure on farm laws’||Congress Legislature Party (CLP) Leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka accused Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao of taking a U-Turn on the Central farm laws but the farmers would not succumb to the pressures of the Central government like KCR did. Interacting with the farmers in Bhimsari in Adilabad district, as part of the CLP’s ‘Raitulatho Mukhamukhi’ (direct interaction with farmers) he lashed out at the State government for its negligence and incapacity to come to the rescue of farmers. Manthani MLA and former minister D. Sridhar Babu and TPCC Kisan cell chairman Anvesh Reddy were among the Congress leaders and workers accompanying him. Stating that KCR changed his stand after his trip to New Delhi, he said people in Telangana were not slaves and the farmers would fight tooth and nail till the farm laws, which were enacted to help the big corporates. Listing out the exploitation of farmers under the KCR rule, the CLP leader said despite farmers paying their share under the Fasal Bhima Yojana the State government did not put in its share resulting in stoppage of Rs. 960 crore funds. This is directly harming the farmers. Explaining their woes to Mr. Bhatti, Several farmers said the the government had refused to buy their produce after forcing them to take up cultivation of crops suggested by the government. Farmer Krishnaiah said that there is an urgent need to fight against the farm laws while Ashok and Vithal said there was no implementation of Rythu Bima. Mr. Bhatti also took strong objection to the reported remarks of the Chief Minister during the TRS executive committee meeting. “KCR who compared the Chief Ministership provided by the Constitution written by Dr. B. R. Ambedkar as his left foot slipper should leave that slipper by resigning,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cm-succumbed-to-bjps-pressure-on-farm-laws-says-bhatti/article33797705.ece
10 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana’s coronavirus tally goes up by 149 cases||Telangana’s COVID-19 tally has reached 2,95,831 while the death toll stands at 1,612 with 149 new cases and one more fatality being reported on Monday. The new cases include 25 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region and eight from Rangareddy. There was no detection of the infection infive districts — Wanaparthy, Narayanpet, Nagarkurnoool, Kamareddy and Jogulamba-Gadwal. On Monday, 31,831 people were examined and the results of 745 were awaited. So far, the State has performed 81,54,347 tests. Of the over 2.95 lakh cases, 1,804 were active and 2,92,415 have recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telanganas-coronavirus-tally-goes-up-by-149-cases/article33797679.ece
10 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hyderabad airport bags customer service awards||GMR-run Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) in Hyderabad and Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) in New Delhi have received the ACI World’s (Airports Council International) prestigious ‘Voice of Customer’ recognition on Tuesday. Both airports have been recognised for their continuous efforts to listen to passengers, engage and gather feedback to understand their needs during COVID-19 pandemic that broke out in India last year. With the objective of restoring passenger trust in air travel, the airports community and stakeholders went all out to quickly adapt to the new normal situations and implement several passenger friendly measures for a safe travel, informed an official spokesman in a press release. Passenger feedback was constantly monitored and worked upon, and measures such as contactless elevators, contactless information desks, promotion of digital transactions, app-based technologies for shopping and food, UV sanitisation of passenger baggage, ensure higher input of UV disinfected fresh air in terminal buildings, etc., were put in place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hyderabad-airport-bags-customer-service-awards/article33797684.ece
10 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Last date for bar applications extended||Telangana Prohibition and Excise department has extended the last date for receiving applications seeking permission to establish 159 new bars, to February 16. When bars in all districts, according to Excise limits are compared, the highest number of 55 bars are notified in GHMC, 12 each in Sangareddy and Nizamabad, and 10 in Mancherial. Till February 8, the department has received a total of 7,368 applications. Of them, the highest of 1,061 were received for 55 bars in GHMC. While there are only five bars in Yadadri Bhuvanagiri district, 638 applications were received, which is the second highest among all districts. The same number, 638 applications, were received for six bars in Nalgonda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/last-date-for-bar-applications-extended/article33797689.ece
10 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Woman accuses former boyfriend of rape||A man allegedly confined his ex-girlfriend in his house against her will and then raped her. A case was booked by Raidurgam Police Station after the woman lodged a complaint. While the offence allegedly took place on February 4, a case was booked on February 8 after the victim approached the police with a complaint. The accused and the victim were dating for a while. However, in 2019, they parted ways. On February 3, the accused sent a message to the victim, asking her to meet to talk to him in his house which is in a gated apartment complex in Raidurgam Police Station Limits. Soon after the victim went to his house, he allegedly grabbed her neck, dragged her into his room and raped her, according to her complaint. The Raidurgam police booked a case under sections 376 and 342 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/woman-cries-rape-by-former-boyfriend/article33797695.ece
10 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||2 arrested for burglaries||Meerpet police on Tuesday apprehended two persons for committing burglaries and recovered 70 grams of gold ornaments, nearly a 1,000 grams of silver ornaments, LED TVs, four motorcycles and smartphones. The accused have been identified as M. Amar Raj Kumar Reddy (21), a motorcycle mechanic and resident of Ramanthapur and T. Boina Sai Kiran (21), an electrician and student, who resides in Kumarwadi. Police said that the accused are habitual offenders. They allegedly recce neighbourhoods late at night and spot locked houses.They then break into these houses and do away with gold and silver ornaments, and other articles such as electronics. According to police, the accused are involved in several cases in Meerpet, Rajendranagar, Mailardevpally, and Uppal police stations limits. They allegedly committed seven house burglaries, four automobile thefts, and two cellphone thefts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/2-arrested-for-burglaries/article33797696.ece
10 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||4 more LI schemes||The State government has given administrative approval for construction of five more lift irrigation schemes in Nalgonda district with an estimated cost of Rs. 585 crore. In the orders issued on Tuesday, the Irrigation Department has given its nod for lift irrigation schemes at Pogilla on Krishna river in Chandampet mandal (Rs. 25.64 cr.), Kambalapally (Rs. 202.15 cr.), Amba Bhavani (Rs. 184.56 cr.) and Peddagattu (Rs. 82.73 cr.) on the foreshores of Nagarjunasagar reservoir in Chandampet, Neredugumma and P.A.Pally mandals and at Angadipeta (Rs. 90.96 cr.) on the foreshores of Akkampalli Balancing Reservoir in P.A.Pally mandal. Besides, the government has also issued orders for formation of separate pressure main for upland ayacut of R-9 lift irrigation scheme on Nagarjunasagar Left Canal at Barkathgudem in Munagala mandal of Suryapet district with the cost of Rs. 8.45 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nod-for-4-more-li-schemes/article33797697.ece
10 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Vijaya Telangana Dairy increases milk procurement price||In a boon to dairy farmers, the Telangana State Dairy Development Cooperative Federation or Vijaya Telangana Dairy has decided to increase the milk procurement price by giving an additional incentive of Rs. 1 per litre. This is in addition to the Rs. 4 per litre incentive already being given. Chairman of the federation L. Bhooma Reddy said in a statement on Tuesday that the decision would benefit about one lakh dairy farmers supplying milk to the federation. The additional incentive announced on Tuesday would help farmers get at least Rs. 12 crore more a year. Mr. Bhooma Reddy stated that TSDDCF had cleared dues of Rs. 4 per litre incentive recently and the additional incentive would make the milk procurement price of the federation higher compared to all other private and cooperative dairies operating/procuring milk in TS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vijaya-telangana-dairy-increases-milk-procurement-price/article33797688.ece
10 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||ACB||An assistant commercial tax officer and junior commercial tax inspector were caught red-handed while accepting bribe from a complainant for not imposing fine and looking the other way in case irregularities were found. While the assistant commercial tax officer was identified as Mohammed Wasif Azam, the junior commercial tax officer is Mohammed Ashfaq. Both are from the office of the Deputy Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, Abids Division. The accused allegedly demanded and accepted Rs. 40,000 bribe from the complainant Ranjay Singh. As soon as Ashfaq saw the ACB team, he allegedly took the money from his pocket and threw it outside the window.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/acb/article33797693.ece
10 February 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Ryots move HC on land acquisition||Aggrieved farmers from various villages in Khammam and Kalluru divisions knocked the doors of the Telangana High Court seeking protection against what they called “imminent threat of dispossession” from their agricultural lands owing to the alleged attempts by the authorities concerned to acquire their lands for the proposed Khammam-Devarapalli Greenfield National Highway. As many as 27 farmers from different villages in Sattupalli, Vemsoor, Penuballi, Kalluru, Khammam rural and Thallada mandals filed a petition in the High Court with an appeal to give a direction to the authorities concerned to refrain from proceeding with the acquisition of their agricultural lands, pending disposal of their writ petition, sources said. The lawyer for the petitioners contended that the authorities concerned were trying to dispossess the petitioners from their respective lands and trying to acquire their lands without obtaining environmental clearance and without the approval. The High Court on Friday issued an interim direction to the respondent officials not to dispossess the petitioners from their respective agricultural lands and posted the matter for next hearing on February 23, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ryots-move-hc-on-land-acquisition/article33797830.ece
10 February 2021||Siddipet,TELANGANA||Relocate oustees of Mallannasagar: Collector||Collector P. Venkatarami Reddy, at a review meeting on Tuesday, directed officials to complete the houses at the Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) colony at Mutrajpally and hand them over to the oustees. Houses must be handed over to oustees of Etigaddakishtapur by February 15, Vemulaghat on February 25 and to others by March 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/relocate-oustees-of-mallannasagar-collector/article33797823.ece
10 February 2021||GURUGRAM,||3 farmers die at protest sites||Three farmers died at Tikri and Singhu border protest sites over the past 24 hours. In two cases, deaths were caused due to natural reasons, however, the third person succumbed to injuries sustained in an accident this past week. Nineteen farmers have died at the Singhu border over the past two months for various reasons during the ongoing agitation, the police said. Harinder Singh (39), a resident of Haryana’s Panipat, and Darshan Singh (71) from Punjab died at the Singhu border on Tuesday. Cardiac arrest Harinder went to sleep after the evening meals on Monday, but did not wake up on Tuesday morning. The fellow farmers called a doctor who declared him dead. Kundli Station House Officer, Inspector Ravi Kumar, said the death was caused due to cardiac arrest. Harinder, survived by his wife and two children, had been present at the site for the past 12 days. Darshan Singh from Punjab’s Moga was taken to Civil Hospital in the evening after he complained of uneasiness. He died during treatment at 4.30 p.m. He had come to take part in the protest a month ago. Rai Station House Officer Vivek Malik said the autopsy was not conducted so far, but prima facie the death seemed to have been caused due to natural reason. Deepak Nehra (27) died at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences at Rohtak on Monday after two days of treatment. A resident of Bensi village in Rohtak, Deepak had gone to supply fuel wood to the agitating farmers at Tikri border on February 5. He accidentally slipped from the trolley while unloading the wood and sustained injuries on the neck.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/3-farmers-die-at-protest-sites/article33797403.ece
10 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Free gym, salon disappear from Singhu||The langar landscape at the Singhu border protest site has changed in the last few days with some of the free sewas disappearing while some getting stronger. At the onset of the protest in late November and December, there was a host of langars being set up by various groups and individuals at the site. A group had started “ pagdi (turban) langar” where they were tying turbans to all those who wanted, an individual had started free salon service where haircuts were offered, a group had started giving free massages to protesters and even a gymnasium had been opened by a group of weightlifters. However, all these free sewas have now disappeared.    “At the beginning, there was a lot of energy and many people came here to offer their services. They all said that they were here to stay. However, talking about pagdi services, it could have been pointed out that not everyone who wears the pagdi once continues with it which amounts its disrespect. And even if one doesn’t wish to continue wearing, it needs to be kept with respect,” said Avtar Singh who lodges in a trolley close to where the pagdi langar used to be set up. Initially, there were many small langars set up for toothpaste, combs, medicines, libraries which also have now disappeared even as there are several bigger sewas for medicines and at least two libraries still intact. The food langars, apart from the usual chapatis and vegetables, at the site have been steady, including sarson ka saag, makki ki roti , kheer and jalebis , a hit at the site since the beginning, and some of the other ones as well including, free stitching and alteration services. The langar run by the Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee (DSGMC) has also seen a dip in people eating. “The primary reason is that a lot of langars have opened up at the back and also because less locals are now coming here,” said Balvir Singh, DSGMC langar manager. Stitching stall Dalbir Singh (38) from Barnala has been here since the last week of December and on January 2, he set up a free stitching stall and no event, including January 26 and 29 incidents have deterred him. “I had come with a man who I fell out with and he told me that I couldn’t have stayed without him. And I did. I am here for sewa and I will not leave till we win,” he said. Pizza langar is also among the ones that have continued every day. Inderpreet Singh who runs the langar said, “Whoever we have interacted with, we have told him that we’ll stay here till the end and we will”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/free-gym-salon-disappear-from-singhu/article33797407.ece
10 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Youth invites people to share their opinion on ongoing stir||A 25-year-old youth from Fatehgarh Sahib, who holds a Masters degree in commerce, sits right in front of the main stage at the Singhu border protest site and invites people to share their opinion about the protest which he further shares with the management. So far, Manjot Singh has collected over 110 opinions in his register and on loose sheets by people from across the country — including Odisha, Kerala, Uttarakhand and other States — and shared with the stage management committee for the first time on Tuesday. He has been collecting these testimonials for the last seven days. “I do this so that those managing the protest know what people think about it and if there are any suggestions that can be taken note of,” he said. Manjot came here about 10 days ago and asked at the Jangi library — right at the beginning of the protest site — how he could help. He then came up with this idea and pitched it to those running the library who allowed him. “So I set up a board with a message written in three languages — Punjabi, Hindi and English,” he said, adding that people may face problems speaking but sometimes are more comfortable writing. “Please write your opinion about the farmers protest” the message reads. Historical protest A message from a Kerala man reads, “It’s a historical thing. We are proud to be a part of this historical protest,” along with a few lines in Malyalam. Another message from a Delhi woman read, “I support farmers protest. Democracy is dead in our country. If you are protesting against the government, you are termed a terrorist. Every media channel is biased. Nobody is showing how our farmers are protesting for more than two months at the Singhu border serving 24X7 langar, sanitation, medication. Farmers deserve justice and we are here to support”. Suggestions like increasing vigil and to stop speeding cars at night also come in, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/youth-invites-people-to-share-opinions-about-ongoing-stir/article33797405.ece
10 February 2021||New Delhi,||‘FIR lodged regarding missing farmer’||The city police on Tuesday told the Delhi High Court that a missing person FIR has been registered about a Haryana-based farmer whose whereabouts are not known since January 26 after he participated in a tractor rally in the national capital that turned violent. The submission by the Delhi Police was made before a Bench of Justice Siddharth Mridul and Justice A.J. Bhambhani during the hearing of a habeas corpus plea moved by the brother of the missing farmer. The court asked the police to file a status report before the next date of hearing on February 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/fir-lodged-regarding-missing-farmer/article33797408.ece
10 February 2021||New Delhi,||Police foil IYC bid to gherao Parliament||Activists of the Indian Youth Congress (IYC) on Tuesday took out a protest march to ‘gherao’ Parliament over the farmers’ issues, “rising” unemployment and hike in fuel prices. However, the march which started from from Jantar Mantar was stopped by police on Raisina Road. Congress MP Digvijay Singh along with some leaders of the party and activists also courted arrest, the IYC claimed. A meeting was also held at Jantar Mantar before the march that was attended by several senior leaders. Leading the protest, IYC president Srinivas B.V. alleged that the Modi government and the RSS are against the people of country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/iyc-takes-out-march-to-gherao-parliament/article33797410.ece
10 February 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. looks for new agency to do pollution source study||The Delhi government will work with researchers to “soon” launch a study to find sources of air pollution in the city on a real-time basis, the authorities said on Tuesday. In December, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia had taken a decision to cancel a study, which was being done by the University of Washington in St. Louis for the Delhi government at a cost of Rs. 1.2 crore. The government had paid over Rs. 50 lakh to the university but decided to cancel the study as a government-appointed committee had raised red flags about the study, said officials. “In a bid to study and combat pollution sources in Delhi, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday held a meeting with researchers of IIT Kanpur, IIT Delhi, and TERI. During this meeting, it was decided that the Delhi government will work with teams of researchers and launch ‘Real-time Source Apportionment’ project in Delhi, along with setting up an advanced monitoring system of real-time pollution sources,” an official statement read. IIT Kanpur has submitted a proposal for a study that will cost about Rs. 11 crore. An expert panel is examining the proposal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/govt-looks-for-new-agency-to-do-pollution-source-study/article33797666.ece
10 February 2021||Ghaziabad,||AMU students hold protest march, demand offline classes||A section of Aligarh Muslim University students took out a protest march on Sunday demanding the university to be reopened after the COVID 19 pandemic without delay. The university was closed in March 2020 after the government shut down educational institutions because of the pandemic. In December 2019, AMU was shut down and students were asked to vacate the hostels after anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests on the campus turned violent. Later, students protested against the university administration for allowing the police to enter the campus. ‘Career suffering’ A female research scholar, requesting anonymity, said their career was suffering. “Many of us could not afford electronic gadgets necessary for online classes. Also, lab and other practical work are not possible online. Research work could not be done with proper access to the university library. As the number of COVID19 cases has come down considerably, we demand the administration to open the university and hostels as soon as possible or at least give us a timeline,” she said. Sources said around 1,000 to 1,200 students, mostly males, were staying in hostels without permission. As the women’s hostels were strictly locked, they were forced to stay in PG accommodation. Some teachers said if the Aligarh Numaish (exhibition), a popular annual event of the city, could be held, why a central university could not be opened in phases. Ali Nadeem Rezavi, professor of History, asked, “If cinema halls, political rallies, Numaish and absolutely anything could be allowed, why this obsession with having the doors of educational institutions closed.” Talha Mannan, a final year student of post-graduation, said, it seemed the university administration “deliberately” wanted to keep students out of the university. “Ours is a different case as after the university was shut down in December, it opened only in February for a few days. At least other universities such as the BHU and JNU have come up with a schedule. The University administration can open the faculties and the hostels in a phase-wise manner.” Tough SOPs University spokesperson Shafey Kidwai said the government’s COVID-19 SOPs stipulated that only 50% of students could attend offline classes and that only one student should stay in a hostel room. “It is not possible to conform to these SOPs in a residential university. We have four students in one hostel room. What would we say to the other three,” he asked. He admitted that the COVID cases had come down considerably in Aligarh and that there was no active case in the corona ward of the university hospital. Prof. Kidwai said the University Academic Council had met and the administration would soon come out with a plan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/amu-students-hold-protest-march-demand-offline-classes/article33797668.ece
10 February 2021||JAIPUR,||‘Centre pushing farmers’ future into darkness’||Congress leader Sachin Pilot on Tuesday said the BJP-led government at the Centre was pushing the future of farmers into darkness by refusing to budge on the demand for withdrawal of agricultural sector laws. “Farmers are sitting at the Delhi borders in the cold, but the government is indifferent to their agony,” he said. Addressing a massive farmers’ rally at Fateh Sagar Taal in Bharatpur district’s Bayana region, the former Deputy CM said farm laws, which would destroy farming and the mandis, were not being discussed by BJP leaders in the Parliament despite the Budget session being in progress. Mr. Pilot said the Congress would continue to support farmers till the controversial statutes were repealed. The rally was organised ahead of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s visit to Rajasthan on February 12 and 13. Mr. Pilot said Mr. Gandhi’s presence in the State would strengthen the movement and help build pressure on the Centre. Mr. Gandhi will visit Hanumangarh, Sriganganagar and Nagaur districts. Former Ministers and party MLAs also addressed the rally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/centre-pushing-farmers-future-into-darkness-says-sachin-pilot/article33797417.ece
10 February 2021||Mumbai,||2,515 new cases, 2,554 more recoveries in Maharashtra||Maharashtra reported 2,515 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the total tally of cases to 20,48,802, said an official from the State Health Department. As many as 35 people succumbed to the disease, taking the total death toll to 51,360. Of the latest deaths, 25 were from the past 48 hours, eight from the last week, and two deaths from an earlier period. A total of 2,554 patients were discharged from hospitals on Tuesday, taking the overall number of recoveries in Maharashtra to 19,61,525, the official said. The State now has 34,640 active cases. The case recovery rate stands at 95.74%, while the case fatality rate is 2.51%. 375 cases in Mumbai Mumbai reported 375 fresh cases during the day, while three people died in the State capital due to COVID-19. With this, the total tally of cases in Mumbai went up to 3,12,655 and the death toll to 11,398. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region, which includes Mumbai city and its satellite towns, reported 693 new cases, taking the cumulative case load to 7,01,232 and the death toll to 19,640. Nashik division’s COVID-19 case tally is 2,79,158 and death toll is 5,147. The number of cases in the Pune division stands at 5,05,861 and death toll at 11,675. Kolhapur division has reported a total of 1,18,408 cases and 4,024 deaths till now, while Aurangabad division's case tally stands at 75,670 and death toll at 2,007. Latur division has reported 83,302 cases until now and 2,482 fatalities. Akola division has reported 74,509 cases, while 1,620 people have succumbed to the virus until now. Nagpur division has reported a total of 2,10,512 infections and 4,680 fatalities so far. With 48,958 tests conducted on Tuesday, the number of samples tested has reached 1,50,58,995. As many as 1,67,694 people in the State are in home quarantine, while 1,805 are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/2515-new-cases-2554-more-recoveries-in-maharashtra/article33797314.ece
10 February 2021||Mumbai,||Sena gears up for 2022 BMC polls, looks to dent BJP’s prospects||Though the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) polls are a year away, the Shiv Sena has already swung into action and has targeted the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). In the past two weeks, around half a dozen leaders from the BJP have switched sides to the Sena, which is likely to dent the saffron party’s prospects in several pockets of Mumbai. On February 5, former Congress MLA-turned-BJP leader Krushna Hegde joined the Sena along with Maharashtra Navnirman Sena leader Juilee Shende. Mr. Hegde, son-in-law of former Sena MLA and ex-mayor Ramesh Prabhoo, is a prominent face to join the party. “I can proudly say that I am the face of an urban Mumbaikar. Sena is not new to me, but I was extremely impressed with the manner in which Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray handled the State amid the pandemic. I have guaranteed him that I will work to ensure that the saffron flag will continue to fly high on the BMC headquarters,” Mr. Hegde said. The next day, three-time winner from the Borivali Assembly constituency and former BJP MLA Hemendra Mehta joined the Sena in the presence of Mr. Thackeray. “I have been working with the BJP since the days of the late Atal Bihari Vajpayee. But the present BJP leadership is different. I have no intention to work for it. Therefore, I have decided to join the Sena,” Mr. Mehta said. The Sena has also been organising several programmes to reach out to voters in the Gujarati community. On January 10 this year, the party held its first such programme in Jogeshwari and followed it up with a get-together for the community on February 7 at Malad. Mr. Mehta and several Gujarati businessmen were in attendance at the event. The BJP had sidelined Mr. Mehta for a few years and the Sena added him to its fold. The BJP has made claims of winning the polls and by inducting disgruntled BJP leaders, the Sena is looking to dent its prospects. On Monday, close confidants of Kalidas Kolambkar, BJP MLA from Wadala, joined the Sena. Ex-corporator Presila Kadam, BJP leader Anil Kadam and BJP-affiliated BEST union’s working president Vivek Gholap also shifted to the Sena. “The Sena has been a top party in Mumbai and will remain so. We have begun our preparations for the polls and the BJP is set to face a few more shocks,” said a Sena minister, who is chalking out the party’s poll strategy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sena-gears-up-for-2022-bmc-polls-looks-to-dent-bjps-prospects/article33797308.ece
10 February 2021||Mumbai,||Malegaon blast case: HC asks Purohit about conspiracy meet||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday asked 2008 Malegaon blast accused Lieutenant Colonel Prasad Shrikant Purohit if he had any documents to show he attended alleged conspiracy meetings for the blast as part of his official duty for the Army. A Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and Manish Pitale asked Purohit about a meeting he attended on January 26, 2008. As per the National Investigation Agency (NIA), this meeting was organised by a group called Abhinav Bharat and the conspiracy for the blast was hatched here. Six people were killed and over 100 injured in the blast near a mosque in Malegaon on September 29, 2008. “The meeting that you attended on 26th, where is the reference? Where is the reference that it was part of the official duty?” the Bench asked. The court had asked a similar question to Purohit on the last hearing on February 3. The HC was hearing a plea filed by Purohit last year seeking dropping of all charges against him. He has maintained that in attending the meetings, he was collecting intelligence for the Army.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/malegaon-blast-case-hc-asks-purohit-about-conspiracy-meet/article33797312.ece
10 February 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Massive fire breaks out in Taloja industrial area||A major fire broke out at a chemical company in Taloja industrial area in Navi Mumbai at 12 p.m. on Tuesday. Two fire officials sustained minor injuries while dousing the fire, which erupted in Azeocryst Organic Pvt Ltd at plot number 34 and spread to the adjoining factories in the area. “An organic chemical company caught fire. Prima facie, it seems that a short circuit caused the blaze,” senior police inspector Kashinath Chavan from Taloja MIDC police station said. The fire spread to Gauri Acids Pvt Ltd on plot number 32, and factories on plots 33 and 35. Local residents said they heard loud blasts as chemical drums exploded in the factories. Around 14 fire tenders, including those from the MIDC, CIDCO and NMMC, reached the spot. At the time of going to press, the cooling process was in progress. “The structures of two factories were completely damaged. When a fire rages for over four hours, the strength of steel used in construction weakens. The continuous radiant heat emitted by the chemicals is the biggest challenge in the firefighting operation. The chain reaction of chemicals stored in barrels poses another challenge,” a fire officer from Taloja MIDC said. “Though the incident was reported at Taloja MIDC police station, no FIR has been lodged yet. We are awaiting the report from the MIDC and other authorities to ascertain the cause of the fire,” Mr. Chavan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/massive-fire-breaks-out-in-taloja-industrial-area/article33797310.ece
10 February 2021||Navi Mumbai,||One held, minor detained for murdering 20-year-old||The Rabale police have arrested a 19-year-old boy from Nashik and detained a 17-year-old accomplice for allegedly killing a 20-year-old man from Rabale. The police said Anil Jayaram Shinde went missing on the afternoon of February 5 and his brother, a resident of Talawali in Ghansoli, filed a missing person’s complaint with the Rabale police. The police found that the last call the victim received was from an unknown number. The caller was tracked and he told the police that a stranger in Ghansoli had taken his phone to make a call. “With the help of technical evidence, we traced the accused, Ramesh Jadhav (19), and his minor friend to Nashik,” police inspector Umesh Gavali said. Mr. Jadhav confessed to the crime and said he killed Shinde because he was having an affair with a girl who was his distant relative. Mr. Jadhav liked the girl, but she revealed that she was in love with Shinde, whom she had met on Facebook. A probe revealed that the two accused called the victim for a drink at 1.30 p.m. on February 5 in Ghansoli. They then attacked him with a sickle and dumped his body in a creek. “The accused have been remanded in police custody till February 12,” senior police inspector Yogesh Gawade from Rabale police station said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/one-held-minor-detained-for-murdering-20-year-old/article33797311.ece
10 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rajya Sabha passes Bill extending protection to illegal constructions||The Rajya Sabha on Tuesday passed the National Capital Territory of Delhi Laws (Special Provisions) Second (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which extended the protections from punitive action for certain kinds of unauthorised constructions by three years. The Bill replaced an ordinance brought by the government in December 2020, as the existing protections from sealing and demolition of illegal constructions, including unauthorised colonies, were set to end on December 31. Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri, who had introduced the Bill on Monday, addressed concerns by Opposition members that the government was using the ordinance route to bypass Parliament. He said he would have presented the Bill in the Winter Session had it been held. Sealings, demolitions “The urgency is that if we had not enacted the ordinance in the interim period, the process of sealings, demolitions, etc. would have started, and I am sure no member of this august House would like Delhi to be subjected to that kind of uncertainty and chaos,” he said, in response to Congress MP Jairam Ramesh. Mr. Puri said the Delhi Laws (Special Provisions) Act, 2006 had been enacted by Parliament “to protect certain forms of encroachment and unauthorised development from punitive action, namely, demolition, sealing, displacement, etc”. These protections were extended through ordinances and Acts in 2007, 2009, 2014 and 2017, he said. During the discussion on the Bill, Congress MP K.T.S. Tulsi said while he was not opposed to providing facilities to those living in unauthorised colonies, but that could not be an end in itself. “...there has to be organised approach to provide houses for everybody. It is a matter of fact which is undisputable that Indian cities are virtually turning into slums and worst is that their boundaries are increasing with every passing day,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rajya-sabha-passes-bill-extending-protection-to-illegal-constructions/article33797301.ece
10 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC protects AAP MP from arrest in hate speech case||The Supreme Court on Tuesday protected Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and Rajya Sabha Member Sanjay Singh from arrest in a hate speech case registered against him in Lucknow by the Uttar Pradesh Police. A Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan also issued notice to the Uttar Pradesh government on Mr. Singh’s contention that permission of the Rajya Sabha Chairman need to be obtained under section 196 of the CrPC before prosecuting him. Senior advocate Vivek Tankha, for Mr. Singh, submitted that “the petitioner being Member of Parliament [Rajya Sabha], permission of the Chairman of Rajya Sabha ought to have been obtained before prosecuting the petitioner”. The court also sought Uttar Pradesh government’s response to a plea by Mr. Singh to club and quash the FIRs lodged against him after his press conference on August 12 last year at which he alleged that the State government was favouring a certain class of society. During the hearing, the Bench however remarked that no one should divide the society on lines of caste and religion. Mr. Tankha contended that the police did not follow proper procedure before registering the case or seek prior sanction. The AAP leader had moved the apex court seeking quashing of multiple FIRs lodged against him in various districts of U.P. after the press conference, saying they have been “maliciously instituted to unleash political vendetta”. In a separate petition, Mr. Singh has also challenged a January 21 order of the Allahabad High Court, which had refused to quash the FIR in Lucknow. In one of his pleas filed in the apex court seeking quashing of multiple FIRs, Mr. Singh stated, “In the press conference, the petitioner had merely raised certain social issues, namely neglect and apathy of the government towards a certain class of society.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sc-protects-aap-mp-from-arrest-in-hate-speech-case/article33797305.ece
10 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Kashmere Gate metro station now has record 47 escalators||The Delhi Metro on Tuesday said that it has commissioned 10 additional escalators at nine metro stations, including two new ones at Kashmere Gate metro station for convenient passenger movement. Additional escalators at Kashmere Gate will take the total number of escalators at the only multilayered triple interchange station of the Delhi Metro network to 47 escalators. “With the addition of two more escalators today, it [Kashmere Gate] has become India’s only metro station having so many escalators facilitating convenient passenger movement between various levels. These newer, easy to maintain escalators, updated with latest software will provide more ease to commuters especially during peak hours,” the DMRC said. Other stations The other stations where one additional escalator each has been commissioned today for passenger service are: Rithala on Red Line and Uttam Nagar (East), Nawada, Rajouri Graden, Shadipur, Yamuna Bank, Subhash Nagar and R K Ashram Marg on Blue Line. In a statement, the Delhi Metro added that it is also in the process of installing 22 more escalators at major stations across the network, including five at Kashmere Gate, thereby, taking total number of escalators at this station to 52. “The installation and commissioning of these 22 escalators for passenger services is likely to be completed within next 5-6 months,” the DMRC said. Delhi Metro has more than 1,100 escalators at its stations across the Delhi-NCR network.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/kashmere-gate-metro-station-now-has-record-47-escalators/article33797298.ece
10 February 2021||New Delhi,||Special Marriage Act: Centre objects to plea||The Centre has objected to a petition seeking to discontinue with the provision of inviting objection from public while applying for marriage registration under the Special Marriage Act (SMA). In an affidavit filed before the Delhi High Court, the Ministry of Law and Justice said that the intention behind the provision in SMA was to “keep adequate safeguards to the interest of various parties involved”. Gestation period All marriages done under the SMA requires publication of the names of the couple for inviting objections from public for 30 days. Within this period, anyone can object to the marriage on the ground that it would contravene one or more of the conditions specified in section 4 of the SMA. Some of the conditions include neither party has a spouse living; either of them is of unsound mind, incapable of giving a valid consent; and the man has completed twenty-one years and the woman eighteen years. The provision was challenged by an inter-faith couple on the ground that the 30 days gestation period was not warranted as the same objective can be mitigated on the basis of certificates issued by government hospitals and on the basis of undertaking by them. However, the Law Ministry said: “If any person raises objection to the said marriage within a period of 30 days, the marriage officer shall not solemnise the marriage until he has enquired into the matter of objection. It may not be possible to verify the credibility of such person if at least thirty days period is not given.” The Ministry added, “the procedure laid down in this Act for registration of marriage is fair and reasonable”. Advocate Utkarsh Singh, who had appeared for the couple, argued that the question with regard to whether either party has a living spouse can arise in other religious marriage also, but they are exempted from 30 days’ notice period.  SMA sections The petition has sought to quash section 6 and 7 of SMA, which mandates publication of the public notice, on the ground that it is unreasonable and arbitrary. “The 30-day period offers an opportunity to kin of the couple to discourage an inter-caste or inter-religion marriage,” the petition filed by the couple, who were then housed at an NGO here at the time of filing of the petition in October last year, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/special-marriage-act-centre-objects-to-plea/article33797296.ece
10 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Congress says Bill a betrayal of people of Delhi||Commenting on the passing of the National Capital Territory of Delhi Laws (Special Provisions) Second (Amendment) Bill, 2021, to regularise unauthorised colonies in Delhi in the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday, the Delhi Congress called it a betrayal of the people of Delhi. Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar said that the Bill gives immunity from demolition to unauthorised colonies for three more years. He said that this is betrayal of the poor people as the BJP had promised during the last polls that all the 1,799 unauthorised colonies would be regularised immediately. Works stalled “Neither the Centre nor the State government is doing any development works in these colonies, and even the works started by the Congress government to provide basic and other facilities to these colonies have been stalled,” Mr. Kumar alleged. He also said that the Modi government is all set to pass the National Capital Territory of Delhi Second (Amendment) Bill, 2021, in the current Budget session of Parliament, which would mean that all the important powers of the Delhi government will be usurped by the Modi government by making the L-G’s office more powerful than the Chief Minister’s office. “The BJP-led Union government, instead of delegating powers, is weakening the democratic institutions by concentrating all the powers in the hands of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah to run an authoritarian government,” he alleged. Mr. Kumar said that AAP election manifesto had promised full Statehood for Delhi, but sadly, the powers already vested with the Delhi government are also being taken away by the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/congress-says-bill-a-betrayal-of-people-of-delhi/article33797302.ece
10 February 2021||New Delhi,||HC seeks AIIMS reply on sewage treatment plant||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday asked the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) to respond to a petition seeking to stop construction of a sewage treatment plant (STP) near residential colony of Gautam Nagar as it will be a health hazard for the residents and lead to stench. Justice Prathiba M. Singh asked AIIMS to file a detailed reply to the plea and listed the matter for hearing on April 27. The High Court’s order came on a plea by Gautam Nagar Residents’ Association, challenging the installation of the sewage treatment plant situated just 30 feet away from the residential area. The plea said the installation of STP near the residential area is very detrimental to the health of the residents living in the area and there is an increased possibility for respiratory and skin diseases. “There is also a risk of prevalence of pathogenic airborne microorganisms originating from the waste water treatment plant. So the installation of STP within such a close proximity to the residential area called Gautam Nagar is a clear violation of fundamental rights guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India,” the plea said. The plea said there is no doubt that the health of at least 20,000 people living in Gautam Nagar will be put at jeopardy if the STP is installed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-seeks-aiims-reply-on-sewage-treatment-plant/article33797294.ece
10 February 2021||New Delhi,||Seven samples test positive for bird flu||Seven serological samples of bird droppings from the National Zoological Park (NZP), commonly known as the Delhi zoo, were found positive for bird flu, officials said on Tuesday. The zoo has been shut since a sample of a dead owl tested positive for bird flu in January. The authorities at the zoo said the samples were collected from four different points in the zoo and sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal, by the Animal Husbandry Department of the Delhi government on February 3. In an official statement, the zoo authorities said all safety measures are being taken and the zoo shall continue to remain closed. “possible prophylactic measures and drills related to disinfection are regularly being taken,” the NZP said in a statement. Zoo Director, Ramesh Pandey, said that the zoo was declared an “infected zone” after the samples of the owl tested positive and they had restricted entry to the zoo even for employees. “We are also monitoring the zoo twice a day to find if there are any deaths or any visible sickness. We are using e-bird, a mobile application, to track birds,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/seven-samples-test-positive-for-bird-flu/article33797306.ece
10 February 2021||New Delhi,||Court to give verdict in Akbar-Ramani case today||A Delhi court is set to pronounce its verdict in the former Union Minister M.J. Akbar’s criminal defamation complaint against journalist Priya Ramani for her tweets accusing him of sexual harassment, on Wednesday. The legal battle spanning over two years has been closely watched for it implications, primarily on the social movement #MeToo, where thousands of women have used social media platforms to share instances of sexual harassment they faced in the past. At the height of the #MeToo movement in 2018, Ms. Ramani accused Mr. Akbar of sexual harassment. Following Ms. Ramani’s accusation, about a dozen former colleagues of Mr. Akbar also came out with different allegations against him. In response, Mr. Akbar filed a criminal defamation case against Ms. Ramani in October 2018, days before he resigned from his post of Minister of State for External Affairs. Mr. Akbar has claimed that Ms. Ramani’s tweet and her article accusing him of sexual harassment were defamatory, and lowered his reputation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/court-to-give-verdict-in-akbar-ramani-case-today/article33797293.ece
10 February 2021||New Delhi,||DTC contract staff threaten to take out ‘chakka jam’||Thousands of contractual workers engaged by the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) have threatened a chakka jam here on Thursday over delayed disbursal of salaries and pension by over a week. The Delhi Parivahan Mazdoor Sangh has threatened to stage a demonstration outside the public transporter’s headquarters if the salaries and pensions of employees are not disbursed by Wednesday. “We will be forced to take out a chakka jam if the salaries and pensions of the employees are not disbursed. We are not saying this just for the sake of saying it but we will take to the streets if the benefits, which rightfully belong to us are not disbursed,” said Manoj Sharma, president of the DTC Karamchari Ekta Union. On Monday, the Delhi Parivahan Mazdoor Sangh, in a communication to the Lieutenant Governor and Chief Minister, had complained about the delay in disbursement of salary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/dtc-contract-staff-threaten-to-take-out-chakka-jam/article33797303.ece
10 February 2021||New Delhi,||Five rescued from debris of collapsed house: Officials||Five people were rescued from the debris of a house which collapsed in the Sadar Bazar area of north Delhi on Tuesday, fire brigade officials said. Out of the five, three are critical. The injured have been shifted to the Bara Hindu Rao hospital. “Deeply worried to hear about the collapse of a residential building in Sadar Bazar area," Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said in a tweet. North Delhi Mayor Jai Prakash visited the site and took stock of the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/five-rescued-from-debris-of-collapsed-house-officials/article33797299.ece
10 February 2021||New Delhi,||Second Jan Rasoi opened in New Ashok Nagar||BJP national vice president Baijayant Jay Panda on Tuesday inaugurated a Jan Rasoi in New Ashok Nagar, the second facility of its kind, as part of an initiative by east Delhi MP Gautam Gambhir here. The poor are provided meals at Rs. 1 at the facility. Mr. Gambhir said the first such rasoi came up in Gandhi Nagar last December where over 1,000 people are getting food.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/second-jan-rasoi-opened-in-new-ashok-nagar/article33797304.ece
10 February 2021||February 10 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Virus unlikely to have leaked from lab’||The virus responsible for COVID-19 was unlikely to have leaked from a laboratory in Wuhan, and the evidence pointed to natural origins, according to a World Health Organization (WHO) and China joint expert team that concluded a visit to Wuhan, where the pandemic began. The team also concluded that there was no indication of SARS-CoV-2 having spread among the population there prior to December 2019, when Wuhan’s hospitals first began reporting a pneumonia outbreak. The authorities first confirmed human-to-human transmission in mid-January. “Our initial findings suggest that the introduction through an intermediary host species is the most likely pathway and one that will require more studies and more specific, targeted research,” WHO scientist Peter Ben Embarek, who led the international team, told reporters on Tuesday. The team of 17 international experts and 17 Chinese scientists spent the past two weeks visiting hospitals, a seafood market that was one of the earliest clusters, and laboratories in Wuhan. Four possibilities The location of the Wuhan Institute of Virology (WIV) in the city had led to theories suggesting the virus may have leaked from a laboratory, but Mr. Embarek said, “the findings suggest that the laboratory incidents hypothesis is extremely unlikely to explain the introduction of the virus to the human population”. The team examined four pathways: direct transmission from wildlife, transmission through intermediate hosts, transmission via cold chain products, and a laboratory leak. Officials in China have been strongly pushing back against the laboratory leak theory, while recently also suggesting that the virus may have come to China via cold chain products from outside the country, a prospect that is being examined but also considered unlikely. Reports from Wuhan said the team spent around an hour at the market and four hours at the Wuhan Institute of Virology, and met scientists there, including China’s leading bat coronavirus expert, Shi Zhengli, who has been researching bat coronaviruses in the laboratory. There was no evidence that SARS-CoV-2 was being studied at any of the laboratories in the city, the team said. Mr. Embarek’s comments suggested transmission through an intermediate host was the most likely scenario, and the evidence pointed “towards natural reservoirs of the virus” considering similar viruses in the bat population. “Since Wuhan is not a city or environment close to bat environments, a direct jump from bats to the city of Wuhan is not very likely,” he said. “Therefore, we have tried to find what other animal species were introduced and moving in and out of the city that could have potentially introduced the virus, in particular at the Huanan seafood market (the site of the first major cluster).” While so far the intermediate host has not been identified, samples of some animals known to be susceptible to coronaviruses were identified at the market and some of those traced back to farms or parts of China that harboured bat environments. “The joint team in their study have identified the vendors who were trading these type of products, the suppliers of these vendors, the farms from where the products were coming from,” Mr. Embarek said. Liang Wannian, head of the China team of experts, said there was no indication that the virus was being spread in the population before December 2019. He also said there was no evidence to suggest the Huanan market was the source, as the earliest case in Wuhan, reported on December 8, 2019, was not linked to the market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/virus-unlikely-to-have-leaked-from-lab/article33796964.ece
10 February 2021||Colombo,||A march to register protest, forge a new alliance||The five-day march for justice held across Sri Lanka’s north and east last week drew attention for more than one reason. After months of restricted movement due to the pandemic, it was the first instance of several thousand people taking to the streets to assert their rights. The ‘Pothuvil to Polikandy’ rally, or P2P, began in the eastern Ampara district and ended in Jaffna in the Northern Province, covering several towns en route. Prominent Tamil and Muslim politicians, activists, students, and residents took part in the march. Departing from past struggles in the north and the east that focussed on grievances specific to war-affected Tamils, the rally included key concerns of the Muslim community and Malaiyaha [Hill Country] Tamils working in the tea estates, in the list of 10 demands put together by civil society groups. It highlighted land grab in Tamil areas, “government-sponsored” Sinhalese settlements, enforced disappearances, persisting militarisation, intimidation of activists and journalists, the continuing use of the Prevention of Terrorism Act and the detention of political prisoners without trial. The activists also demanded that the government reverse its enforced cremations policy affecting Muslims, and ensure a fair wage to plantation labourers. Sri Lanka’s Army Commander Shavendra Silva has termed the rally “a show” ahead of the Human Rights Council session in Geneva later this month. Organisers and participants see the rally differently. “It is 12 years since the war ended and the Tamil people’s problems remain unaddressed. Some in government want the provincial council system also abolished. We had to assert our rights, and we decided to do that in a democratic manner,” said Shanakiyan Rasamanickam, a legislator from the Tamil National Alliance (TNA), from the eastern Batticaloa district.  Social media was flooded with images of scores of people, wearing masks and black headbands saying “#P2P”, as they marched braving heavy rains in some areas and large police presence everywhere. The large turnout reflected the widely shared concern about how the Rajapaksa government is treating the country’s Tamil-speaking people, according to S.C.C. Elankovan, civil society activist and one of the organisers. ‘Insensitive government’ “The government is being extremely insensitive, very unreasonable, and is shutting out any space there is for dialogue. A totalitarian government like this endangers the rights and freedoms of not just minority communities. It will also threaten the Sinhalese majority,” he said. It was also “reassuring”, Mr. Elankovan said, to meet many Tamil youth, who “sincerely appreciate” the need to work with the Muslims and Malaiyaha [Hill Country] Tamils.  During last week’s rally, some participants chose to remember those who died during the war, including LTTE leaders, setting off a tense social media debate. The LTTE that fought the armed forces until 2009 is popular among Tamils from the north and the east, including those living abroad, even though some from the Tamil community remain fiercely critical of the organisation. On the other hand, for Sri Lanka’s southern polity and much of the Sinhala Buddhist constituency, the organisation is anathema.  For organisers, the rally was an attempt at bringing together diverse issues and voices. After years of strained Tamil-Muslim relations since the 1990s — when the LTTE forcibly evicted northern Muslims — recent parliamentary interventions by Tamil legislators M.A. Sumanthiran and G.G. Ponnambalam, challenging the government’s mandatory cremation policy for COVID-19 victims, was seen as a welcome shift. Organisers of the rally hope that the inclusion of the contentious issue, along with the demand for a fair wage for estate Tamils, marks the beginning of a concerted resistance from the country’s minority communities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/a-march-to-register-protest-forge-a-new-alliance/article33796966.ece
10 February 2021||yangon,||Myanmar police fire rubber bullets at anti-coup protesters||Security forces fired rubber bullets and tear gas at anti-coup protesters in Myanmar on Tuesday as demonstrators around the country defied a military ban on rallies. Protests erupted for a fourth straight day against last week’s coup to oust civilian leader Aung San Suu Kyi, as international condemnation of the putsch grew. The rallies came despite a warning from the junta that it would take action against demonstrations that threatened “stability”, and a new ban on gatherings of more than five people. In Naypyidaw, the remote capital purpose-built by the previous military regime, witnesses said the police fired rubber bullets at protesters after earlier blasting them with water cannon. “They fired warning shots to the sky two times, then they fired (at protesters) with rubber bullets,” a resident said. He added that he saw some people injured. It remained unclear how many people were hurt, as a hospital in Naypyidaw would not allow relatives in to see their family members, said Tun Wai, who rushed there when he heard his 23-year-old son was in the operation room. “My son was shot when he tried to use the megaphone to ask people to protest peacefully after the police used water cannon to disperse them,” the 56-year-old goldsmith said. “He got hit in the back... I’m very worried about him.” In Mandalay, the country’s second-biggest city, the police fired tear gas to disperse protesters. Late in the evening, the military raided the Yangon headquarters of the National League for Democracy, the party of ousted leader Aung San Suu Kyi. Promises and threats After watching hundreds of thousands of people rally in opposition to last week’s coup, junta chief General Min Aung Hlaing made a televised speech on Monday evening to justify seizing power. The first of a series of bans on gatherings in protest hotspots was also announced on Monday, as was a night-time curfew. But on Tuesday, fresh protests emerged in various parts of Yangon. The protesters carried placards some of which read “We want our leader”, in reference to Ms. Suu Kyi — who is currently detained by the military—and “No dictatorship”.  The General insisted that the military would abide by its promises and reinstall democracy. “After the tasks of the emergency period are completed, free and fair multi-party general elections will be held according to the Constitution,” he said. But those pledges were accompanied by threats.  In a statement read on state media, the Army said “action must be taken” against activities that threaten stability and public order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/myanmar-police-fire-rubber-bullets-at-anti-coup-protesters/article33796960.ece
10 February 2021||February 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Indian Americans divided on India’s trajectory, says survey||Indian Americans are divided on their views about India’s trajectory, while the most popular political party in the country is the BJP with Prime Minister Narendra Modi being supported by almost half of Indian Americans, a new survey report has found. It also found that most Indian Americans oppose government crackdowns on the media and the use of police force on peaceful protesters. Respondents are also more liberal on U.S. issues while holding more conservative positions on Indian matters. The survey report, “How Do Indian Americans View India? Results from the 2020 Indian American Attitudes Survey (IAAS),” is based on the 2020 Indian American Attitudes Survey of 1,200 Indian American adults (+/- 2.8% margin of error) from the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Johns Hopkins-SAIS, and the University of Pennsylvania in partnership with YouGov. The survey report, co-authored by Sumitra Badrinathan, Devesh Kapur and Milan Vaishnav, is the second of a set of two studies of the political attitudes of Indian Americans done by the IAAS. Thirty-nine percent of Indian Americans feel India is moving in the wrong direction, while 36% feel it is on the right track. As a comparator, 67% of the IAAS respondents felt the U.S. was on the wrong track (data were collected in September 2020). A larger share of Indian Americans born outside America felt that India was on the right track. Most (65%) Indian Americans either strongly or somewhat oppose the use of police force against individuals peacefully opposing the governments citizenship laws (CAA and NRC). Most (69%) also oppose the government’s use of defamation and sedition laws to silence reporters critical of the Modi administration. However, over half support the NRC (55%) and a wafer thin majority that supports the CAA (51%). Indian American views on issues also vary according to context and the results are indicative of respondents taking more liberal positions in the U.S. context. Studying positions across similar issues in the India and U.S. contexts, the survey finds that generally 90% of Indian Americans support the notion of equal treatment of people belonging to different religions but this number is 60% for a specific U.S. context (the ‘Muslim ban’ ) and drops further to 49% in the Indian context (CAA). Regarding how respondents felt about the extent of their support for India, the largest group — 35% — said they were “generally pro-India but also critical of ‘ some ’ of the Indian government’s policies.” Another 23% were “generally pro-India but also critical of ‘many ’ of the Indian government’s policies.” Support for Modi However, 49% give Mr. Modi a favourable approval rating. “The religious divide is striking,” the report says. “Almost seven in 10 Hindus approve of Modi’s performance, while just one in five Muslims do the same. Indian American Christians are almost evenly divided.” The results do not support the notion that there is a clear relationship between support for former U.S. President Donald Trump and for Mr. Modi. Respondents who disapprove of Mr. Trump are split in their assessment of Mr. Modi — 41% approve of his performance and 38% disapprove of it. The support for Mr. Modi is greater among those who support Mr. Trump. Support for Mr. Modi is higher among non-U.S. Citizen Indian Americans, naturalised citizens, recent immigrants, and those who speak Hindi and languages of Western India (Gujarati, Marathi).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/indian-americans-divided-on-indias-trajectory-says-survey/article33796967.ece
10 February 2021||Kabul,||4 Afghan govt. officials shot dead in rush-hour ambush||Militants shot dead four government employees in central Kabul on Tuesday, the police said, in the latest rush-hour violence to rock the capital. The Afghan capital has seen near-daily attacks during the busy morning commute, targeting prominent figures. Kabul police spokesman Ferdaws Faramarz said the gunmen had opened fire on a vehicle carrying staff from the Ministry of Rural Rehabilitation and Development, killing four. A separate attack saw the driver of a vehicle belonging to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs killed in a bombing in Kabul. No group has so far claimed responsibility for the attacks. Later on Tuesday, Afghanistan’s spy agency said it had busted a six-member joint Islamic State-Haqqani network cell in Kabul. “The Taliban, Daesh and Haqqani group are collaborating with each other to carry out bombings and targeted attacks,” the agency said referring to IS with its Arabic name.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/4-afghan-govt-officials-shot-dead-in-rush-hour-ambush/article33796959.ece
10 February 2021||Washington,||Second impeachment trial of Donald Trump begins||The U.S. Senate on Tuesday opened the second impeach- ment trial of former President Donald Trump, who stands accused of inciting an insurrection on January 6, when his supporters stormed Congress. Mr. Trump is the first President to face two impeachment trials — he was acquitted in 2020— as well as the first to be tried after leaving office.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/second-impeachment-trial-of-donald-trump-begins/article33797563.ece
10 February 2021||Moscow,||Navalny aides push EU for new Russia sanctions||Aides of jailed Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny said they have pushed the EU to sanction prominent members of President Vladimir Putin’s circle, including business tycoons to ramp up pressure on Russia. The move comes after the tit-for-tat expulsion of several European and Russian diplomats as tensions run high over the Navalny affair.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/navalny-aides-push-eu-for-new-russia-sanctions/article33796962.ece
10 February 2021||February 10 2021 00:00 IST,||India must return to traditional diplomacy||The target audiences of Indian diplomacy’s public articulation and responses are changing radically as shown by the statement of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), of February 3 (https://bit.ly/2MQlqlJ), on singer Rihanna’s tweet. The direction of Indian diplomacy’s external publicity is no longer confined to other governments, international organisations, external and domestic political and business elites, and conference halls and negotiating tables. It now extends to international “celebrities”, some of whose status is determined very largely by their pop star status. It also seeks to take into account apparent and latent sentiment on the Indian streets not only to clarify India’s diplomatic positions or refute allegations and misperceptions but also to whip up sentiment on issues important to the government. Finally, it aims to forcefully convey to foreign audiences, India’s unwillingness to accept perceived or real interference in the country’s domestic affairs. New, assertive norms This development is part of the government’s impatience with the norms of old-fashioned diplomacy. It is in keeping with the emphasis on establishing a personal rapport with global leaders and what has been often stressed by the External Affairs Minister, S. Jaishankar — the need to take risks to advance Indian positions and interests. Thus, new and assertive norms are being adopted which, at least till now, have demonstrated a disdain for international liberal opinion. It is beyond dispute that new directions for Indian diplomacy, in form as well as in substance, should be constantly sought. But the test of innovation can only be one: is it more effective in advancing Indian objectives? It is on this basis that the MEA statement and the widespread social media activity that followed need to be judged. While the statement’s origin will not be authoritatively known, it can be legitimately surmised that it was/could not have been through the normal processes of the MEA. Hence, it would have been on the basis of a political decision. The hash tags attached to the statements lend credence to this view as also the intensely orchestrated social media response from Indian personalities to tweets by Ms. Rihanna and others. There is nothing intrinsically wrong in building public opinion; all governments as well as groups do so. It is part of the global political and diplomatic processes but must be part of a careful strategy to achieve objectives. Otherwise, it can be counter-productive. Mr. Jaishankar tweeted after the MEA statement: “Motivated campaigns targeting India will never succeed. We have the self-confidence today to hold our own. This India will push back”. These combative words require a sober analysis. There is little doubt that Khalistani groups in western countries would have sensed an opportunity to fish in troubled waters of the farmers’ agitation in the Punjab. There should also be no doubt that the Pakistani generals, who have continuously sought to keep the embers of the Khalistan movement warm, would be looking for opportunities to create trouble. This is notwithstanding that the patriotism of Indian Sikhs and their contributions to the nation are beyond question. Thus, it would not be surprising at all if there are “motivated campaigns” against India under way on these issues. Self-assurance, past and now Mr. Jaishankar’s assertion that the India of today is self-confident to hold its own is of course true, but it can be argued that right from Independence, India has displayed the self-assurance not to take things lying down; only the methods may have been different. Again, there can be no quarrel with the External Affairs Minister’s warning that India will “push back”. The issue is not about should India “push back” but how and against what and whom. The answers to these questions hold the keys to the effectiveness of diplomacy whose ultimate target audience has to be not domestic sectional interests but global opinion and in the context of India’s external interests. In this context, a look at the way the Narendra Modi government handled criticism from liberal sections abroad, of the administrative steps taken in Jammu and Kashmir after the constitutional changes of August 2019 and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), and the protests that followed, are instructive. India then refused to purposefully engage its international liberal critics though it publicly asserted security concerns for the administrative steps and laid stress on the point that the CAA did not impinge on the rights of the Indian minorities. Indeed, the government treated its global media critics with disdain, with Mr. Jaishankar emphasising that India’s reputation was not decided by a ‘newspaper in New York’. Certainly, there was no frenzied response on social media to the allegations against the government on human rights matters through all these episodes. Ponder over direction On this occasion, was the severe response to Ms. Rihanna’s tweet on account of her large social media following while the popular reach of global liberal opinion especially in the Trumpian era was limited? Was the object to deter foreign critics from lending their names to “manipulated campaigns”? Was it thought that if more celebrities joined, the farmers’ protest would be energised? If these were the thoughts behind the decision then there is a need to check if it succeeded or gave an oxygen boost to the Rihanna tweet. Also, it is difficult to imagine that foreign critics like Ms. Rihanna, or for that matter of the Greta Thunberg kind, would be deterred by a concerted Indian pushback of the nature that has been undertaken. In the days of conventional diplomacy, the Rihanna tweet would have perhaps been just ignored, at least officially. But now ‘the times they are a-changin’. So, is what the MEA doing headed in the right direction? Perhaps, the erudite External Affairs Minister should ponder over this, and in doing so also take into account his earlier avatar, as a diplomat. The Delhi police have filed a first information report (FIR) against unknown persons who prepared a ‘toolkit’ which was attached to the first tweet of Swedish teen climate activist Greta Thunberg. The FIR revealed that those undertaking “motivated campaigns” were actively undertaking efforts to embarrass and even harm India through the farmers’ protest. A benign view of their objectives can be dismissed. India should of course press the governments concerned, especially of Canada, to take action against Khalistani elements. The fact though is that these countries, Canada in particular, have shown scant regard for Indian concerns on this account and it is unlikely that they will change course now. Through all this the question that still remains is whether the social storm unleashed in India after the Rihanna tweet would deter other foreign celebrities from pursuing the now amended ‘toolkit’. And when have criminal cases based on this kind of an FIR ever reached fruition? The rise of liberal opinion Finally, it is not the Rihanna-like celebrities who will pose the real challenge in the coming months to the Narendra Modi government, but liberal opinion in democratic western societies. And, it will have far more traction with the advent of the Joe Biden administration in the United States. A pointer is the interaction of top U.S. Congress members in the India Caucus had, recently; asking India to ensure that “norms of democracy are maintained and peaceful protests and demonstrations be allowed”, with this being conveyed to India’s Ambassador to the U.S., Taranjit Singh Sandhu. The government would be now conscious of engaging international liberal opinion  rather than merely dismissing it. This does not imply coming under pressure on matters of critical importance to Indian interests. But it does mean taking recourse to traditional diplomacy even if it is stodgy and unappealing to sections of nationalist Indian opinion. Vivek Katju is a retired diplomat||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/india-must-return-to-traditional-diplomacy/article33796945.ece
10 February 2021||February 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Dangers of hard sovereignty||The developments of February 3, 2021 marked the crystallisation and popular production of a new posture in India’s engagement with the world — that of hard sovereignty. The posture delivers a firm message: outsiders have no stake in India’s internal affairs, especially as it undergoes profound and rapid changes, some of which are deeply disturbing. The posture is unprecedented and dangerous; we will do disservice to ourselves if we endorse it. And policy informed by it will expose inconsistencies in our external relations. New posture Over the past 18 months or so, the establishment had been regularly fielding international criticism and expressions of concern on domestic developments such as the changes within Jammu and Kashmir, the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA)-National Register of Citizens protests and the ensuing Delhi riots. One of the elements in its reactions was the assertion that these were India’s internal matters which its democratic polity was capable of resolving. The references to internal affairs conspicuously foregrounded the domestic dimension of the state’s sovereignty.  Against this backdrop came the press statement by the External Affairs Ministry on February 3. It expressed official India’s displeasure at social media remarks by well-known figures, including a global celebrity and an activist, on the response to the farmers’ protests. Official facts were put forward. The claim was made that ‘vested interests’ had tried to derail the protests and sully India’s international reputation. ‘Celebrities and others’ were advised to ascertain facts before commenting on the matter and to resist the temptation of sensationalising it. This detailed and somewhat oddly phrased statement was measured in its operative part. However, it ended with two hashtags. One suggested that there was propaganda, presumably global, against India. The other sought to rally Indians against it. Soon, celebrities, partisans of the regime at the Centre, and a large body of concerned Indians picked up where the statement had left off. The hashtags were extensively used as a multitude of statements containing expressions of respect for the farmers and the need to resolve the issue amicably while calling for Indians to stay united swirled about on Twitter. From the intellectual churning arose the posture on hard sovereignty. Sachin Tendulkar’s loaded tweet captured the underlying theory. The statements by outsiders threatened to compromise India’s sovereignty. They could watch the internal goings on, but had no right to participate in them. Only Indians could ‘decide’ for India, and they had to remain united as a nation. Tendulkar had drawn the boundary line. The posture had been popularly produced. India has jealously guarded its sovereignty since independence. However, its past sovereignty posture was deployed towards progressive goals. It was a bulwark against great power bullying and it asserted the autonomy of weaker nations. In contrast, the new posture seeks to fend off international criticism of unpleasant domestic developments. While this may suit hyper-nationalism, it will harm national interest. First, India’s global game of status seeking and strategic influence plays out on the turf of liberal democracies. The Prime Minister’s claim of having enhanced India’s international prestige has had as its ace reference point the recognition offered to him, and by extension India, by principally conservative forces within western democracies. Remove the spectacles of bonhomie with former U.S. President Donald Trump, warm relations with former U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron, the tactical use of the ‘Ab ki baar ’ slogan, the events of Madison Square Garden (2014), Wembley Stadium (2015), the London townhall (2018), ‘Howdy, Modi!’ (2019), ‘Namaste Trump’ (2020) as well as the New Delhi tea with former U.S. President Barack Obama and the claim weakens. On the strategic front, five of India’s key partners in the Indo-Pacific context are democracies: Japan, Australia, the U.S., the U.K., and France. Four of these are liberal and western. A special understanding exists among liberal democracies because they share common norms and beliefs. That human rights are universal and inviolable is one of them, and this gives governments and the civil society within liberal democracies the moral authority to nudge, criticise or rebuke a partner that doesn’t match up. Democracies measure each other by higher standards. This explains the pushback of varying degrees from German Chancellor Angela Merkel, U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and even Mr. Trump in the past two years. It also explains the concerns expressed by western legislators and human rights bodies. If the establishment adopts a hard sovereignty posture soaring on the wings of strident domestic sentiments, it would encounter greater diplomatic friction. India’s global game would also be adversely impacted. Siege mentality Second, hard sovereignty invariably tends towards national isolationism and siege mentality. Chances are high it would further strengthen the national-scale parochialism being encouraged by the rhetoric of Aatmanirbharta (self-reliance). Such trends have an uneven impact. Those who championed hard sovereignty would soon be at an elite sporting event in a western capital. But they would have left their fellow citizens beleaguered. At a time when public sympathy for dissenters is at a discount, critics are being labelled, and institutions are falling short on their constitutional obligations, hard sovereignty falls like an axe on the sapping morale of non-violent social movements. Social movements do not follow the diktats and rhythms of sovereign states. They draw energy through transnational solidarities and bring about important policy corrections within and across states. Case in point: Black Lives Matter, which our celebrities supported. Imagine the consequences of being further marooned for social struggles hitherto considered indispensable to the health of Indian democracy. Finally, it would increase the susceptibility of our neighbourhood policy to criticism on the grounds of inconsistency. Consider the CAA, 2019. Although the letter of the amendment doesn’t state it, the accompanying public discourse has carried an indictment of India’s Muslim-majority neighbours insofar as their treatment of minorities is concerned. Is it unlikely that we will hear governments and others within our neighbourhood decry us for interfering in their internal affairs? Indeed, the Pakistan Foreign Office took this line in December 2019 as the CAA was passing parliamentary process. It won’t be surprising if others followed, especially if equations turned sour, as they periodically do on the subcontinent. Consider also how it would undercut the effectiveness of what is principally a tactical arsenal even if it is grounded in facts: pointing out the dismal human rights situation in Balochistan to the liberal democratic world. If we are discomfited at expressions of solidarity with protesting farmers, why should the international liberals offer us traction? India’s reputation had long been the soft power capital it deployed to meet its hard power shortfall as it pursued its international ambitions. As that reputation suffers, the country’s options lessen and effectiveness shrinks. Scarcely a welcome development for a ‘leading power’. We must counter interventionist remarks coming from vested interests. But we must be discerning as well, for some critics may mean well. Atul Mishra teaches international relations at Shiv Nadar University. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/dangers-of-hard-sovereignty/article33796954.ece
10 February 2021||February 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Fine-tuning the State-of-the-app technology||On January 13 this year, subscribers of English newspapers in India woke up to full-page advertisements from WhatsApp on the front pages. Earlier in the week, WhatsApp had announced an upcoming change to its privacy policy, which led to growing concerns around privacy among many users, and who started switching over to other messaging services such as Signal and Telegram. This led WhatsApp to issue the advertisements, which committed to protecting the privacy of its users. This unprecedented move by the Facebook-owned company indicates that Indian consumers are becoming more aware and concerned about data protection and privacy — a trend that has become stronger in the recent past. Platforms and COVID-19 The issue of privacy is crucial for government technology platforms and services as governments typically have a monopoly in providing public services, unlike the private sector. Hence, “porting out” or “digital migration”, as seen in the case of WhatsApp, is not an option. What is needed instead, is an examination of government technological platforms to create better awareness. We saw this in action in the case of Aadhaar (the Government of India’s biometric digital identity platform) and Aarogya Setu (the Government of India’s contact tracing application during the novel coronavirus pandemic). Since the announcement of the first lockdown on March 24, 2020, at least 35 mobile apps that specifically address COVID-19 were developed by 25 States and Union Territories of India. Of these, 27 mobile apps provide general information on COVID-19 and seven allow tracking of nearby COVID-19 cases. Of all the mobile apps, 15 have a quarantine tracking feature and at least four of these require prior registration with the State Health Department. An assessment of the 35 mobile applications revealed that 17 mobile apps provide information on COVID-19 hospitals while only three apps provide information on isolation beds. Some of the mobile apps also facilitated the home delivery of essential items, such as groceries and medicines, while seven allowed users to apply for mobility passes. Still a case of digital exclusion The development of COVID-19 mobile apps was well-received and perceived as a strong proactive initiative, especially by sections of the population that were digitally empowered. However, as of October, 2020, more than 40% of mobile phone subscribers in India lack access to Internet services. This includes those with feature phones that have no Internet and when added to those with no mobile phone at all, India’s digitally excluded could be more than 50%. Hence, while the creation of mobile applications makes information readily available to those with the technology to access it, it does not solve the problem for individuals and communities that remain excluded digitally. No consistency, privacy issues The data above implies that the mobile applications developed have not benefited from the standardisation of information and a coordinated development approach. The analysis shows that the various mobile apps on COVID-19 operated by the different State governments lack consistency in terms of the features, functionalities, and frequency of information updates they offer. As information was being updated manually in many of the mobile applications, the data in the mobile application was different from the actual data, leading to multiple sources of truth. Hence, the governments should continue to set up functional helplines, auto-diallers, SMS text messages, and other channels to ensure that the digitally restricted have access to the same information as the digitally empowered — especially during crises such as the pandemic. Coming back to privacy, most of these State mobile apps also differ significantly on the data privacy they provide, depending on the information or permissions they request from the user. We observed that 31 of the 35 mobile apps request access to location services, nine mobile apps request access to device ID and call information, five mobile apps request access to Bluetooth settings,15 mobile apps request access to the camera, three mobile apps request access to contact information, and three mobile apps even request access to the user accounts on the device. It seems that these data requests may not meet the two commonly accepted principles of data privacy — necessity (is the data necessary for the mobile application to achieve its goal?) and proportionality (is the collection of data proportionate to the extent to which an individual’s right to privacy is being infringed?). The mobile applications developed could have proactively followed established principles of privacy by design, such as minimal data collection and end-to-end data security. The redundant features of numerous mobile apps of States on COVID-19, duplication of efforts, non-uniformity in data-privacy, and confusion among the end user point toward a larger need for an open, interoperable, application programming interface (API)-based microservices architecture that can integrate (or host) the State digital applications with the central government’s application. Possible solutions The adoption of an API-based microservices architecture and federated database structure with an appropriate governance framework could address these issues. It would allow, for instance, Aarogya Setu to integrate with the myriad of State mobile apps to offer both its standard services, that is, contact tracing and real-time information on cases as well as State-specific customised services or sub-applications such as information on hospital beds and grocery shops, among others. Many countries in Europe have considered moving from an information flow that is centralised to a decentralised information flow for contact-tracing applications. This was largely driven by concerns regarding privacy, as centralised databases can have a higher risk of data leaks and security breaches. Besides, a decentralised information flow, owing to information residing in many individual systems and not in a centralised system, increases the cost while reducing the reward of effecting a successful breach. Several mobile apps of the State governments employ a centralised approach. Hence, in the future, design considerations of these mobile apps should evaluate the need for a centralised approach and ascertain whether the same goals can be achieved through a decentralised information flow. Given the presence of structured audits that continuously put the spotlight on Government of India-backed technologies, extending the same level of scrutiny to technology platforms developed by the States brings the opportunity of improved public services overall, and the public confidence needed to encourage wider adoption. Carsten Maple is a Turing Fellow and Professor of Cyber Systems Engineering in WMG at the University of Warwick, U.K. Venkat Goli leads the Centre for Responsible Technologies at MSC (formerly MicroSave Consulting). The article was produced as a part of the India Pandemic Technology Review Project||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/fine-tuning-the-state-of-the-app-technology/article33796948.ece
10 February 2021||February 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Dams and damages||In 2018, while travelling through the villages near the India-China border in Niti Valley in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district, I stopped at Reni village, the birthplace of the iconic Chipko movement. The way to Reni was dotted with hydropower projects that were marred by controversy. The villagers complained about the rampant flouting of norms by the hydropower developers, which forced them to protest against such projects. Flouting all norms On February 7, two such hydropower projects located close to Reni suffered damages from flash floods that left 31 dead and 175 people missing. The barrages of the 13.2 MW Rishiganga hydropower project, which is located on the river Rishiganga, only a few metres from Reni, and NTPC’s 520 MW Tapovan-Vishnugad hydropower project, on the River Dhauliganga, about 4 km from Reni, were completely damaged. It is important to note here though that dams are not victims of disasters; they, in fact, exacerbate disasters. While the actual cause of the February 7 floods is under investigation, pegging it as a natural disaster may be incorrect. A June 26, 2019 order of the Uttarakhand High Court questioned the use of explosives on the Rishiganga site — that too for illegal mining in the name of dam construction. The use of explosives has repeatedly been questioned for dam construction, and the construction of other infrastructure projects, such as roads, in the fragile Himalayan State. Other than this, deforestation takes place when dams are constructed. While compensatory afforestation is the norm, it is often flouted. The construction material that is supposed to be dumped on separate land is often dumped into the rivers. It would be naïve to assume that a disaster in Uttarakhand that involves dams was ‘natural’. The Chopra Committee report of 2014 brings more clarity on how dams exacerbate a disaster such as floods. The committee was formed in October 2013 after the Supreme Court ordered the Union Environment Ministry to constitute an expert body to assess whether dams exacerbated the 2013 floods in the State where over 4,000 people were killed, mainly in the Kedarnath Valley. The committee was headed by environmentalist Ravi Chopra and comprised 10 other members including geologists and biodiversity experts. Its report mentions how dams exacerbated the 2013 deluge, mainly as riverbeds were already raised from the disposed muck at the dam construction sites, and could not contain the sudden increased flow from floodwaters. The report presents evidence to prove that dams are not only damaged in floods, they also cause immense damage in downstream areas. This is because as floodwaters damage a barrage, they increase the destructive capacity of the water that flows downstream of the barrage. The Chopra Committee suggested that 23 of the 24 proposed dam projects it reviewed be cancelled for the potential damage they could do. However, even after all these years, the matter remains pending in the Supreme Court, and environmental norms for dam construction continue to be flouted in Uttarakhand. In an affidavit submitted on December 5, 2014 in the Supreme Court, the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change acknowledged the adverse impact of dams in the 2013 floods, but to no effect. Impact of climate change To make matters worse, Himalayan glaciers are receding and disintegrating as a result of climate change, and the snow cover in the Himalayas is also thinning. Research also shows how an increased number and volume of glacial lakes should be expected as a direct impact of increased temperatures. For dams, this means rapid increase or decrease in the reservoir water level. It also means that the projections on the life of a dam reservoir may not stand due to erratic events, such as floods, that could rapidly fill a reservoir with muck and boulders brought along with the floods. There is also the threat of earthquakes. In terms of earthquake risk, Uttarakhand lies in Seismic Zone-IV (severe intensity) and Seismic Zone-V (very severe intensity). Ignoring this, many dams have been constructed in zones that are under high risk of witnessing severe earthquakes. Irrespective of the evidence, the Uttarakhand government plans on continuing to build dams as a source of revenue. The State plans to construct up to 450 hydropower projects of 27,039 MW installed capacity. Clearly, the Uttarakhand government has chosen to ignore the disastrous impacts of rampant dam-building. It is clear that dams worsen disasters, and for this to be ignored by the State authorities is unfortunate. Kavita Upadhyay is a journalist from Uttarakhand, who has extensively reported on the State’s environmental disasters. She’s a graduate in Water Science, Policy and Management from the University of Oxford||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/dams-and-damages/article33796956.ece
10 February 2021||February 10 2021 00:00 IST,||POCSO doesn’t brook dilution||The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act was enacted in 2012 especially to protect children (aged less than 18) from sexual assault. The Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Act admitted that a number of sexual offences against children were neither specifically provided for in extant laws nor adequately penalised. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, ratified by India in 1992, also requires sexual exploitation and sexual abuse to be addressed as heinous crimes. It was therefore felt that offences against children be defined explicitly and also countered through commensurate penalties as an effective deterrence. It was in this backdrop that the recent judgment of the Bombay High Court, in Satish Ragde v. State of Maharashtra , in which the accused was acquitted under the POCSO Act, came under massive criticism. The Bench acquitted a man found guilty of assault on the grounds that he groped his victim over her clothes and there was no skin-to-skin contact between them. As this judgment was likely to set a dangerous precedent, the apex court stayed the acquittal. Section 7 of the POCSO Act, inter alia, says that whoever with sexual intent touches the breast of the child is said to commit sexual assault. Whereas Section 8 of the Act provides minimum imprisonment of three years for sexual assault, Section 354 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) lays down a minimum of one year imprisonment for outraging the modesty of a woman. IPC and POCSO: Differences The difference between POCSO and IPC, as far as the offence of sexual assault is concerned, is two-fold. One, the definition of ‘assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty’ given in the IPC is generic whereas in POCSO, the acts of sexual assault are explicitly mentioned such as touching various private parts or doing any other act which involves physical contact without penetration. ‘Sexual assault’ in POCSO specifically excludes rape which requires penetration; otherwise the scope of ‘sexual assault’ under POCSO and ‘outraging modesty of a woman’ under the IPC is the same. Two, whereas the IPC provides punishment for the offence irrespective of any age of the victim, POCSO is specific for the protection of children. Higher punishment is provided under POCSO not because more ‘serious allegations’ of sexual assault are required but because the legislature wanted punishment to be more deterrent if the victims are children. Therefore, once the act of ‘outraging modesty with the use of assault or criminal force’, which is nothing but ‘sexual assault’, is proved, the requisite punishment must be slapped under POCSO if the victim is a child. The essence of a woman’s modesty is her sex and the culpable intention of the accused is the crux of the matter in the cases of sexual assault. In Vishaka v. State of Rajasthan (1997), the Supreme Court held that the offence relating to modesty of woman cannot be treated as trivial. In Pappu v. State of Chhattisgarh (2015), the High Court of Chhattisgarh, though it acquitted the accused under Section 354 of the IPC as the offence was found lacking in use of ‘criminal force or assault’, convicted him for sexual harassment under Section 354A which requires ‘physical contact’ and advances as a necessary element. This case also pertained to squeezing the limbs and breasts of a 13-year-old girl but the High Court did not venture into the area of skin-to-skin contact. It will not be out of place to mention here that the Sexual Offences Act 2003 of the U.K. says that touching (with sexual intent) includes touching with any part of the body, with anything else or through anything. The POCSO Act might be silent on such niceties; it is the bodily integrity of a woman that needs to be protected. Therefore, in the absence of any specific provision in the POCSO Act which requires skin-to-skin touch as a mandatory element of an offence, any interpretation which dilutes protection to children must be declared ultra vires . R.K. Vij is a senior IPS officer in Chhattisgarh. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/pocso-doesnt-brook-dilution/article33796957.ece
10 February 2021||February 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Belated, but bold||The government’s spending plans for 2021-22 hinge on better compliance lifting tax collections, and an ambitious plan to raise non-tax revenue. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has announced large-scale monetisation of government sector assets, including vast tracts of land, and is banking on disinvestment receipts of Rs. 1.75-lakh crore. This includes likely inflows from the strategic sale of entities such as Air India and BPCL, carried forward from this year’s plans. The listing of LIC could be completed as well, with necessary amendments in the Finance Bill, and that alone could bolster the revenue kitty. Most significant, however, is the new strategic disinvestment policy for public sector enterprises and the promise to privatise two public sector banks and a general insurance company in the year. The policy, promised as part of the Atma Nirbhar Bharat package, states the government will exit all businesses in non-strategic sectors, with only a ‘bare minimum’ presence in four broad sectors. These strategic sectors are — atomic energy, space and defence; transport and telecom; power, petroleum, coal and other minerals; and banking and financial services. In India’s brief but tortuous history of disinvestment since it began listing PSUs on the stock markets through minority stake sales in the 1990s, this is undoubtedly the boldest stance yet. On intent, it goes further than the A.B. Vajpayee government’s sales of a dozen-odd PSUs, from hotels to bread makers. Some, including Balco and Hindustan Zinc, where the government still has residual minority stakes, have fared much better under private management. It can be no one’s case that India’s public sector remains at the ‘commanding heights’ of the economy. Apart from raising precious revenues, the sale or closure of such firms will help the exchequer stop throwing good money after bad, and funnel it into more productive endeavours. It is not clear why it took the Narendra Modi administration so long to articulate this plan or make headway on this front even without such a blueprint, as the PM had declared, back in 2014, that the government had no business being in business. Now that the policy is in place, tactful execution will be as critical as dealing with the usual pockets of resistance that would crop up. While stock markets are on a high, the financial capacity of potential bidders may not be optimal, thanks to the pandemic. Among its multiple challenges, the government will need to create confidence in the sale processes, ensure a semblance of fair valuations, give officers some cover from potential post-transaction witch-hunts by auditors and investigating agencies, sequence the sales so that the economy does not face shocks or create monopolies, and most of all, manage electoral pressures in jurisdictions where these units would be located. A single controversial transaction could scuttle the momentum behind such a plan and India can ill afford it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/belated-but-bold/article33796940.ece
10 February 2021||February 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Cutting trans fat||Come January 1, 2022, India will join a select group of countries limiting industrial trans fat to 2% by mass of the total oils/fats present in the product. India would thus be achieving the WHO target a year in advance. In mid-2016, the trans fat content limit was halved from 10% to 5%, and in December 2020, the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) capped it to 3% by 2021. While trans fat is naturally present in red meat and dairy products, the focus is on restricting the industrially produced trans fat used solely to prolong the shelf life of products at less cost. While the government’s notification specifically mentions edible oils and fats that are used as ingredients, it also applies to emulsions such as margarines. Targeting these ingredients would in effect result in reducing the trans fat content to 2% in all food items as these two are the major sources of industrial trans fat. Also, even when the fat/oil contains less than 2% trans fat, repeated use at high temperature can increase the trans fat content. The focus on cutting down trans fat content in food arises from its proclivity to negatively alter the lipoprotein cholesterol profile by increasing the level of bad cholesterol (LDL) while decreasing the level of HDL or good cholesterol. These changes in the lipoprotein cholesterol profile increase the risk of cardiovascular diseases. In 2004, when Denmark became the first country to limit industrially produced trans fat content in all foods to 2% of fats and oils, it faced resistance from much of Europe, including the European Commission. However, many countries have since adopted similar restrictions themselves. In fact, in April 2019, the European Union (EU) adopted a new regulation — from April 2021 — to limit the amount of industrially produced trans fat to 2% in all foods sold within the EU. According to a 2020 report of WHO, 32 countries already have some form of mandatory limits on trans fat. The benefits of reducing trans fat can become quickly apparent, as seen in Denmark; three years after the cap came into effect, it saw a reduction of about 14 deaths attributable to cardiovascular diseases per 1,00,000 population. It is now well known that trans fat can be completely eliminated and replaced with healthier substitutes without any change in the food taste or cost. According to WHO, a dozen large multinational food companies have already committed to eliminate industrially produced trans fat from all their products by 2023. With a year’s notice, it should be possible for the multinational food companies to redouble their efforts to meet the FSSAI standard, while Indian companies that have earlier been able to cut the level of trans fat as in the FSSAI limit, should have no excuse not to meet the current capping.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/cutting-trans-fat/article33796941.ece
10 February 2021||February 10 2021 00:00 IST,||The Great Illusion (From an Editorial)||His Royal Highness the Duke of Connaught yesterday performed the most important of the functions which comprised his mission and nothing brings out the true character of that mission more clearly than the message that he conveyed to the members of the Legislative Assembly from His Majesty the King-Emperor as well as the speech in which he amplified that message. We have time and again insisted that the object of the mission was the apotheosis of the Reforms and if tireless beating of the big drum could be accepted in evidence of accomplishment then has the Duke’s mission achieved its purpose. The people of India, outside that circle with whom Dukes and especially Royal Dukes are ipso facto on the righteous side, will view with a boredom not unmixed with amusement this last supreme effort in that gentle art of window-dressing which has attained such a tremendous development since the advent of a Premier and a Secretary of State who have been quick to realise the value of advertisement in politics. They know what the Reforms are worth and how far short they fail of what they consider their due and they refuse to be bamboozled into translating the magnificence of the bringer of the gift into the gift itself.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-great-illusion-from-an-editorial/article33796949.ece
10 February 2021||February 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Army patrols in Bengal||The Army has begun flag marches in West Bengal to make its presence felt in the biggest peace-keeping operation in the country since Independence — to help maintain order during the elections in this State stricken by senseless political violence [New Delhi, February 9]. The equivalent of nearly four divisions of troops are being deployed in the 16 districts and the greater Calcutta region to face any emergency that might arise during the next one month, before West Bengal goes to the polls on March 10. A PTI report from Calcutta said Army units have begun patrolling “trouble prone” northern and eastern parts of Calcutta. A joint control room to maintain liaison between the civilian and army authorities has also been set up at the city police headquarters. The army has also moved into Burdwan and the industrial town of Asansol and other “vulnerable areas” in Burdwan district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/army-patrols-in-bengal/article33796951.ece
10 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. to clarify e-com FDI rules||The Centre plans to issue a clarification on the foreign direct investment (FDI) policy for the e-commerce sector in the wake of investigations into some foreign players’ operations following complaints about malpractices, according to Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal. The government had sought information from the online marketplaces as part of a probe into ‘certain complaints from consumers and small retailers about certain practices of e-commerce companies’, Mr. Goyal said on Tuesday. Stressing that e-commerce platforms could only act as a service provider, the minister warned players ‘who break the law’ that they would have to correct their business practices at the earliest. ‘Agnostic platform’ “We are also considering certain clarifications to ensure that the e-commerce sector works in the true spirit of the law, of the rules that have been laid down,” he said, adding the caveat that the e-commerce policy per se would, however, not be changed as it was ‘robust, well-designed and operating in India in several sectors’. “To reiterate, e-commerce is supposed to provide an agnostic platform so that buyers and sellers can trade with each other, the platform should not become a part of the trading transaction, neither should it be funding it or having algorithms that give preference to one or the other… They should neither be promoting their own products, but provide all data required to make a rational choice and the choice should be the free choice of the consumers,” Mr. Goyal explained. “We believe that buyers and sellers should be given an opportunity to trade with each other; the platform is only a service provider,” the minister said. “And those who break that law will certainly have to respond to our concerns and correct their business practices at the earliest,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-to-clarify-e-com-fdi-rules/article33796927.ece
10 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cairn Energy urges Centre to ‘swiftly’ honour tax verdict||Cairn Energy Plc CEO Simon Thomson on Tuesday said he expects to meet Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman next week, a likely meeting that comes amid speculation that the Centre is considering an appeal against a $1.2-billion arbitration award granted to Cairn over a retrospective tax levy. “Looking forward to meeting the Government of India Finance Minister in Delhi next week” Mr. Thomson said in a statement, requesting the government to adhere to the international arbitration tribunal’s ruling in his company’s favour. “The arbitration is now finalised and the award has been given and we would request, along with others, that the Indian government moves swiftly to adhere to the award that has been given,” Mr. Thomson said in a video statement issued by Cairn. “It’s important for our shareholders, who are global financial institutions and who want to see a positive investment climate in India,” he added. “I’m sure that in working together with the government, we can swiftly draw this to a conclusion, and reassure our global institutional investors about the positive investment climate that India offers,” he said. The Finance Ministry did not immediately respond to queries on the government’s position in the matter or to a request to confirm any scheduled meeting between the Finance Minister and Mr. Thomson. The U.K.-based firm had said last month it may be forced to attach Indian assets in different world capitals, unless the issue was resolved. Asked if Cairn was still looking to enforce the award through seizure of Indian assets, a spokesperson said: “We look forward to meeting the government next week — but we have to look at all options to protect the interests of our international shareholders.” In December, a three-member tribunal in the Permanent Court of Arbitration at The Hague had ruled unanimously against the retrospective tax levied by India on Cairn in 2015, ruling that the tax fell afoul of the bilateral investment pact. The tribunal also awarded Cairn $1.2 billion in damages. News of the Cairn CEO’s upcoming meetings in Delhi came days after U.K. Secretary of State for International Trade Mary Elizabeth Truss met with Ms. Sitharaman and Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal. When asked, the British High Commission refused to confirm if the Cairn issue had been raised during Ms. Truss’s meetings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cairn-energy-urges-centre-to-swiftly-honour-tax-verdict/article33796929.ece
10 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Retail vehicle sales fall 10% on chip shortage, fading demand||Total retail sales of vehicles slid by almost 10% in January to about 15.9 lakh units as a shortage of semiconductors impacted vehicle availability, while fading pent-up demand and price increases by automobile manufacturers also contributed to the decline, according to the Federation Of Automobile Dealers Associations (FADA). As per data from FADA, passenger vehicle sales fell 4.46% to 2.81 lakh units, sales of two-wheelers declined close to 9% to 11.63 lakh, three-wheeler sales slumped 51% to 31,059 and commercial vehicle sales slipped 25% to 55,835 units. Retail tractor sales, however, continued to post growth, rising 11.1% to 60,754 units. “After witnessing one-off growth in December, January auto registrations fell once again by 10% year-on-year,” said FADA president Vinkesh Gulati. “Auto industry clearly misjudged the demand which returned post lockdown.” He added chipmakers prioritising higher-volume and more lucrative consumer electronics over the auto industry had resulted in supply shortages, especially for passenger vehicles, though enquiry levels and bookings remained high. On the outlook for the current quarter, he pointed to the high base from a year earlier. The transition to BS-VI during Q4 of FY20 had resulted in ‘huge’ discounts leading to higher sales and registrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/retail-vehicle-sales-fall-10-on-chip-shortage-fading-demand/article33796931.ece
10 February 2021||Chennai,||CUB to restructure 1,326 pre-COVID accounts: MD||Private sector lender City Union Bank (CUB) has identified 1,326 borrower accounts (pre-COVID) for restructuring during the fourth quarter, CEO and MD N. Kamakodi said. He added that the time was not right to push credit growth. “We are waiting for a better general economic environment, expecting better growth and lower non-performing assets,” he said. To bring down NPAs, the bank has identified 102 accounts of Rs. 517 crore under MSME category and 1,224 accounts of Rs. 520 crore in the non-MSME category for restructuring in the fourth quarter. “Overall the total restructuring will be around 5-6%, which is well within range. As the regulatory instructions prohibit restructuring of stressed accounts during the pandemic period, we hope these would improve as we move forward,” Mr. Kamakodi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cub-to-restructure-1326-pre-covid-accounts-md/article33796920.ece
10 February 2021||MUMBAI,||BPCL Q3 PAT surges 120% to Rs. 2,778 crore||Bharat Petroleum Corporation (BPCL), which is set for disinvestment, reported standalone net profit surged 120.3% for the third quarter ended December 31, 2020 to Rs. 2,777.6 crore as compared to Rs. 1,260.6 crore in the year-earlier period. Standalone revenue from operations rose 1.4% to Rs. 86,580 crore from Rs. 85,368 crore in the year earlier. Domestic sales of petroleum products increased to 11.10 million metric tonnes (MMT) from 11.02 MMT in the same period last year. “The quarter has been the strongest in terms of registered PBT and PAT in this fiscal year,” said N. Vijayagopal, director, Finance. “We are back to pre-Covid levels as we recorded the best performance in high speed diesel and motor spirit in market sales among peers,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bpcl-q3-pat-surges-120-to-rs-2778-crore/article33796923.ece
10 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Don’t sell vehicles low on safety: Govt. to auto firms||The government on Tuesday expressed concern over reports that manufacturers are selling vehicles with purposefully downgraded safety standards in India and asked them to stop the ‘unpardonable’ practice. Speaking at a seminar organised by auto industry body SIAM, Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) Secretary Giridhar Aramane also noted that only a few manufacturers had adopted vehicle safety ratings system and only for their high-end models. “I am deeply perturbed by some news items that Indian models are purposefully downgraded by auto manufacturers’ safety standards in India. This practice needs to be stopped,” he said. Over the past few years, vehicle safety group Global NCAP, under its safer cars for India campaign, had found in various tests that some models sold in India were found to have inferior safety ratings as compared to the export version of the same model sold in developed markets, he said.  Only a few manufacturers had adopted the vehicle safety ratings system for high-end models||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/dont-sell-vehicles-low-on-safety-govt-to-auto-firms/article33796933.ece
10 February 2021||MUMBAI,||Leverage in infra to stay elevated: S&P||The recovery in the Indian economy broadened in the third quarter of fiscal 2021, with demand for rated companies in passenger vehicle, power, and ports segments being above 2019 levels, said S&P Global Ratings, reducing its ratings downgrade over the last 12 months. It said while several sectors like automobiles would report higher earnings in 2022, the leverage in the infrastructure sector would remain at elevated levels. “The recovery in demand has been sharper than we expected,” the credit rating agency said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/leverage-in-infra-to-stay-elevated-sp/article33796925.ece
10 February 2021||Chennai,||IOB returns to profit with Rs. 213 cr. Q3 net||Public sector lender Indian Overseas Bank (IOB) has reported a standalone net profit of Rs. 212.87 crore for the third quarter ended December against a loss of Rs. 6,075 crore in the year-earlier period. “For the last four quarters, we have now been making profit consistently. When compared with Q3 performances of FY20, there is a marked improvement in all key parameters,” said P.P. Sengupta, MD & CEO. Gross non-perfoming assets (GNPA) fell 12.19% to Rs. 16,753 crore, while net NPAs declined 3.13% to Rs. 3,905 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/iob-returns-to-profit-with-rs-213-cr-q3-net/article33796921.ece
10 February 2021||Chennai,||Rane Holdings back in black, logs Rs. 39-cr. net||Rane Holdings Ltd., the holding company of the Rane Group, returned to profit with a consolidated net profit of Rs. 39 crore for the quarter ended December on growing demand for its products. It had posted a net loss of Rs. 3 crore in the year-earlier period. Revenue from operations rose 23% to Rs. 644 crore. The results also include an exceptional gain of Rs. 23.49 crore from profit on sale of land by Rane Engine Valve Ltd., it said. “We remain cautiously optimistic on the demand environment,” said L. Ganesh, CMD.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rane-holdings-back-in-black-logs-rs-39-cr-net/article33796932.ece
10 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Tata Steel posts profit of Rs. 4,011 cr. in Q3||Tata Steel swung back into the black in the October-December quarter with a consolidated profit of Rs. 4,010.94 crore on the back of increased income. The company had clocked a loss of Rs. 1,228.53 crore a year earlier, Tata Steel said in a BSE filing on Tuesday. Total income rose to Rs. 39,809.05 crore from Rs. 35,613.34. Prodution rose 3% to 4.6 million tonnes (mt) of crude steel. Domestic sales climbed 4% to 4.16 mt. On its business in Europe, Tata Steel said the process to separate the Netherlands and U.K. arms was currently under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tata-steel-posts-profit-of-rs-4011-cr-in-q3/article33797561.ece
10 February 2021||Mumbai,||Alembic Pharma arm’s anti blood cancer drug gets US FDA nod||Rhizen Pharmaceuticals AG, a clinical-stage, oncology-focused biopharma company, with 50% stake owned by Alembic Pharmaceuticals, has announced that its novel, next generation PI3K-delta inhibitor Umbralisib (Ukoniq) has secured U.S. FDA accelerated approval for the treatment of blood cancer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/alembic-pharma-arms-anti-blood-cancer-drug-gets-us-fda-nod/article33796924.ece
10 February 2021||Melbourne,||Barty and Nadal breeze through||Rafael Nadal's injured back didn't slow down his bid for a record 21st Grand Slam title on Tuesday, as women's World No. 1 Ashleigh Barty romped to a 6-0, 6-0 'double bagel' at the Australian Open. On a day when women's champion Sofia Kenin also reached round two, but two-time winner Victoria Azarenka lost after breathing problems, Nadal and Barty were the headline acts. Spanish great Nadal, who pulled out of the ATP Cup with a back problem, beat Serbia's Laslo Djere 6-3, 6-4, 6-1. Russia's Daniil Medvedev, meanwhile, extended his winning streak to 15 matches with an emphatic 6-2, 6-2, 6-4 victory over Canada's Vasek Pospisil. Just having fun Barty later outclassed Montenegro's Danka Kovinic, losing only 10 points as she raced into round two in just 44 minutes. With the win Barty, last year's semifinalist who sat out most of the 2020 season, ramped up hopes of a first Australian women's winner in 43 years. Women's champion Kenin was less convincing during her 7-5, 6-4 win against Australian Maddison Inglis. But there were distressing scenes as an ailing Azarenka, the 2012 and 2013 champion, went out to Jessica Pegula. Azarenka, who was one of the players locked down in hard quarantine pre-tournament and not allowed out of her room for 14 days, began to suffer in the second set. The 2020 US Open runner-up was seen gasping and using an inhaler, and then looked close to collapse on court. After a medical time-out she played on but lost 7-5, 6-4.  PTI adds  Too hot to handle India's Sumit Nagal, meanwhile, exited with a first-round defeat, struggling to cope with the power-packed game of Lithuanian Ricardas Berankis. Nagal’s challenge deflated as Berankis’ powerful groundstrokes proved too good for the Indian. The verdict 6-2, 7-5, 6-3 in two hours and 10 minutes. Nagal had lost to the World No. 72 in last week's tune-up event too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/barty-and-nadal-breeze-through/article33797088.ece
10 February 2021||Chennai,||Anderson, Leach send India hurtling to rare home defeat||James Anderson is 38 but runs in with the intensity and hunger of someone who is 22. And he is a sorcerer with the ball. On a sluggish pitch, he sent the off-stump cartwheeling on two occasions, operating with exceptional craft. Deadly over Anderson’s twin strikes in an over, bamboozling the smooth-stroking Shubman Gill — he drove with timing and grace for his 50 — and a newly arrived Ajinkya Rahane, sent India hurtling towards a rare home defeat in the first Test at the M.A. Chidambaram Stadium here on Tuesday. Anderson is a wizard with the ball. After he reverse-swung two deliveries with extreme precision to fire the ball between the bat and pad of Gill and Rahane, he sent down an off-cutter to find the leading edge of the in-form Rishabh Pant. His three-wicket burst in the morning settled the issue as England outplayed India, dismissed for 192, by 227 runs to take a 1-0 lead in the four-Test series. Skipper Kohli’s high-class 72 went in vain. Even as Anderson tormented India, the admirable Jack Leach’s left-arm spin gave the host little respite. He was getting the ball to spin away sharply from the right-hander and the deliveries were laced with bounce. Like his spin partner Dom Bess, Leach is technically sound. He pivots well, possesses an ideal hip-drive, imparts revs on the ball and has an easy, natural release. Leach spun one away from Cheteshwar Pujara in the morning to have the tenacious batsman picked up at slip. It was a major strike. On a wearing fifth-day pitch, Leach was always a threat even if the inconsistent Bess had an off-day. But then, Bess got Washington Sundar to nick a delivery that spun past the southpaw. Washington erred in not stretching fully forward to make use of his height and kill the spin. Bess’ appeal was negated and even as the third umpire took his time to come up with a verdict, Washington ‘walked.’ Kohli in his element As wickets fell around him, Kohli batted with skill and application. His bat appeared as broad as his heart, as he struck Bess for three successive fours, between long-on and deep mid-wicket. A straight drive off Archer was a top shot. So was a scorching cover-drive off Stokes, Kohli’s weight was beautifully distributed as he executed the stroke. And Leach was timed between the bowler and the non-striker. He is such an organised batsman, with ideal footwork, both in offence and defence. Before he was consumed by a Stokes delivery that kept low on this uneven fifth-day pitch, Kohli had made a statement. Extra bounce Leach got one to bounce extra to snare Ashwin on the cut, and after Kohli’s dismissal, it was only a matter of time. Incredibly, this is England’s sixth straight away Test victory. India now needs to win at least two of the remaining Tests and draw one to make the World Test Championship final. This will take some doing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anderson-leach-send-india-hurtling-to-humiliating-defeat/article33797046.ece
10 February 2021||February 10 2021 00:00 IST,||India messed up their first; Anderson brilliant in the second||Joe Root and James Anderson have played 80 Test matches together. So if Anderson reckons Root’s double century in the Chennai Test was the finest he had seen, and Root says that the magical over from Anderson was the best he has seen, you can imagine what India were up against. Cricket is a team game, but magical individual performances stay longer in the mind than team or match details. Stunning over Has there been a more stunning over of swing bowling in India? First Anderson had settled opener Shubhman Gill beaten by the reverse swing, knocking his stumps back, then he had Ajinkya Rahane possibly leg-before but denied the wicket by that most pernicious of elements in the game, the umpire’s call. But no matter. He found the gap in Rahane’s defence — the television camera followed the seam angled towards slip beautifully to register the full impact of the reverse, the ball then moving in rather than out — and that was that. When he prised out India’s current batting superstar Rishabh Pant, it was all over. Someone had tweeted a question to Kyle Mayers, the West Indies debutant who made a double century as his team chased 395 to win in Bangladesh the previous day: “Any tips for a fourth innings chase of 300-plus?” Mayers’s response was simple: “Rishabh Pant knows.” Great victory But this is Test cricket. No one can be sure. India won in Australia, the West Indies in Bangladesh, and now England in what must be, given the context, their greatest win away in recent years. India had lost only one Test at home in the last eight years, and had just returned from Australia after one of the game’s great comebacks. You can point to all kinds of reasons for the hosts’ defeat: India began by picking the wrong team on a slow track that was bound to deteriorate, keeping Kuldip Yadav out when he could have been effective against batsmen of uncertain footwork; they dropped too many catches; they took a chance with two inexperienced spinners, and so on. England made some excellent catches, and above all there was Root’s batsmanship that nudged the game towards them quite early. There was his captaincy too. He handed Anderson the ball when it was good and ready (just as the bowler was) to reverse swing. He did not declare on the fourth day either out of respect for India’s fourth innings batting or his team’s fourth innings bowling, knowing England might not need so many overs. And he was right. Sometimes fortune favours the cautious. Fabulous bowling It is convenient to believe that India lost the Test in the second innings, an error of proximity perhaps. But actually they did so in the first, when they conceded a lead of 221. England, with some help from the crumbling track, bowled superbly in the second, and prised out the top six batsmen with some fabulous bowling. The ball was kicking up dust, the bounce was uncertain, often startlingly low. And England had the bowlers to exploit the conditions. Reverse swing and left-arm accurate spin. Anderson and Leach. The difference In the first knock, the top six — Cheteswar Pujara apart — could not blame either luck or great deliveries for their dismissal. And that was the difference, once Root had done his team the favour of winning the toss. Take Rohit Sharma, for example. A nudge away from the body to Joffra Archer in the first innings, but the victim of a beautiful drifting and spinning delivery from the left-armer Leach in the second. Or Gill, who played too early in the first innings, or Kohli who jabbed at one from off spinner Dom Bessie but was done in by a grubber from Ben Stokes in the second. Rahane was caught off a full toss the first time around while Pant mistimes a swing at Bess. In Test cricket, as sometimes in life, you get a second chance. But the bowling might be sharper and the conditions worse. Now no one can blame you for getting out to superior bowling, but it throws the first innings failings into sharper focus. Often you do not get a chance at redemption, so you have to get it right the first time. New challenges Leach redeemed himself after Pant took a heavy toll in the first innings. Bess was not as successful in the second. But that’s the game. India cannot bank on the second half of their batting to pull them out of a mess every time. It worked in Australia, but as Rahane pointed out before the start of this series, that was in the past. New challenges call for new responses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-messed-up-their-first-anderson-brilliant-in-the-second/article33796937.ece
10 February 2021||CHENNAI,||Gopinath relives first Test win||In many ways, the M.A. Chidambaram Stadium in Chennai is Indian cricket’s spiritual home. It was here, after 20 years and 24 Tests since its debut, India registered its first-ever Test win, defeating England on Feb. 10, 1952. Coimbatarao Doraikannu Gopinath, the only surviving member of that Indian team, has vivid memories of the victory. “Probably for the first time, we said we can beat teams stronger than us. There was a new way of thinking,” Gopinath says. The 90-year-old recollects the events of that Test in minute detail. "We batted first and made some 400-odd (457/9 decl.). I was No. 8. By the time I went in to bat, we were 340 or something (320). The captain (Vijay Hazare) very clearly told me 'I am planning to declare soon. Go there and score as fast as you can.' “When I got out, I had made only 35 runs. But I was delighted because my favourite shots were the cover-drive and square-cut, and every time I hit a four playing those strokes, my home crowd erupted. Polly Umrigar and I had a partnership of 93... In forcing the pace, I got out. But I was okay with it because I was following my captain’s instructions. “Umrigar’s innings just went on and on, and I said to myself: “Why did I play like that!” (Laughs.) I could’ve taken my time and scored a few more runs. But didn’t matter in the end because we won the match and that’s what we all cherish now.” Fifteen minutes before the tea interval on the fourth day, Gopinath, the youngest member of the team, caught Brian Statham off Vinoo Mankad to usher in the victory. The ball used in that Test finds a place in Gopinath’s Coonoor residence. “I got all my teammates to sign it," he reminisces. "But it has been a long time... the signatures have worn off." Subdued celebrations According to Gopinath, the victory celebrations were 'unbelievably' subdued by today's standards. "We won the match, went back to the dressing room and everybody said 'well done'. After that, we all went back home!" he says. Nearly seven decades down the line, the win continues to evoke memories, both emotional and sweet for Gopinath.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gopinath-relives-first-test-win/article33797042.ece
10 February 2021||Chennai,||First-innings batting made the difference, says Kohli||Virat Kohli bemoaned the lack of application by the batsmen, especially in the first innings, for the loss of the first Test. “I think the Test probably shifted in their favour when we batted in the first innings. I don't think there was enough application shown by us as a batting unit,” said Kohli at the post-match press conference. “From a batting point of view, if we could have scored 70-80 runs more, the contest would have been on an even keel. We need to continuously put pressure on them. If we do that, we are confident we will get the results. The batting of both teams in the second innings was pretty similar. The first innings made the difference,” he said. The skipper also felt the bowling unit did not exert enough pressure in the first innings. “As a bowling unit, we did not bowl well collectively. The pacers and Ashwin bowled in good areas. But if [Shahbaz] Nadeem and Washi [Sundar] were equally economical, there would have been more pressure on England,” said Kohli. However, he pointed out there was not enough help for the bowlers on the first two days, allowing the English batsmen to rotate the strike easily. “The wicket was flat and slow. I am not saying that that is an excuse that we will hold onto as a team, but you have to understand the reality of what went on. When you get big runs on the board, even when the wicket is flat, the opposition is invariably put under pressure.” When asked about the decision to play Shahbaz Nadeem ahead of Kuldeep Yadav, Kohli said, “When playing two off-spinners, Kuldeep more or less becomes a similar kind of spinner taking the ball away [from the left-hander]. We will think of combinations which bring us variety as a bowling attack.” Impact player The captain also backed Ajinkya Rahane to come good despite a string of low scores in the last three Tests since his century in Melbourne against Australia. “Ajinkya, I have said many times in the past as well, along with Pujara, is our most important Test batsman and he is going to continue to be. We believe in his abilities, have believed in his abilities for a long time now and he's an impact player.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/first-innings-batting-made-the-difference-says-kohli/article33797048.ece
10 February 2021||February 10 2021 00:00 IST,||ATKMB puts it past BFC||ATK Mohun Bagan (ATKMB) cut Mumbai City FC’s lead to one point and set-up a tantalising endgame in the race for the AFC Champions League spot with a 2-0 win over Bengaluru FC (BFC) at the Fatorda Stadium in Goa on Tuesday. Roy Krishna and Marcelinho scored in the first half to help ATKMB climb to 33 points from 16 matches. BFC, on the other hand, remain stuck in sixth position on 19 points, with a play-off berth increasingly looking distant. Naushad Moosa’s side started the evening by having nearly two-thirds of the possession. But much of it was sterile passing, without a shot on goal. Gurpreet stands firm Antonio Habas set up his side to play on the break, but found Gurpreet Singh Sandhu an unshakeable force. Marcelinho first came close, but his low shot at the end of a mazy run went straight at Gurpreet. It was then Krishna’s turn, but he too couldn’t beat the BFC custodian. On the half-hour mark, Carl McHugh unleashed a superb left-footer from 30 yards but a leaping Gurpreet tipped it over. The pressure finally told when defender Pratik Chaudhari lost the ball, and then to compensate clumsily brought down Krishna inside the penalty area. The ATKMB star sent Gurpreet the wrong way for his 12th goal of the season. Just before the break, Marcelinho doubled the lead with an expertly taken free-kick after Harmanjot Khabra’s wild challenge brought David Williams down in the inside-right channel. Replays suggested the foul was inside the box, but Marcelinho made BFC pay nonetheless, beating Gurpreet handsomely at the near post. On 58 minutes, Manvir Singh, after collecting a fine through-ball from Krishna, forced another fine save from Gurpreet. For the second game running, the National team goalie was his team’s best player, only to be let down by his teammates.  The result: Bengaluru FC 0 lost to ATK Mohun Bagan 2 (Krishna 37, Marcelinho 44).   Wednesday’s match: Chennaiyin FC v Jamshedpur FC, 7.30 p.m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/atkmb-puts-it-past-bfc/article33797089.ece
10 February 2021||MUMBAI,||Mumbai Marathon on May 30||The deferred 2021 edition of the prestigious Tata Mumbai Marathon will be held on May 30 this year, it was announced on Tuesday. According to a statement issued by Procam International, promoters of the event, the Full Marathon, Half Marathon and 10km runs will be held on-ground with limited participation. “While limited numbers will run from their scheduled location, participants from across India and the world, will be able to run as one with TMM from a location of their preference, via the official TMM 2021 App,” added the statement. For almost two decades, the third Sunday of January has been synonymous with the Mumbai marathon. The COVID-19 outbreak resulted in the event being indefinitely postponed. The organisers assured they will continue to monitor the situation in coordination with various civic and government authorities to ensure smooth conduct of the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mumbai-marathon-on-may-30/article33797752.ece
10 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Shiva on top in 10m air pistol||Shiva Narwal beat Asian Games gold medallist Saurabh Chaudhary to the top position in men’s 10m air pistol in the third National shooting selection trials on Tuesday. Qualifying in the third spot with 583, one point behind the toppers Saurabh and Ravinder Singh, the 15-year-old Shiva fired 10.3 on the last shot to clinch the top spot 0.3 point ahead of Ravinder. Shiva had overcome Saurabh in the shoot-off after being tied on 223.6 before the last two shots.  In the women’s 25m sports pistol, Chinki Yadav prevailed over fellow Olympic quota winners Rahi Sarnobat and Manu Bhaker. Chinki shot 37 to beat Rahi by three points. Qualification topper Manu (582) was third. Abhidnya Patil had shot 581 in the qualification but eventually finished sixth behind Tejaswani and Neeraj Kaur. In men’s air rifle, Pankaj Kumar beat qualificationtopper Arjun Babuta by 0.7 point for the top spot. Olympic quota winner Deepak Kumar finished eighth while World No.1 and Olympic quota winner Divyansh Singh Panwar and Olympian Chain Singh failed to qualify for the final by 0.1 point after an identical score of 627.2. Equally in women’s rifle 3-position event, Gaayathri Nithyanandam beat qualification topper Sunidhi Chauhan by 1.7 point to top the final.  The results:   Men, 10m air pistol: 1. Shiva Narwal 244.3 (583); 2. Ravinder Singh 244.0 (584); 3. Saurabh Chaudhary 223.6 (584).   10m air rifle: 1. Pankaj Kumar 250.8 (629.6); 2. Arjun Babuta 250.1 (631.5); 3. Paarth Makhija 229.2 (628.1).   Women, 25m sports pistol: 1. Chinki Yadav 37 (579); 2. Rahi Sarnobat 34 (581); 3. Manu Bhaker 30 (582).   50m rifle 3-position: 1. Gaayathri Nithyanandam 457.7 (1163); 2. Sunidhi Chauhan 456.0 (1170); 3. Shriyanka Sadangi 445.6 (1166) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shiva-on-top-in-10m-air-pistol/article33797660.ece
10 February 2021||GUWAHATI,||Munita breaks National record||Munita Prajapati, the 19-year-old from Varanasi, broke the under-20 10,000m race walk National record on the penultimate day of the 36th National junior athletics championships here on Tuesday. Her time of 47:53.58s made her the first Indian under-20 woman to go under 48 minutes in the event. Khyati Mathur, coming back after a knee injury, soared to a personal best 1.77m in the under-18 girls high jump.  The results (winners only):   Men: Under-20: 800m: 1 Sree Kiran (TN) 1:52.19s; Shot put: 1. Aniket (Utk) 18.81m; Discus throw: 1. Ashish Kumar (Har) 54.79m.   Boys: Under-18: 800m: 1. Pradeep Senthilkumar (TN) 1:54.68s.   Under-16: 300m: 1. Deepak Singh (Har) 34.78 seconds; 800m: 1. Adarsh Kumar Maurya (MP) 1:58.72.   Long jump: 1. Chandrasekhar (UP) 6.84m; High jump: 1. Kothuri Pranay (Tel) 1.89m; Javelin throw: 1. Karan Kumar (UP) 63.76m.   Women: Under-20: 800m: 1. Pooja (Har) 2:07.96s; 10000m walk: 1. Munita Prajapati (UP) 47:53.58 (NR, OR 48:25.90, Reshma Patel, Bhopal, 2021); Triple jump: 1. P. Babisha (TN) 12.31m; Javelin throw: 1. Jyoti (Har) 45.17m.   Girls: Under-18: 800m: 1. Riya Nitin Patil (Mah) 2:12.16s; High jump: 1. Khyati Mathur (UP) 1.77m; Javelin throw: 1. Ramyashree Jain (Kar) 44.46m.   Under-16: 300m: 1. Unnathi Aiyappa Bolland (Kar) 40.11s; 800m: 1. Laxita Vinod Sandiela (Guj) 2:15.11s; 3000m walk: 1. Vaishnavi Negi (Utk) 14:35.60 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/munita-breaks-national-record/article33797240.ece
10 February 2021||Kolkata,||Chennai City picks up full points||Chennai City FC (CCFC) produced attacking football to beat a 10-man NEROCA FC 2-1 here on Tuesday. V. Vineeth Kumar and Demir Avdic found the target once in each half for CCFC, while Subash Singh reduced the margin for NEROCA. CCFC has nine points from six matches while NEROCA remains on five points from equal number of matches. Attack mode CCFC went into the attack mode right from the start and found the lead in the sixth minute off a fine diving header by under-22 midfielder Vineeth Kumar. NEROCA was reduced to 10 men in the 61st minute when defender Shoib Akhtar received his second booking for a rash tackle on Jockson Dhas. CCFC doubled the lead in the 68th minute when Advic got himself in position to nod home a provision from Mohamed Iqbal. Subhas pulled one back for NEROCA in the 79th minute.  The results:   NEROCA FC 1 (Subash Singh 79) lost to Chennai City FC 2 (Vineeth Kumar 6, Demir Avdic 68).   Indian Arrows 1 (Vellington Fernandes 87) lost to RoundGlass Punjab FC 2 (Papa Babacar Diawara 35, 56).   TRAU 1 (Tursonov 5) bt Aizawl FC 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chennai-city-picks-up-full-points/article33797092.ece
10 February 2021||CHENNAI,||‘We must stay ruthless’||Savouring a famous win over India, England captain Joe Root urged his team to be ruthless and not let its guard down after drawing first blood in the four-Test series. “It certainly is a very good victory, but in the scheme of the series, it’s just a start. To stay one-nil up is a good thing,” said Root when asked to rate the win. Hurting right now “We know that India is an extremely good team, especially in these conditions. They have got some wonderful individual players who would be hurting right now, and they would be looking to prove a point when they come to play again. “So, if we get the opportunity to go ahead of the game in the second Test, we have to grab it with both hands, we have to be ruthless. We have to make sure that we do everything that we did well in this game again and get better,” he said. Root also said the toss played a crucial role, with the visitors posting a mammoth 578, led by the skipper’s double hundred. “The toss was always going to be important, but from that point on, it was crucial that we exploited and made the most of the opportunity. We controlled the game the whole way through. And the guys were exceptional, today [Tuesday] in particular, to bowl in that manner was fabulous. It fills us with confidence going into the rest of the series.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-must-stay-ruthless/article33797051.ece
10 February 2021||MUMBAI,||Looking forward to creating a positive environment: Powar||Besides his two Tests and 31 ODI appearances, having been a part of seven Ranji Trophy-winning squads, Ramesh Powar is aware of the pressure of being the Mumbai coach. The former Mumbai off-spinner, after being appointed Mumbai’s coach for the Vijay Hazare Trophy, hoped to create a positive environment in the dressing room. “I am thankful to CIC (Cricket Improvement Committee) and MCA (Mumbai Cricket Association) for trusting my coaching abilities and I am looking forward to creating a positive environment and ensuring the team plays a positive brand of cricket, which Mumbai is always known for,” Powar told The Hindu on Tuesday. Besides having coached the India Women and at the National Cricket Academy, Powar has also been involved at the MCA’s indoor cricket academy in the recent past. Confident Having either played with or worked with a majority of cricketers, Powar is confident that overcoming the disappointment of an early exit at the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy will not be a challenge as tough as it appears. “I think when I meet the boys and the MCA officials and the selectors tomorrow, I will get a clear picture about where exactly we are and we’ll take it from there. I am a positive person and I always look at the brighter side,” he said. Despite the forgettable T20 campaign, Mumbai will have happy memories of the one-day tournament in the recent past, having claimed the title in 2018-19 and making it to the knockouts last season. “Mumbai has a bunch of talented players and the team has been doing well in the Vijay Hazare Trophy for the last two seasons. Besides, most of the boys have been involved in the set-up for a while now, so I am hopeful that everyone will be in a positive mindset once the squad is selected,” he said. The team will enter the biosecure hub at Jaipur on February 13. The league stage starts on February 20, with Mumbai being placed in Group D along with Delhi, Maharashtra, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan and Pondicherry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/looking-forward-to-creating-a-positive-environment-powar/article33797755.ece
10 February 2021||CHENNAI:,||It’s Eagle Prince vs. Annexed||Eagle Prince and Annexed may fight out the finish of the Chandrakala Ghatala Memorial Trophy (1,200m), the main event of the extra day’s races to be held here on Wednesday (Feb. 10).  ONE KEPT SECRET PLATE (1,200m), rated 00 to 25, 1-30 p.m.: 1. Songbird (13) A.M. Alam 62, 2. Supreme Commander (5) Nakhat Singh 62, 3. Tender Rebel (7) Kiran Naidu 62, 4. Beforethedawn (10) Azfar Syeed 59, 4. Picture Girl (2) Shahar Babu 58.5, 6. Chanakya (3) S. Hussain 58, 7. Heavenly Blue (4) Zervan 57.5, 8. Orange Pekoe (11) H. Rahul 57.5, 9. Be My Light (14) Farhan 56, 10. Merrywin (12) Arshad Alam 5.5, 11. Gardiner (1) Stephen Raj 54.5, 12. Parrys Corner (8) A. Ayaz Khan 53.5, 13. Mazikeen (6) Manikandan 53 and 14. Be My Glory (9) Arshad Alam 50.  1. SONGBIRD,   2. PICTURE GIRL,   3. SUPREME COMMANDER   MANYATTA PLATE (Div. II) , (1,200m), maiden 4-y-o only, rated 20 to 45, 2-00: 1. Arapaho (7) P. Sai Kumar 60, 2. Wild Frank (5) Azfar Syeed 59.5, 3. Full Of Surprise (1) Kiran Naidu 59, 4. Pringle Bells (8) Antony Raj 58.5, 5. Propahlady (9) Rajendra Singh 58.5, 6. Sea Script (2) B. Nikhil 58.5, 7. Ura (6) S. Shareef 58, 8. Autumn Shower (4) Muzaffar 57.5 and 9. Rajputana (3) Stephen Raj 57.5.  1. FULL OF SURPRISE,   2. PRINGLE BELLS,   3. ARAPAHO   MANYATTA PLATE (Div. I) , (1,200m), maiden 4-y-o only rated 20 to 45, 2-30: 1. Senora Bianca (8) P. Sai Kumar 60, 2. Air Warrior (3) A. Ayaz Khan 59.5, 3. Awesome Gift (2) Farhan 59.5, 4. Naomi (9) Kuldeep Singh 59.5, 5.Talan (6) S. Shareef 59.5, 6. Carnoustie (10) Azfar Syeed 59, 7. Country’s Genius (4) Arshad Alam 59, 8. Icy River (1) B. Nikhil 58, 9. Moment Of Life (5) Antony Raj 58 and 10. Romantic Bay (7) H. Rahul 57.5.  1. SENORA BIANCA,   2. ROMANTIC BAY,   3. MOMENT OF LIFE   CHANDRAKALA GHATALA MEMORIAL TROPHY (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms), 3-00: 1. Cartel (7) Antony Raj 56, 2. Eagle Prince (6) Nakhat Singh 56, 3. Off Shore Breeze (3) Kuldeep Singh 56, 4. Whistle Podu (1) P. Sai Kumar 56, 5. Annexed (2) Akshay Kumar 54.5, 6. Dashing Beauty (4) Arshad Alam 54.5 and 7. Queen Of Fame (5) B. Nikhil 54.5.  1. EAGLE PRINCE,   2. ANNEXED,   3. WHISTLE PODU   SHEER CLASS PLATE (Div. I) , rated 20 to 45, 3-30: 1. The Viceroy (3) M. Bhaskar 60, 2. Shalem (4) Kuldeep Singh 59, 3. Star Fling (2) Akshay Kumar 58, 4. Choir (7) H. Rahul 57.5, 5. Magical Wish (1) S. Shareef 57.5, 6. Pacific (6) Zervan 57.5, 7. Epistoiary (5) Arshad Alam 57, 8. Trending Princess (8) A.M. Alam 56.5 and 9. Beauty Of The Turf (9) Nakhat Singh 54.  1. SHALEM,   2. BEAUTY OF THE TURF,   3. PACIFIC   V.G. SARAVANABHAVANANTHAM MEMORIAL TROPHY (Div. II) , (1,000m), rated 40 to 65, 4-00: 1. My Kingdom (6) M. Bhaskar 60, 2. Glorious Champ (8) Farhan 59.5, 3. Victoria’s Secret (3) H. Rahul 59, 4. Pinewood (4) A. Ayaz Khan 58.5, 5. Red Hot Jet (7) B. Nikhil 58.5, 6. Magnificent Star (9) Kuldeep Singh 57.5, 7. Asian Warrior (10) Stephen Raj 57, 8. Henrietta (2) Antony Raj 55.5, 9. Royal Rules (1) Brisson 55.5 and 10. Pappa Rich (5) Arshad Alam 55.  1. MAGNIFICENT STAR,   2. HENRIETTA,   3. ROYAL RULES   V.G. SARAVANABHAVANANTHAM MEMORIAL TROPHY (Div. I) , (1,000m), rated 40 to 65, 4-30: 1. Royal Prestige (6) A.M. Alam 61, 2. Sea King (1) Shahar Babu 60.5, 3. Copper Queen (8) Nakhat Singh 60, 4. Star Waves (4) Akshay Kumar 58.5, 5. Baller (10) B. Nikhil 58, 6. Wonder Blaze (9) P. Sai Kumar 58, 7. Crown Of Stars (7) H. Rahul 57, 8. Wakanda (5) Antony Raj 57, 9. Rosebrook (3) Arshad Alam 55.5 and 10. Kings Show (2) Azfar Syeed 54.5.  1. COPPER QUEEN,   2. STAR WAVES,   3. KINGS SHOW   SHEER CLASS PLATE (Div. II) , (1,200m), rated 20 to 45, 5-00: 1. Angel Heart (2) P. Sai Kumar 60, 2. Glorious Victory (4) A.M. Alam 60, 3. Victory Walk (10) Azfar Syeed 59, 4. Shield Maiden (3) S. Hussain 58, 5. Dr Feelgood (7) Kiran Naidu 54, 6. One Life (1) Farhan 54, 7. Highland Light (8) A. Ayaz Khan 53.5, 8. Sifan (9) S. Shareef 53.5, 9. Steve Mcqueen (6) Arshad Alam 53.5 and 10. Exquisite Star (5) Shahar Babu 52.5.  1. ANGEL HEART,   2. GLORIOUS VICTORY,   3. VICTORY WALK  Jkt: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8; Mini Jkt: 5, 6, 7 & 8; Tr (i): 3, 4 & 5; (ii): 6, 7 & 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/its-eagle-prince-vs-annexed/article33797090.ece
10 February 2021||MUMBAI,||Ramesh Powar appointed Mumbai coach||The wait for Mumbai’s coach for the Vijay Hazare Trophy ended on Tuesday when former Mumbai and India off-spinner Ramesh Powar was handed over the reins of the team for the tournament. Powar replaces close friend Amit Pagnis, who took responsibility for Mumbai’s mediocre outing in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy last week. Despite Pagnis having resigned last month, the Mumbai Cricket Association (MCA) office-bearers and the Cricket Improvement Committee (CIC) was involved in an internal tussle over appointing a new coach. While the office-bearers had approached Mumbai stalwart Amol Muzumdar, the CIC had proposed Powar, who has been the head coach of the Indian women’s team and a spin bowling coach at the National Cricket Academy. With barely three days remaining for the squad’s departure to Jaipur for the inter-State one-day tournament’s group stage, the MCA office-bearers and CIC chairman Lalchand Rajput got together for a video conference. While Rajput softened his stance, indicating the CIC’s support for Muzumdar’s candidature in an email on Monday, the former Mumbai captain made himself unavailable on Tuesday. It is understood that since the MCA had approached Muzumdar to fill the void did the Rajasthan Royals batting coach agree to step in. Once the administrative tussle erupted, Muzumdar conveyed his unavailability to the office-bearers. Enormous task Powar has an enormous task on hand with little time to prepare. He will meet the players and the selection panel on Wednesday, when the squad will be finalised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ramesh-powar-appointed-mumbai-coach/article33797754.ece
10 February 2021||MUMBAI:,||Sanchit ’tricks for KSA||Striker Sanchit Singh’s hat-trick powered Karnatak Sporting Association (KSA) to a 6-1 win against Feugo Toremento FC in Group A of the Soccerstar Premier League.  The results: Group A: Karnatak SA 6 (Sanchit Singh 3, Azfar Noorani, Advit Shinde, Sanath Valladares) bt Feugo Toremento 1 (Sanket Humbe); Sara 2 (Sitaram Rathod, Salman Khan) bt Charkop 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sanchit-tricks-for-ksa/article33797751.ece
10 February 2021||MUMBAI,||Road Safety World Series from March 2||Road Safety World Series, a T20 cricket tournament for retired cricketers, has been rescheduled from March 2 to 20 in Raipur. The league had to be abandoned midway through its inaugural edition last March due to the COVID-19 outbreak. According to a statement by the league promoters, the league is set to feature former global icons, including Sachin Tendulkar, Brian Lara, Virender Sehwag, Brett Lee and Muttiah Muralitharan. The league is an initiative of Ravi Gaikwad, Chief of RTO Thane (Konkan Range), whose brother was among the promoters of the defunct IPL franchise Kochi Tuskers Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/road-safety-world-series-from-march-2/article33797756.ece
10 February 2021||Potchefstroom:,||Prajnesh stunned||Top seed Prajnesh Gunneswaran lost 6-3, 6-4 to Dimitar Kuzmanov of Bulgaria in the first round of the $52,080 Challenger tennis tournament here on Tuesday.  Other result: $15,000 ITF men, Sharm El Sheikh: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Piotr Matuszewski (Pol) & David Poljak (Cze) bt Sidharth Rawat & Manish Sureshkumar 6-2, 6-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/prajnesh-stunned/article33797659.ece
10 February 2021||JHAJJAR:,||Samiksha in quarterfinals||Samiksha Dabas fought back from a slow start to beat Nandini Dixit 4-6, 7-5, 6-3 in the girls’ pre-quarterfinals of the AITA Super series junior tennis tournament at the Joygaon Academy on Tuesday. In the boys’ section, Jai Rana outplayed sixth seed Vansh Nandal 6-1, 6-2.  The results (pre-quarterfinals): Under-16: Boys: Daksh Prasad bt Mayank sharma 6-1, 6-3; Jai Rana bt Vansh Nandal 6-1, 6-2; Manish Yadav bt Dhruv Ghanghas 6-3, 6-4; Bhavya Singhmar bt Shafaat Ali Asghar 6-3, 7-5; Aryan Arora bt Dhruv Kumar 4-6, 6-1, 6-1; Aryan Deshwal bt Nishant Kumar 6-4, 3-6, 7-5; Dhruv Sachdeva bt Debasis Sahoo 6-3, 6-4; Rushil Khosla bt Venkat Rishi Batlanki 7-6(2), 6-3.   Girls: Hannah Nagpal bt Sowkhya Gaddam 6-1, 6-2; Tamanna Takhoria bt Rubani Kaur Sidhu 6-1, 6-3; Srivally Medhishetty bt Anannya Kalpesh Bhatia 6-1, 7-6(1); Ikaraju Kanumuri bt Mahika Khanna 6-1, 7-6(2); Sweta Rana bt Trisha Malik 6-4, 2-6, 6-1; Aditi Tyagi bt Varalika Sri Prassanna 6-1, 6-0; Aishwarya Jadhav bt Shagun Kumari 6-2, 6-2; Samiksha Dabas bt Nandini Dixit 4-6, 7-5, 6-3 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/samiksha-in-quarterfinals/article33797661.ece
10 February 2021||KARNAL:,||Bhushan advances||Second seed Chandra Bhushan scored a 6-2, 6-7(4), 6-3 win over Sharad Tak in the over-55 quarterfinals of the ITF seniors tennis on Tuesday.  The results: Over-35 (quarterfinals): Swarandeep Dhodi bt Vijay Goyal 6-0, 6-1; Mohit Phogat bt Avinash Kunwar 6-4, 6-3; Pradeep Panth bt Kaushik Ganguli 6-0, 6-0; Dilip Mohanty bt Aditya Periwal 6-0, 6-2. Over-45 (pre-quarterfinals): Gopal Soni bt Tikam Singh Panwar 7-5, 6-1; Ashish Pant bt Amitabh Chaturvedi 6-2, 6-3; Yogesh Kohli bt Vinod Kumar Bawra 6-1, 6-0; Hatinder Panwar bt Praveen Gupta 6-1, 7-6(3); Gagandeep Wasu bt Avnish Rastogi 6-0, 6-1; Shalabh Singhpuria bt Ajay Arora 6-2, 6-1; Asheesh Malpani bt Sanjay Chauhan 6-3, 6-3; Vijay Kumar bt Suresh Rana 6-0, 6-3. Over-55 (quarterfinals): Pawan Jain bt Shiv Mohan Sharma 6-2, 6-3; Ajay Talwar bt Sanjai Kumar 6-4, 6-4; Ajeet Bhardwaj bt Rakesh Kohli 6-1, 6-0; Chandra Bhushan bt Sharad Tak 6-2, 6-7(4), 6-3 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bhushan-advances/article33797662.ece
10 February 2021||Coimbatore,||GKD Gold Cup set to test players’ skills||The golfers have been really busy playing back to back tournaments the past one month. But the real test to get through will be the 23rd GKD Memorial Gold Cup championship scheduled at the par-72 Coimbatore Golf Club course (CGC) in Chettipalayam this weekend. This prestigious tournament, sponsored by Lakshmi Machine Works, Coimbatore, in memory of its Founder G.K. Devarajulu, has attracted 140 players/ 35 teams from across the country. The championship is a Medal round team event. The aggregate of the three better scores will be the team score. This will include at least one score from each of the categories and the team must have at least one member in each of the handicap categories (0-15 and 16-24). “It is perhaps the most anticipated tournament in CGC’s calendar. The course is usually in its best playing condition in January/ February,” said R. Gopinath, CGC president. “This year has seen a little unusual weather with heavy rain in January. For the GKD, the greens will be running at 10 on the stimp meter.” Ashwin Chandran, CGC Golf captain, said it was a pleasure hosting it at the Club. “Being a team championship that is open to golfers from other cities, this is the flagship event in our tournament calendar. “This year, we are happy to welcome the 140 golfers from Kochi, Bengaluru, Coonoor and Kodaikanal,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gkd-gold-cup-set-to-test-players-skills/article33797643.ece
10 February 2021||CHENNAI,||Kohli echoes Ashwin’s criticism of the SG ball||Virat Kohli joined teammate R. Ashwin in criticising the quality of the SG ball that was used during the first Test here. “Honestly, the quality of the ball was not something that we were pleased about because that has been an issue in the past as well,” said Kohli on Tuesday. “Just for the ball’s seam to completely be destroyed after 60 overs is not something that you experience as a Test side and something that any Test side could be prepared for,” he added. “In this game, the ball was pretty bizarre because I have never seen an SG ball tear through the seam like that,” Ashwin had said after the fourth day’s play. “It could well be a combination of how hard the pitch was on the first two days. Even in the second innings, after the 35th-40th over, the seam started to sort of peel of. I have not seen an SG ball like that in the last so many years,” he had noted. Pacer Jasprit Bumrah had earlier said that due to the saliva ban, it was difficult to get reverse swing once the ball became soft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kohli-echoes-ashwins-criticism-of-the-sg-ball/article33797052.ece
10 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM:,||Pratap Desai shines||Pratap Desai’s 97 helped Royal Bengal Tigers score a convincing 129-run win over Royal Kings in the YSR T20 Premier League cricket championship.  The scores: Royal Bengal Tigers 168/9 in 20 overs (Pratap Desai 97) bt Royal Kings 80 in 16.5 overs (Harish 4/17).   NavalShip Avengers 144/7 in 20 overs (Badshah 42, Nagendra Sai 35) bt McFighters 138/9 in 20 overs (Jittendra 33, K. Srinivas 31, Vatekar 3/23).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pratap-desai-shines/article33797763.ece
10 February 2021||MADRID,||Celta halts Atletico’s winning run||Atletico Madrid striker Luis Suarez continued his deadly run of form by scoring twice at home to Celta Vigo on Monday but could not prevent the LaLiga leader drawing 2-2 as its eight-game winning streak ended. The draw interrupted Atletico winning run since its loss to Real Madrid on Dec. 12 but it still holds a comfortable advantage at the top, leading Barcelona by eight points with a game in hand. Atletico fell behind in the 13th minute to a well-worked goal from Celta when Santi Mina turned home a cross from Hugo Mallo. Suarez equalised on the stroke of halftime by sliding in to meet a Marcos Llorente cross and scored a similar goal to put Atletico ahead in the 50th minute, this time connecting with a Renan Lodi ball to score his seventh goal in four league games. Celta had faded in the second half after a strong display before the break but the visitor pulled level in the 89th minute through debutant Facundo Ferreyra, who had only been on the pitch for 13 minutes.  The result: Atletico 2 (Suarez 45, 50) drew with Celta Vigo 2 (Santi Mina 13, Ferreyra 89) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/celta-halts-atleticos-winning-run/article33797093.ece
10 February 2021||Los Angeles,||Lakers pull off another OT win||LeBron James scored a 28-point triple-double as the injury-depleted Los Angeles Lakers bagged a fifth consecutive win on Monday in a 119-112 overtime defeat of Oklahoma City Thunder. For a second straight game, James and the Lakers were forced to dig deep in overtime, overturning a double-digit deficit early in the fourth quarter to grind out their 19th win of the season. James finished with 14 rebounds and 12 assists to complete his third triple-double of the season. Khris Middleton and Giannis Antetokounmpo led the way as Milwaukee Bucks notched up a fifth straight victory with a 125-112 defeat of the Nuggets. Elsewhere in the Western Conference, Devin Booker poured in 36 points as Phoenix Suns overpowered Cleveland Cavaliers 119-113.   The results: Memphis Grizzlies 113 lost to Toronto Raptors; 128; Dallas Mavericks 127 bt Minnesota Timberwolves 122; San Antonio Spurs 105 bt Golden State Warriors 100; Phoenix Suns 119 bt Cleveland Cavaliers 113; Denver Nuggets 112 lost to Milwaukee Bucks 125; LA Lakers 119 bt Oklahoma City Thunder 112.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lakers-pull-off-another-ot-win/article33797095.ece
10 February 2021||KOCHI:,||Easy win for Tripunithura CC-A||K. Sreenath's half century, and three wickets each from Abdul Basith and Nikhil Babu helped Tripunithura CC-B crush Muthoot ECC-A by seven wickets in the Ernakulam District A-division cricket league at the Rajagiri College ground, Kakkanad, on Tuesday.  The scores: Muthoot ECC-A 121 in 32.1 overs (Anuj Jotin 42, Abdul Basith 3/13, Nikhil Babu 3/19) lost to Tripunithura CC-B 124/3 in 32.3 overs (K. Sreenath 55 n.o., Ashok Menon 42 n.o.) .    The Kerala State Wrestling Association (KSWA) has announced the State Greco Roman wrestling team that will take part in the National championships to be held in Jalandhar on February 20 and 21. The team was chosen from the selection trials held on February 6.  The team: A. Ajmal (55 kg), Mufeed Ramin (60 kg), K. Vignesh (63 kg), A. Rahul Das (67 kg), K.M. Alfas (72 kg), Sujith Suresh (77 kg), A. Alavdeen (82 kg), Anand V.S. Thampi (87 kg), M. Ajith (97 kg), Jayadevan (130 kg) .    The Kerala State Table tennis teams for the National championships has been announced. The sqaud was chosen after taking into consideration the performance of the players in the State championships held here recently.  The teams: Men: Soham Bhattcharya, Udit Bhattacharya, Amir Afthab, Bharat Krishnan, Adithya V. Joseph   Boys: Youth: Soham Bhattacharya, Amir Afthab, A.S. Amal, Adithya V. Joseph. Junior: Amir Afthab, Adithya V. Joseph, Jake Ansel John, Milan B. Nair. Sub-junior: Anokh G. Nair, Milan B. Nair, Mohamed Naffil, A. Gourisankar. Cadet: Rohan Jose, Blaze P. Alex, Jake Jones, Devaprayag.   Women: Bhavana Menon, Anamika Johns, Jasmin Sunny, R. Aswani, K. Ankitha.   Girls: Youth: Pranati P. Nair, Reeva Anna Michael, Maria Cicily Joseph, Bhavana Menon. Juniors: Pranati P. Nair, Reeva Anna Michael, Edwina Edward, Juliya Joshy. Sub-junor: Pranati P. Nair, Edwina Edward, Maria Cicily Joshy, Smrithi Krishna. Cadet: Edwina Edward, Tia S. Mundenkurian, Tisha S. Mundenkurian, Maria Daise .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/easy-win-for-tripunithura-cc-a/article33797242.ece
10 February 2021||February 10 2021 00:00 IST,||TNM Academy in final||Mohammad Amaan (4/10) helped TNM Academy beat Push Academy by 23 runs and enter the final of the Turf Youth Cup under-15 tournament.  The scores:   TNM Academy 129 in 40 overs (Bhavi Sharma 33) bt Push Academy 106 in 36 overs (Mohamman Amaan 4/10).    Sumit Jangra picked up four wickets and Harsh Kumar made 55 as Telefunken Club defeated Ace Academy by 195 runs in the Unique under-17 tournament.  The scores:   Telefunken Club 257 in 39.5 overs (Harsh Kumar 55, Saurabh Deshwal 48, Aryan Chaudhary 40, Shaurya Bhatia 3/42) bt ACE Academy 62 in 24.5 overs (Sumit Jangra 4/13).    Shri Sai Academy beat Rohtak Road Gymkhana by 53 runs in the Kiran Chopra memorial under-18 tournament.  The scores: SSA 191 in 40 overs (Ankit Kumar 59) bt RRG 138 in 24.4 overs (Harshit Bisht 47, Gaurav Tiwari 3/29) .    Wonders Club (Noida) scored a nine-wicket win over Sehwag Academy in the First Harcourt Butler under-15 tournament.  The scores: Sehwag Academy 74 in 21.2 overs (Ajay Singh 3/3, Ekta Bhadana 3/15) lost to Wonders Club, Noida 78 /1 in 8 overs (Utkarsh Kumar 40 n.o.) .    Kushal Pal’s 59 and Jayant Lakhlan’s 49 helped Haryana Academy beat M-10 Academy by six wickets in the Niz Sports under-19 tournament.  The scores: M-10 Academy 171 in 39.2 overs (Dhruv Sharma 48, Harman Singh 3/35) lost to Haryana Academy 173/4 in 24.1 overs (Kushal Pal 59, Jayant Lakhlan 49) .    Dharmender Sharma’s 66 and Deepak Dhillon’s 3/23 helped Delhi Colts beat RKB Academy by 64 runs and enter the final of the Swastik Ghevra Cup tournament.  The scores: Delhi Colts 203 in 38.5 overs (Dharmender Sharma 66, Mohit Jangra 3/35) bt RKB Academy 137 in 34 overs (Deepak Dhillon 3/23) .    Leg-spinner Shlok Singh picked up five wickets and Pranav scored an unbeaten half-century as West Delhi Academy (Dwarka) defeated West Delhi Academy (Paschim Vihar) by four wickets in the u-17 Endurance League.  The scores: WDCA (Paschim Vihar) 135 in 33.3 overs (Samarth Ahuja 54, Shlok Singh 5/42) lost to WDCA (Dwarka) 138/6 in 33.3 overs (Pranav 50 n.o., Manoj Thwal 3/26) .    Manav Rajpoot (4/10) and Ram Vaishnav (3/6) helped Turf Academy beat Friends Academy by nine wickets in the Endurance under-15 League.  The scores: Friends Academy 120 in 30 overs (Vansh Sharma 59, Manav Rajput 4/10, Ram Vaishnav 3/6) lost to Turf Academy 122/1 in 14.5 overs (Dhruv Khatri 61 n.o.) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tnm-academy-in-final/article33797658.ece
10 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Deshna moves into second round||Deshna Bhattacharya defeated Mahiya Kaushik 6-1, 6-1 in the girls’ second round of the PET Cup AITA Under-12 Talent Series tennis championship at Mandya on Tuesday.  The result: Deshna Bhattacharya bt Mahiya Kaushik 6-1, 6-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/deshna-moves-into-second-round/article33797571.ece
10 February 2021||February 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Neglecting the good||Having a good memory is an advantage in life. While not all of us are blessed with excellent memory power, we all can remember our duties. But we often forget to carry out important tasks, forget to pass on messages and so on. While one cannot be blamed for little incidents of forgetfulness, we must ask ourselves the question, isn’t some of this due to certain negative traits we have? Thiruvalluvar lists four qualities as posing a danger to a person, said Malayaman in a discourse. Not doing something in the stipulated time, forgetting all about it, laziness and excessive sleep — these characteristics will destroy a person, Thiruvalluvar warns. Of all kinds of forgetfulness, the worst is to forget to do good, says Thiruvalluvar. Nothing benefits a man more than acts of goodness, and nothing harms him more than neglecting to do good deeds. Kamban in his Ramayana shows us the value of dharma, through the words of Vibhishana. Vibhishana says that he who forgets dharma cannot have a peaceful life. Thiruvalluvar says that one must never forget one’s connections with blemishless people. Nor should one forget those who have helped one in times of need. Avvaiyar said “Nandri maravel.” So, she is here advising us that we should never forget to be grateful for help rendered to us. Thiruvalluvar says that it is not right to forget those who helped us. But he adds in the next line, that whatever is unpleasant must be forgotten. Ideally, we should help those who have helped us. But if this is not possible, the least we can do is to remember their timely help, says the Tamil work Perunkathai. Thiruvalluvar says that wise men know that the body is prone to diseases. And therefore, they never worry about bodily afflictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/neglecting-the-good/article33797034.ece
10 February 2021||February 10 2021 08:17 IST,||Sudoku — February 10, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-february-10-2021/article33797952.ece
10 February 2021||Ghaziabad,||Socio-political movements not against the country: RLD leader||Responding to the Prime Minister’s address in Parliament where he cautioned people against ‘ andolan jeevis ’ (professional protesters), Rashtriya Lok Dal vice-president Jayant Chaudhary said on Tuesday that the country has seen many historic movements, but this was for the first time that in Parliament, the biggest panchayat, a PM described a group of protesters as ‘ andolan jeevi’ and ‘ parjeevi’ (parasites). Mr. Chaudhary was addressing yet another mammoth panchayat of farmers organised by RLD in the Murbar Painth ground of Iglas town of Aligarh. ‘Painth’ is a vernacular term for the weekly village market. “If the people could not unite and protest for their demands, how will this country progress,” he wondered. “The people who are putting a question mark over farmers’ protests seem to have forgotten that they themselves have to come to power through movements and protests.” He said socio-political movements were not against the country. “Bhimrao Ambedkar has given us the right to protest. Chaudhary Charan Singh used to say that a farmer should keep one eye on his farm and the other on the seat of power... because he wanted the farmer to realise his political power.” ‘Get united’ He appealed to the farmers to “get united”, forgetting “caste divisions”. Invoking poet Jigar Moradabadi, Mr. Chaudhary said, “ Jo toofano main palte ja rahe hain, woh duniya badalte ja rahe hain . (Those who are thriving in storms are changing the world)” He asked if the government was serious about the welfare of farmers, how did the ‘ambitious’ PM ASHA scheme fail to achieve what it promised. Mr. Chaudhary said people like him were not trying to take political mileage out of the farmers’ protest, instead farmers were coming in big numbers to strengthen him, knowing the battle was long. He said farmers didn’t believe in political calculations. “Today, those who are in power are showing arrogance towards farmers.” He said the big turnout at his rallies in U.P. should clear the misconception that the farmers’ movement is of just one State. Over the next week, RLD has given a call for similar panchayats in Bulandshahr, Mathura, Hathras, and Bharatpur in neighbouring Rajasthan. Meanwhile, party spokesperson Sunil Rohta said RLD would celebrate the birthday of party president Ajit Singh by holding a ‘Chalo Gaon’ programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/socio-political-movements-not-against-the-country-rld-leader/article33797291.ece
10 February 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha repromulgates ordinance on APMCs||The Odisha government has proposed to set up and operate private market yards and farmer consumer market yards to enhance competition among different markets and market players for the agricultural produce. The State Cabinet on Tuesday approved repromulgation of Agricultural Produce and Livestock Marketing (Promotion and Facilitation) for the third time. The ‘Agricultural Produce and Livestock Marketing (Promotion and Facilitation)’ has been drafted on the lines of a model law titled ‘The Agricultural Produce and Livestock Marketing (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2017’ circulated earlier by the Union Ministry of Agriculture and Farmer Welfare. “Due to COVID-19 pandemic, the State government had brought the ordinance to give an immediate benefit to the farmers. Accordingly, the third ordinance has been drafted,” the State government said. The ordinance proposes to abolish fragmentation of market within the State by removing the concept of notified market area so far as enforcement of regulation by the Agricultural Produce and Livestock Market Committee is concerned. The government aims to declare warehouses or silos or cold storages and other structures or space as market sub-yard to provide better market access or linkage to the farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/odisha-repromulgates-ordinance-on-apmcs/article33797288.ece
10 February 2021||GUWAHATI,||Cong. launches video contest on Assam issues||The Congress in poll-bound Assam has launched a contest on social media, asking people to make a two-minute video on the biggest issues and problems facing the State. The party announced awards ranging from cash to iPhones for the best videos. The most relevant issues, it said, would be incorporated into the party’s manifesto. To participate in the contest, a person will have to post the video along with the hashtag #AssamBachao on any major social media platform and submit its link through www.AssamBachao.in. The contest will run till February 19. Congress MP and head of the party’s manifesto committee Gaurav Gogoi said the idea was to first acknowledge and understand a problem before trying to solve it. “The feedback will tell us what the most urgent issues are to be taken up in our manifesto. The Congress party’s manifesto shall offer solutions to these very problems,” he said. Mr. Gogoi said by announcing the prizes, the Congress was trying to give incentives to creativity among the youth of the State. “It is time for the youth to take charge of their own future and save the State from the BJP’s evil designs. From sky-high prices of essentials to implementing the Citizenship (Amendment) Act against the wishes of people, the BJP decided to ruin both peace and prosperity in Assam,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cong-launches-video-contest-on-assam-issues/article33797289.ece
