12 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Coordinated disengagement at Pangong Tso, Rajnath tells RS||India and China have reached an agreement on disengagement in the Pangong lake area to cease their forward deployments in a phased, coordinated and verified manner and it would substantially restore the situation to that existing prior to the commencement of the stand-off last year, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Thursday. “The Chinese side will keep its troop presence in the North Bank area to east of Finger 8. Reciprocally, the Indian troops will be based at their permanent base at Dhan Singh Thapa Post near Finger 3. A similar action would be taken in the South Bank area by both sides,” he said in the Rajya Sabha.  “These are mutual and reciprocal steps and any structures that had been built by both sides since April 2020 will be removed and the landforms restored,” he said.  Temporary moratorium Further, both sides had agreed on a temporary moratorium on military activities in the North Bank, including patrolling in the traditional areas. “Patrolling will be resumed only when both sides reach an agreement in diplomatic and military talks that would be held subsequently,” he stated. The implementation of this agreement started on Wednesday in the North and South Banks, and officials said withdrawal of tanks had been completed in some areas of South Bank. “I want to assure this House that in these talks we have not conceded anything,” Mr. Singh said. There were still some outstanding issues with regard to deployment and patrolling at some other points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. These would be the focus of further discussions with the Chinese side, he said. Both sides have agreed that they should achieve complete disengagement at the earliest and abide fully by the bilateral agreements and protocols. By now, the Chinese side is also “fully aware of our resolve”, the Defence Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/coordinated-disengagement-at-pangong-tso-rajnath-tells-rs/article33815505.ece
12 February 2021||MANGALURU,||11 students of Kanachur Institute arrested on the charge of ragging||The Ullal Police have arrested 11 B.Sc (Physiotherapy) and B.Sc (Nursing) students from Kanachur Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) on the charge of ragging five first year B.Sc (Physiotherapy) students of the institute. The victims and the accused are all from Kerala, the police said. The police gave the names of the arrested students as Mohammed Shamos (19), Asin Babu (19), both from Kozhikode; Akshay K.S. (19), Robin Biju (20), Alwyn Joey (19), Jerome Cyril (19), all from Kottayam; Abdul Ananas (21), Jayfin Roichanna (19), both from Kasaragod; Mohammed Suraj (19) from Pathanamthita; Zubin Mehroof (21), Abdul Basit (19), both from Mallapuram. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar told reporters here on Thursday that the arrested students had asked first year students to have a hair cut and remove their moustache. They had forced some students to count matchsticks in a matchbox and made other students to measure the room using matchsticks. Those who refused to follow their orders were assaulted and locked in a room. The first year students were threatened against reporting this to the management and others. The five students reported the act to the representatives of the institute management who filed a complaint against 18 students. The police investigated and found that 11 of them were involved in it. Apart from invoking Sections 323 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code, the police booked the 11 students under Section 116 of the Karnataka Education Act also. Asking students not to get involved in ragging, which will harm their careers, Mr. Kumar asked such victims to report such incidents either to the management or their teachers or the police. “There is zero tolerance for ragging and we will swiftly act on complaints,” he said. Last month, Mangaluru Rural Police arrested nine second and final year pharmacy students from Srinivasa College of Pharmacy on the charge of abuse and assault involving a first year pharmacy student.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/11-students-of-kanachur-institute-arrested-on-the-charge-of-ragging/article33816179.ece
12 February 2021||Belagavi,||Weavers seek relief saying govt. is yet to keep promise to buy saris||Weavers associations have demanded relief from the government for individual weavers who they say have suffered due to reduced demand in the wake of the COVID-19-induced lockdown and a sudden rise in input prices. The lockdown reduced their business to near zero, due to the restriction on movement of workers and the ban on events such as marriages. Demand did not pick up after the restrictions were eased to earlier levels. Now, in 2021, prices of yarn and other raw material have gone up by 50-60 per cent, they say. In weaving clusters such as Belagavi or Rabakavi Banahatti, around 10 tonnes of yarn is consumed per day. The price of yarn has gone up to Rs. 600 per kilogram from Rs. 450 per kg in December 2020. This makes saris costly and reduces their demand, said Maruti Dhage, leader of the District Weavers Association. Weavers in Tamil Nadu have gone on a strike on Thursday against this price rise, he said. He accused the Union government of following an anti-weaver export policy. He demanded that the Union and State governments take steps to rationalise prices. “Last year, the government said that it will buy around 10 lakh saris directly from weavers. That assurance has not been kept,” complains Sagar Satpute, a young weaver. He said that the State government can buy saris from weavers to create demand and ensure that hard working weavers are benefited. These saris can be distributed among women employees of the government or to ASHAs and anganwadi workers. Saris and children’s uniforms can even be included in the public distribution system,” he said. Mr. Satpute and other weavers met Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Textiles Minister Srimanth Patil in June last year. They promised to buy goods from weavers directly. But that promise has not been kept, he said. Srinivas Talukar, Kannada Rakshana Vedike leader who comes from a family of weavers, said that he will lead an agitation in all weaving blocks if the State government does not take steps to provide relief to weavers. Ravi Patil, secretary of the district weavers association, said that he will lead a delegation to the Chief Minister to urge him to start a market intervention process that can help weavers.  Last year, the government said that it will buy around 10 lakh saris directly from weavers but that assurance has not been kept Sagar Satpute, A weaver||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/weavers-seek-relief-saying-govt-is-yet-to-keep-promise-to-buy-saris/article33815643.ece
12 February 2021||IDUKKI,||Munnar in the grip of a cold wave||With the mercury dropping below zero, Munnar is experiencing a cold wave for the third time since the beginning of the winter season. Munnar recorded sub-zero temperature at various places with Letchmi recording the lowest of -2°C on Thursday morning. While the Silent Valley, Chenduvarai, and Munnar UPASI recorded -1°C, Sevenmalai and Mattuppetty recorded 0°C, as per data from the United Planters Association of South India (UPASI) tea research foundation. Tourists’ haven When the temperature drops, tea plantations, valleys, and hills are covered in frost. Tourists flock to Munnar to savour the beauty and experience the climate. Most resorts and homestays are booked to the full, according to hoteliers in Munnar. The hill station is in the grip of a cold wave for the third time in two months, with the first recorded in December last week and the second in January end. The cool season vegetable cultivating village of Vattavada, near Munnar, also is experiencing subzero temperatures, albeit after five years. Local people say that for the past one week Vattavada is experiencing extreme cold climate and the temperature dropped to -1°C on Wednesday. However, the continuing frost is causing large-scale damage to standing crops. Tea plantations are the worst hit with tender leaves suffering damage. The leaves will dry up if the frost continue for long, according to tea companies. Farmers in Vattavada also fear that the frost will affect standing crops and vegetable production.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/munnar-in-the-grip-of-a-cold-wave/article33815668.ece
12 February 2021||Hassan,||Estate worker dies in elephant attack||A plantation worker died after he was attacked by an elephant in a coffee estate at Halasulige village in Sakleshpur taluk on Wednesday. Vasanth, 48, was returning home from Ravikiran Estate, where he worked, around 6.30 p.m. when he encountered the elephant. The animal chased him and attacked him. He was taken to Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences, where he died late in the night. Vasanth, a native of Puttur, is survived by wife and three children. Two elephant herds were roaming in the area. The rapid response team of the Forest Department had alerted the local people about their presence at 6 p.m., said K.N. Basavaraj, Deputy Conservator of Forests. The department had radio-collared four elephants and it had been tracking their movement regularly. Protest Following the incident, some residents of Sakleshpur staged a dharna in front of the Deputy Commissioner’s office on Thursday, keeping Vasanth’s body. Sakleshpur MLA and Janata Dal (Secular) State unit president H.K. Kumaraswamy led the protest. They demanded that the State government find a permanent solution to the elephant menace in the district. This is the second death in elephant attack in the district this year. Last month, a person died in Alur range. Meeting The protesters withdrew the dharna after Deputy Commissioner R. Girish told them that a meeting on the elephant menace would be convened at Sakleshpur on February 16. Forests Minister Arvind Limbavali and Minister for Excise and in-charge of the district K. Gopalaiah would attend the meeting. Officers of Forest Department, Revenue Department and representatives of farmers’ organisations would participate in the meeting, he said. Later, the body was taken to Puttur. Forest Department officials said that the family of the deceased would get Rs. 7.5 lakh, besides Rs. 2,000 a month for five years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/estate-worker-dies-in-elephant-attack/article33815784.ece
12 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rescue efforts resume in Tapovan dam tunnel||Rescue operations at the NTPC’s Tapovan hydel project tunnel in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district, where about 35 workers were trapped after a snow avalanche triggered flash floods on Sunday, continued on Thursday. There was, however, a brief halt due to reports of an increase in the water level of Dhauliganga river, on which the project is built. With two more bodies being recovered, the toll in the accident has risen to 36. Joint rescue team “The joint team has now resumed work inside the tunnel. Earlier, following information about a rise in the water level, we had taken some precautionary measures for about an hour,” said an official. Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla chaired a meeting to review the progress of the rescue and relief work. “Secretary, Defence Research and Development Organisation, has been asked to depute experts for analysis of the situation and for taking appropriate remedial measures in coordination with the Central and State agencies,” said a Ministry statement. In the early hours of Thursday, the team started a drilling operation to peep into an interlinked silt tunnel, in the hope of establishing contact with the trapped workers. The joint team had been clearing sludge and debris from the main project tunnel for the past four days, but was not able to reach the T-junction where workers are suspected to be trapped. NTPC officials later told the agencies that there was another tunnel about 12 metre underneath, where the workers might be located. D||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rescue-efforts-resume-in-tapovan-dam-tunnel/article33815503.ece
12 February 2021||Mysuru,||Three held on robbery charge||Three persons have been arrested in the city for robbing an employee of an IT company earlier this month. The victim, a native of Salem in Tamil Nadu, who works as a designer in Mysuru, had late on February 1 gone to a park opposite the suburban bus stand in Mysuru, looking for a gold chain that he had lost three days ago only to be approached by four strangers claiming to know the the address of some transgenders who they said were in possession of his gold chain. After convincing the complainant, the four strangers led him to a deserted place in Belagola Industrial Area in Metagalli police station limits, where they assaulted him with beer bottles and snatched his ATM card. Cash transferred When the accused realised that the complainant did not have any money in the bank account, they reportedly made him call his wife and tell her that he had met with an accident and needed Rs. 50,000 urgently. Later, the accused went to an ATM, where they drew the cash transferred by the complainant’s wife. The accused even snatched the motorcycle belonging to the IT company employee and fled. The Metagalli police, who booked a case, nabbed Praveen, 23, a painter residing in Belavatha Grama, Shivakumar, 23, an electrician residing in B.M. Sri Nagar, and Raghu, 25, a car driver from Hunsur, on Wednesday and recovered from them Rs. 42,000 out of the robbed money and the motorcycle, besides three mobile phones and a scooter that were used while committing the crime. One juvenile Action is being taken as per law against another juvenile, who had accompanied the three accused, the police said.  Criminal backgrounds All the three arrested had a criminal background with Praveen and Shivakumar having cases of assault and issuing a life threat while Raghu was facing a case for allegedly kidnapping a minor girl and causing sexual harassment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-held-on-robbery-charge/article33815777.ece
12 February 2021||Pune,||App helps bridge educational divide in Maharashtra||Social entrepreneur Santosh Phad (35) is on a mission to bridge the yawning educational chasm between rural and urban India. The pandemic-induced lockdown, which cast a long shadow on the continuation of education of children from the social margins, has thrown up just such a challenge for Mr. Phad, founder of Thinksharp Foundation (TSF) – a non-profit organisation that has been working to bridge the rural-urban divide for nearly a decade. TSF, which has been doing yeoman service by helping enhance modern educational infrastructure in rural schools and facilitating its access to underprivileged students, has now launched a free app titled ‘Digi Library’, providing quality books on myriad topics for all the primary level students from rural and lower economic backgrounds. “With physical classes coming to a stop due to the pandemic, these children could not avail of the benefits of online education. Being the children of daily wage workers and migrant labourers, they couldn’t afford smart phones or tablets. Erratic power supply in such areas was a further challenge,” Mr. Phad told The Hindu . As a result, there was a fear that these children would drop out and ultimately lose interest and get involved in income generation activities along with their parents. “Hence, we launched this app with the objective to ensure that children could continue their reading even during the lockdown and that their interest in books could be sustained in the absence of physical classes. The app is targeted at students of Class IV and above. It is conceptualised as a ‘modular library’ with one bag having the capacity to hold 30-40 books. Often, it is observed that there is no space in these schools and the books remain in the teacher’s cupboard. This app obviates physical storage as one doesn’t need any cupboard to store books,” Mr. Phad explained. ‘Activity report’ An important tracking feature of the app is the ‘activity report’, through which parents, teachers and the children themselves can see how many books they have read and not merely ‘flipped through’. It has already been downloaded by more than 1,000 children from different schools across Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. “More than 1,500 books have been read already. TSF has tied up with such organisations as Pratham Books and the Eklavya Foundation to provide high-quality and well-designed books on science, history, culture and wildlife among others. We are also encouraging students, parents, teachers and volunteers to write and publish stories, which we will make available on the app,” Mr. Phad said. The books are divided into seven-eight categories and are presently available in three languages: English, Hindi and Marathi. Currently, TSF, through its ‘Project StudyMall’, works with 51 zilla parishad schools in 13 districts across Maharashtra, including Buldhana, Beed, Ahmednagar, Jalna, Aurangabad, and Raigad, Palghar, Pune, Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara in western Maharashtra. By February-end, the foundation will have tied up with 60 such schools. “We are currently working on e-learning, through libraries beyond the textbook curriculum to include stories, poems, biographies and science. We have also set up solar panels to ensure uninterrupted electricity. This will also help save electricity and result in less power bills for the school management,” Mr. Phad said. The focus, he said, was on the Marathwada and Vidarbha regions where schools lacked even basic amenities such as electricity, washroom and drinking water as opposed to their well set-up counterparts in western Maharashtra, where these schools were substantially endowed by gram panchayat or MLA funds. Typically, the foundation invests around Rs. 3 lakh a village, of which Rs. 1.5 lakh goes for the solar panel, Rs. 50,000 for physical library, and Rs. 1 lakh for e-learning and monitoring assessment maintenance. “When we choose a village, we first create a development plan. We then confer with teachers, gram panchayat authorities, and local communities to determine what the village schools lack. For instance, we get them to fix basic infrastructure like meters for power. Then, we deploy our modern infrastructure like tablets, smart phones, and so on,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/app-helps-bridge-educational-divide-in-maharashtra/article33815522.ece
12 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||HC seeks status report on sidewalks in Hyderabad||Expressing concern over inadequate footpaths in Hyderabad roads, Telangana High Court on Thursday instructed the government to undertake a survey of the sidewalks and file detailed affidavits by the departments concerned. Hearing a PIL plea on absence of pavements in several parts of the city including roads abutting places like the Chief Minister’s official residence, the HC sought complete details on the status of footpaths in the capital. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B.Vijaysen Reddy directed the civic authorities and police to take steps ensuring all the sidewalks were free of illegal occupation by hawkers or others. Making it clear that non-compliance of the order would be viewed seriously, the bench sought to know areas where sidewalks were occupied by vendors and others and how many of them were cleared. The bench also wanted information on which roads, footpaths had disappeared and attempts made to rebuild them. A lawyer Mamidala Thirumal Rao, party-in person in the plea, told the court that the authorities failed to follow the specifications and standards prescribed by Institute of Urban Transport of Union of India. Majority of the footpaths were built contrary to those standards and this was arbitrary and illegal, he said. He requested the bench to appoint a high-level technical committee to inspect ‘irregularities in construction of footpaths’. Eliciting information on the status of sidewalks in the city, the CJ asked “if the vendors occupying the pavements were recorded” by the authorities. Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy recalled that city roads used to have 10-ft wide footpaths a few decades ago. They got shrunk to 5 -ft and eventually disappeared completely in some places, he said. Wondering whether the authorities wanted people to walk in the air, the CJ observed that inadequate pavements would encourage jay-walking. Justice Vijaysen Reddy observed that Metro Rail occupied 20% of the road space and this indirectly could have led to shrinking of footpaths. Noting that the matter needed to be monitored by the court, the bench posted it to April 15 for next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-seeks-status-report-on-sidewalks-in-hyderabad/article33816098.ece
12 February 2021||MYSURU,||Leopard sighted at KRS dam site near Mysuru caught||In a major relief to the authorities of Krishnaraja Sagar, the leopard that was on the prowl in the vicinity of the dam site and was also caught on camera on two occasions roaming freely near Brindavan Gardens, was trapped early on Thursday. The leopard fell into the trap laid by the Forest Department at the northern gate of the dam around 3.30 a.m. The leopard is about two to three years old and is in good health, according to forest authorities. Two traps had been placed at the dam site, including one on the southern gate of the dam, after the animal was recently caught on camera moving freely in the vicinity. Its sighting had led to a scareas tourists flock to Brindavan Gardens. Its capture has come as a big relief to officials of Cauvery Neeravari Nigama Ltd. officials who had been requesting the forest authorities to trap the animal. Upon hearing that the animal had been trapped, forest officers from Pandavapura range went to the spot and made arrangements for its transfer. The animal is expected to be released into a forest based on instructions of their higher authorities. Kiran Kumar, Assistant Executive Engineer, CNNL, KRS, said: “Based on the camera footage, the leopard was trapped around 3.30 a.m. Its capture has come as a relief.” Though the dam site was not closed for visitors, the dam and forest authorities were on alert. This was the first time that a leopard was spotted at the dam site. It was on the prowl in the vicinity since the last one month and was first sighted at the northern gate. The cage kept at the southern gate will continue to be kept here for a few more days to rule out the possibility of another leopard on the prowl.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/leopard-sighted-at-krs-dam-site-near-mysuru-caught/article33815782.ece
12 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Privatisation of Vizag steel plant will be stopped at any cost, says Vijaya Sai||The proposed strategic sale of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant by the Union government will be stopped at any cost. And the cause will be taken up by YSR Congress Party along with all like-minded parties and the people of Visakhapatnam and Andhra Pradesh, said YSRCP MP in Rajya Sabha V. Vijaya Sai Reddy. He was addressing the media after holding a meeting with various trade unions, here on Thursday. He said that if the Centre proposed to sell VSP at the arrived book value figure of Rs. 1,350 crore, then he would ask the people of Vizag to come forward, collect the money and buy the plant for themselves. Talking about Steel Minister Dharmendra Pradhan’s reply to his question in Parliament on whether POSCO and Hyundai had entered into a MoU, he said, “The Minister responded by saying that a MoU was signed for setting up a greenfield plant on the premises of RINL in November 2019. But the same was kept in wraps and was not informed to the employees unions, when they had questioned the management and the minister, when he had come here.” He said the steel plant was being sold under the reason that it was a loss making unit, but people should realise that VSP management had invested over Rs. 2000 crore for a forged wheel plant in Rae Bareli. Mr Viajaya Sai questioned if the investment was necessary and fruitful. He said RINL was made to buy stakes in OMDC for iron ore mines to the tune of Rs. 361 crore, 10 years ago. Later, it was asked to pay another Rs. 1,000 crore as penalities. But so far, there had been no returns on its investment and neither one chunk of ore was received from the mines. According to Mr. Vijaya Sai, a senior director was responsible for corruption to the tune of Rs. 2,000 crore, but so far there had been no action on it. To a question on whether the State government would help in allocating some mines within the State, he said efforts would be made to see what could be done. He pointed out that an all-party delegation of MPs was trying for an appointment with the Prime Minister and a memorandum would be submitted. Earlier, Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao alleged that there was a nexus between BJP and Odisha government, both the railway zone and mines for VSP was harmed at the behest of a Minister from Odisha. He said that in the deal with POSCO, the State government and the trade unions were kept in the dark. CPI (M) State secretariat member Ch. Narasinga Rao, CPI State assistant secretary J.V. Satyanarayana Murthy, INTUC general secretary Mantri Rajsekhar, MP MVV Satyanarayana, spoke. Other trade union leaders were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vsp-privatisation-will-be-stopped-at-any-cost-vijaya-sai/article33815498.ece
12 February 2021||New Delhi,||Follow the law, Minister tells global social media platforms||Minister for Information Technology and Communications Ravi Shankar Prasad on Thursday said global social media platforms were welcome to work and earn money in India but they should follow the law and the Constitution of India. Replying to a question in the Rajya Sabha, Mr. Prasad said his Ministry had flagged Twitter and called out the microblogging site for double standards, adding that “freedom of speech” was there but Article 19 (2) of the Constitution added reasonable restrictions because of the sovereignty and integrity of India. “Why is it that when police act in Washington’s Capitol Hill ransacking, a micro blogging site stands in their support but when a similar action is taken at Red Fort, our national pride, the platform opposes it? Freedom of speech is there, but with reasonable restrictions. Why double standards? You cannot spread hate messages such as ‘PM Modi massacre of farmers’,” Mr. Prasad said. Twitter and the Government of India are at loggerheads over issues related to content removal and freedom of expression. The row intensified after the Centre asked the micro-blogging site to block 250 accounts using hashtags related to “farmer genocide”, and about 1,178 accounts that security agencies suspect are backed by Khalistani sympathisers and Pakistan. Twitter said in a blog post that it withheld “a portion of the accounts but no action was taken against the accounts of news media entities, journalists, activists and politicians as it violated their policy of free speech”. Asked about why India has not become a hub of microprocessors despite being an Information Technology hub, Mr. Prasad quipped, “Koo, a made in India blog has become a big toast of success today. They are not only using Indian technology, Indian server too. Let us salute the extraordinary courage of the start-up movement ...but I agree there is need to boost the processing industry.” On the steps taken to curb fake news and messages, he said, “we respect social media. It has empowered common people. We respect criticism... you can criticise even the Prime Minister. But if social media is used to propagate hate, then action will be taken. We have huge respect for India’s electoral process and if anyone uses social media to influence elections, strict action will bet taken. Whether it is Twitter, Facebook, or LinkedIn, I have a message for all of you — come, work in India, earn money but you will have to follow India’s laws,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/follow-the-law-ravi-shankar-prasad-tells-social-media/article33815501.ece
12 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||NCP feud to impact LDF seat-sharing talks||The friction in the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) over the Pala Assembly seat seemed to have added an unbidden dimension to Left Democratic Front's (LDF) ‘‘exploratory’’ seat-sharing talks that commenced here on Thursday. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had indicated that the NCP, like the CPI(M) and other older constituents, should make sacrifices to hold on to new allies. CPI State secretary Kanam Rajendran also concurred. However, NCP leader Mani C. Kappan appeared unshakeable from his hardline stance on Pala. The incumbent Pala legislator had indicated that he was unwilling to renounce the “hard-won” seat to accommodate Jose. K. Mani of the Kerala Congress (M). Pawar’s stand Mr. Kappan and NCP State president T.P. Peethambaran are in New Delhi. The NCP’s future as a cohesive organisation in the LDF seemed to hinge heavily on national president Sharad Pawar’s impending decision on whether or not to “sacrifice” the Pala seat at the altar of coalition politics. The Congress has hurried to exploit the fissures in the NCP. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president Mullappally Ramachandran and Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala welcomed Mr. Kappan to the Congress. They viewed the outreach as a counterstroke to Mr. Jose’s shift of allegiance to the LDF. Mr. Kappan was yet to lay his cards on the table. He said he was awaiting Mr. Pawar’s decision.  A CPI(M) insider said Mr. Kappan’s exit was unlikely to have a crippling effect on the NCP. Much of the NCP’s rank and file in Kottayam, as in other districts, had integrated well into the LDF. NCP workers saw no political cause to desert the coalition. The drumbeats of dissension in the NCP got shriller with Mr. Jose staking a claim for Pala after the recent local body polls. The KC(M) gambit had sowed discord in the NCP, with the Kappan and A.K. Saseendran factions adopting divergent views on the Pala question. Both groups had reportedly met separately and also tested the waters with influential district and State-level leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ncp-feud-to-impact-ldf-seat-sharing-talks/article33815673.ece
12 February 2021||KAKINADA,||Tribals rescue leopard cat in Rampa Agency||An adult leopard cat ( Prinailurus bengalensis ) that entered the tribal habitation of Pandiri Maamidikota in Rampa Agency on Wednesday night, was rescued by the villagers. The village is nearly 15 km from the Papikonda National Park, home for leopard cat in Andhra Pradesh. The residents rescued the animal by trapping it in a wooden cage and informed the Wildlife Management Division authorities at Rampachodavaram on Thursday. In a video shared by the locals with the forest department, the leopard cat is seen healthy and appears unhurt. Forest Ranger (Rampachodavaram-Wildlife) Durga Ramprasad said the tribal people had communicated to them about the leopard cat. A team comprising a veterinarian, Andra Phaneendra, had been deployed for the rescue operation. Dr. Phanindra said they were prepared to provide the first aid to the animal. It would be released into the nearby reserve forest based on its health condition, he said. Divisional Forest Officer (Rajamundry Wildlife Division) C. Selvam said the animal had been shifted to Rajamahendravaram for observation for a few days. It will be released into the forest soon. According to the available statistics, leopard cat was recorded for the first time in the Papikonda National Park in January 2015 and a road kill was recorded in recent years. The hunting of leopard cat attracts punishment under the Schedule-1 of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tribals-rescue-leopard-cat-in-rampa-agency/article33815489.ece
12 February 2021||Kolkata,||Several Left supporters injured during march||Several supporters of the Left parties were injured on Thursday after the police resorted to force in Kolkata during a “march to State Secretariat” called by 10 youth and student organisations. The police also lobbed tear gas shells, and used water cannons at Dorina Crossing at Esplanade to disperse the protesters. Pelting of stones was reported in areas around Esplanade, with prominent arterial roads like S.N. Banerjee Road turning into a battlefield between Left supporters and police personnel. Supporters of the 10 student and youth organisations took out the march to “Nabanna Abhiyaan” protesting the “misrule” of the Trinamool Congress government and demanding “jobs”. Since early morning, hundreds started converging from different parts of the city at Esplanade. As the police had put barricades at Esplanade to prevent the agitators from reaching the secretariat, Left supporters tried to breach them, leading to a clash. Left calls for bandh Thousands of student representatives of the 10 Left organisations, including the Students’ Federation of India and the Democratic Youth Federation of India , participated in the rally to present a “red card” to the government when the violence broke out. According to the Left parties, hundreds of their supporters were injured. Reacting to the police action, the Left parties have called for a 12-hour bandh on Friday. “Police unleashed Water cannons, tear gas and brutal lathi-charge on the protestant student & youths during #NabannaAvijan. Many of them were injured and had to be hospitalized. Shame on TMC Govt. A road blockade is being organised at Moulalil in protest of this barbaric attack,” the official Twitter handle of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) West Bengal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/several-left-supporters-injured-during-march/article33815696.ece
12 February 2021||MANGALURU,||Govt. plans to better market Ilkal saris||The State government is working on making saris and other handloom products of Karnataka Handloom Development Corporation and other handloom organisations and cooperative societies available on e-commerce portals, Minister for Handlooms Textiles and Minority Welfare Shrimant Balasaheb Patil said here on Thursday. Talking to reporters, Mr. Patil said that handloom weavers were suffering for want of avenue to market their products. “We are working on making all our handloom products available on Amazon. We hope to have it in another two months,” he said. Mr. Patil said that the government is also refurbishing the five showrooms of KHDC in Bengaluru and providing better display for Ilkal saris and other handloom products that have secured Geographical Indication tag. The five showrooms will be a model for refurbishing other showrooms in the State, he said.  Certificates The Minority Welfare Department is working on launching a flagship programme for issuing certificates equivalent to SSLC for those studying in Madrasas. These students will be taught basics of Science, Mathematics and languages in addition to what they learn in Madrasas. “I am consulting religious leaders from across the State. Once they give consent, a committee of experts will be set up to work out modalities,” he said. Shortfall in the revenue for the State government, the Minister said, has affected many welfare programmes for minorities, including payment of scholarships. The department has paid a total of Rs. 78 crore to 3.5 lakh minority students in 2020-21 and hoped to get an additional grant for the remaining four lakh applicants. “We are asking the government not to reduce grants for scholarship in the forthcoming budget,” Mr. Patil said. The Minister said that the department has planned to open an ITI in each one of the 30 districts and a polytechnic in each one of the four divisional areas and offer skill development courses for minorities and other students. Earlier, Mr. Patil inaugurated the new building of Murarji Desai Residential School and the Muslim Residential School near Konaje. He also laid the foundation stone for the construction of three Maulana Azad schools and a Pre University College of the Minority Welfare Department in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-plans-to-better-market-ilkal-saris/article33815648.ece
12 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Chances of Central nod for IT Investment Region get dimmer||The chances of Centre giving its nod to the much awaited Information Technology Investment Region (ITIR) for the State have become dimmer as the Union government reiterated that the ITIR policy of 2008 has been discontinued. “The objectives of the ITIR policy are being better served and achieved by direct promotion of industrial units in industrial clusters and industrial townships that are taking shape through various programmes viz; DMIC, Smart Cities and other Industrial/Electronics Park schemes implemented by Ministry’s concerned / Departments wherein considerable financial support is available,” Union Minister of State for Electronics and IT Shamrao Dhotre said in a written reply to the Lok Sabha. He was responding to a query by BJP MP Bandi Sanjay who wanted to know the status of the ITIR project and the reasons for the delay, if any, in the execution of the project. The Minister recalled that the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeiTY) notified ITIR region in Hyderabad with Central financial assistance of Rs. 3,275 crore. Developmental activities were to be carried out by Telangana government with the financial assistance from the Central ministries like the Railways, Roads, Transport & Highways and Urban Development. Subsequently, the progress and issues in the implementation of the ITIR was reviewed during a meeting held at MeiTY in January 2017 wherein the State was asked to submit requisite information to the Ministries concerned with intimation to MeiTY. “No information was furnished by Telangana government,” he asserted recalling that after a review of the policy in 2018, it was decided to discontinue ITIR Policy 2008. The Minister also said no funds were released for the proposed ITIR. The development comes as a major disappointment to the State government as it had identified 49,000 acres in three clusters, greenfield and brownfield where new IT companies and IT space developers could be encouraged to set up their development centres. A shelf of five projects with total outlay of Rs. 3,275 crore had also been identified for the ITIR. Industries and IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao, in a recent letter, regretted that correspondence was carried out with Ministries concerned for sanctioning additional budgets for the project, but they did not respond favourably.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chances-of-central-nod-for-it-investment-region-get-dimmer/article33816103.ece
12 February 2021||HUBBALLI,||Seer says he won’t take legal steps to resolve land donation issue||Seer of Balehosur Mutt Sri Dingaleshwar Swami, who is conducting meetings at various places in a bid to create public opinion on seeking the return of Moorusavir Mutt land given in donation to KLE Society for building a medical college, vowed on Thursday to continue his fight but clarified that he will not take any legal recourse. Addressing presspersons in Hubballi in the wake of Chairman of KLE Society Prabhakar Kore clarifying that there is nothing illegal about land donation, the swami said that there are several contradictions in Mr. Kore’s statement and donation has been made in violation of the arbitration agreement reached before the arbitrator appointed by the Supreme Court. The swami said that the donation of the mutt’s land by the late seer Sri Gangadhara Rajayogindra Swami before the Charity Commissioner at Belagavi was questioned by Sri Rudramuni Swami of Tiptur and a few of the devotees. It was subsequently questioned in the High Court of Karnataka, which said that the donation was subject to the outcome of the arbitration agreement on the succession row. In the arbitration agreement, it has been resolved not to sell any of the mutt’s property but despite that, the incumbent seer, Sri Gurusiddha Rajayogindra Swami, has donated land, he said. However, Dingaleshwar Swami said that he will not seek any legal recourse but will want elders of society and the general public to decide the issue. He also clarified that the issue has nothing to do with the issue of his claim for the post of successor of Moorusavir Mutt. “All I want is that the mutt’s land should be returned to the mutt,” he said. On whether he will not make any claim for the post of successor in the mutt, the swami answered in the negative. “I will go away if the present seer makes an announcement before the gadduge of the mutt saying that he has not appointed me as successor to the peetha,” he said. He said that he will not question the silence of the incumbent seer on the whole issue as he was his guru. He, however, said that there is a suffocating atmosphere in the mutt because of which the incumbent seer is keeping silence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/seer-says-he-wont-take-legal-steps-to-resolve-land-donation-issue/article33815647.ece
12 February 2021||KOCHI,||Abakka, left to die by her master, turns mother||The dog, named Abakka since then, that was brutalised by her master two months ago by tying her to the boot of a moving car and dragging along the road has now turned mother, delivering three pups. The video of the brutality that took place at Chalakkara near Paravur on December 11 had gone viral on social media shocking public conscience. Subsequently, the Chengamanad police registered a suo motu case and booked the dog owner, Yusuf of Kunnukara, under IPC Sections 428 and 429 (Mischief by killing or maiming animal) and relevant sections of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act. The dog was rescued by volunteers of animal welfare organisation Daya and has since been living at the house of T.J. Krishnan, vice president of the organisation, at Paravur. He named her after Rani Abakka Chowta, a 16th century warrior queen who fought the Portuguese, honouring her resilience to pull through the cruelty she was subjected to. She delivered three healthy pups between 2.30 p.m. and 11.20 p.m. on Tuesday. “We are getting numerous recommendations for adoption of pups considering the celebrity status of Abakka. But it is too premature to give them away on adoption, and a call will be made only after a month,” said Mr. Krishnan. The shocking part, he said, was that Abakka was three days pregnant when she was subjected to the brutality, thus making the offence graver. Daya had since then petitioned the police, demanding that relevant charges for deliberately hurting a pregnant animal be added in the charge sheet. Abakka, meanwhile, is back to almost full fitness after suffering multiple wounds on being dragged through the road. “She is so attached and adorable that it no longer feels like we got her just two months ago,” said Mr. Krishnan who was a bundle of nerves as he sat through the deliveries. He had over 10 other dogs similarly rescued at his home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/abakka-left-to-die-by-her-master-turns-mother/article33815675.ece
12 February 2021||New Delhi,||Revised airfare bands to be in force till March 31||Air travel has become costlier, with the Union government on Thursday increasing the minimum and maximum fares an airline can levy on a given route with immediate effect. The minimum fare on a route has gone up by 10% and the maximum by nearly 30%, according to the order issued by the Civil Aviation Ministry. The government has been regulating airfares from May 25, 2020, when domestic flights resumed after the nationwide lockdown. There are seven fare bands, which vary according to the duration of a flight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/revised-airfare-bands-to-be-in-force-till-march-31/article33815694.ece
12 February 2021||Ghaziabad,||Aligarh police book RLD V-P Jayant Chaudhary||The Aligarh police have registered an FIR against Rashtriya Lok Dal vice-president Jayant Chaudhary for violating Section 144 of the CrPc and Sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act by holding a panchayat in the Iglas area of the district on Tuesday. Apart from Mr. Chaudhary, 21 others have been named and 5,000-6,000 unnamed people mentioned in the FIR. The RLD has been holding massive panchayats in western Uttar Pradesh against the three contentious farm laws. In Shamli too, Section 144 was in place but the party went ahead with the gathering. It was followed by panchayats in Amroha and Aligarh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aligarh-police-book-rld-v-p-jayant-chaudhary/article33815838.ece
12 February 2021||Belagavi,||‘Govt. using diversionary tactics to make people forget its failures’||The BJP government in the State is using diversionary tactics to make people forget its failures, Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah said in Govanakoppa in Badami taluk on Thursday. He was speaking after launching road development works in the village. “Legislators like me have been asking for funds to develop their constituencies. But the government keeps saying that it has no money. Ministers are using COVID-19 lockdown as an excuse for all their failures. Ministers are raising sensational issues and using other diversionary tactics to shift focus away from their failures,” he said. However, “I am working hard to find some funds for my constituency,” he added. “I have written letters to the government asking it to remove silt in the Malaprabha river and remove encroachments. But the government is saying there is no money for such things. A government college has been sanctioned to my constituency but the Higher Education Minister says that there is no money for the college building. I asked him why he became a Minister, if he cannot arrange for resources for such development works. When I was the Chief Minister, I ensured that no development work suffered from fund scarcity,” he said. “The government has taken loans to spend around Rs. 35,000 crore on health care during the pandemic. The government is insensitive to the problems of the people. There is no hope in this government. We will return to power in two years and then we will take up development works,” he said. He said that the State government has stopped several development works started by him. “I don’t understand why you people still support them despite all their failures,” he said. He responded to the demand from some villagers that Govanakoppa will be made a gram panchayat once the Congress comes back to power and asked people to vote for a leader who is hard working and of good character and not based on his caste and religion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-using-diversionary-tactics-to-make-people-forget-its-failures/article33815642.ece
12 February 2021||CHENNAI,||One more hour of polling in Tamil Nadu||The Election Commission of India has decided to extend the hours of polling for the Tamil Nadu Assembly election by an hour, Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora said here on Thursday. It also decided to send two special expenditure observers to the State in view of the charges of money distribution. The decision followed suggestions from representatives of some political parties. “Some party representatives suggested that the polling hours be extended. We discussed this and because of the physical distancing norms, we have decided to extend the polling hours by one hour,” Mr. Arora said. Deputy Election Commissioner Umesh Sinha and Chief Electoral Officer Satyabrata Sahoo would work out the details. “When we announce the elections, the exact hours will also be announced,” Mr. Arora said at a press conference, accompanied by Election Commissioners Sushil Chandra and Rajiv Kumar. At least two special expenditure observers would be sent to Tamil Nadu to watch for money distribution, he said. These officers would have retired from senior government positions such as Secretary to the Government of India or the Chairman of the Central Board of Direct Taxes. As for ‘randomisation’ of the Central police forces deployed in poll-bound areas, the Commission decided to appoint the coordinator of the Central Armed Police Forces to the apex committee that decides where these forces are deployed. Hitherto, the State governments had decided on deployments. The decision would be applicable not only to the five poll-bound States but also to all of India. At the district level too, the senior-most general observer would be part of the local committee. “This is a major decision we have taken. It will be formally conveyed to the Chief Electoral Officers in the next two to three days,” Mr. Arora said. Though political parties in Tamil Nadu were divided over postal ballots for those aged above 80, Mr. Arora hinted that the Commission would go ahead with the decision since no malpractice was found in the casting of postal ballots for the elderly in the Bihar Assembly election. The elections in Tamil Nadu had consistently witnessed a high voter turnout, he said, and the Commission expected a higher turnout in the forthcoming elections. It was committed to “free, fair, peaceful, accessible, inclusive, inducement-free and COVID-19-safe elections,” he said. The COVID-19 situation in Tamil Nadu was on the “receding curve”, he said. As for the parties’ request to hold the counting within a day or two of polling, Mr. Arora said it would not be possible “since the outcome would affect polls in other States”. Not all the States would go for single-phase polling and some would have even six to seven-phase polling, he said. The Election Commission has expressed dissatisfaction with the performance of the Tamil Nadu Excise Department and sought a special report from the Additional Chief Secretary of the Home Department on the details of seizures. Deputy Election Commissioner Umesh Sinha and Chief Electoral Officer Satyabrata Sahoo would work out the details. “When we announce the elections, the exact hours will also be announced,” Mr. Arora said at a press conference, accompanied by Election Commissioners Sushil Chandra and Rajiv Kumar. At least two special expenditure observers would be sent to Tamil Nadu to watch for money distribution, he said. These officers would have retired from senior government positions such as Secretary to the Government of India or the Chairman of the Central Board of Direct Taxes. As for ‘randomisation’ of the Central police forces deployed in poll-bound areas, the Commission decided to appoint the coordinator of the Central Armed Police Forces to the apex committee that decides where these forces are deployed. Hitherto, the State governments had decided on deployments. The decision would be applicable not only to the five poll-bound States but also to all of India. At the district level too, the senior-most general observer would be part of the local committee. “This is a major decision we have taken. It will be formally conveyed to the Chief Electoral Officers in the next two to three days,” Mr. Arora said. Though political parties in Tamil Nadu were divided over postal ballots for those aged above 80, Mr. Arora hinted that the Commission would go ahead with the decision since no malpractice was found in the casting of postal ballots for the elderly in the Bihar Assembly election. The elections in Tamil Nadu had consistently witnessed a high voter turnout, he said, and the Commission expected a higher turnout in the forthcoming elections. It was committed to “free, fair, peaceful, accessible, inclusive, inducement-free and COVID-19-safe elections,” he said. The COVID-19 situation in Tamil Nadu was on the “receding curve”, he said. As for the parties’ request to hold the counting within a day or two of polling, Mr. Arora said it would not be possible “since the outcome would affect polls in other States”. Not all the States would go for single-phase polling and some would have even six to seven-phase polling, he said. To a question on money distribution, Mr. Arora said that had the Commission not been serious about the problem, it would not have rescinded the by-election to the R.K. Nagar Assembly constituency and the Lok Sabha election in Vellore — the “harshest action taken by the EC in any State.” Before winding up the press conference, he hoped there would not be any Vellore and R.K. Nagar, where the elections had to be rescinded in view of money distribution. The Election Commission has expressed dissatisfaction with the performance of the Tamil Nadu Excise Department and sought a special report from the Additional Chief Secretary of the Home Department on the details of seizures. “I must say we are quite unhappy with the overall performance of the State Excise Department as well as the Special Director-General, Enforcement. We have brought the relevant facts to the notice of the Chief Secretary at the meeting,” Mr. Arora said. “We felt that much more could have been done in the State which has an excise revenue of Rs. 34,000 crore. The kind of seizures which were made, they don’t even come to decimal..,” he said. The disclosures to the Commission meant that only those on the ground such as drivers and courier workers were being booked, “big fish” were still at large, he said. “We have sought a special report on this matter from the Additional Chief Secretary, Home,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/one-more-hour-of-polling-in-tamil-nadu/article33815551.ece
12 February 2021||New Delhi,||AP ‘invaded’ our territory, Odisha tells apex court||Over five decades after the first status quo order on territorial jurisdiction dispute over 21 villages with Andhra Pradesh, Odisha moved the Supreme Court on Thursday seeking contempt action against A.P. officials for notifying panchayat polls in three villages controlled by it. The Naveen Patnaik government has said the notification amounts to invading Odisha’s territory. The dispute over territorial jurisdiction over 21 villages, popularly called as Kotia group of villages, first reached the top court in 1968 when Odisha on the basis of three notifications — December 1, 1920, October 8, 1923 and October 15, 1927 — claimed that Andhra Pradesh had trespassed its well-defined territory. During the pendency of a suit filed by Odisha, the top court had on December 2, 1968, directed both the States to maintain status quo till the disposal of the suit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ap-invaded-our-territory-odisha-tells-apex-court/article33815520.ece
12 February 2021||Kochi,||DPR on Kochi-Theni NH 85 work in 6 months||The length of the 167-km Kochi-Theni National Highway 85 stretch might in all probability reduce to 157 km, with work on a detailed project report (DPR) to widen the stretch into a 45-metre-wide one under way as part of the Bharatmala Pariyojana. Starting point It may take up to six months to finalise the DPR. The starting point of the national highway might shift southward of Kundannoor Junction, the present starting point on the Aroor-Edappally NH Bypass in Kochi, since the junction and its immediate surroundings are heavily built up. The Kundannoor-Pettah stretch too is narrow, densely built up, and congested, which makes widening it a tough proposition, official sources said. Greenfield NH A bulk of the proposed alignment passes through the existing road, while it will deviate at a few places, including as it nears Munnar, where it will bypass the town. This will make it a greenfield NH, even as much of it will be a continuation of the existing NH alignment. It will have four-lane width, flanked by service roads on either side. Ultimately, the Kochi-Theni NH, whose widening is expected to cost Rs. 9,213 crore, will extend up to Tuticorin, thus establishing connectivity between two major port cities as well, one located on the western side of the Indian peninsula and the other on the eastern side, they added. Thripunithura Bypass The alignment, though yet to be finalised, is expected to pass through some parts of land that are awaiting acquisition for the Thripunithura Bypass project.  Kochi-Theni NH will extend up to Tuticorin, thus establishing connectivity between two major port cities||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dpr-on-kochi-theni-nh-85-in-six-months/article33815734.ece
12 February 2021||Mumbai,||Ballot papers won’t return in State polls: Ajit Pawar||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Thursday expressed complete faith in electronic voting machines (EVMs) and asserted that the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government does not want the use of ballot papers in elections. Interacting with reporters in the city, Mr. Pawar, a senior NCP leader, said EVMs work fine, but they have become the target of criticism from the losing sides in elections. There is no discussion within the government to bring in ballot papers. “Everything is fine with people in any party if they get the majority. But they start alleging that EVMs were manipulated if they get routed. EVMs are working fine. Work becomes paperless. What can I say... I have faith in EVMs,” Mr. Pawar told reporters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ballot-papers-wont-return-in-state-polls-ajit-pawar/article33816204.ece
12 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||SEC confers with CS, DGP||State Election Commissioner (SEC) N. Ramesh Kumar on Thursday convened a meeting with Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das and Director General of Police D. Gautam Sawang at his office here to discuss the arrangements for the remaining three phases of the gram panchayat elections scheduled for February 13, 17 and 21. Mr. Ramesh Kumar complimented Mr. Das and Mr. Sawang for ensuring the smooth conduct of the first phase of the elections on February 9, and enquired about the arrangements for the remaining phases. Secretary, State Election Commission, K. Kanna Babu, was among others present. Call centre Later, Mr. Ramesh Kumar and Mr. Das inspected the functioning of the call centre (phone number 0866-2466877) on the Commission’s office premises. Additional DGP N. Sanjay was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ramesh-kumar-confers-with-cs-dgp/article33815494.ece
12 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Pedana MLA restrained from speaking to media||The State Election Commission on Thursday issued an order restraining Pedana MLA Jogi Ramesh from speaking to the media and any group or groups of people or in meetings till February 17 following complaints that he was intimidating the prospective contestants in gram panchayat elections not to file nominations, with a threat to withhold government benefits to such people. State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar issued the restraint order in the interest of free and fair elections under Section. 211 (2) of A.P. Panchayat Raj Act, 1994. Mr. Ramesh Kumar observed that unabated utterances would further compromise the situation and violence could not be ruled out given the state of mind prompting such utterances and threats, and directed the District Collector and Superintendent of Police to serve the proceedings on Mr. Ramesh and submit a compliance report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sec-issues-restraint-order-on-pedana-mla-jogi-ramesh/article33815496.ece
12 February 2021||AHMEDABAD,||UPSC advertises for lateral entry in Central ministries||The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) has issued an advertisement to recruit 30 persons at joint secretary and director level in the Central administration through lateral entry in the second round. Earlier, eight persons, mostly domain experts, were selected for various departments and ministries. In the latest round, of 30 positions advertised by the UPSC, three are for joint secretary and 27 are for director level. Online applications have been invited for ministries, departments, PSUs, autonomous bodies of the Central government by March 22 and contractual appointment would be for a period of three years and extendable up to five years depending on the performance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/upsc-advertises-for-lateral-entry-in-central-ministries/article33815517.ece
12 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||17 major OTT players adopt self-regulatory toolkit||Even as the government is soon expected to come out with regulations for OTT platforms, the Internet and Mobile Association of India (IAMAI) on Thursday said 17 platforms, including Netflix, Disney+ Hotstar and Amazon Prime Video, have adopted a ‘toolkit’ for effective implementation of the self-regulation code introduced last year. The industry body added that it will set up an ‘IAMAI Secretariat for the Code’, comprising representatives from the signatories to the Code, as well as the IAMAI, for its implementation. Amit Goenka, chair, Digital Entertainment Committee, IAMAI, said, “This toolkit amplifies all the critical points that were addressed in the Code signed last year and aims to address feedback received from the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, particularly on strengthening the grievance redressal mechanism.” “It further sets out clear tent poles that the OCCPs [Online Curated Content Provider] need to undertake to achieve a common goal of entertaining millions of Indians responsibly,” Mr. Goenka added. The IAMAI said the toolkit not only aims to set out guiding principles and code of ethics, it also addresses the feedback received from the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting on the issues of conflict of interest and prohibited content. The industry body said the toolkit will also provide for procedures to effectuate the various provisions of the Code; assist the signatories in fulfilling their commitments and responsibilities as set out in the Code and achieve effective self-regulation goals as envisioned by the signatories in the Code. The signatories to the toolkit, which is effective February 10 onwards, include ZEE5, Viacom 18 (Voot), Disney+Hotstar, Amazon Prime Video, Netflix, SonyLiv, MX Player, Jio Cinema, Eros Now, Alt Balaji, Arre, HoiChoi, Hungama, Shemaroo, Discovery Plus, Aha and Lionsgate Play. The toolkit will guide signatories on various dimensions like relevant laws of the land, grievance redressal mechanism, training programs for creative and legal teams and awareness programs for consumers. The OTT players had in September last year announced adoption of the ‘Universal Self-Regulation Code for OCCPs’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/17-major-ott-players-adopt-regulatory-toolkit/article33815502.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Pourakarmikas to get half-day off to receive vaccination||Pourakarmikas and others will be given half-day off with pay to get vaccinated for COVID-19. In an order, BBMP Special Commissioner (SWM) D. Randeep said pourakarmikas and others may go to the nearest primary health centre from the respective mustering centres, after marking their attendance, at 10.30 a.m. However, those who do not want to get vaccinated will work regular hours. Meanwhile, with 69,896 of the targeted 2,83,523 frontline workers getting vaccinated, the coverage for this group has remained at 25% in Karnataka. However, 49% of the targeted 8,20,791 healthcare workers have been vaccinated. Bengaluru Rural district recorded the lowest coverage with 8% of the targeted 8,488 frontline workers getting inoculated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pourakarmikas-to-get-half-day-off-to-receive-vaccination/article33815780.ece
12 February 2021||JAIPUR,||Plea against Salman over ‘false’ affidavit dismissed||A sessions court in Jodhpur on Thursday dismissed the Rajasthan government’s petition seeking prosecution of film actor Salman Khan for submitting a “false affidavit” regarding his arms licence. Mr. Khan was present in the court through videoconferencing from Mumbai. The actor had filed an affidavit in the court in 2003, stating that he had lost his arms licence. It was later revealed that the actor had submitted the licence in Mumbai for renewal. The court of the Chief Judicial Magistrate had absolved Mr. Khan of the charge, after which the State government challenged the decision in the sessions court. The Public Prosecutor contended that the actor had deliberately tried to mislead the court. Mr. Khan’s counsel Hastimal Saraswat had tendered an apology on his client’s behalf and on Tuesday. He said the actor had filed the affidavit by mistake.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/plea-against-salman-over-false-affidavit-dismissed/article33815836.ece
12 February 2021||MANGALURU,||Boy dies on the spot as two-wheeler hits median||A boy was killed on the spot when the two-wheeler he was riding hit a road median at Alvegadde near Byndoor on Thursday. The police gave the name of the deceased as Arhan (14), a resident of Hadavinakone, Shiroor. He was on his way to Shiroor town when he lost control over the vehicle and hit the median suffering severe head injuries, the police said. The victim was under aged and did not have licence to ride a vehicle. When he was found riding the two-wheeler a week ago, Byndoor Police had seized his vehicle and later had returned it after his mother paid fine. Earlier, a case had been registered against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/boy-dies-on-the-spot-as-two-wheeler-hits-median/article33816178.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Civic apathy||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/civic-apathy/article33815645.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Struggle for survival||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/struggle-for-survival/article33816259.ece
12 February 2021||Hassan,||Bank officials take over Watekhan Coffee Estate||The officers of Union Bank took physical possession of Watekhan Coffee Estate, that is spread over 214 acres at Hirekolale village in Chikkamagaluru taluk, on Thursday in the presence of the police. The owners of the estate U.M. Ramesh Rao and S. Dinakara Rao had taken a loan from the bank by mortgaging the coffee estate. SARFAESI Act As they did not repay the loan, the bank had issued a demand notice as per the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 (SARFAESI Act) in May 2019. Dues not paid The respondents had failed to pay the dues of Rs. 21 crore, prompting the bank to take physical possession of the immovable secured asset, as per the orders of Principal Senior Civil Judge of Chikkamagaluru issued on February 8. When the bank officials reached the estate with policemen, workers could be seen requesting the officers not to take over the estate.  High Court order Ramesh Rao had moved the High Court of Karnataka challenging the bank’s recovery proceedings under the SARFAESI Act. The court held that the banks can invoke provisions of the Act to recover loans borrowed by mortgaging coffee estates, declaring that the expression ‘agricultural land’ in the Act does not include lands on which plantation crops are grown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bank-officials-take-over-watekhan-coffee-estate/article33815776.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||In one voice||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-one-voice/article33815779.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Crowd-puller||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/crowd-puller/article33815677.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||‘More water is building up in the Rishiganga’||A fresh pool of water may be building up in the Rishiganga river that could tip over a mass of rock and debris, thereby impeding ongoing rescue operations in Uttarakhand.Page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/more-water-is-building-up-in-the-rishiganga/article33816025.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Dams in the para glacial zone a danger’||Ravi Chopra, Director, People’s Science Institute, who has been a critic of hydropower projects in Uttarakhand, elaborates on the causes of the recent deluge.Page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dams-in-the-para-glacial-zone-a-danger/article33816026.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Surge of devotion||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/surge-of-devotion/article33815500.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Why selective disengagement, asks Congress||The Congress questioned Defence Minister Rajnath Singh’s statement on the disengagement exercise on the LAC, asking the government why it backed out from its earlier claim that the Chinese troops will be removed from all parts of Ladakh settling instead for “selective disengagement” only in the Pangong Tso area.Page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/why-selective-disengagement-asks-congress/article33815506.ece
12 February 2021||Kolkata,||Mamata trains her guns on Amit Shah’s son||Defending his nephew and Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee from relentless attacks by the BJP, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday trained her guns at Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s son Jay Shah. “You are constantly referring to aunt and nephew. What about your own son. We are very bad because we are in Bengal… How did he get so much money? First reply to this,” she said, addressing representatives of NGOs in Kolkata. Ms. Banerjee said she is proud to be an “aandalon jeevi”. “I am a proud aandalon jeevi. I have come up through movements. I am still a street fighter. Whether in government or not, I will remain a street fighter.” At another meeting earlier in the day, Ms. Banerjee urged people not to allow the BJP to come to power in Bengal. “Let Bengal live in peace. The BJP should not be allowed to come to power. I appeal to all to protect the honour of Bengal,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mamata-trains-her-guns-on-amit-shahs-son/article33815695.ece
12 February 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Headless body found on Bhubaneswar outskirts identified; 2 arrested||The headless body of a woman found on the outskirts of Bhubaneswar on February 4 was identified on Thursday and two people were arrested in connection with her murder, the police said. The deceased was a 28-year-old woman staying at a slum within the Mancheswar police station limits. She hailed from Ganjam district. A marital dispute could be the reason for her killing, Commissioner of Police S. Sarangi said. The severed head was found two km from the place where her body was spotted. It was thrown into a ditch dug to check the movement of elephants, he said. The woman was in a live-in relationship with a man at the slum.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/headless-body-found-on-bhubaneswar-outskirts-identified-2-arrested/article33815518.ece
12 February 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Odisha logs 95 new COVID-19 cases, over 3.61 lakh frontline workers inoculated||Odisha’s COVID-19 caseload on Thursday mounted to 3,35,984 after 95 more people tested positive for the infection, a Health Department official said. The toll remained unchanged at 1,910 as no fresh fatality had been reported since Monday. Of the 95 cases, 56 were reported from various quarantine centres, and the rest were detected during contact tracing, the official said. Sundergarh reported the maximum number of fresh cases at 20, followed by Cuttack at 11 and Puri at nine. Eleven of the State’s 30 districts, including Bhadrak, Dhenkanal, Gajapati, Jagatsinghpur, Kandhamal, and kendrapara, have not registered any fresh case since Tuesday.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/odisha-logs-95-new-covid-19-cases-over-361-lakh-frontline-workers-inoculated/article33815519.ece
12 February 2021||Kolkata,||Kolkata nearby||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday said the Citizenship (Amendment) Act would be implemented once the COVID-19 vaccinations were completed. “We are a party that keeps our promise,” Mr. Shah said at a gathering largely of people from the Matua sect at Thakurnagar in North 24 Parganas district. The CAA is an emotive issue for the members of the sect of Hindu refugees from Bangladesh who had voted overwhelmingly for the BJP candidate in the 2019 Lok Sabha election. “We promised citizenship to Matuas in 2018… In 2019, they supported us. In 2020, we brought the CAA in Parliament,” Mr. Shah said, adding that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has been going to town saying the BJP made a false promise. “The COVID-19 crisis came. Mamata didi started saying it is a false promise and that she won’t allow the implementation of the CAA,” Mr. Shah said. The Home Minister said he wanted to promise the people from the pious land that as soon as the vaccination process was complete, the BJP government would give citizenship to the Matuas. He accused the rival parties of misleading the minorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kolkata-nearby/article33815693.ece
12 February 2021||Bengaluru,||BBMP rapped for sluggish waste management||The BBMP has been directed to achieve 100% segregation of waste at source, take immediate action for biomining legacy waste in waste processing sites and comply with the SWM Rules, 2016. These are some of the directions issued by Subhash B. Adi, chairman, State Level Committee constituted by the National Green Tribunal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bbmp-rapped-for-sluggish-waste-management/article33816028.ece
12 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Fee dispute: Very few written complaints||Despite allegations from parents that private schools are not adhering to the government’s directions to reduce tuition fees by 30%, the Department of Public Instruction has received only a handful of written complaints on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fee-dispute-very-few-written-complaints/article33816029.ece
12 February 2021||New Delhi,||‘Front-line workers more eager to get the jab’||A total of 15,807 beneficiaries — 12,933 front-line workers and 2,874 healthcare workers — were administered the COVID-19 vaccine in the city on Thursday, the highest so far, said a Delhi government spokesperson. “Front-line workers are showing more enthusiasm to get vaccinated compared to the healthcare workers,” said a Delhi government official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/front-line-workers-more-eager-to-get-the-jab/article33815835.ece
12 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Revised airfare bands to be in force till March 31||Air travel has become costlier, with the Union government on Thursday increasing the minimum and maximum fares an airline can levy on a given route with immediate effect. The mini-mum fare on a route has gone up by 10% and the maximum by nearly 30%, according to the Civil Aviation Ministry order. There are seven fare bands, which vary according to the duration of a flight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/revised-airfare-bands-to-be-in-force-till-march-31/article33815837.ece
12 February 2021||MANGALURU,||30 affected by garbage slip get compensation||The DLSA on Thursday completed the process of paying interim compensation to most of the residents of Kudupu Mandara affected by garbage slip from a landfill site of the city corporation in Pachchanady in August 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/30-affected-by-garbage-slip-get-compensation/article33816182.ece
12 February 2021||BENGALURU,||India develops its own varieties of gerbera||Now, India has its own gerbera varieties as scientists at the Indian Institute of Horticultural Research (IIHR) have developed six indigenous varieties of this flower, used extensively in decorations and bouquets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-develops-its-own-varieties-of-gerbera/article33815649.ece
12 February 2021||BENGALURU,||A Rs. 16-crore drug is the hope for SMA patients||A gene therapy priced Rs. 16 crore is the only shot of life for nearly 200 children with Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA) Type 1, a rare genetic disease, in the State. Last month, the therapy [Zolgensma] was offered free to a 14-month-old baby from Bhatkal in Uttara Kannada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-rs-16-crore-drug-is-the-hope-for-sma-patients/article33815650.ece
12 February 2021||HUBBALLI,||AAP plans to take out padayatra on Sunday||On Valentine’s Day (February 14) as love birds express their love for each other in different ways, members and office-bearers of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will say “I love Hubballi-Dharwad” and take out a foot march to express its commitment towards making the twin cities world class.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aap-plans-to-take-out-padayatra-on-sunday/article33815652.ece
12 February 2021||Bengaluru,||DPI wants to reopen upper primary classes||The Department of Public Instruction (DPI) wants to reopen upper primary classes (classes VI to VIII) immediately and start Vidyagama programme for lower primary classes (classes I to V).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dpi-wants-to-reopen-upper-primary-classes/article33815786.ece
12 February 2021||Hubballi,||Rallies for Kuruba quota premature: Siddaramaiah||Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah on Thursday accused the BJP and the RSS of trying to divide the Kuruba community on the pretext of providing reservation and said the protest led by Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa “against his own party” had exposed their true motive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rallies-for-kuruba-quota-premature-siddaramaiah/article33815787.ece
12 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Rs. 16 crore drug is the hope for SMA patients||A gene therapy costing Rs. 16 crore is the only shot of life for nearly 200 children with Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA) Type 1, a rare genetic disease, in Karnataka. Last month, the therapy was offered free to a 14-month-old baby from Bhatkal,who was the lucky winner of a lottery through a programme by Swiss drugmakerNovartis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rs-16-crore-drug-is-the-hope-for-sma-patients/article33815788.ece
12 February 2021||Chennai,||One more hour of polling in Tamil Nadu||The Election Commission of India has decided to extend the hours of polling for the Tamil Nadu Assembly election by an hour, Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora said here on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/one-more-hour-of-polling-in-tamil-nadu/article33816076.ece
12 February 2021||New Delhi,||‘Water again building up in the Rishiganga’||A fresh pool of water may be building up in the Rishiganga river that could tip over a mass of rock and debris, thereby impeding ongoing rescue operations in Uttarakhand. Geologist Naresh Rana of the HNB Gadhwal University, Srinagar Gadhwal, Uttarakhand, in a report from Raini village, said the flow of the river had been blocked by rock and debris — forming a sort of natural dam — and this could potentially roll down and impede ongoing relief operations. The debris is from the avalanche that had resulted from the breaking of a large portion of rock and ice from the Raunthi peak. Dr. Rana has shared video clips, where he is seen at the confluence of the Rishiganga river and the Raunthi stream (from where the glacier avalanche progressed). Dr. Rana’s phone was unreachable but The Hindu contacted Navin Juyal, a geologist, who had accompanied Dr. Rana and was with him until February 6 (a day before the disaster), as part of a geological expedition. Dr. Juyal confirmed the authenticity of the clips and told The Hindu that while the danger of flooding existed, it was  unlikely to be of the magnitude seen on Sunday. “Because it’s winter, there’s very little water that has been stopped. I heard from another colleague on the ground that already water from the Rishi Ganga has started to flow from the top of the dam. We have also informed State and disaster response authorities and they tell us they are aware of the situation and are taking appropriate action,” Dr. Juyal said. A National Disaster Response Force official told The Hindu that the pool was 8 km above Raini and was being studied by a team from the Defence Research and Development Organisation. ( With inputs from    Devesh Pandey )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/more-water-is-building-up-in-the-rishiganga/article33815464.ece
12 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Clean-up begins on Kerala beach||The Industries Department on Thursday constituted a three-member committee to investigate the leak of furnace oil from pipeline of the Travancore Titanium Products Ltd (TTP) here into the coast. It has asked the panel to submit its report within 10 days. The panel comprises A.P.M. Mohammed Haneesh, Principal Secretary, Industries Department; M. Mohammed Ali, managing director, Malabar Cements; and S. Chandrabose, managing director, Kerala Minerals and Metals Ltd. (KMML). Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan said the leak, which had triggered concerns about environmental damage, warranted a comprehensive probe. The panel will also submit a set of recommendations for preventing the recurrence of such mishaps. Protests by residents Roughly 5,000 litres of furnace oil leaked into the sea following a pipeline rupture on Wednesday morning. The incident had sparked vehement protests by the local people who accused the TTP of negligence. Over Wednesday and Thursday, the TTP removed approximately 15,000 kg of beach sand from a four-km stretch suspected to have been contaminated by the spillage. The sand is being stored on TTP premises for the time being as directed by the Kerala State Pollution Control Board. The cleaning would continue on Friday, TTP officials said. Following pressure from local residents, the authorities also initiated steps to close the discharge point of the drain leading from the TTP campus into the seashore. Damage assessment The Pollution Control Board will carry out a detailed assessment of the damage caused by the oil leak. The board is also examining whether an assessment of the impact on the livelihood of fisherfolk can be incorporated into the exercise. Following the leak, the PCB had issued detailed instructions regarding the remedial measures and directed the TTP management not to restart operations without its permission. The Coast Guard is continuing to monitor the situation to ascertain whether the oil had spread into the deep sea. A Coast Guard vessel stationed in the area reported that no spillage has been detected far from the shore so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/clean-up-begins-on-kerala-beach/article33815436.ece
12 February 2021||New Delhi,||Congress questions selective disengagement||The Congress questioned Defence Minister Rajnath Singh’s statement on the disengagement exercise between Indian and Chinese troops on the LAC, asking the government why it has backed out from its earlier claim that the Chinese troops will be removed from all parts of Ladakh settling instead for “selective disengagement” only in the Pangong Tso area. At a press conference at the party’s headquarters in Delhi, Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala said the Defence Minister sought to mislead and misinform, without giving full assurance on Chinese withdrawal from India’s territory in the aforementioned areas. He said the Modi government had so far claimed that there had to be “complete disengagement and withdrawal of troops by the Chinese in the entire Ladakh area”. The Congress leader asked, “Why is the Modi government then agreeing to a selective disengagement only in Pangong Tso Area and that also by presumably changing the LAC to India’s disadvantage?” Mr. Singh’s statement does not give unequivocal assurance of restoration of “status quo ante” as of April 2020 when the first Chinese incursions happened. Even in the Pangong Tso area, India was occupying Finger 4 and was patrolling up to Finger 8 on the North Bank. India’s stance has been clear and unequivocal — LAC is up to Finger 8. As per the Defence Minister’s statement, Indian troops will withdraw now to Finger 3, the Congress said. ‘Blatant compromise’ Mr. Surjewala asked, “Is it not tantamount to redrawing the LAC to India’s disadvantage and creating a buffer zone between Finger 3 and Finger 8 on our side of the LAC? Is this not a blatant compromise on India’s territorial integrity?” The Congress charged the government with agreeing to withdraw “our men from the vantage points on Kailash ranges on the southern bank of Pangong Tso area that our forces manage to capture in the last few months”. The Congress demanded an explanation from the government on agreeing to leave the dominant positions without any quid pro quo by China. 2013 stand-off “One of the most strategic and provocative incursions into the Indian territory by Chinese is in ‘Depsang Plains’. Chinese have occupied our territory 18 km inside the LAC up to Y-Junction (bottleneck) and are stopping our armed forces from patrolling up to the PP-10, PP-11, PP-11A, PP-12 and PP-13,” Mr. Surjewala said. He said that unlike the present capitulation by the Modi government, the UPA had successfully repulsed Chinese troops, after a six-month stand-off in 2013 when they had intruded up to the U-junction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-questions-selective-disengagement/article33815449.ece
12 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Farm laws will only benefit PM’s two friends’||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi raised a sharp attack on the Narendra Modi government on the three contentious farm laws in the Lok Sabha on Thursday, stating that these laws had been brought in just to benefit “two friends” of the Modi government to buy and hoard the majority of the agricultural produce in the country without legal recourse for farmers on pricing issues. “Though Prime Minister Narendra Modi had spoken of the laws as giving farmers options for markets, what it actually did was give the options of hunger, unemployment and suicide to farmers,” Mr. Gandhi said. Mr. Gandhi was speaking during the discussion on the Union Budget but said he would in fact only speak on the farmers’ issues since the Opposition, despite requests in both Houses, had been denied a debate on the issue. “Yesterday while addressing the House, the Prime Minister said the Opposition was talking about the agitation by farmers groups but not about the content and intent of the laws. The intent of the first law is to give one friend (of the government) the right to have all the crops of India. Who will be at a loss from this? The small businessmen, hawkers and those working in the mandis . The intent of the second law is to help the second friend (of the government) to keep 40% of the crops in his storage. The third law’s intent is that when a farmer goes before a corporate for a correct price on his crops, he cannot approach the courts if he is short-changed,” he said. “Many years ago family planning had a slogan: hum do hamarey do (we two and our two). That slogan has come back to characterise this government — the four people who run the country — every person knows who these people are,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farm-laws-only-to-benefit-pms-two-friends/article33815445.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Dams in the para glacial zone are a danger’||Ravi Chopra , Director, People’s Science Institute, has been a critic of hydropower projects in Uttarakhand. He has chaired and been part of several committees that have deliberated on infrastructure development in the State, while staying true to the principles of sustainable environment. He elaborated on the causes of the Uttarakhand deluge, the challenges of hydropower development and what alternative models of development are possible.  How do you see the disaster in Uttarakhand? Is it natural or man-made? What we know so far is that the temperatures on February 5 and 6 in the Himalayas were higher than what’s normal for this time of the year. A mass of ice, snow and fresh water — always a lethal combination — came hurtling down a slope carrying with it lots of boulder and rocks and other debris and reached the base of the Rishiganga river. However to those who’ve died and been swept away, it doesn’t matter if the origins of the floods were from a glacial lake being breached or a rock falling on a glacier. While these are natural events, we have at various previous occasions warned of such risks. It’s a folly to be building dams, and hydropower projects above elevations of 2,200 metres. So in that sense, it’s entirely a man-made disaster. In the aftermath of the 2013 floods, you’d led a committee — under the orders of the Supreme Court — to investigate the viability of hydropower projects. Were those recommendations heeded? In the aftermath of the disaster, and after several petitions, there was no response from the government until the matter reached the Supreme Court. However, the Ministry of Environment and Forests, which was then led by Secretary Mr. Shashi Shekhar accepted our key recommendation — that most of the hydropower projects proposed by the Uttarakhand government be dropped. However, this led to the power developer companies then raising objections that they were being penalised in spite of following all the norms of the environmental appraisal process. That led to a second committee being formed and they opined that while all environmental appraisal norms were followed, it would be advisable to cancel hydropower projects. A third committee has been set up but this time there were barely any environmentalists and consisted almost entirely of engineers. There is still a constant tussle and the Uttarakhand government has now cancelled most of the hydropower projects. The Clean Ganga mission and the Ganga draft law also played a significant role which influenced the Centre’s decision to not develop any more new hydropower projects. The Uttarakhand government has been constantly advocating for hydropower projects on the grounds that it is the only reasonable source of electricity to meet the developmental demands of the region. Is a balance possible? Until about 10 years ago, I believed that it was possible to strike a balance between hydropower projects in Uttarakhand without harming the environment here but there is really no case for it now. There are multiple reasons. One is that the cost of solar power has been dramatically reduced and it makes no sense to generate power at Rs. 7-8 per unit when solar power is Rs. 2. Second is that there is no sustainable way to develop such projects given the flouting of environmental norms and challenges with the disposal of debris, accumulated muck. The recent avalanche plus the 2013 experience show that dams in the para glacial zone (above 2,200 m) are a danger to the people below. Given that Uttarakhand, like most States, wants to provide reliable electricity access, Internet connectivity, what alternatives are possible in terms of power supply? We must have a solar-power based development. Industrial development here also has to be thought through. We need a services-based economy on information technology companies that will not be power-intensive. And we also need to develop our roads, improve access and go about it in a thoughtful sustained manner such that it contributes to tourism. There are thousands of places here with unexplored potential that can host homestays.  We need a services-based economy that will not be power-intensive||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dams-in-the-para-glacial-zone-are-a-danger/article33815457.ece
12 February 2021||Kolkata,||CAA to follow vaccine drive: Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday said the Citizenship (Amendment) Act would be implemented once the COVID-19 vaccinations were completed. “We are a party that keeps our promise,” Mr. Shah said at a gathering largely of people from the Matua sect at Thakurnagar in North 24 Parganas district. The CAA is an emotive issue for the members of the sect of Hindu refugees from Bangladesh who had voted overwhelmingly for the BJP candidate in the 2019 Lok Sabha election. “We promised citizenship to Matuas in 2018… In 2019, they supported us. In 2020, we brought the CAA in Parliament,” Mr. Shah said, adding that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has been going to town saying the BJP made a false promise. “The COVID-19 crisis came. Mamata didi started saying it is a false promise and that she won’t allow the implementation of the CAA,” Mr. Shah said. The Home Minister said he wanted to promise the people from the pious land that as soon as the vaccination process was complete, the BJP government would give citizenship to the Matuas. He accused the rival parties of misleading the minorities with propaganda that they would lose citizenship because of the CAA. “As Union Home Minister I want to assure people that not a single Muslim brother or sister will lose citizenship because of the CAA,” Mr. Shah said. He said the CAA was a law to give citizenship and not to take it away. Mr. Shah announced a number of schemes for the Matuas, including renaming the Thakurnagar railway station in honour of the founders of the sect. Earlier in the day, the Home Minister addressed a rally in Cooch Behar and flagged off a “Parivartan Yatra”. Describing the coming Assembly election as “historic”, he said Ms. Banerjee would be left chanting “Jai Shri Ram” after the polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/caa-after-vaccine-drive-says-shah/article33815472.ece
12 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||TRS wins Hyderabad Mayor post||Two women corporators from Telangana Rashtra Samithi, Vijayalakshmi R. Gadwal from Banjara Hills and Mothe Srilatha from Tarnaka, have effortlessly sashayed into historical annals, when they bagged the twin posts of Mayor and Deputy Mayor respecitvely in the indirect elections conducted for the GHMC Council on Thursday. They defeated BJP's candidates Veerannagari Radha from RK Puram and Shankar Yadav from Begum Bazar wards respectively. This is said to be the first time both the posts have been simultaneously held by women candidates. The much speculated elections have been declared in favour of TRS with a huge margin, as the MIM had decided in the last minute not to field its own candidates. Hyderabad district collector and Presiding Officer Swetha Mohanty kicked off the session at about 11 a.m., by administering oath to the 149 newly elected corporators, in the presence of election observer Sandeep Sultania. After an hour’s break, the session was reconvened and election was taken up around 12.30 p.m., as there was required quorum. Former Deputy Mayor Baba Fasiuddin proposed the name of Ms.Vijayalakshmi, which was seconded by Ravula Seshagiri, the TRS member from Gajularamaram. Her opponent Ms.Radha’s name was proposed by Mylardevpally corporator T.Srinivas Reddy, and seconded by his colleague from Himayatnagar Rajyalakshmi. By show of hands, it was apparent that Ms.Vijayalakshmi stood victorious. Similar procedure was then replicated for the Deputy Mayor, with Macha Bolarum corporator Raj Jitendranath proposing Ms.Srilatha’s name and Kukatpally corporator Jupally Satyanarayana seconding her. Mr.Shankar Yadav’s name was proposed by Jambagh corporator Rakesh Jaiswal and seconded by Adikmet corporator Suneetha. The whole election process was completed within 20 minutes before 1 p.m. Later, certificates were presented to the winning candidates by Ms.Mohanty. Cong. walkout Except for two Congress members who walked out, the remaining147 corporators were present for the voting. Thirty-three ex-officio members who attended the voting included three of the five Rajya Sabha members, 10 MLCs out of 15, and 20 MLAs out of 21. Notable by their absence were Union Minister of State for Home G.Kishan Reddy, MPs Asaduddin Owaisi and D.Srinivas, minister Satyavathi Rathod and legislator Akbaruddin Owaisi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trs-wins-hyderabad-mayor-post/article33815427.ece
12 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Disabled entitled to facilities: SC||The government is not conferring a “largesse” on disabled people by facilitating a scribe during the course of the Civil Services Examination, the Supreme Court held on Thursday. The Union Public Service Commission and the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT), by allowing a scribe, are not allowing those with disabilities any “privilege”, a Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud declared in a 62-page verdict. The court said it is high time the government shed its “fundamental fallacy” that only persons with “benchmark disability” or specified disability of 40% or more should be accommodated with a scribe while taking competitive tests like the Civil Services Examination. This is a clear violation of the intent to provide “reasonable accommodation” for disabled persons under the Right to Persons with Disabilities (RPwD) Act of 2016. Writer’s cramp The judgment was based on an appeal filed on behalf of Vikash Kumar, a candidate with Writer’s cramp, a chronic neurological condition which causes extreme difficulty in writing, by advocates Rajan Mani and Ritu Kumar. He was denied a scribe for the Civil Services Exam by the UPSC in 2018, on the ground that he did not come within the definition of person with benchmark disability. “The principle of reasonable accommodation captures the positive obligation of the State and private parties to provide additional support to persons with disabilities to facilitate their full and effective participation in society,” the court observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/disabled-entitled-to-facilities-sc/article33816019.ece
12 February 2021||Lucknow,||Priyanka takes ritual dip at Sangam||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday took a ritual dip at the Sangam — the confluence of the rivers Ganga and Yamuna — at Prayagraj during her visit to the city on the occasion of Mauni Amavasya. Thousands of people throng the banks of the Sangam on this day each year as it is considered auspicious by devotees. After landing at the Prayagraj airport in Bamrauli, Ms. Vadra headed to the Anand Bhavan, the sprawling iconic residence of the Nehrus converted into a museum, which falls on the way to the Sangam. At the Anand Bhavan, Ms. Vadra interacted with children at the orphanage run there, following which she paid her respects at the site where Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru’s ashes were kept before immersion at the Sangam. The leader then headed to the Ganga ghat where she enjoyed a boat ride. She then took a holy dip at the Sangam and perfomed “surya pujan achman” on the occasion of Mauni Amavasya. Ms. Vadra’s daughter Miraya accompanied her during the visit and the two were seen together participating in the rituals near the Sangam. Tweeting photos of her visit to the Sangam, which included one with her daughter by her side in the waters, Ms. Vadra said she had good fortune of participating in the “snan” at the “holy Sangam” on Mauni Amavasya along with others from across the country. Ms. Vadra, who paddled a boat on her way back from the Sangam, said she had fulfilled her long-standing desire of paddling a boat in the “Ganga ji.” “Jai Ma Gange,” she said. Ms. Vadra also sought the blessings of Jagatguru Shankaracharya Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati. Recalling her association with him, Ms. Vadra said the seer had in 1990 performed the “gruh pravesh” puja when her father Rajiv Gandhi was alive. She said she discussed “generosity and harmony” in dharma (religion) and the country with the seer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/priyanka-takes-ritual-dip-at-sangam/article33815840.ece
12 February 2021||New Delhi,||‘Union Budget is for the rich, of the rich, by the rich’||The Union Budget 2020-21 is a budget ‘for the rich, of the rich and by the rich’ senior Congress leader P. Chidambaram said in Rajya Sabha on Thursday and urged the government to amend it to provide cash transfers and free rations to the poor. The former Finance Minister said this Budget was presented in the pretext of a pandemic and in the context of a slowing down economy pushed into deep recession. “More than the text, pretext and the context, what is important is the subtext. The subtext is, this is a Budget prepared for the rich, of the rich and by the rich. The Budget has done nothing for the poor of India who continue to suffer,” he said. He said the Congress records its strongest protest and dissent against the Budget. Referring to the new term andolanjeevi (professional protesters) coined by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Mr. Chidambaram said, because the Congress dissents, they will be called andolanjeevi . But it is the parjeevis (parasites) who control 73% of the country’s wealth. Economy in doldrums Quoting various global economists, including the former Chief Economic Adviser Arvind Subramanian, Mr. Chidambaram said that the economy was in the doldrums, with an eighth quarter of slowdown, by the time the COVID-19 pandemic hit. “The government was in denial. The government was refusing to accept the reality of a slowing economy and the government believed wrongly that the problem of India’s economy was cyclical and not structural,” the Congress leader said. Even then, Mr. Chidambaram said, the Congress had pleaded with the government to make two changes to give money to the poor in the form of cash transfers and to use “mountains of food grain” to give free rations. He said, that government wrongly believes that the supply side responses will turn the economy around. “The best way to stimulate demand is to put money in the hands of the people,” he said. The revenue projections for next year are ambitious and there will be a shortfall, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/union-budget-is-for-the-rich-of-the-rich-by-the-rich/article33815452.ece
12 February 2021||New Delhi,||‘Most buses still wheelchair-unfriendly’||Less than 7% of public buses in the country were fully accessible to wheelchair users as of December 2020, with the target of 25% of buses being accessible by June 2022 under the Accessible India Campaign getting closer, according to government data. According to data from the Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry’s Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (DEPwD) via a Ministry of Road Transport and Highways report in January, 42,169 buses or 28.6% of the total 1.47 lakh buses operated by State road transport undertakings were “partially accessible” and 10,175 buses or 6.9% were “fully accessible”. In addition, 3,217 bus stations in 24 States and Union Territories out of 3,487 were made accessible, the DEPwD data showed. When the Accessible India Campaign was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2015, the deadline for making at least 25% of public buses fully accessible was March 2018. However, the deadline had been pushed back to June 2022, a DEPwD official said. Out of the total buses operated by States, 1.02 lakh are inter-city buses and 44,768 function in urban areas, the report said. Of the inter-city buses, 210 were fully accessible, 27,133 were accessible and 75,257 were not accessible as of December 2020. Among urban buses, 9,965 were fully accessible, 15,036 partially accessible and 19,767 were not accessible, the data showed. Apart from public buses, the Accessible India Campaign, was aimed at making government buildings, airports, railway stations and government websites accessible to persons with disabilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/most-buses-inaccessible-to-the-disabled/article33815461.ece
12 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Revised airfare bands to be in force till March 31||Air travel has become costlier, with the Union government on Thursday increasing the minimum and maximum fares an airline can levy on a given route with immediate effect. The minimum fare on a route has gone up by 10% and the maximum by nearly 30%, according to the order issued by the Civil Aviation Ministry. The government has been regulating airfares from May 25, 2020, when domestic flights resumed after the nationwide lockdown. There are seven fare bands, which vary according to the duration of a flight. The fare for the shortest flight (40 minutes) will now vary from Rs. 2,200 to Rs. 7,800, and the longest flight (nearly four hour 40 minutes) will cost between Rs. 7,200 and Rs. 24,200. The actual cost will be higher with the user development and security fees and GST. Though the government has said the airfare bands prescribed by it will be temporary, it has extended it several times. The latest order makes them mandatory till March 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/revised-airfare-bands-to-be-in-force-till-march-31/article33815466.ece
12 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Rs. 16 crore drug is their only hope of survival||A gene therapy costing Rs. 16 crore is the only shot of life for nearly 200 children with Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA) Type 1, a rare genetic disease, in Karnataka. Last month, the therapy — Zolgensma — was offered free to a 14-month-old baby from Bhatkal (Uttara Kannada) who was the lucky winner of a lottery through a compassionate access programme by Novartis, the Swiss drugmaker. This lottery is held once in two weeks for SMA children across the world and doctors at Baptist Hospital, that has a dedicated Paediatric Neuromuscular Service, are hoping more children will benefit. One-time infusion “The therapy is a one-time infusion that takes about an hour,” Ann Agnes Mathew, Consultant Paediatric Neurologist and Neuromascular Specialist, at Baptist Hospital told The Hindu. The therapy was approved by U.S. regulators in May 2019 and has since then turned into a miracle drug for this rare disorder that destroys a baby’s muscle control. “SMA is a disease caused by loss of nerve cells, which carry electrical signals from the brain to the muscles. The protein needed for this signalling is coded by a gene for which everyone has two copies - one from the mother and the other from the father. A child develops this disorder only if both the copies are faulty. Without treatment, this disease is ultimately fatal,” said Dr. Mathew. The disease as it progresses, makes it extremely difficult for the babies to carry out basic activities like sitting up, lifting their head or swallowing milk. Pointing out that the current treatment options range from medicines, which increase these proteins, to replacing the faulty gene, the doctor said, “Zolgensma is a revolutionary treatment, which works by supplying a healthy copy of the faulty gene, which allows nerve cells to then start producing the needed protein. That halts deterioration of the nerve cells and allows the baby to develop normally.” Delay in customs The drug has a 14-day shelf life and when it was sent from U.S. for the Bhatkal baby, it was stuck with customs for three days in mid-January making doctors jittery. Dr. Mathew said she had to personally meet the Customs officials to get it released. “When we explained the situation, they immediately released it. Any further delay would have been risky. The parents have taken a house on rent near the hospital for a follow-up. The baby is doing fine now,” she said. Pointing out that 38 babies had succumbed to the disease in Karnataka in over one-and-a-half years, Dr. Mathew said most families have given up hope as they cannot afford the treatment.  Special centre The Paediatric Neuromuscular Service at Baptist Hospital is a pioneering centre in the country with a multidisciplinary team of a paediatric neurologist, paediatric neuromuscular specialist, paediatric geneticist, paediatric pulmonologist, paediatric intensivist, paediatric cardiologist and paediatric endocrinologist providing comprehensive care under one roof. This service is run in collaboration with Organisation for Rare Diseases India, a NGO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-16-crore-drug-is-their-only-hope-of-survival/article33815424.ece
12 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||IIT-H incubated PURE EV to launch electric bike||IIT Hyderabad-incubated startupPURE EVis set to launch its first electric motorcycle - ETRYST 350 - completely designed, developed and manufactured here. About 50 demo vehicles are to be deployed by March-end across the country making them available for test drives at specific outlets. ‘ETRYST 350’ is scheduled to hit the roads on Independence Day (Aug 15) at a price that would be “economical in comparison with conventional motorcycles with similar pickup and power”. The bike be launched first in Bangalore, Hyderabad and Pune, following which it would expand to more outlets by the year-end. Designed and developed at PURE EV’s technical and manufacturing centre here, it boasts of a top speed of 85 kmph delivering on a par ride experience with most Internal Combustion Engine (ICE) motorbikes. A single full charge will provide a range of 120 km, till the battery has to be charged again. The vehicle is powered by a 3.5 KWH patented battery with a five-year warranty, developed by the firm. The electric bike can get adapted to any Indian terrain and can be used for daily commutes providing a very stable ride experience even at speed of 85 kmph and delivering a high pickup on a par with premium ICE motorcycles. “The launch of this motorcycle is a demonstration of our significant learnings in powertrain design and development at our R&D centre”, said Founder, PURE EV, and associate professor, department of mechanical and aerospace engineering, IIT-H, Nishanth Dongari, on Thursday. Extensive trials and testing are currently under way for the bike and he was confident of delivering a high performance bike with respect to existing range of ICE motorcycles and help switching customers towards EVs. Co-founder and chief executive officer Rohit Vadera said: “With ETRYST 350, we want to make a mark in the domestic EV industry with competitive pricing point in comparison with premium motorcycles. We are also upgrading our after-sales service network and to enhance our service capabilities with invention of devices like ‘Batrics Faraday’ providing remote battery service capability and comprehensive technicians training programs.” The company is targeting the youth and those yearning for a high-performance electric motorcycle at an affordable price. It has over 100 touch points from Tamil Nadu to Srinagar to Arunachal Praddesh, with plans to expand further. Exports to Nepal have commenced and exports to rest of South Asia, South East Asia and even South Africa as well as Africa are being explored.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/iit-h-incubated-pure-ev-to-launch-electric-bike/article33815790.ece
12 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Smriti Irani, Anurag Thakur take on Congress leader||Union Minister Smriti Irani on Thursday targeted the former Congress president Rahul Gandhi while intervening in the Budget discussion in the Lok Sabha. Speaking a couple of hours after Mr. Gandhi attacked the Narendra Modi government in the Lok Sabha, Ms. Irani hit out at his record as the former Member of Parliament from Amethi, the Lok Sabha constituency that she now represents in Uttar Pradesh. Without naming Mr. Gandhi, she said, “This person had said that he’s not concerned about the Budget. I am not surprised because the Budget mentions about the Aatmanirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana. He is not concerned even when there was not even a CT scan facility at the hospitals of his constituency when he was an MP there.” “When he was Amethi MP, a trust of his family took farmers’ land on the pretext of opening a medical college. But they built a guest house for themselves there. Being Amethi MP, I would like to say that if someone made provision for a medical college here, it was Narendra Modi,” claimed Ms. Irani. When Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury objected to the charge, she countered that she had facts and could produce proof. Earlier, Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur not only defended the Budget robustly but fired more than a few broadsides against Mr. Gandhi, who had preceded him as a speaker during the discussion on the Budget. Referring to Mr. Gandhi’s allegation of crony capitalists being encouraged under the Modi government, Mr. Thakur said that the corporates to which he had referred had been given port development projects in Kerala, the State from which Mr. Gandhi was elected. “Even the grain silos that Rahul Gandhi mentioned as belonging to these corporates, which he says intend to hoard grain and sell at high prices, were set up under the UPA (United Progressive Alliance) government. He should examine the previous government’s dealings with corporate houses,” said Mr. Thakur. “When you say hum do hamarey do (us two, our two) you are not referring to anyone but didi and jijaji (sister and brother-in-law),” he said, referring to other members of the Gandhi family. “You say you speak for farmers. In various States, members of the first family of Congress have taken over land under dubious circumstances,” he added.  Other Opposition members who targeted the government over Budgetary allocations included All India Majlis-e-Ittahadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) MP Imitiaz Jaleel, who alleged that allocations for minorities-related schemes had been cut by as much as Rs. 1,024 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/smriti-irani-anurag-thakur-take-on-congress-leader/article33815447.ece
12 February 2021||K.S. SudhiKOCHI,||HC allows minor to end pregnancy||The Kerala High Court on Thursday allowed the medical termination of a young rape survivor’s pregnancy that had crossed the legally permissible period for the procedure. Justice P.V. Asha permitted the medical termination of pregnancy (MTP) on a petition by the mother of a 16-year-old girl. Her pregnancy had crossed 28 weeks, the oldest to be cleared by the Kerala High Court, legal sources pointed out.  The Hindu had earlier reported that the court had permitted medical termination of pregnancy for seven girls in six months. The accused in the case is also a minor and has been sent to a care home for children in conflict with the law. The police have booked a case under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. A medical board reported that the foetus faced high risk of poor neurological development and the mental and physical development of the foetus was likely to be “very bad.” The panel suggested termination of pregnancy considering the possible adverse psychological impact on the girl and the anomalies in the foetus. The board noted that there was the possibility of the child being born alive. However, the survivor and her guardian were not willing for resuscitation, it was reported. The Kerala State Legal Services Authority, which took forward the petition, will offer legal support to the girl and try to get her compensation under the victim compensation scheme, said K.T. Nizar Ahamed, secretary of the Authority. Compensation would be granted based on the recommendation of the POCSO court, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-allows-minor-to-end-pregnancy/article33815430.ece
12 February 2021||Hyderabad,||Uttam asks Modi if closure of procurement centres in Telangana is linked to farm laws||TPCC president and Nalgonda MP N. Uttam Kumar Reddy asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to clarify whether the Telangana government's decision to close down procurement centres was due to the new farm laws or not. In a letter to the Prime Minister, which he personally handed over ito the PMO, the PCC chief referred to Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao's statement that procurement centres were closed down due to the new farm laws. Moreover, the decision came right after Mr. Rao met the Prime Minister in New Delhi in December last year. So it is the responsibility of Prime Minister to clarify on the issue, he said seeking an appointment to explain the Telangana government's decision personally. Mr. Uttam Reddy recalled the repeated statements of the Prime Minister and the Ministers on the floor of the House that new farm laws will not alter the present system but only create more opportunities for farmers for selling. “But Telangana CM's statements are completely contradictory to your statements in Parliament and outside. Now Telangana will be closing down approximately 10,000 procurement centres run by Indira Kranthi Patham Women’s Self Help Groups and Primary Agricultural Cooperative Societies,” he said. He said Mr. Rao's decision has led to even more anxiety and insecurity among farmers of Telangana regarding the government’s true intentions behind the passing of these controversial farm laws. Moreover, the Chief Minister further stated that the government is not a rice or dal miller or trader and hence does not have the responsibility to procure produce at MSP. If the Chief Minister of a State interprets these laws to mean that procurement centres are to be shut down and it is not the Government’s responsibility to procure agricultural produce at MSP, then it is clear that the farmers’ demand that these laws be repealed is justified, he said.  Telangana will be closing down nearly 10,000 procurement centres run by Indira Kranthi Patham Women’s Self Help Groups and Primary Agricultural Cooperative Societies. Uttam Kumar Reddy, Congress leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uttam-asks-modi-if-closure-of-procurement-centres-in-telangana-is-linked-to-farm-laws/article33816106.ece
12 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||ED moves SC against bail for Sivasankar||The Enforcement Directorate has moved the Supreme Court against the Kerala High Court’s decision to grant bail to M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to Kerala Chief Minister, in connection with the gold smuggling case. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) said Mr. Sivasankar was influential and his release would hamper the investigation. The ED is probing the money laundering angle. Mr. Sivasankar was arrested on October 28 after his anticipatory bail petition was rejected by the Kerala High Court. His custody by the ED has been extended thrice in the past. The case pertains to the smuggling of gold through diplomatic channels in Kerala. It had come to light after 30 kg of gold worth Rs. 14.82 crore smuggled in a consignment camouflaged as diplomatic baggage was busted by the Customs in Thiruvananthapuram in July 2019. The ED, the National Investigation Agency and the Customs Department are all probing the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-moves-sc-against-bail-for-sivasankar/article33815437.ece
12 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Polls to A.P., Telangana MLC seats on March 14||The Election Commission on Thursday announced the schedule for elections to four graduates and teachers constituencies in the Telangana and Andhra Pradesh legislative councils. Polling will be held on March 14 and counting of votes will be on March 17. The term of office of two members of the Andhra Pradesh Legislative Council from East-West Godavari Teachers’ constituency and Krishna-Guntur Teachers’ constituency, as well as two members of the Telangana Legislative Council from Mahabubnagar-Ranga Reddy-Hyderabad Graduates’ constituency and Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda Graduates’ constituency is expiring on March 29 due to the retirement of the sitting members, the Commission said. The EC said the polls would be conducted in compliance with the prevailing COVID-19 precautions, including social distancing and mask wearing by all those involved in the process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/polls-to-ap-telangana-mlc-seats-on-march-14/article33815419.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Phased disengagement at Pangong Tso: Rajnath||“It is, therefore, our expectation that the Chinese side will work with us in full sincerity to resolve these remaining issues,” he asserted. India had consistently maintained that while bilateral relations could develop in parallel with discussions on resolving the boundary question, any serious disturbance in peace and tranquillity along the LAC in the border areas was bound to have adverse implications for the direction of our bilateral ties. “The actions by the Chinese side since last year have seriously disturbed peace and tranquillity. Consequently they have also had an impact on the overall relationship,” he observed. After Mr, Singh’s statement, Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu denied opportunity to members to seek clarifications on the statement. He said it was a a matter of national unity and security. “Discussions are to go on for the next 48 hours and we don’t want to create a controversy; it is not good,” he said, adding that he would consider the demand for an in camera meeting with the Minister. Tanks and mechanised elements have started moving back from South Bank and distances, including the latitudes and longitudes, up to which they have to move back, had been agreed upon in the agreement, a defence official said. Both sides have worked out a detailed step by step plan for pullback of troops and equipment, the official stated. Joint verification would be done together at each step, he added. In a pre-emptive move on August 29 and 30, 2020, the Army had occupied some unoccupied heights in the Chushul sector from Thakung to Rechin La within the Indian perception of the LAC, foiling the Chinese People’s Liberation Army attempts to dominate the heights. As part of the agreement, the Indian Army will vacate these peaks and pull back troops and equipment, while China would remove structures between Finger 4 to Finger 8 on North Bank and withdraw troops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/phased-disengagement-at-pangong-tso-rajnath/article33815438.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Follow the law, Minister tells social media giants||Twitter and the Government of India are at loggerheads over issues related to content removal and freedom of expression. The row intensified after the Centre asked the micro-blogging site to block 250 accounts using hashtags related to “farmer genocide”, and about 1,178 accounts that security agencies suspect are backed by Khalistani sympathisers and Pakistan. Twitter said in a blog post that it withheld “a portion of the accounts but no action was taken against the accounts of news media entities, journalists, activists and politicians as it violated their policy of free speech”. Asked about why India has not become a hub of microprocessors despite being an information technology hub, the Minister said: “Koo, a made in India blog, has become a big toast of success today. They are not only using Indian technology, but Indian servers too... But I agree there is need to boost the processing industry.” On the steps taken to curb fake news, he said, “We respect social media. It has empowered common people. We respect criticism... But if social media is used to propagate hate, then action will be taken... If anyone uses social media to influence elections, strict action will be taken. Whether it is Twitter, Facebook, or LinkedIn, I have a message for all of you — come, work in India and earn money. But you will have to follow India’s laws.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/follow-the-law-minister-tells-social-media/article33815439.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||17 major OTT players adopt regulatory toolkit||Amit Goenka, Chair, Digital Entertainment Committee, IAMAI said, “This toolkit amplifies all the critical points that were addressed in the Code signed last year and aims to address feedback received from the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, particularly on strengthening the grievance redressal mechanism. It further sets out clear tent poles that the OCCPs [Online Curated Content Provider] need to undertake to achieve a common goal of entertaining millions of Indians responsibly.” The toolkit, it added, not only aims to set out guiding principles and code of ethics for the reference of the signatories, it also addresses the feedback received from the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting on the issues of conflict of interest. The industry body said the toolkit will also provide for procedures to effectuate the various provisions of the Code; assist the signatories in fulfilling their commitments and responsibilities as set out in the Code and achieve effective self-regulation goals as envisioned by the signatories in the Code. The signatories to the toolkit, which is effective February 10 onwards, include ZEE5, Viacom 18 (Voot), Disney+Hotstar, Amazon Prime Video, Netflix, SonyLiv, MX Player, Jio Cinema, Eros Now, Alt Balaji, Arre, HoiChoi, Hungama, Shemaroo, Discovery Plus, Aha and Lionsgate Play.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/17-major-ott-players-adopt-regulatory-toolkit/article33815440.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Rescue efforts resume in Tapovan dam tunnel||“Secretary, Defence Research and Development Organisation, has been asked to depute experts for analysis of the situation and for taking appropriate remedial measures in coordination with Central and State agencies,” said a Ministry statement. In the early hours of Thursday, the team started a drilling operation to peep into an interlinked silt tunnel, in the hope of establishing contact with the trapped workers. The joint team had been clearing sludge and debris from the main project tunnel for the past four days, but was not able to reach the T-junction where workers are suspected to be trapped. NTPC officials later told the agencies that there was another tunnel about 12 metre underneath, where the workers might be located. “If the silt channel is intact and clear, an alternative access route can be created to reach the trapped workers. It is becoming more difficult to remove the sludge and debris from the main tunnel; a stretch of over 60-metre still remains to be cleared even after four days of round-the-clock work,” said a senior National Disaster Response Force official. The drilling operation was initiated early on Thursday. However, it had to be stopped after the drill hit hard rock at a depth of around 8 metre. More sophisticated equipment was being arranged for the purpose. Using machines, the rescue teams have been removing the slush again as before. “The sludge has solidified a little, making the job easier,” said an Indo-Tibetan Border Police official. Drone experts have also been roped in to help in locating the workers. The death toll in the disaster has gone up to 36.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rescue-efforts-resume-in-tapovan-dam-tunnel/article33815441.ece
12 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘India fastest to reach 70 lakh vaccinations’||In 26 days, India has become the fastest country to finish 70 lakh COVID-19 vaccinations, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday. “It took 27 days for the U.S. and 48 days for the U.K. to reach the same vaccination figures. India was also the fastest to touch the six million mark a few days back. As of February 11, till 8 a.m., more than 70 lakh (70,17,114) beneficiaries have received the vaccination under the countrywide exercise,” a press release from the Ministry said. As many as 57,05,228 healthcare workers and 13,11,886 frontline workers were vaccinated in 1,43,056 sessions, a Ministry release noted. Thirteen States and Union Territories have vaccinated over 65% of the registered healthcare workers, with Bihar leading with over 79%. But seven States and Union Territories have reported less than 40%, with Puducherry at the lowest 17.5%. Seventeen States and Union Territories reported no COVID-19 deaths in the past 24 hours. They included Telangana, Gujarat, Assam, Haryana, Odisha, Uttarakhand, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Lakshadweep, Ladakh, Sikkim, Manipur and Mizoram. The country had the lowest active cases per million population globally, India reported 12,923 new confirmed cases in the last 24 hours and 11,764 new recoveries were registered in the same period, the release. Also, 108 case fatalities were reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-is-fastest-to-reach-70-lakh-vaccinations-health-ministry/article33815455.ece
12 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC refuses plea on fake COVID-19 vaccines||The Supreme Court on Thursday refused to entertain a petition seeking a law to deter black marketing and supply of fake COVID-19 vaccines. “We are not the legislature. We cannot pass general directions. Please bring a concrete case,” Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde told petitioner-advocate Vishal Tiwari. Mr. Tiwari’s request to withdraw his petition was granted. “The petitioner who is appearing in person seeks permission to withdraw this petition with liberty to file a fresh petition. Permission, as sought for, is granted. Accordingly, the writ petition is dismissed as withdrawn with the liberty aforesaid,” the court recorded in the order. ‘Norms needed’ Mr . Tiwari said “government is required to make citizens vigilant and aware about the selling and supply of fake corona vaccine. Some guidelines for their awareness have to be framed. It is most important to bring a law in the shape of an enactment or ordinance to deter criminals from selling and manufacturing the fake vaccine”. It said an equitable distribution was necessary to maintain the health of citizens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-refuses-plea-on-fake-covid-19-vaccines/article33815467.ece
12 February 2021||KOCHI,||Sunny Leone, organisers had no written pact: CB||With the High Court stopping her arrest, the Crime Branch (CB) officers probing the cheating case against actor Sunny Leone have turned their attention to gathering more evidence now that it has emerged that there was no written agreement between the actor and the organisers of an event she was supposed to lead but allegedly cancelled at the eleventh hour. Ms. Leone was to be the main attraction of a Valentine’s Day show at Adlux International Convention Centre in Angamaly in 2019. Shiyas, a resident of Perumbavoor and the coordinator of the event, petitioned the State Police Chief that the actor did not turn up after taking Rs. 25 lakh. The CB registered a case invoking Section 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the Indian Penal Code. Other celebrities CB sources confirmed that apart from the bank transaction trail and WhatsApp messages there was no written agreement between the organisers and the actor. However, it was unlikely to hamper the case since there were supporting evidence and witness accounts to the actor’s commitment to participate in the show. The CB plans to record the statement of other celebrities who were to feature in the event that was called off following Ms. Leone’s withdrawal. In a statement to the probe team, Ms. Leone reportedly claimed she was not paid Rs. 12.5 lakh seven days before the show as was agreed. However, Mr. Shiyas said the actor had taken a Rs. 5 lakh pay cut on account of the 2018 flood and had agreed for a fee of Rs. 25 lakh, which was paid in three lots of Rs. 15 lakh, Rs. 5 lakh, and Rs. 5 lakh with the last payment being made on the eve of the show. ‘A loss of Rs. 1.5 crore’ “We had been asking her for a signed agreement since the second payment in December 2018. It never happened. Since then we have sent multiple emails and the CB has that mail trail. We suffered a loss of Rs. 1.5 crore towards the travel and accommodation of other celebrities and setting up a massive stage at the venue,” he said. Mr. Shiyas also refuted the actor’s reported statement that her withdrawal was triggered by non-payment of the remaining fee and change in schedule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sunny-leone-organisers-had-no-written-pact-cb/article33815728.ece
12 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cite cases of lockdown arrests: SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked a group of young lawyers, who highlighted the ‘indiscriminate’ arrests of “tens of thousands of petty traders, pedestrians, cyclists” during the lockdown, to file a fresh petition mentioning specific incidents of authoritarian excess. The lawyers had based their case on a survey but a Bench led by Chief Justice Sharad A. Bobde said the court needed a concrete case to take judicial action. Senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, appearing for petitioners led by Ameya Bokil, was allowed to withdraw the petition with liberty to file a fresh plea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cite-cases-of-lockdown-arrests-sc/article33815468.ece
12 February 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi HC seeks report on farmer’s death||The Delhi High Court on Thursday sought a status report from the Delhi police on a plea seeking court-monitored Special Investigating Team probe into the death of a 25-year-old farmer during the tractor parade on Republic Day against three farm laws. Justice Yogesh Khanna also issued notice to the Delhi government, the Uttar Pradesh police and the Chief Medical Officer of the District Hospital at Rampur, where the post-mortem of Navreet Singh was carried out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-hc-seeks-report-on-farmers-death/article33815442.ece
12 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Govt. not serious on our demand’||Farmer unions on Thursday termed the statements of Prime Minister Narendra Modi “anti-farmer” and alleged that the government was not serious on their demand for full price for their produce. They also unveiled a plan to hold more “Kisan Mahapanchayats” in the days to come. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha said Mr. Modi’s statement that many laws were made without demanded by people proved that the farm laws were not demanded by the farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-not-serious-on-our-demand/article33815443.ece
12 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Farm laws: MP flags SC panel’s queries||Revolutionary Socialist Party MP N.K. Premachandran asked the government for clarifications on an advertisement in a newspaper on behalf of the panel set up by the Supreme Court on the three farm laws, asking for the views of stakeholders and public. “When the Parliament demanded that the three laws be sent to a standing committee for examination and suggestions it was refused; so why is the Supreme Court now interfering in the legislative process,” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farm-laws-mp-flags-sc-panels-queries/article33815444.ece
12 February 2021||New Delhi,||Privilege motion against Moitra||Nishikant Dubey and P.P. Chowdhary of the BJP have moved a privilege notice against Trinamool Congress MP Mahua Moitra over her remarks against a former Chief Justice of India in the Lok Sabha on Monday. During her speech, without naming any individual, she said that the judiciary has failed in its duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/privilege-motion-against-moitra/article33815450.ece
12 February 2021||Mumbai,||Koshyari denied use of VVIP aircraft||The already estranged relations between Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government stretched further after he was denied to use the VVIP aircraft on Thursday for his travel to Dehradun from Mumbai. The Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) clarified that the Governor’s office was informed on Wednesday that permission to use the plane had not been given. “It was expected that the Governor would leave only after a formal confirmation from the government. However, the officer concerned did not confirm, resulting in honourable Governor not being able to use the government aircraft,” the CMO said. Mr. Koshyari was scheduled to preside over the official programme of the valedictory function of the 122nd induction training programme of IAS officers at Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration at Mussoorie on Friday. He was scheduled to depart from Mumbai for Dehradun at 10 a.m. on Thursday. “In preparation of the visit, the Governor’s secretariat had written to the Maharashtra government seeking permission for the use of the government aircraft by the Governor, well in advance on February 2. The CMO was also informed about it. On Thursday, the Governor reached the CSIM airport at 10 a.m.  and boarded the government plane. However, the Governor was informed that the permission for the use of the government aircraft had not been received,” a release from Mr. Koshyari’s office said. He left Mumbai after booking a commercial flight. The government further said that merely informing about the journey was not sufficient as it had to give sanction for the use of the VVIP aircraft, and in this case approval was not given. “The Governor’s secretariat had not taken adequate precaution despite being informed of no permission to use the aircraft. The government has taken a serious note of the incident and the Chief Minister has directed that responsibility be fixed on the official concerned at the Governor’s secretariat,” the CMO said. The BJP slammed the government over the incident, with former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis calling it a government with massive ego. The incident is seen as a continuation of the tussle between the two sides. Mr. Koshyari is yet to approve the 12 names submitted by the State Cabinet to him for appointment to the Legislative Council from the Governor’s quota. On Wednesday, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said that the government might take a legal route since the Governor was neither accepting the Cabinet’s proposal nor sending it back.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/koshyari-denied-use-of-vvip-aircraft/article33815458.ece
12 February 2021||New Delhi,||Trudeau and Modi discuss vaccine supply||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Canadian counterpart, Justin Trudeau, spoke over telephone on Wednesday and according to official statements from both sides, the discussion dealt with bilateral and global efforts to contain the COVID-19 pandemic through vaccine production, multilateral cooperation, and the “recent protests” by farmers in India which has received top-level support from Canada. In a social media message, Mr. Modi expressed happiness over the phone call. He said, “India would do its best to facilitate supplies of COVID-19 vaccines.” The discussion dealt with collaboration on “other important issues like climate change and the global economic recovery”, he stated. A release from the Ministry of External Affairs said the Canadian leader appreciated India’s vaccine production during the conversation. “Prime Minister Trudeau informed Prime Minister Modi about Canada’s requirements for COVID-19 vaccines from India,” it stated. A statement from Mr. Trudeau’s office highlighted need to “work together” on ensuring global access to vaccines. “The leaders discussed Canada and India’s commitment to democratic principles, recent protests, and the importance of resolving issues through dialogue. They underlined the need to work collectively in rebuilding a more sustainable and resilient global economy,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-justin-trudeau-discuss-vaccine-and-farmers-protest/article33815469.ece
12 February 2021||New Delhi,||CPI slams NIA on Bhima Koregaon case||All innocent persons accused and arrested in the Bhima Koregaon case should be released immediately, Communist Party of India demanded on Thursday in the light of the latest revelations that showed that the case was based on planted and manipulated documents, the party said. “The party deplores the way the NIA and other agencies act in order to suppress the genuine voice of opposition and dissent to the government policies. The party demands that this must stop immediately and the release of all innocent accused,” CPI general secretary D. Raja said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cpi-slams-nia-on-bhima-koregaon-case/article33815473.ece
12 February 2021||Kozhikode,||Arrest warrant against solar scam accused||The Kozhikode Judicial First Class Magistrate’s Court here on Thursday issued an arrest warrant against solar scam accused Sarita S. Nair, Biju Radhakrishnan, and B. Manimon for not showing up in court to hear the verdict in a cheating case. The case was that the trio had duped Abdul Majeed, owner of Associated Steels Yard, into paying Rs. 42.7 lakh after promising him franchises in solar panel and windmill farm companies. No exemption Magistrate K.K. Nimmi adjourned the pronouncement of the verdict till February 25. The court also nullified the bail granted to the three accused and rejected their application seeking exemption from appearance in the case. Biju had sought exemption stating that he was recuperating after an angioplasty while Sarita said she was undergoing treatment at the Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology in Thiruvananthapuram. Biju has been named first accused in the case and Sarita, second. Both had been running a firm called Team Solar Renewable Energy Solutions on Chittoor Road in Kochi. The chargesheet against them was submitted in December 2013 and the trial began in January 2016. They were also tried in two other cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/arrest-warrant-against-solar-scam-accused/article33815420.ece
12 February 2021||New Delhi,||ED chargesheet against PFI, CFI members||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a chargesheet against five office bearers and members of the Popular Front of India (PFI) and its student wing, Campus Front of India (CFI), in connection with a money laundering case. The trial court has taken cognisance of the charge sheet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-chargesheet-against-pfi-cfi-members/article33815842.ece
12 February 2021||New Delhi,||Raid on liquor firm leads to over Rs. 870-cr. ‘black money’||The Income Tax Department has detected undisclosed income of over Rs. 870 crore after it raided a “major” Bengaluru-based liquor manufacturing group, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said on Thursday. The searches were carried out on February 9 at 26 locations across the country. “In all, the search and seizure action has resulted in the detection of total undisclosed income of Rs. 878.82 crore,” a statement issued by the CBDT said. “This group has a huge land bank which is being developed into residential and commercial properties with a builder based in Bengaluru,” the CBDT said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/raid-on-liquor-firm-leads-to-over-rs-870-cr-black-money/article33816030.ece
12 February 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Photographer gets life term in sedition case||A local court sentenced a former contractual photographer of the integrated test range (ITR) at the Abdul Kalam island with life imprisonment in a sedition case in Odisha’s Balasore district on Thursday. The photographer, identified as Iswar Chandra Behera, was also slapped a penalty of Rs. 10,000, apart from life imprisonment, by Balasore Additional District and Session Judge Girija Prasad Mohapatra. He was convicted under Sections 121A and 120B of the IPC, and Sections 3, 4 and 5 of the Official Secrets Act. “The activities proved against accused Ishwar Chandra Behera clearly establishes that the accused was spying inside the ITR and taking advantage of his engagement,” the 47-page judgment says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/photographer-gets-life-term-in-sedition-case/article33815841.ece
12 February 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Gujarat local polls: Cong. offers property tax waiver||The Gujarat Congress on Thursday announced major sops in its manifesto for civic polls offering waiver of property tax and promising to create free Wi-Fi zones and parking places in six cities which are going for the local elections on February 21. The Opposition party has also announced to install purifiers on city roads to improve air quality amidst rising pollution, free education in English medium in civic-run schools and tax exemption to shopkeepers and traders hit by COVID-19 lockdown. It also promised to provide free parking facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gujarat-local-polls-cong-offers-property-tax-waiver/article33815523.ece
12 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||ECI to assess Kerala poll preparedness||Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora and Election Commissioners Sushil Chandra and Rajiv Kumar will arrive here on Friday to assess the preparedness for the Assembly elections. The delegation, which includes senior Election Commission of India (ECI) officials, would be here till Monday, said Chief Electoral Officer, Kerala, Teeka Ram Meena on Thursday. The ECI team will hold discussions with Mr. Meena and the nodal officer of the Police Department at 10 a.m. on Saturday. The commission will conduct parleys with representatives of political parties at 11 a.m. On Sunday, the commission will hold discussions with the Chief Electoral Officer at 10 a.m. and with the Chief Secretary, State Police Chief and other senior officials of the State government at 3.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/eci-to-assess-kerala-poll-preparedness/article33816155.ece
12 February 2021||KOTTAYAM,||Prime accused found guilty in sex racket case||The Additional and District Sessions Court here on Thursday found Suresh, the prime accused in the Vithura sex racket case, guilty in one of the 24 cases registered against him in connection with the rape and sale of the victim for sex work. The quantum of sentence will be pronounced on Friday. Judge Johnson John found the accused guilty under Sections 344 (wrongful confinement for 10 or more days) and 372 (selling minor for the purpose of prostitution) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 31 and 51 (g) of the Immoral Traffic Prevention Act. The court, meanwhile, acquitted him of the charges under Sections 376 and 109 of the IPC for forcing another person to rape the girl. The trial against Suresh, which began in 2019 and was delayed due to the pandemic situation, also witnessed special public prosecutor Rajagopal Padippurakkal verifying one of the witnesses from the U.S through videoconferencing. The prosecution case pertained to the incident that took place in October 1995. The sex trade involving the minor girl came to light in July 1996 when the victim landed in police custody along with one of the accused. 24 set of charges Based on the victim's statement, Suresh of Jubaira Manzil in Kadakkal, Kollam, was arraigned as the prime accused. The prosecution has submitted 24 set of charges against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/prime-accused-found-guilty-in-sex-racket-case/article33815431.ece
12 February 2021||JAIPUR,||Plea against Salman for false affidavit dismissed||A Sessions Court in Jodhpur on Thursday dismissed the Rajasthan government’s petition seeking prosecution of film actor Salman Khan for submitting a false affidavit regarding his arms licence during the hearing of a case accusing him of keeping arms with expired licence and using them for poaching.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-against-salman-for-false-affidavit-dismissed/article33816091.ece
12 February 2021||Kozhikode,||Saseendran weighing future options||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran, who remains defiant to the move by a section of the party to leave the Left Democratic Front (LDF), will take a final call on either floating a new party or joining the Congress (S) only after a decision comes from the party Central leadership on Friday. Sources close to him believe that the CPI(M) State leadership will offer the Elathur Assembly seat which he has been representing two times in a row, despite opposition from its district unit. That possibility would emerge if the NCP Central leadership gives a green signal to its State unit to join the United Democratic Front (UDF). "I am awaiting for a decision from the Central leadership. The future course of action will be decided after that,” Mr. Saseendran told The Hindu on Thursday. He said the Central leadership had not thought about the winning possibility other than the Pala Assembly segment. “Except for discussions that were held in Delhi, no political discussion was held on any of the committees in the State,” Mr. Saseendran said. He claimed that the majority of the district committees of the party backed him and that the general feeling among the party affiliates was to stay with the LDF. “We expect the Central leadership to honour that sentiment and it should have solicited the response of the district chiefs,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/saseendran-weighing-future-options/article33815421.ece
12 February 2021||Kottayam,||CEC nod for Mani as KC(M) chief||In a major boost to Jose K. Mani ahead of the upcoming Assembly elections, the Central Election Commission (CEC) has approved his elevation as chairman of the Kerala Congress (M) [KC(M)]. The CEC, on its official website, has now updated details about the latest organisational election of the KC(M), which also included the appointment of Mr. Mani as party chairman. The step has come as a major shot in the arm for the regional party, which is facing the Assembly elections as a constituent of the Left Democratic Front (LDF). The projection of Mr. Mani as KC(M) chairman – a post long held by his father K.M. Mani – is also expected to boost his prospects as a Left Demorcatic Front candidate in Pala during the coming elections. “This shows that the truth will ultimately prevail. The recognition from the CEC is the result of a protracted legal and political fight staged by the party by facing a flurry of smear campaigns that even defied the CEC's decision,” Mr. Mani said in a statement The dispute over the authority of the KC(M) between Mr. Mani and P.J. Joseph began during the Pala byelection in September last. The election had caused a split in the party along the factional lines led by Mr. Mani and Mr. Joseph. During the byelection, Mr. Joseph had refused to allocate the party symbol to Jose Tom Pulikkunnel, a nominee of the Mani group. Following this, Mr. Pulikkunnel had to contest as UDF Independent and was allotted ‘pineapple’ as his election symbol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cec-nod-for-mani-as-kcm-chief/article33815669.ece
12 February 2021||Lucknow,||Priyanka takes ritual dip at Sangam in Prayagraj||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday took a ritual dip at the Sangam — the confluence of the rivers Ganga and Yamuna — at Prayagraj during her visit to the city on the occasion of Mauni Amavasya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/priyanka-takes-ritual-dip-at-sangam-in-prayagraj/article33815454.ece
12 February 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Odisha court sentences former photographer to life in sedition case||A local court sentenced a former contractual photographer of the integrated test range (ITR) at the Abdul Kalam island with life imprisonment in a sedition case in Odisha’s Balasore district on Thursday. Iswar Chandra Behera was also ordered to pay a penalty of Rs. 10,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-court-sentences-former-photographer-to-life-in-sedition-case/article33815459.ece
12 February 2021||New Delhi,||ED charges PFI, CFI members over money-laundering||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a chargesheet against five office-bearers and members of the Popular Front of India (PFI) and its student wing, Campus Front of India (CFI), in connection with a money laundering case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-charges-pfi-cfi-members-over-money-laundering/article33815462.ece
12 February 2021||JAIPUR,||Plea against Salman for filing false affidavit dismissed||A Sessions Court in Jodhpur on Thursday dismissed the Rajasthan government’s petition seeking prosecution of film actor Salman Khan for submitting a false affidavit regarding his arms licence during the hearing of a case accusing him of keeping arms with expired licence and using them for poaching.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-against-salman-for-filing-false-affidavit-dismissed/article33815470.ece
12 February 2021||Kochi,||Sephy moves HC for suspending sentence||Sister Sephy, one of the two convicts in the Sister Abhaya murder case, on Thursday filed a petition in the Kerala High Court seeking to suspend the sentence awarded to her and release her on bail. Her appeal against the Thiruvananthapuram CBI Special Court verdict is pending before the High Court. In her petition, she said she had been on bail during the investigation and trial periods. She was serving life imprisonment since December 22, 2020. Her aged parents were bedridden. They required the presence of the petitioner now. The petition said she was released on bail on January 1, 2009 after being arrested in November 2008. She had not misused her liberty granted by the court. Nor was there any allegations that she had tried to tamper with the evidence or influence the witnesses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sephy-moves-hc-for-suspending-sentence/article33815429.ece
12 February 2021||Aruppukottai,TAMIL NADU||Learn to live with nature : CJ||Chief Justice of Madras High Court Justice Sanjib Banerjee has warned that the present rate of development should not result in destruction of agricultural lands that would deprive the people of their food. Inaugurating munsif-cum-judicial magistrate court at Tiruchuli in Virudhunagar district through video conference on Thursday, he said that there were numerous complaints every day through public interest litigations about encroachment of lands and waterbodies. “Land has become a scarce commodity and we would run out of it shortly.” Blaming that lot of forest has been destroyed, he advocated that efforts must be made to give back some of the land taken from the forest in recent times and restore some of the corridors between different stretches of forests. Stating that the invisible virus had haunted, chased and driven several people to death, he said that people should learn to live with nature. He emphasized on developing a harmony between development and respect for nature and respect for animals in every way. He advised judges to have a wholesome approach as judges in courts and through legal services authority in creating awareness of legal rights and empowering people especially the vulnerable section of the society. While appreciating the inauguration of an additional court to provide access to justice to the common man, he said that mere physical infrastructure would not give common man access to justice. “Things have to be made conducive for people who really need justice to be able to approach it. Approach of judges have to be altered,” he said. Stating that the courts were still following a number of feudal cultures, he said those practices ought to be given up He deplored the practice of addressing judges as “lordship,” which were colonial and feudal. “Sir” can be used all around without any exemption between anybody in courts, he said. Breaking feudal culture and colonial practices can make the courts less intimidating, he added. Realising the bounds of jurisdiction and authority of people in public offices will help in effective and critical exercise of the authority, he said. High Court Judges, R. Subramanian, N. Anand Venkatesh and B. Pugalenthi, Virudhunagar Principal District and Sessions Judge, A. Muthursaratha, and other judicial officers were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/learn-to-live-with-nature-says-cj/article33815599.ece
12 February 2021||B. Tilak Chandar,TAMIL NADU||Entire country was working virtually during pandemic, says HC||After a counsel, during the course of the hearing on a petition that challenged a trial court order, made a submission that he could not argue the case elaborately before the trial court in the physical mode, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed that during COVID-19 pandemic, the entire country was working virtually. The court was hearing the petition filed by A. Lakshmanan of Tirunelveli, who was accused in a corruption case. An application filed before a trial court hearing cases under the Prevention of Corruption Act seeking an order to produce documents in the case was dismissed. Challenging the order, the present petition was filed before the High Court. Justice K. Murali Shankar observed that during COVID-19 pandemic, the entire country was working virtually. Since the petitioner had not raised any objection before the trial court, he should not take such a stand before the High Court. The Supreme Court had permitted virtual hearing and the High Court had issued various circulars to conduct the cases virtually in view of the pandemic. The complaint that the petitioner was not given an opportunity to argue the case elaborately physically was very much against the orders of the Supreme Court and the High Court, the judge said. Moreover, it was high time for the stakeholders of the judiciary to refrain from making allegations or levelling baseless charges against judicial officers, the judge said. More importantly, since the bar and the bench were the two sides of the same coin, the bar must discourage clients and litigants from raising baseless allegations and advocates must desist from incorporating the same in their pleadings, the judge said. The court dismissed the petition that challenged the order of the trial court as devoid of merits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/entire-country-was-working-virtually-during-pandemic-says-hc/article33816177.ece
12 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Reconstruction work begins on British-era Korattur anicut||Work to reconstruct the Korattur anicut, a British-era storage structure with regulator arrangements across the Cooum, has started in Tiruvallur. A portion of the check dam was washed away during the 2015 floods. The Water Resources Department has dismantled the old main structure which was damaged, and is marking the alignment for the foundation of the new check dam. Constructed in 1879, the structure across the unpolluted stretch of the Cooum in Jamin Korattur is significant in storing water and also diverting surplus water to the Chembarambakkam lake, one of the city’s drinking water sources. WRD officials said nearly a 40 m portion of the check dam was washed away in 2015 and the remaining was damaged. The department has started the Rs. 32 crore project to rebuild the structure with the same storage capacity using funding from NABARD (National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development). The new structure will be nearly 4 m in height, running across the 140 m wide river, and will be able to store about 10 million cubic feet of water. Besides rebuilding the main part, the WRD also plans to strengthen the river bund and construct flood protection walls for a distance of nearly 1 km on either side. This would help prevent spillover to neighbouring villages, including Pudhuchatram, and also safeguard the river. “We also plan to improve the New Bangaru Channel that has a capacity to carry up to 3,500 cusecs (cubic feet per second) of excess water to the Chembarambakkam lake. The old head sluice with 12 shutters will be retained and also improved,” an official said. Once the new structure is in place within a year, flood water can be stagnated for nearly 2.5 km in the upstream stretch. This would support agriculture and groundwater recharge in 10 surrounding villages such as Kottamedu, Perumalpattu, Gudapakkam and Jamin Korattur. “We will be able to divert water from the Cooum to a chain of tanks starting from Tiruninravur tank through a diversion channel after the project is completed. We want to complete the project by this year’s northeast monsoon,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reconstruction-work-begins-on-british-era-korattur-anicut/article33816069.ece
12 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. to relocate homeless families from George Town||The Greater Chennai Corporation will start relocating residents who have encroached upon the streets and drains of George Town to Perumbakkam to facilitate flood preparedness work in the area. The civic body has completed the biometric survey of 105 families of residents of St. Xavier and Pedariyar Koil Streets off Broadway in George Town. The families in the area, who have been homeless for several generations, have built huts on the roads, encroaching on a major drain, causing flooding in many parts of George Town. As a result of the encroachments, the Corporation has not been able to redevelop the stormwater drain in the area. Flood mitigation projects will be developed after the removal. Residents in the area have requested the Corporation to provide them houses in TNSCB flats in Pulianthope and Moolakothalam, instead of Perumbakkam. “The residents have their source of livelihood in the area. Many kids who get football coaching will lose the opportunity if they are resettled in Perumbakkam. So they have requested houses in Pulianthope,” said K. Karthik, a resident whose daughter attends football coaching. “More than 20 residents have died in the neighbourhood in the past few months. My husband died a few months ago. I am yet to get financial assistance for widows. The resettlement will delay the process. So we requested homes in Pulianthope,” said S. Vijaya, a resident of St. Xavier Street. “Many children get infected by cholera because sewage enters our huts. There are no toilets in the vicinity. The Corporation demolished the toilets three years ago,” she said. “Over 20 students are pursuing higher education in colleges in the neighbourhood. A large number of students are getting school education. So we request houses in the vicinity,” said Ponni Saravanan, a resident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-to-relocate-homeless-families-from-george-town/article33816055.ece
12 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chengalpattu awaits infra development||In the new Collector’s office complex in the recently formed Chengalpattu district, construction is in full swing for an office for the District Rural Development Agency and several other departments. The district was created on November 29, 2019, with the bifurcation of Kancheepuram. Many departments are yet to function fully with their own offices. The 2021 Assembly election will be the first election that Chengalpattu will face as a district headquarters. Consequently, the electorate is hoping for a fillip to several infrastructure projects that have pending for long. Important among them are the civic issues in the municipality, which is expected to expand with a proposal to annex 14 village panchayats on the periphery. Residents, however, say there is a lot to be done in the existing geographical limits. E. Sankar, a resident associated with the Communist Party of India (Marxist), says the underground drainage system has not been successfully implemented, with a large amount of sewage being let into Kolavai lake. Kolavai, one of the largest lakes in the district with a capacity of 476.69 mcft, can now hold only 333.68 mcft as it has not been desilted. A proposal made by the district administration to desilt the lake, strengthen its bunds and develop its tourism potential at a cost of Rs. 87.24 crore acknowledges the need to prevent further pollution. The railway junction and the bus terminal are located on the opposite sides of the road. “The road is chaotic, particularly in the mornings and evenings, with a large number of people trying to cross and buses moving in and out of the terminal,” says S. Saravanan, who runs a shop in the locality. The demand for a foot-over bridge linking the bus terminal to the platform of the junction remains unmet. A subway for vehicles across the rail track near the junction has been left partially completed; sewage has filled the ground dug for it. The alternative for motorists is to take a detour and use the over-bridge nearby. However, pedestrians and cyclists crossing the rail track is a common sight. “The government must either take steps to complete the subway work or at least close the ground excavated for it,” says K. Jayaraman, a resident. A similar project, but having a larger impact, is the rail over-bridge at Singaperumal Koil that is under construction for several years, causing huge traffic congestion at the level crossing near the railway station there every day. The Integrated Vaccine Complex, a Central government project considered to be of national importance, is yet to realise its intended potential. M. Varalakshmi of the DMK is the sitting MLA, who defeated R. Kamalakkannan of the AIADMK in the 2016 election by 26,292 votes. Since 2001, the constituency has voted alternatively for parties that were part of the alliances led by either the AIADMK or the DMK. In 2001 and 2006, the Pattali Makkal Katchi, which aligned with the AIADMK and the DMK respectively, won the election. In 2011, the Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam won, having contested as an ally of the AIADMK.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chengalpattu-awaits-infra-development/article33816065.ece
12 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MNM may go it alone in Assembly polls||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Thursday strongly attacked the AIADMK and the DMK at the party’s first general convention. Some office-bearers interpreted this as a hint that he will go it alone in the coming Assembly election. Sources in the party said the actor-politician, at a closed-door meeting in Chennai, hinted that he was leaning towards the party contesting alone. Perhaps, he may take along some smaller parties. “He severely attacked the DMK and the AIADMK, calling them corrupt. I think he has decided to go it alone,” said a party leader. The party adopted a resolution vesting Mr. Haasan with powers to decide on forming an electoral alliance. Sources said he was also critical of the grand reception and media focus given to former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s aide V.K. Sasikala, who returned to Chennai after serving her prison term in Bengaluru in a disproportionate assets case. The party took a strong stand against the alleged imposition of Hindi and Sanskrit by the BJP government at the Centre. It sought protection for forestland and wild animals and appealed to students to join the party. The MNM reiterated its commitment to justice for victims of the Pollachi sexual abuse case and urged the Election Commission to ensure that elections were fair and free from cash-for-votes malpractice. The party supported the release of seven life convicts in the former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. Former MLA present Pazha Karuppiah, former AIADMK MLA and DMK member, attended the general convention. Sources said there was no announcement about his joining the party. The MNM is likely to organise a public event to celebrate its fourth founding day on February 21 in Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mnm-may-go-it-alone-in-assembly-polls/article33815592.ece
12 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Engineers in uniform roped in to crack cybercrime cases||Cybercrime investigations are set to scale new heights in Tamil Nadu with the State police identifying as many as 185 young sub-inspectors, mostly graduates in Electronics and Communications Engineering, and hundreds of graduate police constables for deployment in cybercrime police stations in all cities/districts. The sub-inspectors, currently serving in districts across the State, volunteered to join the core team that was trained in advanced investigation skills in cyber offences as part of an initiative carried out in association with IIT-M and SSN College. They would be posted to the 46 cybercrime police stations notified by the State government on Monday. According to police sources, this is the first time in the country that cybercrime police stations were being notified with sufficient manpower and infrastructure in all cities/districts of a State. The latest cyber forensic tools would be procured from the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC). The institution would also provide training to the sub-inspectors and personnel in other ranks in the effective use of the gadgets. Round the clock The cybercrime police stations would be located in all Commissionerates and district oolice offices, with staff functioning round the clock. While Commissioners/Superintendents of Police would refer complaints to these police stations, a State-level CyberCrime Wing, headed by an officer in the rank of Additional Director-General of Police, would facilitate policy decisions and coordination with other agencies. “We are now evolving to have a more specialised cybercrime infrastructure. We have identified hundreds of police constables, a majority of whom are science graduates, who would be trained by the Department of Criminology, University of Madras, in the latest trends in cybercrime environment. Training programmes would be organised at regular intervals since capacity-building is a continuous process,” a senior police official told The Hindu on Tuesday. In the case of cybercrime, the victims were often lured with attractive offers, and ended up sharing their credentials with an unknown caller not knowing that they were walking into a trap, the official said. “The nature of the offence is such that awareness alone is the key to protecting oneself. People should be aware of the dos and don’ts and guard themselves against cyber fraudsters, hackers, stalkers, etc… There cannot be physical policing like in conventional security systems in the cyber world,” he said. In spite of awareness campaigns, at least 50% of cybercrime complaints in the State pertained to voluntary disclosure, as in OTP fraud, where the suspects claim to be calling from a bank, offer loans, cash subsidies or other services and manage to gather the ATM card credentials of gullible people. “After entering the card details, the suspects call the victims to get the OTP, saying it is required for transferring the loan amount, cash prize or COVID-19 grant from the Union government. Once the OTP is shared, the money in the account is siphoned off,” the official said, adding that the fight against cybercrime involved more human elements than technical aspects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engineers-in-uniform-roped-in-to-crack-cybercrime-cases/article33815637.ece
12 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mobile carts to be donated to persons with disabilities||As a part of the Maatrum Thiran initiative, the District Community Economic Development Team 2020-21 of the Rotary International District 3232 will distribute mobile carts to persons with disabilities on February 14. Under the initiative, the community economic development team has collaborated with the Tamil Nadu Differently Abled Federation Charitable Trust, a registered NGO, to identify deserving beneficiaries, who have lost their livelihoods due to the pandemic, and to work with them for a minimum of two years. Stable income The carts will be donated to persons with disabilities to sell snacks, footwear, utensils, plastic items, vegetables, fruits and other wares, which will enable them to earn a minimum revenue of Rs. 500 a day. In a press release, S.N. Balasubramanian, district chairman — Community Economic Development, Rotary International District 3232, said they had a target of 100 mobile carts to be distributed before June 2021. As many as 25 carts have been donated so far and they are funded by Rotary Clubs, Rotarians, Anns and Annettes of RI District 3232. Working capital assistance was also offered to those who need it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mobile-carts-to-be-donated-to-persons-with-disabilities/article33816059.ece
12 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||GI tag for ‘Madurai marikolunthu’ sought||An application seeking geographical indication (GI) tag for the famous Madurai marikolunthu (davana), which is traditionally used during religious ceremonies and in making garlands, has been submitted by the Madurai Meenakshi Sundareswarar Malar Motha Vyabarigal Nala Sangam. It is considered as one of the aromatic plants of south India grown for its flowers, leaves and is also known for its fragrance (used for making perfumes). Chinnaraja G. Naidu, Deputy Registrar of Geographical Indications, confirmed that an application seeking GI tag for this product was filed with the department on Thursday. “The Madurai marikolunthu has a rich fragrance which makes it stand apart from the other marikolunthu. One can get the smell from the plant even while standing several meters away,” P.Sanjai Gandhi, IPR attorney and nodal officer for Geographical Indication Registration of products, Government of Tamil Nadu, who prepared and filed the application on behalf of the sangam told The Hindu . According to the details furnished, the Madurai marikolunthu stays fresh even after three days of harvesting. This particular marikolunthu is cultivated in places in and around Madurai district including Theni, Andipatti, Sivagangai and Thirupathur among others. Mr. Gandhi said this marikolunthu is cultivated using drinking water. The Madurai marikolunthu, along with Madurai malli, is used to decorate the palanquin of Goddess Meenakshi and Lord Sundareswarar for their ‘Thirukalyanam’ celebrated every year during the “Chithirai festival” that falls in April. It is also used for medicinal purposes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gi-tag-sought-for-madurai-marikolunthu/article33815640.ece
12 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New procedure used to treat patients with lung cancer at Chennai hospital||Two patients from Bangladesh with lung cancer recently underwent a novel procedure at the Apollo Cancer Centre here. The procedure helped provide adjuvant treatment for them much earlier than the conventional one. The patients underwent a tubeless, video-assisted thoracic surgery (VATS) and have returned home for further treatment, the doctors said. Md. Nahid Hasan, 15, was diagnosed with Ewing’s sarcoma of the left femur, a rare form of cancerous tumour that grows in bones, cartridges or nerves, and affects the age group of 10 to 20 years. He underwent several chemotherapy sessions. In February last, he sustained a fracture in his left lower limb and began to develop lumps in the upper lobe of his left lung. In December, after he was shifted to Chennai, doctors found that the cancer had spread to the upper lobe of his left lung. Through tubeless VATS, three lesions were removed from his lungs and he was discharged the next day. Consultant thoracic oncologist Abhijit Das said the tubeless VATS technique is minimally invasive and less painful. In 2016, Mohammed Iftekhar Rahman, 23, was diagnosed with osteosarcoma in his left thigh that was treated with chemotherapy. Then limb salvage surgery, by removing the tumour, was done. But he contracted COVID-19, at which time the cancer had spread to his lung. Doctors found a large mass in the lung. Khader Hussain, thoracic oncologist,said that through a bilateral VATS procedure, the lower lobe of the lung was excised. “The patient recovered within two days post-surgery and got discharged in a stable condition,” he added. Apollo Hospitals group vice-chairperson Preetha Reddy praised the team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-procedure-used-to-treat-patients-with-lung-cancer/article33816073.ece
12 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Children of inter-caste couple can opt for ‘caste’ of either parent||Children of inter-caste couple can get the community certificate mentioning the caste of either of their parents, the State Government has said. “The children born out of marriage between parents of two different castes shall be considered to belong to either the caste of the father or the caste of the mother based on the declaration of the parent/s,” said a Government Order of February 9 issued by the Backward Classes, Most Backward Classes and Minorities Welfare Department. A senior official pointed out to The Hindu that the previous Government Order on the subject issued in 1975 had said that children of an inter-caste couple “shall be considered to belong to either the community [SC/MBC/BC or OC] of the father or mother according to the declaration of the parents regarding the way of life in which the children are brought up”. The 1975 G.O. did not mention about specific caste within the larger community classification. “Now, we are clarifying that the same applies for caste as well,” he said. The latest decision follows requests received by the government to issue community certificates to children born of inter-caste marriages “based on the caste of either the father or the mother”. Community certificates The government has instructed the authorities in the Revenue Department to issue appropriate “Community Certificates” to such children according to their eligibility, by virtue of belonging to such a caste, “based on the declaration of the parent/s”. The Commissioner of Revenue Administration shall issue suitable instructions to the Community Certificate issuing authorities to follow this. The declaration in respect of one child will apply to all children in the family.  The declaration of one child will apply to all children in the family, says a senior official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/children-of-inter-caste-couple-can-opt-for-caste-of-either-parent/article33815588.ece
12 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Men pose as police personnel, kidnap cab driver in Korattur||The police arrested two men of a five-member gang on Thursday, who reportedly kidnapped a cab driver by posing as members of the Anti-Vice Squad, hijacked the car from Korattur on Wednesday and demanded a ransom. The driver was later rescued. According to the police, Ramesh, from Tirunelveli, called the police control room and informed them that his driver Gnanasekhar was kidnapped and his car was also hijacked by a gang that identified themselves as AVS members. He claimed that the gang demanded a ransom of Rs. 2 lakh for his release. Ramesh managed to track the car using the GPS device fitted in the vehicle and found it near M.K.B. Nagar. He informed the police and a team rushed to the spot and secured two of the members while the others fled. During investigation, the suspects were identified as Prabu, 32, and Udayakumar, 32, of Vyasarpadi. The ones on the run have been identified as Wapah, 65, Solomon, 37, and Babu, 40. It is suspected that the kidnapping was the outcome of rivalry between Wapah and Ramesh. The police said both were involved in the prostitution trade. Gnansekhar’s role was to pick up and drop Ramesh’s customers at hotels. The police have summoned Ramesh for investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/men-pose-as-police-personnel-kidnap-cab-driver-in-korattur/article33816056.ece
12 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC grants two months to officials for confirming 11 dairy staff||In an unusual order, the Madras High Court has granted liberty to 11 temporary employees of a cooperative milk producers’ union to initiate criminal proceedings against government officials responsible for not making them permanent employees in the last two decades. Justice S. Vaidyanathan granted two months’ to officials to accord permanent employee status to petitioners under the Tamil Nadu Industrial Establishment (Conferment of permanent status to Workmen) Act of 1981, failing which they were warned of criminal prosecution. “It goes without saying that if any complaint is made by the petitioners, criminal action should be taken against the officers responsible for implementing the court orders and the government will have to sanction prosecution against those persons.” Directing the High Court Registry to circulate a copy of the judgment to all criminal courts in the State as well as the Chief Secretary so that it could be circulated among all IAS officers, the judge ordered that the criminal courts must expedite the trial in such cases. No exemption Officers, against whom such complaints had been made, must appear before the criminal courts on all dates of hearing and their presence should not be dispensed with by any criminal court unless there were genuine reasons, such as hospitalisation or any death in the family. “The reason for directing the presence of the officers before the criminal court is to make them realise the pain and suffering undergone by the employees who have been litigating before courts for years,” the judge said. He lamented that “the employees are made to face economical death, which is worse than criminal offences on account of the act of the officers”. The orders were passed on a writ petition filed by the 11 employees, seeking a direction to the officials to consider their latest representation. Petitioners’ counsel C. Kanagaraju brought it to the notice of the court that originally 49 temporary employees were engaged by the Coimbatore District Cooperative Milk Producers’ Union between 1988 and 1994 for jobs, such as loading and unloading milk cans, melting ghee and packing. In 1999, the general manager of the union wrote to the Commissioner of Milk Production and Dairy Development to regularise the services of all the 49 employees. Joint petition When there was no response from the Commissioner, 30 temporary employees filed a joint writ petition before the High Court in 2010. Justice R. Suresh Kumar disposed of the writ petition in November 2016 and held that the petitioners’ claim for absorption was fully justified since the 1981 Act provided for conferment of permanent status if a worker had been in continuous service for 480 days in 24 calendar months. Observing that the government must be a model employer, the judge issued directions to the officials to pass appropriate orders on their plea within three months. Nevertheless, the requests of the present batch of 11 petitioners were not considered at all, the counsel complained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-grants-two-months-to-officials-for-confirming-11-dairy-employees/article33815590.ece
12 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Nodal officer reviews COVID-19 response, vaccination in State||Rajendra Ratnoo, Joint Secretary, Union Ministry of Commerce and Industry, and central nodal officer for Tamil Nadu and Puducherry for COVID-19 response, including vaccination, during a review meeting with officials on Thursday, laid stress on the need for continuous monitoring of adherence to the standard operating protocols (SOP) in places where people gather. Conducting a review meeting with Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, the official appreciated the State for doing well in COVID-19 prevention and control. He said the State’s strategy of conducting more tests and continuous surveillance had paid off in containment, as there was a decline in infections. He said Tamil Nadu was a forerunner in terms of controlling cases. It is reliably learnt that he emphasised the need to continue safety measures as economic activities had opened up. A mechanism should be put in place to monitor the adherence to SOPs in places where people gather, such as functions, at bus stands, railway stations, airports, tourist spots and restaurants. He said the State should not slip from the gains it had made. He highlighted the need to stay cautious as a sense of complacency was setting in among the people. The officials also discussed the action plan for COVID-19 vaccination. He hoped the State catches up with its action plan on how to further improve the administration of vaccines to those willing and eligible for them, official sources said. Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine T.S. Selvavinayagam was present during the meeting. Mr. Ratnoo later visited the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital and met with the managing director of the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation and the Chief Secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nodal-officer-reviews-covid-19-response-vaccination-in-state/article33815580.ece
12 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State records 481 fresh infections and six more fatalities||Tamil Nadu reported 481 fresh cases of COVID-19 and six deaths on Thursday, taking its tally to 8,43,690 and toll to 12,402. Of these, Chennai saw 146 cases and two deaths, while Coimbatore accounted for 47 cases and one death. There were 33 cases in Chengalpattu, 29 in Tiruvallur and 20 in Thanjavur. While there was no case in Ariyalur, as many as 24 districts had fewer than 10 cases each. Of these, Kallakurichi, Krishnagiri, Perambalur, Ramanathapuram and Tirunelveli recorded just one infection each. Those testing positive also included five returnees — three from Saudi Arabia and one each from West Bengal and Bihar. Of the six persons who died, one had no co-morbidity. The 46-year-old man from Kancheepuram was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on February 9 and died the next day. Another 490 persons were discharged after treatment. A total of 4,294 persons are under treatment. Some 55,755 samples were tested. The number of persons vaccinated against COVID-19 crossed two lakh on Thursday. A total of 14,370 persons received the vaccines, taking the total count to 2,11,484. A total of 9,345 health workers, 2,583 frontline staff and 2,442 police personnel received the vaccines. Of these, 9,205 healthcare workers, 2,582 frontline workers and 2,403 police personnel received Covishield, while 140 healthcare workers, one frontline worker and 39 police personnel received Covaxin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-records-481-fresh-infections-and-six-more-fatalities/article33815585.ece
12 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lawyers stage protest||While a section of lawyers staged a demonstration outside the Madras High Court campus on Thursday demanding the repeal of the three farm laws enacted by the Centre, another section, owing allegiance to BJP, also gathered outside the court and raised slogans in support of the legislation. Those opposing the farm laws had gathered under the banner of ‘Tamil Nadu Advocates Federation for the Protesting Farmers’ and pointed out that farmers had been protesting against the laws in the national capital for over 76 days. Lawyers from the BJP, Hindu Munnani and other groups carried banners that read “We support farm laws”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lawyers-stage-protest/article33816071.ece
12 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State govt. sets up TALMEDCO under Companies Act||The State government has set up the Tamil Nadu Linguistic Minorities Social and Economic Development Corporation (TALMEDCO) under the Companies Act, 2013, to cater to the requirements of notified linguistic minorities who are not included or covered by the religious minorities. The government’s decision is aimed at benefiting linguistic minorities in Tamil Nadu — groups of people whose mother tongue is different from the principal language of the State, i.e., Telugu, Kannada, Malayalam, Urdu and Saurashtra speakers, among others. As per the 2011 Census, the population of linguistic minorities in Tamil Nadu is 83.84 lakh, which is 11.63% of the State’s population. “Linguistic minorities face many problems, including the inability to access education in a language of their choice, under-representation in employment, business and inadequate access to economic opportunities,” the G.O. issued in January stated. The poor offtake of schemes amongst linguistic minorities was “a matter of concern”, it observed and advocated the setting up of a separate corporation for the socio-economic development of linguistic minorities to provide them better access to various schemes and to promote their interests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-govt-sets-up-talmedco-under-companies-act/article33816074.ece
12 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||School boy found dead in Kolathur||A 16-year-old boy ended his life on Thursday in Kolathur after failing to cope with online lessons, said the police. The police said the victim studied in Class XI. In his suicide note, he said he could not understand the online lessons. Those in need of counselling may contact the State’s health helpline 104 or Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/school-boy-found-dead-in-kolathur/article33816062.ece
12 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||EC dissatisfied with Excise Department||The Election Commission has expressed dissatisfaction with the performance of the Tamil Nadu Excise Department and sought a special report from the Additional Chief Secretary of the Home Department on the details of seizures. “I must say we are quite unhappy with the overall performance of the State Excise Department as well as the Special Director-General, Enforcement. We have brought the relevant facts to the notice of the Chief Secretary at the meeting,” Mr. Arora said. “We felt that much more could have been done in the State which has an excise revenue of Rs. 34,000 crore. The kind of seizures which were made, they don’t even come to decimal..,” he said. The disclosures to the Commission meant that only those on the ground such as drivers and courier workers were being booked, “big fish” were still at large, he said. “We have sought a special report on this matter from the Additional Chief Secretary, Home,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ec-dissatisfied-with-excise-department/article33816167.ece
12 February 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||No travel curbs on students in local trains||The Southern Railway has decided to remove curbs on travel during peak hours, allowing college students to take workmen suburban special trains in Chennai from February 15. A note approved by the general manager and issued by the commercial department of the Southern Railway on Thursday said students studying in various colleges could travel at any time of the day in the workmen special trains, without any peak-hour restrictions in place for the common people. The note stated that officials at ticket counters of railway stations would issue tickets to students producing identity cards issued by colleges. The note also instructed Railways officials to carry out random checks on the genuineness of ID cards produced by the students, with the respective college authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/college-students-can-take-workmen-special-trains/article33816046.ece
12 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||EC dissatisfied with Excise Department||The Election Commission of India has expressed dissatisfaction with the performance of the Tamil Nadu Excise Department and sought a special report from the Additional Chief Secretary of the Home Department on the details of seizures. “I must say we are quite unhappy with the overall performance of the State Excise Department as well as the Special Director-General, Enforcement. We have brought the relevant facts to the notice of the Chief Secretary,” Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora said here on Thursday. “We felt that much more could have been done in the State, which has an excise revenue of Rs. 34,000 crore. The kind of seizures which were made, they don’t even come to decimal..,” he said. The disclosures to the Commission meant that only those on the ground, such as drivers and courier workers, were being booked and “big fish” were at large. “We have sought a special report on this matter from the Additional Chief Secretary, Home,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ec-dissatisfied-with-excise-department/article33815570.ece
12 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ex-Cong. leader Karate Thiagarajan joins BJP||Former south Chennai district president of the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee, Karate R. Thiagarajan, who was suspended from the party last year, joined the BJP on Thursday in the presence of BJP national general secretary in charge of Tamil Nadu C.T. Ravi, at a public meeting in Mylapore. Mr. Thiagarajan, a confidant of former Finance Minister P. Chidambaram, was most recently associated with actor Rajinikanth, who finally decided that he will not take the political plunge. The State BJP leadership held talks with Mr. Thiagarajan recently, and the former Deputy Mayor of Chennai told them that he wished to start a political movement in Chennai to take on the DMK. He finally joined the BJP on Thursday. Earlier in the evening, producer, actor and son of late actor Sivaji Ganesan, Ramkumar Ganesan, and his son Dushyanth Ramkumar joined the BJP at its headquarters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ex-cong-leader-karate-thiagarajan-joins-bjp/article33815576.ece
12 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Webinar on e-commerce for MSMEs on Feb. 13||The Hindu BusinessLine, along with Amazon, will host a webinar on ‘Taking local global – Accelerate your exports business with e-commerce’ on February 13 at 4 p.m. E-commerce helps small businesses to start or expand their export business by facilitating them to focus on their core competencies. E-commerce exports provide a rapidly scalable route for Indian micro and small enterprises to generate higher foreign exchange and create employment opportunities. Businesses from metropolitan cities, tier 2 and tier 3 cities, like Siliguri, Bilaspur, Dharamshala, Jodhpur and Coimbatore, are taking their local innovation to the world through Amazon Global selling. However, e-commerce exports can present an entrepreneur with many questions — is E-commerce the right fit for my business? How does an online presence change the market for my business? How can we address the diverse customer case? The webinar will provide answers and insights for small and mid-size businesses across Tamil Nadu. It will provide a comprehensive primer for entrepreneurs on how to build and scale their export business. E-commerce can play a big role in boosting exports from India, said Abhijit Kamra, director, Global Trade, Amazon India, who is one of the panellists for the webinar. Launched five years ago, Amazon Global Selling now has 70,000 exporters from across India, who are selling through the programme. Many of them are first generation entrepreneurs and emerging brands. Neeraj Mittal, managing director and chief executive officer, Guidance Tamil Nadu, the State’s single window investment promotion agency, will be the chief guest. The panellists include Lloyd Mathias, angel investor, business strategist and former president of Tata Docomo; Shanthi Srinivasan, managing director, Premier Fine Linens Private Limited; and Raja Rajan, chief executive officer, Boston Creative Company. The session will be moderated by Thomas K. Thomas, associate editor, The Hindu BusinessLine.  To register, go to http://bit.ly/AMZBL or scan the QR Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/webinar-on-e-commerce-for-msmes-on-feb-13/article33815587.ece
12 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MoU signed for 100 free paediatric heart surgeries||The Madras Anchorage Round Table 100 (MART 100) has tied up with Kauvery Hospital to perform 100 free surgeries for children suffering from heart diseases. According to a press release, MART 100 had embarked on a community service project a few years ago to provide free surgeries for children with heart diseases, covering infants to children aged up to 15 years. Over 300 surgeries were taken up. For ‘Heartz 100’, MART 100 and Kauvery Hospital entered into a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to complete a minimum of 100 surgeries this year. Aravindan Selvaraj, executive director and chief orthopaedic surgeon, Kauvery Hospital, and Kunal Chowdhari, chairman of MART 100, signed the agreement on Thursday. The initiative is aimed at enhancing the accessibility of cardiac healthcare to children belonging to the weaker sections of society. Doctors of Kauvery Hospital said the burden related to heart diseases in India was enormous and the treatment of children suffering from such ailments required special equipment and expertise that comes with a heavy price tag. Lack of awareness, funds and hospital facilities were the reasons for the majority of such children not surviving, the release said. Actor Parvati Nair participated. T. Senthil Kumar, executive director, chief cardiothoracic and vascular surgeon, Kauvery Heart City, and Kartic Ramesh, area 2 chairman, Round Table India, were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mou-signed-for-100-free-paediatric-heart-surgeries/article33816060.ece
12 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New plant species with possible medicinal properties discovered||Chennai-based botanists have discovered a plant species, Hedyotis sithiravaraiensis (Karumthumbai or Senthumbai or Sakkaraithumbai), a critically-endangered species of the Rubiaceae family in Pakkamalai in the Gingee Hills, one of the ranges of the Eastern Ghats. “Locals collect the plant since they believe it has medicinal properties. They believe that the plant can extend the life span of human beings. A detailed study is required to find out its medicinal properties,” said S. Muruganandam, who first found this plant during a field trip as part of his doctoral study at Presidency College, Chennai. Initially, it was thought that the plant belonged to the Lamiaceae (mint) family, because the inflorescence (flower head) resembled species of the family. Subsequently, it was identified by another research scholar, K. Devanathan, along with botany professors S. Ravikumar and D. Narasimhan and established that it belonged to Rubiaceae. It took almost five years to come to the conclusion that this was a new species. Last year, this was published in theJournal of Asia-Pacific Biodiversity. Prof. Narasimhan said the plant was closely allied with an Eastern Asiatic species, Hedyotis uncinell a and a Western Ghats species, H. rajasekaranii Karupp & Ravichandran . “We also compared the specimens with the protologues, type specimens, and images at Kew Herbarium (U.K.), Central National Herbarium in Kolkata, Madras Herbarium and the Herbarium of the Foundation for Revitalisation Local and Traditional Health in Bengaluru, as well as appropriate floras and revisions. It is described as a new species based on the critical study,” he said. Mr. Muruganandam said the species had been named after its type locality Sithiravarai (Sethavarai), an archaeologically important site, as it has 3,500-year-old rock paintings in natural caverns. The etymological meaning of the term is Sithiram (painting) and Varai (hills). The plant was also assessed on the basis of the International Union for Conservation of Nature Red List Categories and Criteria. Mr. Muruganandam said its “population” had come down drastically because of unregulated commercial collection of the plant by the locals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-plant-species-with-possible-medicinal-properties-discovered/article33816067.ece
12 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bring down price of petrol, diesel: Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Thursday urged the Centre to cut the tax on petroleum products to pave the way for reduction in the prices of petrol and diesel. In a statement here, he said people were afraid that the price of petrol would touch Rs. 100 a litre and the hike would have a terrible bearing on the prices of essential commodities. “People have been severely affected by the effects of COVID-19 and the increase in the prices of petrol and diesel has proved a double-whammy for them,” he said. Mr. Stalin said that though the price of crude oil in the international market was under control, the prices of petrol and diesel were increasing in India and the price of petrol had touched an unprecedented Rs. 90 a litre. “Under the dynamic policies of the Centre, the prices of petrol and diesel should be fixed on the basis of price of the international market. But their prices have been increasing in the last six years after the BJP came to power,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bring-down-price-of-petrol-diesel-stalin/article33815583.ece
12 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Special courts to hear only cases against legislators: HC||The Madras High Court on Thursday made it clear that only cases filed against current and former Members of Parliament and Members of Legislative Assmbly shall be dealt with by special courts and that the latter shall not entertain cases filed by the legislators against others. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy passed an interim order to that effect while taking up a suo motu PIL petition to ensure speedy trial of cases in the special courts. The Bench said, sometimes, the legislators filed cases against others and take them to special courts. After Advocate General Vijay Narayan pointed out that a few judicial officer posts were lying vacant in the special courts established in Chennai and that was causing a delay in disposal, advocate B. Vijay, representing the Registrar General, informed the court that all three vacancies in Chennai had been filled now by transferring officers from other locations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-courts-to-hear-only-cases-against-legislators-hc/article33815589.ece
12 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Special Aadhaar drive on Feb. 13||The Department of Posts will organise a special Aadhaar drive on February 13 from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. to facilitate new enrolments and updates. The drive will be held in post offices at Mylapore, T. Nagar, Chepauk, Gopalapuram, Madras University, Mandaveli, Royapettah, Teynampet, Tiruvallikeni, Choolaimedu, Greames Road, Nungambakkam High Road and DPI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-aadhaar-drive-on-feb-13/article33816061.ece
12 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three arrested for stealing gold jewellery||Sathishkumar, 29, a staff of a gold loan firm in Avadi, and his friends Shoba and Ranjith were arrested for stealing gold jewellery from the firm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-arrested-for-stealing-gold-jewellery/article33816053.ece
12 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Water stagnation at underpasses torments road users in city||Almost a fortnight after rain stopped in Coimbatore, underpasses continue to be inundated. Be it the North Coimbatore underpass, Kaleeswara Mill underpass or the (Avinashi Road) underpass in Uppilipalayam, water, which on closer look is sewage, inundate the driveway, making driving difficult. At the Kaleeswara Mill underpass, the water covers the area beneath the railway track and extends to the entry and exit side of the Dr. Krishnasamy Road as well. At the Avinashi Road underpass, the entry passage from Dr. Krishnasamy Road and the ‘T’ junction are filled with at least a few inches of sewage, causing similar discomfiture to road users. Cars and two-wheelers compete for the limited space available there. Road users want to know why the Coimbatore Corporation that pumps out stagnant water from the underpasses after rains has failed to clear the sewage. Road Safety Committee member and consumer activist K. Kathirmathiyon says it is because of the Corporation’s poor maintenance of underpasses in the city that the Highways Department decided against an underpass/subway while designing the flyover in Gandhipuram a few years ago. When vehicles avoid the underpasses, it defeats the very purpose of their construction -to ease traffic congestion. A senior engineer in the Corporation says that the reason for water stagnation in the Avinashi Road underpass is water trickling from weep holes on the walls. And, in the Kaleeswara Mill underpass it is sewage and rainwater from nearby mills. And, whenever this problem occurs in the underpass on Shastri Road in Ramnagar, it is caused by water from nearby establishments. The Corporation has issued notices to the establishments to construct rainwater harvest structures, to prevent water from their premises flowing onto the underpass, the engineer says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-stagnation-at-underpasses-torments-road-users-in-city/article33816078.ece
12 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||ECI should ensure parties do not cross the limit with their poll promises, says consumer body||Only those political parties that contest at least 25 % of the total seats in an election should be permitted to release manifestos, said Coimbatore Consumer Cause. The organisation’s secretary K. Kathirmathiyon said in a press release that in the case of political parties with pre-poll alliance there should be only a common manifesto. The manifestos should reflect the likely financial burden and the rationale for the promises made before elections and broadly indicate the ways and means to meet the financial requirements, as ordered by Supreme Court. The manifestos should also give details of the promises made in previous elections and their status. Mr. Kathirmathiyon pointed out that in respect of the Assembly elections in the State in 2016, the manifestos were scrutinised by the Election Commission and explanations were called for from the political parties. However, not satisfied with the explanations, it took action only much after the elections were over. In its order, the Supreme Court observed that freebies promised by political parties in their election manifestos shake the roots of free and fair polls and directed the Election Commission to frame guidelines for regulating contents of manifestos. Based on the order, the Election Commission framed the guidelines in consultation with political parties. These were inserted as “Guidelines on Election Manifestos” in the Model Code of Conduct (MCC) for the guidance of political parties & candidates. One of the guidelines says, “In the interest of transparency, level playing field and credibility of promises, it is expected that manifestos also reflect the rationale for the promises and broadly indicate the ways and means to meet the financial requirements for it. Trust of voters should be sought only on those promises which are possible to be fulfilled.” The Commission has also said that whenever a political party releases its manifesto for any election conducted by the ECI, a hard copy of the same along with a soft copy should be sent to it within three days along with a declaration. However, so far, the Election Commission has failed to take any decisive action in this issue against any political party in the country. Political parties contesting very few seats are also issuing manifestos and some of their promises cannot be implemented. “It is high time that Election Commission intervened and ensured that the poll promises are not crossing a limit,” he said. The Commission should scrutinise the manifestos and pass a final order much before the polling date and the voters should be informed of the same, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eci-should-ensure-parties-do-not-cross-the-limit-with-their-poll-promises-says-consumer-body/article33816083.ece
12 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Proposed flyover works should continue’||The Union Budget announcement this year about Mass Rapid Transit System (MRTS) in tier-two cities has raised expectations about Coimbatore getting a Metro project soon. However, this should not affect the proposed projects that aim at easing traffic congestion within the city, says K. Kathirmathiyon, secretary of Coimbatore Consumer Cause. For instance, the National Highways wing of the State Highways Department has proposed flyovers at Singanallur, Ganapathy and on Mettupalayam Road. These projects should be implemented at the earliest to avoid traffic snarls, he said. The Highways Department officials said they continued to pursue the projects as some of these areas had been identified as accident prone. Mr. Kathirmathiyon suggested that while the district needed a Metro project, it should be looked at to connect the peripheral areas and the city. As the city expands, nearby areas would soon emerge as active commercial hubs. These needed better mass transport connectivity. The Metro alignment should consider networking these areas with the city, he said. Further, if the MRTS was implemented in the Corporation limits, the motorable space available on main roads such as Avinashi Road would be just one lane and it would be inadequate. The alignment suggested now for the Metro project was not feasible and would not serve its purpose, he said. Coimbatore district required wider roads, flyovers, and MRTS too. Since there were several infrastructure projects proposed already to decongest the city traffic, the Metro should focus on the peripheral areas, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/proposed-flyover-works-should-continue/article33816085.ece
12 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||BJP man detained under Goondas Act||BJP State executive committee member R. Kalyanaraman (54), who was recently arrested by the Mettupalayam police on charges of making derisive remarks on Prophet Muhammad and Islam, was detained under the Goondas Act on Thursday. Sources in the Coimbatore District Police said District Collector and District Magistrate K. Rajamani signed the detention order based on the recommendation of Superintendent of Police Ara. Arularasu. As per the order, Kalyanaraman was found indulging in activities that were “prejudicial to the maintenance of public order and public peace”. The accused made the remarks during a public meeting at Mettupalayam on January 31 and was arrested the following day. He has been remanded in the District Prison in Gobichettipalayam, Erode district, where the detention order was served on him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-functionary-detained-under-goondas-act/article33815634.ece
12 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||450 NCC cadets appear for examination||A total of 450 cadets from National Cadet Corps (NCC) appeared for the ‘A’ certificate examination for Junior Division and Junior Wing held at a private school in Singanallur here on Thursday. Officials said the cadets from 14 schools across Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts wrote the examination, organised by 2 Tamil Nadu Artillery Battery NCC Coimbatore. The written examination was held from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. for 350 marks and covered subjects including leadership, weaponry, disaster management and health and hygiene. The practical examination for the ‘A’ certificate, which includes weapon handling and map reading, will be held on Friday. This certificate will help the cadets in being recruited for the Indian Armed Forces. Commanding Officer of the 2 Tamil Nadu Battery of Coimbatore NCC Group Lt. Col. Girish Parthan organised the examination, according to the officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/450-ncc-cadets-appear-for-examination/article33815625.ece
12 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. official, two others held for graft||The Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) on Thursday arrested three persons including an official from the Coimbatore Corporation on charges of accepting bribe. Officials said A. Nirmal Kumar (41), a surveyor attached to the East Zone office of Coimbatore Corporation at Singanallur along with a retired survey field officer A. Natarajan (67) and a tout N. Pradeep Kumar (38) were arrested. Nirmal Kumar allegedly demanded Rs. 6,000 from the complainant for a patta name transfer process and instructed him to give it through Natarajan. Based on the complaint, the DVAC sleuths led by Deputy Superintendent of Police T.H. Ganesh laid a trap on Thursday, during which Natarajan allegedly asked to give the bribe to Pradeep Kumar. All the three accused were subsequently booked under sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act and were remanded in judicial custody, according to the officials. The DVAC sleuths also conducted raids at the East Zone office following the arrest on Thursday. Couple gets 3 years jail A special court in Coimbatore on Thursday sentenced a man and his wife to three years of imprisonment for cheating depositors of Rs. 17.68 lakh. Legal sources said K. Ramalingam (47) and his wife Chellamani (41) were running a private poultry farm at Perundurai in Erode district. In 2016, they advertised schemes to rear country chicks and invited investments, through which they allegedly cheated nine depositors. The Economic Offences Wing in Erode registered a case against them and the couple were arrested in June 2016, the sources said. They were produced at Special Court for Tamil Nadu Protection of Interests of Depositors Act in Coimbatore on Thursday, where Judge A.S. Ravi sentenced them to three years of simple imprisonment and levied a fine of Rs. 10.8 lakh. Of this, the court ordered that Rs. 10 lakh must be paid towards the compensation of the depositors, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-corpn-official-two-others-held-for-graft/article33815626.ece
12 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. to provide UGD coverage to uncovered areas||Coimbatore Corporation has prepared a Rs. 175-crore plan to provide underground drainage (UGD) coverage to those areas that it had left uncovered while implementing the UGD scheme in 2010. The Corporation had implemented the UGD scheme under the then JNNURM scheme. Old city areas Sources familiar with the development said the areas that would get the UGD coverage were Gandhi Managar, Thanneer Pandal, Ganapathy, Ondipudur, FCI Godown Road, Vilankurichi and a few others. All the areas were part of the old city area of 60 wards. As for the added areas, the Corporation was implementing a UGD project for those areas under the AMRUT scheme and the work was under way in Kurichi and Kuniamuthur. Funding agency The Corporation had planned to approach an external funding agency to finance the project and had submitted the proposal to the State Government. The project would benefit around 33,000 houses in those areas by laying 142km sewer lines and constructing 5,600 manholes. The Corporation had designed the project in such a way that it would convey the sewage from the areas to the Ondipudur sewage treatment plant that it had constructed and kept ready to be commissioned anytime soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-to-provide-ugd-coverage-to-uncovered-areas/article33816082.ece
12 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||SIHMA plea||The South India Hosiery Manufacturers’ Association has appealed to the Central government to direct the Cotton Corporation of India to fix cotton prices once in three months and to give priority to MSME mills in sale of cotton. The textile mills should also give priority to the hosiery units in sale of yarn, the association said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sihma-plea/article33815609.ece
12 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||DRI officials seize gold worth Rs. 2.85 cr. at airport||Officials of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) seized 5,747 grams of gold worth Rs. 2.85 crore from five passengers, who arrived at Coimbatore International Airport from Sharjah on February 1. Deputy Director of the DRI G. Satish said in a press release that based on intelligence inputs, the officials identified five passengers, who are from Sivaganga, Tiruchi, Chennai and Ramanathapuram. When they came out of the green channel after completing immigration and Customs formalities at Coimbatore International Airport, they were intercepted by the DRI officials. But, the passengers denied carrying gold with them. During the search, the officials seized 6,318 gms of gold concealed in the body in the form of paste in ellipsoidal shaped objects. On constant inquiry, one passenger admitted he had also swallowed 28 capsules that had gold in paste form. Based on an application filed by the officials of the DRI, the Judicial Magistrate ordered retrieval of the gold swallowed. The passenger was admitted to the government hospital and the capsules were retrieved.  New Method The capsules had 324 grams of gold in paste form. This is a new method adopted by the smugglers, Mr. Satish said in the press release. The gold paste was subjected to extraction and 5,747 grams of 24 carat gold was recovered. Further investigation is on and efforts are being taken to arrest the passengers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dri-officials-seize-gold-worth-rs-285-crore-at-airport/article33815633.ece
12 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Students secure all- India rank||Two students from YS Academy at Ram Nagar secured all-India rank in the CA foundation and intermediate exams held recently. A release said that Chinmay Bengani secured the second rank by scoring 359 marks in the foundation exam and A.R. Natarajan secured 14th rank with a score of 660 in the intermediate examination.    Isha Foundation organised a sapling plantation drive at Palladam in Tiruppur district recently as part of its ‘Cauvery Calling’ agroforestry initiative. A release said the event was held at Ichipatti village near Palladam. Similar plantation drives had been held at 20 districts in the State since September 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/students-secure-all-india-rank/article33816079.ece
12 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Museum signs MoU with college||The District Government Museum and the PG and Research Department of History of Nirmala College for Women have signed a Memorandum of Understanding. The aim of the five-year agreement is to give exposure to students on the problems faced in archaeology and museology during the study period and to create awareness on the need to preserve artefacts in museums. Workshops, seminars, lectures and internship programmes will be conducted as part of the MoU.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/museum-signs-mou-with-college/article33815624.ece
12 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Hackathon for Tamil||Government College of Technology, Coimbatore, and International Forum for Information Technology in Tamil will organise a hackathon to find technical solutions for issues related to Tamil arts, literature and Tamil in Wikipedia. Titled ‘Niralkalam-21’, the inter-college event will be held for three days from March 5, a release says. All colleges from the State can participate and a team must have two to four members. Those interested may register using the linkhttps://tmfa-gct.comand the last day for registration is February 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hackathon-for-tamil/article33816081.ece
12 February 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Rajah Muthiah college to reopen today||Annamalai University has announced that it will reopen the Rajah Muthiah Medical College, the Rajah Muthiah Dental College and the Rani Meyammai College of Nursing for postgraduates and Compulsory Rotatory Residential Internship (CRRI) for medical and dental on Friday. According to a release from University Registrar in-charge R. Gnanadevan, the colleges for undergraduates will reopen on Monday. It may be recalled that the students had launched an indefinite strike against higher fees. When the students decided to boycott emergency services, Annamalai University closed its premises indefinitely and asked the students to vacate the hostels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rajah-muthiah-college-to-reopen-today/article33815638.ece
12 February 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Commercial operation of NNTPP’s unit 2 begins||The NLC India Ltd. (NLCIL) has commenced commercial operation of Unit 2 of the Neyveli New Thermal Power Project (NNTPP) (2 x 500 MW) after a successful completion of a trial operation of 72 hours. The commercial operation was declared on Wednesday. According to an NLCIL official, “The NNTPP replaces the 600 MW Neyveli First Thermal Power Station (TPS-I) with additional capacity of 400 MW, which was decommissioned on September 30, 2020. The TPS I commenced operations in 1962 and is South Asia’s first and only lignite-fired thermal power station. The TPS-I plant generated a total of 1,85,390 million units (MU) since its inception and the units of TPS-I have clocked a total service of 32,66,140 hours,” he said. The commercial operation of Unit I of NNTPP was declared on December 28, 2019. With both units under commercial operation, NNTPP has now transformed from project stage to a full-fledged thermal power station.  With the commissioning of the two units, the total installed capacity of NLCIL and its subsidiaries has increased to 4,640 MW and the total generating capacity, including renewable energy to 6,061 MW.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/commercial-operation-of-nntpps-unit-2-begins/article33816236.ece
12 February 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Leader of farmers outfit manhandled||The president of the Cauvery Delta Farmers Federation was allegedly manhandled by a group of police personnel at Veeranandapuram, near Kattumannarkovil, over an argument regarding removal of encroachments on Thursday. Police sources said that a team of Revenue officials, accompanied by police personnel, were engaged in removing encroachments for a road widening project in Veeranandapuram. A group of farmers, led by Federation president K.V. Elangeeran, sought time and appealed to the officials to stop the eviction. When the officials refused, an argument broke out between the farmers and the police personnel. In the melee, Mr. Elangeeran was pushed aside and dragged into a police vehicle. He was later taken to the Kattumannarkovil General Hospital. The video of the incident went viral, drawing condemnation from Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri and former Minister M.R.K. Panneerselvam of the DMK.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/leader-of-farmers-outfit-manhandled/article33816239.ece
12 February 2021||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||‘Invoke NSA against BJP functionary’||All Muslim Organisations and Jamaaths staged a protest seeking detention of BJP functionary Kalayanaraman under the National Security Act (NSA) here on Thursday. The protest staged outside the taluk office in Harur slammed Mr. Kalyanaraman for making provocative speech at a rally in Coimbatore. The BJP’s State executive committee member had made a denigrating speech against Prophet Muhammad. He has since been arrested and also denied bail. The protesters, citing the “indiscriminate use of UAPA and National Security Act” against peaceful protesters across the country, demanded that Kalyanaraman also be charged under the same charges. The protesters called for invoking the stringent provisions of the NSA for attempts to spark off communal disharmony and divisiveness. The Jamaaths condemned the BJP and alleged that the party was busy preparing the field for the assembly elections by dividing the people for votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/invoke-nsa-against-bjp-functionary/article33815623.ece
12 February 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Steep rise in prices of essentials: Udhayanidhi||DMK youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin on Thursday said that the Centre had not done anything for Tamil Nadu due to a weak political leadership in the State. Addressing a public meeting here, he said the Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been neglecting Tamil Nadu ever since the State elected 38 DMK alliance MPs to the Lok Sabha in 2019. He said that GST of over Rs. 10,000 crore was due to the State and relief funds were not released. “A weak leadership at the helm has made the job easier for those in Delhi to neglect the State,” Mr. Udhayanidhi said. The Palaniswami government succumbed to pressure from his ‘political masters’ and pledge the State’s rights after former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s death. If elected, the DMK government would abolish NEET. The cost of essentials had skyrocketed, Mr. Udhayanidhi charged. There was no progress in construction of AIIMS in Madurai, he said. The DMK will make the Centre work in favour of Tamil Nadu as it has an able leader and appealed to the people to vote for the party. Later in the evening, he addressed a rally in Natham in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/steep-rise-in-prices-of-essentials/article33815601.ece
12 February 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Overloaded trucks pose threat on Dhimbam Ghat Road||Frequent breakdown of heavy vehicles on Dhimbam Ghat Road disrupting vehicle movements is a major cause of concern for farmers and people of Talavadi who had planned to intercept vehicles carrying excess load and handover those vehicles in the court. The ghat road on Dindigul – Mysuru National Highway 948 that passes through the Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) has 27 hairpin bends and is busy round-the-clock as it connects Tamil Nadu with Karnataka through Hasanur. Since breakdown and accidents involving heavy vehicles with excess loads were frequent on the ghat road, height restriction bars were installed at check posts at Bannari and Hasanur so that vehicles with over 4.2 metre height and 3.3 metre height cannot use the road. But, two weighing bridges installed at Pudu Vadavalli, near Bannari, and near the Hasanur check post, remain idle since installation. S. Manickam, a farmer at Talavadi, said that the TNSTC bus that started at 6 p.m. on January 31 at Sathyamangalam bus stand reached Talavadi at 6 a.m. next day due to breakdown of a heavy vehicle on the ghat road. “It took 12 hours for the commuters to reach Talavadi and they could not get down on ghat road as leopard, tiger and other wild animal movements were frequent”, he said. But the usual time is around two hours. Farmers said that vegetables from Talavadi, Hasanur and Chamrajanagar in Karnataka could not reach the markets on time causing huge loss to the farmers and traders. They said that officials were allegedly bribed by lorry owners and vehicles carrying excess weight and with 12 and 18 wheels were allowed on ghat road leading to breakdown and accidents. “Traffic was disrupted on the ghat road for four to six hours a day for four days a week in the past one month”, a farmer said and added that disruption of vehicle movement affected people, farmers and visitors from Karnataka. Hence, people, farmers, members of various political parties and workers will block vehicles at the foothills of Dhimbam carrying excess weight and beyond the permitted height and will hand over the vehicles in the court, members said. “The date of protest will be announced next week”, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/overloaded-trucks-pose-threat-on-dhimbam-ghat-road/article33815614.ece
12 February 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Hero stones found at Vinnappalli village||Three hero stones belonging to 13th and 17th Centuries respectively were discovered at Vinnappalli village in Sathyamangalam Taluk. A team led by S. Ravikumar, Director, Virarajendran Archaeological and Historical Research Centre, Tiruppur, and members K. Saravanakumar, C.M. Rameshkumar and K. Ponnusamy, found the stones along the Punjai Puliyampatti – Sathyamangalam National Highway 948 recently. “People of Kongu Region were involved in rearing cattle right from Neolithic Age and each village had their own warriors to protect their cattle”, said Mr. Ravikumar. When a warrior dies in a cattle raid or retrieval of captured cattle or fighting with the tiger, people erected the monumental hero stone for their brave warriors and started worshipping it, he added. A hero stone discovered so far in the State has only a tiger fighting with the warrior. But, one of the hero stones, which is 170 cm height and 105 cm width, shows the hero attacking two tigers. “While the hero attacks one tiger with a small sword in his right hand, he is seen protecting him from the attacking tiger with his left hand”, he added. Another tiger is attacking him from the rear side and the hero’s two faithful dogs are seen fighting the tiger to safeguard their master, he said. The second stone, measuring 190 cm in height and 95 cm in width, shows two warriors fighting with their enemy. A hero is seen attacking the opposite warrior with a sword in his right hand and is holding the neck of the opposite warrior in his left hand. Another warrior is also seen behind this hero in a fighting posture. Also another opposite warrior is seen lying on the ground. “These two stones could date back to the early 13th century”, Mr. Ravikumar added. Members said that the third stone measuring 205 cm in height and 95 cm in width shows the hero holding the neck of the tiger in his left hand and is attacking it with a sickle in his right hand. The hero also holds a small sword in his hip and a gun is also seen to the left of the hero. Members said that three stones were installed and people started worshipping the stones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hero-stones-found-at-vinnappalli-village/article33815616.ece
12 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘No decision yet on reopening of schools for Classes 1 to 8’||School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan has said that no decision has been taken yet on reopening of schools for students from Classes 1 to 8. “Given the present situation, no inspection has been conducted to reopen schools for students of Classes 1 to 8,” the Minister told mediapersons in Gobichettipalayam on Thursday. The issue would be taken up with Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami for discussion. He said 98.5% students from Classes 9 to 12 were attending schools with the consent of their parents. Teachers’ protest Asked about special teachers continuing their agitation for the seventh consecutive day in Chennai, the Minister said the Central government had fixed their salaries at Rs. 5,500 a month in 2014, and the State government had enhanced it to Rs. 10,000 a month recently. “They have to work for three-and-a-half days a week,” he said. To a question on whether the Central government had given its nod for conducting NEET twice a year, Mr. Sengottaiyan said they were yet to receive any communication from the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-decision-yet-on-reopening-of-schools-for-classes-1-to-8/article33815582.ece
12 February 2021||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||Ahead of Valentine’s Day, Hosur’s rose exports hit an all-time low||Hosur’s rose exports have seen a steep fall, unseen in the recent years, pushing the flower exports down to just 15 lakh cut flowers this Valentine’s season. This is a 80% fall in exports, say Hosur’s flower growers. “A good year’s exports range between 50 lakh to 70 lakh roses. This year, we have exported just 15 lakh,” said Bala Siva Prasad, president, Hosur Small Farmers’ Association. Many factors have contributed to this steep fall in exports, with the obvious one being the pandemic. The export of roses has primarily been to Singapore, Malaysia, and west Asian countries, including Lebanon and Kuwait. European markets include the U.K. Other global markets for Hosur’s roses like Australia, New Zealand, Japan and Philippines are closed to exports. The sporadic lockdowns in the main European markets due to the emergent COVID-19 strains have dampened Valentine’s Day celebrations in the markets, said Mr. Prasad. In addition to this, the non-start of connecting flights to the European markets and the increase in cargo handling charges, both due to the pandemic, have come to make exports unviable this year. “The increase in cargo charges is in the ratio of 1:4. If it cost Rs. 100 a cargo earlier, it is at Rs. 400 now. But the export price per stem is Rs. 12 to Rs. 13, the same as in the domestic market as of Wednesday,” said Mr. Prasad. This has disincentivised farmers from pitching their flowers for exports. Valentine’s Day this year falls on a Sunday, disrupting the chances of socialising. Restricted markets abroad have pushed farmers to bank on the domestic market. The Sunday factor will equally affect the domestic sales, said Mr. Prasad. Besides, this year, the area of production in Hosur was scaled down to 1,000 acres, from the usual 1,500 acres. “Over 500 acres were not cultivated because farmers did not have the capital due to the impact of COVID-19,” said Mr. Prasad. The Valentine’s Day production cycle sees farmers reinvesting the profits made during the October-November season of muhurtams . This year, the pandemic undercut grand muhurtams, slashing down profits. All this affected production in large scale. “Hosur produces two crore flowers. But this year, only one crore were grown,” said Mr. Prasad. Those growing flowers did not get the COVID-19 impetus like others industries to sustain production, he said. “For instance, farmers had to spend Rs. 1.5 lakh just for maintenance per acre of greehouse fields, during the pandemic, maintaining the bare minimum in terms of labour on the fields,” he said. But there was no support, he added, reflecting on the flower production during the Valentine’s season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ahead-of-valentines-day-hosurs-rose-exports-hit-an-all-time-low/article33815612.ece
12 February 2021||Karur,TAMIL NADU||Two more Amma mini-clinics opened||Transport Minister M. R. Vijayabhaskar on Thursday inaugurated two more Amma mini-clinics at Karudayampalayam and Punjaikalikurichi. Speaking at a function at Karudayampalayam, he said that out of 2,000 Amma mini-clinics, the State government had allotted 30 clinics for the district. Of them, 12 clinics had already been opened. With two more clinics, the number of clinics in the district has gone up to 14. Steps were being taken to open the remaining 16 clinics as early as possible. Mr. Vijayabhaskar said that each clinic would have a medical officer, a nurse and a paramedical staff. The clinics would function from 8 a.m. to 12 noon and 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. Patients could visit the clinics in their respective areas to get treatment for fever, cold, cough, headache, body ache and others. They could also undergo basic medical check-ups. Depending upon the necessity, the patients would be referred to the taluk, district or medical college hospital for further treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-more-amma-mini-clinics-opened/article33815560.ece
12 February 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||City college scores high in NAAC evaluation||Thiagarajar College has got a score of 3.63 out of 4 with an A + + grade in the fourth cycle of assessment by National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) held recently, said college secretary K. Hari Thiagarajan here on Thursday. Addressing mediapersons to explain the NAAC accreditation, Mr. Thiagarajan said NAAC had identified the following points as key strengths of the College: affordable education, improved research facilities, competent and qualified faculty, excellent academic ambience, and 5S certification. The college, started in 1949, has a strength of 4,700 students, 231 teaching staff and 90 non-teaching staff. It offers 32 undergraduate, 12 postgraduate, 11 M. Phil, 10 Ph. D programmes, in addition to 15 diploma and 16 certificate courses. Mr. Thiagarajan said that in the fourth round of NAAC assessment, 70% of the evaluation was through Artificial Intelligence and the remaining 30% was through field inspection by officials. “Since the officials who had come to the campus for evaluation were from other States, there was no bias in evaluation process,” he added. There has been an increase in score as well as grade for the college in the fourth cycle of NAAC evaluation as compared to the previous evaluations. The college was accredited with five stars in 2001, an ‘A’ grade in 2007 and re-accredited with ‘A’ grade in 2013. Explaining the strengths of the college, the secretary said affordable education was offered to the students. “Many of the students are from economically weaker sections of the society and are first generation graduates,” he said. 417 get job offers Even amid the COVID-19 pandemic, 417 students received job offers through campus placements. Emphasis was given on research and a professor from the college was also a member of the Royal Society of Chemistry in London. “The college provides a safe environment for girl students,” he added. Two new courses had been introduced this academic year in collaboration with Tata Consultancy Services - B.Com (Business Process Services) and B.Sc. (Computer Science in cognitive system). The college was ranked 44 in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) in 2018 for arts colleges, secured the 34th rank in 2019 and secured the 22nd rank in 2020. “Thiagarajar College secured the 1st rank in the southern districts and the 10th rank in the State under the arts colleges category,” said Mr. Thiagarajan. Principal D. Pandiaraja was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-college-scores-high-in-naac-evaluation/article33816174.ece
12 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Online workshop held||The Department of Mechanical Engineering, Internal Quality Assurance Cell and Institution Innovation Council of Sethu Institute of Technology organised an online workshop on ‘Machine learning for research and innovation’ for the faculty members. According to a press release from the institute, the inaugural session, which was conducted on February 9, was presided by College founder and Chairman S. Mohamed Jaleel. Principal A. Senthil Kumar was the resource person of the workshop. Machine learning is a branch of Artificial Intelligence based on the idea that systems can learn from data, identify patterns and make decisions with minimal human intervention. Earlier Vice-principal G.D.Sivakumar delivered the welcome address.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-workshop-held/article33816173.ece
12 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plea seeking CBI probe into passport scam dismissed||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday dismissed a public interest litigation petition that sought a CBI probe into a passport scam that involved Sri Lankan refugees, police, passport and postal department employees. The case is being probed by the Q Branch. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi observed that the investigation in the case was on the right track. The court took cognisance of the State’s submission that as many as 16 arrests were made so far and 175 witnesses examined. The judges observed that they did not find any public interest involved in the petition seeking CBI probe. The court was hearing the petition filed by S. Muruga Ganesan of Madurai. He said that Sri Lankan refugees had managed to get passports by submitting fake addresses and identity. At least 53 such passports had been obtained under the jurisdiction of Avaniapuram police station alone. Therefore, the investigation must be transferred to the CBI, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-seeking-cbi-probe-into-passport-scam-dismissed/article33816170.ece
12 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||106 dengue positive cases in Madurai till February 10||A total of 106 dengue positive cases have been recorded in Madurai district from the beginning of the year till February 10, according to the data obtained from the Health Department. Although two boys from S. Alangulam have recently died due to viral haemorrhagic fever, health officials claim that they were not because of confirmed dengue fever. According to the data, a total of 38 dengue positive cases were recorded in the district in the first 10 days of February. A seven-year-old boy from S. Alangulam, who was admitted to a private hospital, passed away on January 21 when he was undergoing treatment. Another death Days after that incident, a six-year-old boy from S. Alangulam passed away at Government Rajaji Hospital last week. In both the cases, the cause of death has been identified as viral haemorrhagic fever. “Tests that are necessary for confirming dengue fever, including ELISA test, were not conducted in both the cases. Hence, it could not be considered as confirmed dengue deaths,” said Deputy Director of Health Services K.V. Arjun Kumar. Nevertheless, dengue prevention activities are happening at full swing at the hotspots of the district, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/106-dengue-positive-cases-in-madurai-till-february-10/article33816176.ece
12 February 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Entire country was working virtually during pandemic: HC||After a counsel, during the course of the hearing in a petition that challenged a trial court order, made a submission that he could not argue the case elaborately before the trial court in the physical mode, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed that during the COVID-19 pandemic period, the entire country was working virtually. The court was hearing a petition filed by A. Lakshmanan of Tirunelveli, who was accused in a corruption case. An application filed before a trial court hearing cases under the Prevention of Corruption Act to summon to produce documents in the case was dismissed. Challenging the same, a petition was filed before the High Court. Justice K. Murali Shankar said during COVID-19 pandemic, the entire country was working virtually. Since the petitioner had not raised any objection before the trial court, he should not take such a stand before the High Court. The Supreme Court had permitted virtual hearing and the High Court had issued various circulars to hear cases virtually in view of the pandemic. Stakeholders of the judiciary should refrain from making allegations or levelling charges against the judicial officers without any basis, the judge said. Since the Bar and the Bench were the two sides of the same coin, the Bar must discourage its members and litigants from raising baseless allegations, the judge said. The court dismissed the petition that challenged the order of the trial court as devoid of merits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/entire-country-was-working-virtually-during-pandemic-hc/article33816246.ece
12 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Tension in Madurai||Tension prevailed around Kazimar Periya Pallivasal (Big Mosque) here on Thursday morning as officials from Tamil Nadu Wakf Board attempted to take over the management of the mosque. The local Muslim community that was divided into two groups - one led by Managing Trustee of an ancient mosque, opposing the takeover and another led by Kazimar Street Muslim Jamaat pressing for the change of guard, gathered inside and outside the mosque. As a large number of people, including women and children, assembled, a huge posse of police personnel was deployed to prevent any untoward incident. A good number of women and children, who had entered the mosque premises and locked themselves up from inside, and men had gathered outside to prevent the officials enter its building, Even as Chief Executive Officer D. Faritha Banu could not enter the mosque, the other group led by the jamaat, led by its secretary, A. Ayaz, 52, resorted to road blockade following which over 80 protesters were taken into custody by the police. The mosque managing trustee S.M.F. Munshi, 50, said that the 450 members of the mosque trust were legal heirs of Kazi Thajudeen, who founded the mosque. Stating that the 800-year-old mosque had its properties that were donated by Pandiya King in various parts of the city“Those who are opposing us are recent settlers – some 50 years back – in our area and we allowed them to offer their prayers. We even have marriage relationship with them. But legally they do not have any right over the mosque and we have denied them their demand to be part of the mosque administration,” Mr. Munshi said. However, Mr. Ayaz said they were backed by the Supreme Court judgement. The court has directed Wakf Board to take over the mosque as there was misappropriation of funds, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tension-in-madurai/article33815602.ece
12 February 2021||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||KMDK cadre arrested||Kongu Makkal Desiya Katchi (KMDK) cadre, including its general secretary E.R. Eswaran were arrested here on Thursday for staging a protest against the contentious farm laws and on various demands here. The protest was held at Kallipatti near Thiruchengode. The party had also planned to conduct a padyatra demanding linking River Cauvery and Thirumanimutharu river. The partymen were stopped by Namakkal district police and arrested stating the permission for the yatra was not given.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kmdk-cadre-arrested/article33815627.ece
12 February 2021||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Ram Setu not an ancient monument’||Senior academic and former Vice-Chancellor of Alagappa Univeristy A. Ramasamy has moved the Supreme Court, saying the Ram Setu or Adam’s Bridge does not meet the requirements of an “ancient monument” under the law, and the top court has no power to declare it a “national monument”. Ram Setu is a chain of limestone shoals between the coasts of India and Sri Lanka. According to the epic Ramayana, the bridge was built by the ‘Vanara army’ to rescue Sita, who was kidnapped by Ravana. Dr. A. Ramasamy, president of the Dravidian Historical Research Centre, quoted a 130-year-old German study, which had concluded that the “Adam’s Bridge is not man-made”. “Dr. Johnnes Walther, a professor of Jena University in Germany, undertook the research on the Adam’s Bridge in 1891,” Dr. Ramasamy, represented by advocates M. Munusamy and A. Lakshminarayanan, said. He vouched for the veracity of the study, saying at that time, there was “no compulsion or political pressure” concerning the bridge. The German study described the narrative of Ramayana as a “pious fairy tale”. He argued that several eminent persons have categorically stated that “Ramayana is a myth”. “National poet Bharati has also declared that there is no truth in the Ramayana story,” the application said. The academic approached the Supreme Court to implead himself in a petition filed by BJP leader Subramanian Swamy for a direction to the Centre to declare Ram Setu a national heritage monument. In his application, Mr. Ramasamy highlighted that the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act of 1958 defines an ancient monument as “any structure, erection or monument or any tumulus or place of interment or any cave, rock sculpture, inscription or monolith of historical, archaeological or artistic interest.” Again, the structure should have been in existence for not less than a century. “Only a permanent structure could be declared an ancient monument. Adam’s Bridge is not a permanent structure...sand dunes are formed due to the streaming relationship of the Indian Ocean and the influence of the monsoon on the superficial sediments of the sea, plus negative beach pushing. The whole phenomenon depends on change in sea level ... In short, Adam’s Bridge is a constantly changing structure which is repeatedly constructed and destroyed by natural process. Sand dunes appear and disappear like bubbles... It would not [be] possible to declare the bubbles a national monument,” he argued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ram-setu-not-an-ancient-monument-former-v-c-tells-sc/article33815639.ece
12 February 2021||P.A. Narayani,TAMIL NADU||Grazing land identified for raising fodder for livestock||In a first of its kind initiative, the Animal Husbandry department, along with the district administration, has identified a 24.46 acre grazing land at Poonchuthi village near Tiruvadavur for growing fodder for livestock. Joint Director of Animal Husbandry R. Rajathilagam said that it was part of a State-wide initiative to identify grazing land for growing nutritious fodder for livestock. “Earlier, during the colonial period, separate grazing poromboke lands were earmarked in each area for the benefit of the livestock of that particular region. However, over the years, the grazing promoboke lands have been encroached or used for agricultural purposes. This has led to a shortage in availability of grazing land for livestock,” he added. According to the guidelines of the project, the rejuvenation of grazing land on scientific lines is important to substantially enhance fodder availability. Livestock play an important role for rural economy, especially for small and marginal farmers. With minimal land holdings, these farmers have traditionally relied on common grazing land for meeting the fodder requirements of their livestock, according to the guidelines. A Grazing Land Development Committee was formed under the Collector to identify this venue and currently the location has been approved for growing fodder. “Bush clearing, raising of nurseries for fodder trees, cultivating grass and fencing the venue will be undertaken under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme,” said an official from the Animal Husbandry department. Different varieties of grass, trees and legume crop would be cultivated on the grazing land. “The aim is to ensure that rain-fed crops are grown so that they can grow automatically throughout the year in a sustainable manner,” said the official. Mr. Rajathilagam said that for each acre of land, seeds worth Rs. 16,500 would be procured for raising fodder. This is a pilot project, which aims to provide sufficient fodder to the livestock of that particular region. “Based on its success, additional grazing lands will be identified,” said the official.  Pilot project  Different varieties of grass, trees and legume crop will be cultivated  Seeds worth Rs. 16,500 will be procured for raising fodder for each acre of land||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/grazing-land-identified-for-raising-fodder-for-livestock/article33816169.ece
12 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Political parties want same day poll in T.N., Kerala and U.T.||Political parties have urged the Election Commission of India to hold same-day Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry while also flagging concerns over unilateral appointment of nominated legislators by the Centre, bogus voters and distribution of freebies that could mar free and fair elections. Representatives of the parties, who handed over memoranda to a high-level delegation from the Election Commission of India (ECI) led by Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora, made the case for synchronous elections as the States shared contiguous areas with the Union Territory. Puducherry PCC president A. V. Subramanian, in a memorandum said the Congress would, if allowed to by the party high command, boycott the election to press for Statehood for Puducherry and urged the ECI to take this up with the Government of India. Raising the issue of the barricading of areas around the Raj Nivas to provide protection to Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi, the memorandum said the measure, besides creating unnecessary panic among officers and the general public, could impede free movement of residents and political parties during electioneering. It urged for ensuring free movement of people in these now barricaded areas. Pointing out that the Lt. Governor had twice in the past been cautioned by the ECI for “interference” in the electoral process, the memorandum appealed to the ECI to issue suitable instructions to the Lt. Governor well ahead of the imposition of the model code of conduct. It also called for curtailment of movement of other State political parties’ personnel/leaders in Puducherry at least 48 hours before conclusion of campaigning as their presence could create law and order issues and illegal interference in electioneering. The DMK and the CPI raised the undemocratic manner of the BJP-led Centre unilaterally nominating partymen as nominated MLAs. In a memorandum, DMK representative R. Siva, MLA, drew attention to the appointment of three nominated legislators by the Central government as per the Union Territories Act 1963 Part II Rule 3 and Sub Class 3, which “was invalidating the principles of democracy”. The memorandum submitted that the Centre had forcibly taken 10% of the 30-member strength and urged the ECI to raise the issue with the Law Commission, Parliament and the Constitutional Bench of the Supreme Court. The CPI, represented by A.M. Saleem, said the Centre’s unilateral appointment of nominated legislators with all rights conferred on elected representatives and without any consultation with the State Government, made a mockery of the very objectives of Parliamentary democracy. The nominated members are activists of the ruling party at the Centre and could potentially play a vital part in destabilising and even toppling a democratically-elected Government, the memorandum said. The AIADMK, in its memorandum submitted by A. Anbalagan, legislature leader, sought same-day synchronous elections in Puducherry, along with polls in Tamil Nadu and Kerala, as the Union Territory shared borders with both States. It also wanted a proportionate increase in the number of booths in relation with the increase in electors to 10.03 lakh from 9.41 lakh in 2016 Assembly election. Noting that number of booths had not seen a matching increase, especially under the shadow of the COVID-19 pandemic, the AIADMK wanted polling booths having over 1,000 voters to be bifurcated to ensure social distancing. The party’s other demands included appointment of Tamil-proficient officials as Chief Electoral Officer and District Election Officer and a thorough re-verification of electoral rolls to purge names of deceased persons. In a separate memorandum, Om Sakthi Sekar, also of the AIADMK, called for strict measures to prevent distribution of freebies to entice voters. It also sought the constitution of special field teams to weed out an estimated 7,000 bogus voters from the electoral rolls. The eight-member team included Election Commissioners Sushil Chandra and Rajiv Kumar, Secretary General Umesh Sinha and Deputy Election Commissioner Chandra Bhushan Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/political-parties-want-same-day-poll-in-tn-kerala-and-ut/article33816244.ece
12 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Chief Secretary takes the first jab in a bid to give a fillip to COVID-19 vaccination||Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar on Thursday took the first dose of vaccination against COVID-19 in a bid to provide a fillip to the programme, amid concerns over the Union Territory having one of the country’s tardiest immunisation rates. Along with Chief Secretary S.D. Sundaresan, the Special Secretary to the Lt. Governor also received the first dose of the vaccine at a facility set up at the General Hospital. In fact, data released on the day by the Union Health Ministry showed that Puducherry had recorded the lowest vaccination performance of 17.5%. Bihar led with over 79% of the registered healthcare workers being vaccinated while seven States and Union Territories reported less than 40% vaccination coverage. A total of 13 States and Union Territories achieved over 65% coverage of registered healthcare workers. Mr. Ashwani Kumar said a State-level review held earlier in the day found that the vaccination rate in Puducherry was below par and a decision had been taken to change the situation. Describing the vaccination as a “smooth experience”, he said officers at various levels entitled for immunisation should go in and receive their first shot without delay. Pointing out that vaccination was one of the ways of fighting COVID-19, the Chief Secretary noted that so far Puducherry had done quite well in keeping a lid on the spread of the infection. “It has maintained all economic activities and yet was able to contain COVID-19. Now, it is time to adopt vaccination in our scheme of things as it is one of the measures for the fight against the pandemic to be effective,” Mr. Ashwani Kumar said. Appeal to doctors He appealed to the medical fraternity, including doctors and paramedical staff, to get vaccinated as quickly as possible to put Puducherry at the top in immunisation coverage in the country. Puducherry has a 100% immunisation track record in other nationally driven programmes and this success had to be extended to COVID vaccination now, Mr. Ashwani Kumar said. T. Arun, Health Secretary, said all facilities were in place to administer vaccines for an estimated 25,000 healthcare personnel and 7,000 frontline workers. The vaccines were safe and there was no need for any apprehension, he said. In over a fortnight since the vaccination programme was rolled out nationwide, Puducherry has so far innoculated 4,587 healthcare workers, including 330 personnel in the last 24 hours. In the four days since the immunisation was extended to frontline workers, 183 persons received their first shot. The aggregate of persons covered under the vaccination drive stands at 4,770. No deaths reported Meanwhile, the Union Territory saw 25 new COVID-19 cases and posted 22 recoveries in the last 24 hours. No deaths were reported. The new cases were from Puducherry (17), Karaikal (five) and Mahe (three). No cases emerged from Yanam. The tally was 656 deaths, 296 active cases, a total of 39,397 cases and 38,445 recovered patients. The test positivity rate was 1.05%, case fatality rate 1.67% and recovery rate 97.58%. The number of tests conducted to date was on the verge of crossing 6 lakh with an estimated 5.99 lakh tests undertaken so far, of which about 5.55 lakh returned negative for the virus. Cuddalore district reported 16 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Thursday, taking the district’s tally to 25,033.    While 24,667 persons have been discharged, the number of active cases in the district stands at 55.    In Villupuram district, two persons tested positive, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 15,220. Kallakurichi district reported one positive case, taking the overall count to 10,893.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-secretary-takes-the-first-jab-in-a-bid-to-give-a-fillip-to-covid-19-vaccination/article33816245.ece
12 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||L-G orders opening of renovated Mairie Building to be postponed||Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi on Thursday directed the Chief Secretary to issue necessary orders to postpone the scheduled inauguration of the renovated Mairie Building on Friday. In a note released to the media, the Lt. Governor said the renovation of the historic Mairie Building (which used to house the Pondicherry Municipality office) was taken up under a Centrally-sponsored scheme, the Coastal Disaster Risk Reduction Project (CDRRP), at a cost of Rs. 14 crore. The Central government had taken a loan of Rs. 244 crore for CDRRP from the World Bank and released it to the Puducherry government as 100% grant for various works, the note said. “Therefore, it is proper to invite dignitaries of the Government of India for the inauguration of the building. Chief Secretary is requested to kindly address the concerned Ministry and get fixed a suitable date for inauguration. Till then the programme fixed for tomorrow be postponed,” the Lt. Governor said in the note. She also directed through the note to the Chief Secretary to invariably invite representatives of the Government of India for Centrally-funded schemes. Show cause notice In a WhatsApp message, the Lt. Governor said she had issued a direction to the Chief Secretary to issue a show cause notice to T. Arun, CEO of Puducherry Smart City Development Ltd, for printing the invitation without her name for the inaugural function. She also directed the Chief Secretary to seek an explanation from Mr. Arun. “Unless he apologises, the Union Ministry of Home Affairs should be informed of his conduct. I will take action against him after I get Mr. Arun’s reply. Why did he omit the office of Lt. Governor for such a major event?,” Ms. Bedi asked. Ms. Bedi said she had issued a direction to the Secretaries to take the convenience of the Governor for the inaugural of such events. “All Secretaries to note. Any project particularly funded by Government of India, my convenience be taken to be part of it. Anyone defaulting should be show caused and Government of India informed,” the Lt. Governor said. She directed the Department Heads to send drafts of the invitations to the Directorate of Information and Publicity for prior approval.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bedi-postpones-opening-of-renovated-building/article33816075.ece
12 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Govt. whip questions AINRC chief||Government whip R.K.R. Anantharaman on Thursday said Opposition leader and chief of AINRC N. Rangasamy has no right to speak on Statehood after being silent on the issue for almost five years. Addressing a press conference here, the Congress leader said the AINRC was founded on the premise of getting Statehood for the Union Territory in 2011. The AINRC did not take any step to achieve Statehood while in power for five years. The party shared a very cordial relationship with the BJP when Prime Minister Narendra Modi came to power at the Centre in 2014, he said. The Opposition leader did not prevail upon the NDA government to accord Statehood for the Union Territory. For the last five years, when the ruling Congress was fighting with the Lt. Governor to protect the rights of the Union Territory, the Opposition leader maintained total silence on the issue, he added. The AINRC chief had only made the statement urging political parties to boycott the Assembly election for getting political mileage, he said. Questioning Mr. Namassivayam (a former Congress Minister who recently joined BJP) for his criticism of Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, Mr. Anantharaman said the Union Territory used to receive around 70% grant as Central assistance. The assistance had now come down drastically. If the former Minister had differences of opinion, he should not have waited for almost five years to quit the government. “While being in the Congress, Mr. Namassivayam used to criticise the BJP for creating insecurity to minorities and now he is preaching for the BJP. I am ready to have an open debate with him,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-whip-questions-ainrc-chief/article33816242.ece
12 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK flays DMK on nominated MLA issue||AIADMK leader in Assembly and party secretary (east) A. Anbalagan on Thursday questioned the moral right of the DMK to question the appointment of nominated MLAs. Addressing a press conference, he said the DMK was able to prove its majority in the Assembly in 1991 after nominating three of its members as nominated legislators. The party formed the government with the help of the three nominated legislators, he said. The DMK had no right to urge the Election Commission of India to stall the appointment of nominated legislators by the Centre, he said. The Congress and the DMK had no right to criticise other parties on Statehood as the United Progressive Alliance government at the Centre had failed to upgrade the status of the Union Territory, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-flays-dmk-on-nominated-mla-issue/article33816238.ece
12 February 2021||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||68 injured in jallikattu||Sixty eight persons were injured in a jallikattu held at Thirunallur village in the district on Thursday. As many as 903 bulls were released during the six-hour long event. Two hundred bull tamers participated in the event. Police sources said 50 among the injured were treated as out-patients and the remaining 18 injured were referred to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital at Tiruchi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/68-injured-in-jallikattu/article33815564.ece
12 February 2021||RAMESWARAM,TAMIL NADU||Thousands offer prayers, pay obeisance to ancestors||Thousands of people thronged Rameswaram, the temple town, on Thursday to pay obeisance to their ancestors. The devotees performed special pujas and rituals to the ancestors with the help of the priests since 5 a.m. after taking a holy dip in the sea Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment officials said that they had instructed visitors to adhere to safety protocols in view of the COVID-19 pandemic but very few people chose to wear masks. There seemed to be no restrictions from the officials concerned as there was a huge crowd. Devotees assembled in the Ramanathaswamy Temple also from 4.30 a.m. They had come from far and near for a darshan and a dip in sea. The temple officials could not be reached for their comments. Tirunelveli Thousands of people offered special prayers in memory of their ancestors along the Tamirabharani watercourse from Papanasam to Punnaikaayal on Thursday on the occasion of ‘Thai Amavasai.’ As the COVID-19 lockdown has been relaxed with the number of fresh cases going down sharply everyday, the public, who could not offer the special prayers on ‘Aadi amavasai’ due to restrictions imposed in the wake of the pandemic, gathered in large numbers along the Tamirabharani watercourse to offer prayers. A few thousand people gathered along the 125 km-long water course of the river since morning and offered prayers.  Thoothukudi In Thoothukudi, the people, besides offering prayers along Tamirabharani watercourse at Murappanaadu, Srivaikundam and Eral, gathered on the beaches at Terespuram and the New Harbour to offer prayers after taking a holy dip in the sea. Tiruchendur attracted thousands of people who offered special prayers on the beach. Kanniyakumari Kanniyakumari attracted thousands of people, who offered the special prayers on the beach after taking a holy dip in the sea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thousands-offer-prayers-pay-obeisance-to-ancestors/article33815594.ece
12 February 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||RPF steps up vigil on trains and stations||The Railway Protection Force (RPF) is keeping a special watch on trains and stations to check movement of valuable goods and cash in view of the upcoming Assembly elections in various States. According to RPF officials, they are maintaining a vigil to check movement of hawala cash, silver and gold jewellery and other valuable goods which are often used to distribute for votes during elections. They are also keeping a vigil to check a movement of narcotic and other contraband goods and wildlife items. Gold jewellery The RPF recently held three persons in two instances who illegally transported silver and gold jewellery in trains between Salem and Chennai and they were handed over to respective departments. K.V. Rathish Babu, Assistant Security Commissioner, Salem Railway Division, said that special vigil is being maintained across all stations to restrict movement of such goods to election-bound States. Narcotics He said that the RPF itself would register cases in case of movement of narcotic drugs under NDPS Act and in case of other goods, it is handed over to departments concerned in respective jurisdiction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rpf-steps-up-vigil-on-trains-and-stations/article33815629.ece
12 February 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Road safety rally held||The JSW Limited here organised a road safety two-wheeler from rally on Wednesday as part Road Safety Month awareness celebrations. According to a release, Awareness pamphlets was distributed to the public during the rally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/road-safety-rally-held/article33815628.ece
12 February 2021||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Camp to distribute ration cards||The district administration will organise a special camp in taluk supplies offices on February 13 between 10 a.m. and 1 p.m. to give new smart ration cards to the third gender. In a press release, Collector G.S. Sameeran said those who are yet to get the smart ration card and have completed 18 years should come to the camp with Aadhaar card, Electors’ Photo Identity Card, address proof (LPG cylinder receipt or tenant agreement executed with the landlord), photos and the mobile phone numbers for getting the card. Those who are living separately alone can apply for the ration card. If the applicant name is in ration card of their parents or guardians, the applicant should give an undertaking in writing to delete their name from the existing ration card in the name of their parent or guardian. The Taluk Supplies Officer will delete their name on the spot from the ration card of their parent or guardian for giving the new ration card in the name of the applicant. The Taluk Supplies Officer, on receiving the application from the third gender, will upload it onwww.tnpds.gov.inand there is no need for linking their identity card issued by the social welfare department with the smart ration card.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/camp-to-distribute-ration-cards/article33815595.ece
12 February 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Creative learning workshop for children||Boys and girls hailing from ‘kurava’ community residing in five villages on the periphery of Thanjavur town are undergoing a three-day creative learning workshop organised by a Madurai-based non-governmental organisation, POPE (People’s Organisation for People Education). The children were being trained on how to enhance and express their thoughts through art and drawing at the Children Resource Centres set up by POPE at Manojipatti, Munnaiyampatti, Vallam, Sengipatti and Thirumanur to provide after-school-hour education support to them. The objective of the workshop was to help children enhance their self-esteem, self-confidence and better communication skills through alternative pedagogy method.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/creative-learning-workshop-for-children/article33815565.ece
12 February 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||MSP for black and green grams increased||The minimum support price for black gram has been increased by Rs. 3 per kilogram and for green gram by Rs. 1.46 per kilogram for purchase to be made through the regulated markets in Thanjavur district. Disclosing this in a press release, Collector M. Govinda Rao has said that it had been decided to procure 140 tonnes of black gram and 160 tonnes of green gram through the regulated markets functioning at Thanjavur, Kumbakonam, Papanasam and at Orathanadu during this kharif season (2020-21) for a period of 90 days from April 1, 2021. The farmers aspiring to measure their produce at the regulated markets can do so by registering their names with the concerned regulated market. They should produce the following documents chitta, adangal, Aadhaar card and bank passbook copies to sell their produce at the regulated markets where black gram would be procured for Rs. 60 per kilogram and the green gram at Rs. 71.96 per kilogram, the Collector added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/msp-for-black-and-green-grams-increased/article33815555.ece
12 February 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Two from Karnataka held for trying to sell ‘black diamond’||The police have arrested two persons from Karnataka when they allegedly tried to sell a black lustrous object, claiming it be ‘black diamond,’ for Rs. 27 lakh. According to Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar, a team, led by Inspector of Police, Thoothukudi South police station, Anantharajan, raided a lodge in the coastal town on Thursday following information that two persons from Karnataka staying there were trying to sell a black glossy object as they were claiming it to be ‘black diamond’. When the police picked up S. Anantha, 37, of J.P. Nagar and D. Venkatesh Babu, 45, in Bengaluru, they told the police that they were approaching the jewellery showroom owners and rich individuals to sell the ‘425 carat black diamond.’ “Even before they could cheat anyone, the police nabbed them and seized the black glossy object, which will be sent for quality analysis,” said Mr. Jayakumar. The police have initiated steps to unravel the duo’s antecedents as they were reportedly giving contradictory replies to the police during interrogation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/held-for-trying-to-sell-diamond/article33815605.ece
12 February 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK, Sasikala should resolve differences: Ganesan||Senior BJP leader L. Ganesan on Thursday said the AIADMK and former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s aide V.K. Sasikala’s camp must resolve their differences to become a strong unified outfit. Mr. Ganesan, after attending a BJP workers’ meet in Thoothukudi, told journalists that the ongoing war of words between the AIADMK and the supporters of Ms. Sasikala should be resolved by the ruling party. This was required as the AIADMK had to weigh her strength and analyse the problems the party would face from her politically, he said. At the same time, he said the reception accorded to Ms. Sasikala on her return to Tamil Nadu from Bengaluru, where she was jailed in a corruption case, should not be construed as a warm gesture by the people from all parts of the State. Mr. Ganesan acknowledged that AIADMK leaders were afraid that Ms. Sasikala’s re-entry into the party would also pave way for her close relatives to dominate the party affairs and impose “family rule”. “The AIADMK does not want this unpleasant situation to happen again. The BJP, an ally of the ruling party, has no role in the rapprochement. If they want to be unified, they can be and we want to see the AIADMK as a unified and strong party,” Mr. Ganesan said. Lauding the efforts of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami in neutralising all efforts made to topple his government, the BJP leader said he, by ensuring unity in the party, had won the people’s trust. Mr. Ganesan said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s rule would strengthen the AIADMK-BJP alliance and it would retain power in Tamil Nadu. On some DMK leaders visiting temples and receiving the vel (spear) as memento from party workers, Mr. Ganesan said the DMK, a party of atheists, would not be pardoned by the people, even though it was striving hard to showcase itself as a party close to the Hindus.  AIADMK leaders are afraid that Ms. Sasikala’s re-entry into the party will also pave way for her close relatives to dominate party affairs L. Ganesan Senior BJP leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-sasikala-should-resolve-differences-ganesan/article33815572.ece
12 February 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Joint Commissioner’s office inaugurated||Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment Sevur S. Ramachandran inaugurated the Department’s Regional Joint Director’s Office at Chidambara Nagar here on Thursday. The new office will administer the temples and temple properties in Thoothukudi and Tenkasi districts while the similar office at Tirunelveli will take care of the temples in Tirunelveli and Kanniyakumari districts. After formally inaugurating the office, Mr. Ramachandran distributed welfare assistance to the temple workers in the presence of Minister for Information Kadambur C. Raju. Executive Officer of Lord Subramaniya Swmay Temple, Tiruchendur, P. Vishnu Chandran, Thoothukudi Corporation Commissioner Sharanya Ari, Sub-Collector of Thoothukudi, Simranjeet Singh, Joint Commissioner, HR and CE, A.T. Paranjoithi, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/office-inaugurated/article33815606.ece
12 February 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi will get more micro compost yards||New micro compost yards coming up in the city will be inaugurated before March, according to Tiruchi Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian. He told The Hindu here on Thursday, that the city had 33 micro compost yards (MCC) for collecting, segregating, processing and recycling the waste. The concept, which was introduced in 2017, had become a successful model in solid waste management. The MCC, first started in Ariyamangalam, was extended to other wards in the city. They have helped bring down the quantum of waste being transported to Ariyamangalam dump yard by about 50%. Mr. Sivasubramanian said that to bring more areas under the MCC coverage, the State government approved the setting up of 10 more MCCs at various locations in the city. They were being set up at Kuzhumikarai, Selva Nagar, East Boulevard Road, Anna Nagar and Srirangam. This apart, two MCCs were being set up at Central Bus Stand and another at the backyard of the main office of the Tiruchi Corporation. Depending upon the size of MCC, each would cost between Rs. 40 lakh and Rs. 50 lakh. Each would have a capacity to handle 6 to 7 metric tonnes of garbage. Construction of new MCCs had reached an advanced stage. They would be brought to use one after another before March. The Commissioner said that the city generated about 450 metric tonne of solid waste a day. Until the introduction of MCC, the entire garbage without segregating degradable and non-degradable was transported and dumped at the Ariyamangalam dump yard. The quantum of solid waste being transported to Ariyamangalam had come down to around 250 metric tonne. It has been decided to segregate, process and dispose of the entire solid waste in the micro compost yards itself. He said that no new workers would be recruited for the new micro compost centres as the State government had not given permission to increase the number of sanitary workers. The new MCCs would be managed with the available work force and the self help group members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-will-get-more-micro-compost-yards/article33815556.ece
12 February 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Amma Mandapam sees a large crowd on ‘Thai Amavasai’||Public turned out in good numbers at the Amma Mandapam adjoining the Cauvery river at Srirangam here and performed rituals to propitiate their ancestors on the occasion of ‘Thai Amavasai’ on Thursday. A posse of police personnel was deployed from Wednesday night onwards at the Amma Mandapam in connection with the event. People from different places began to converge from the morning at the Amma Mandapam bathing ghat where they performed the rituals along the river course. Notwithstanding the sparse water flow in the Cauvery river, many of them took a holy dip in the river and performed the rituals. Over 100 police personnel were deployed in and around the Amma Mandapam bathing ghat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/amma-mandapam-sees-a-large-crowd-on-thai-amavasai/article33815559.ece
12 February 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||60 new cases reported in central region||The central districts on Thursday recorded 60 new cases of COVID-19. The region recorded no death according to the bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, while Ariyalur district reported no fresh case for the second consecutive day. All districts in the region, except Tiruchi and Thanjavur , reported less than 10 fresh cases. Twenty patients tested positive in Thanjavur while in Tiruchi, 15. Patients in both districts were isolated cases or were primary contacts. In Tiruchi, eight patients who had been undergoing treatment for COVID at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital were discharged. In Pudukottai, nine patients tested positive. Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur both reported six cases each. Three cases were reported in Karur. Perambalur reported one case, while Ariyalur reported no new case for the second consecutive day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/60-new-cases-reported/article33815561.ece
12 February 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Varsity begins 11 online programmes||The Distance Education Bureau of University Grants Commission (UGC-DEB) has permitted the Centre for Distance and Online Education of Bharathidasan University (BDU) to conduct eleven online programmes. They constitute three UG programmes: B.A. Tamil, English and B.B.A.; and eight PG programmes: M.A. Tamil, English, Economics, History, Political Science, Public Administration, M.Sc. Information Technology, and M.B.A. BDU ranks among the top 100 universities permitted by the Central Government to start online programmes. The online programs were launched by Vice-Chancellor M. Selvam on Thursday in the presence of Registrar G. Gopinath and other senior officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/varsity-begins-11-online-programmes/article33815554.ece
12 February 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Surgery helps man walk again||A 54-year-old man from Tiruchi underwent a successful spinal surgery at Apollo Hospitals. The patient, who had suffered a polio attack when he was a child, had complained of pain in his limbs and doctors at the hospital ascertained that it was due to compression of nerves in the spinal cord. Elangovan, from Manikandam had visited the Apollo Hospitals, Tiruchi, in November complaining of pain in the shoulders, and his right leg. He had been dependent on the right leg after he suffered a polio attack as a three-year-old child. The patient was unable to walk when he visited the hospital. Mayilan Chinnappan and Kevin Joseph, neurosurgeons at the hospital, diagnosed the patient of cervical compressive myelopathy. “The nerves were being compressed due to wear and tear of the spinal cord and had caused pain. It had also led to him losing urinary sensation and he was forced to use a catheter,” Dr. Joseph said. “The compression could happen anywhere. If the nerve to the diaphragm is compressed, the patient will suffer from breathing difficulty,” he added. A surgical procedure involving the removal of two cervical vertebral bones, drilling out the thickened and calcified ligament which was compressing the cord and stabilising the spinal segments with cage and screw implants was conducted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/surgery-helps-man-walk-again/article33815557.ece
12 February 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Sri Lanka ban on import hits dry fish exporters of State||Tamil Nadu exporters of Maldive fish (‘maasi karuvaadu’) are in a spicy situation as Sri Lanka, the major consumer of this dry seafood, has banned its import from India since November last. After the Union Government started giving attractive subsidy for constructing mechanised boats for multi-day deep sea tuna fishing, the number of boats involved in this fishing has increased sharply over the past few years. Consequently, the arrival of tuna in all fish landing centres of the State increased manifold to attract a good number of people towards making Maldive fish with tuna. Though fresh tuna is also being exported, 17% of the total catch of tuna is diverted for making Maldive fish, which is produced in Thoothukudi, Nagapattinam, Chennai, Ramanathapuram and other districts. After washing the tuna thoroughly, the entire digestive system of the fish is removed and cleaned again with water before being boiled. Then the boiled fish is dried hygienically for 8 to 10 days and packed for export. After Sri Lanka’s ban came into force on November 5 last, the ‘Maldive fish’ manufacturers, workers of these manufacturing units and those who were getting indirect employment are in deep trouble. ‘Maldive fish’ producers of Thoothukudi district, who were exporting an average of 20 tonnes of ‘maasi karuvaadu’ everyday to Sri Lanka, are in big soup after the island nation’s ban even as the neighbour continues to import this dry fish from Maldives, Pakistan and Iran. “When Maldives too faced the ban, the country’s External Affairs Minister visited Sri Lanka and ensured the immediate repeal of the ban. Though our External Affairs Minister visited Sri Lanka recently, the ban on Maldive fish apparently did not figure in his talks with his Sri Lankan counterpart. So, we’re in deep trouble as Maldive fish worth over Rs. 500 crore, meant for export to Sri Lanka, is lying across the country,” says P. Antony Selvasekar of Tharuvaikulam, one of the major Maldive fish producer and first-generation entrepreneur, whose godown has ‘maasi karuvaadu’ worth Rs. 1.50 crore due to the ban. “For the loan I have availed for this business venture, I am paying Rs. 2 lakh a month as interest alone,” he says. With the Maldive fish manufacturers abstaining from purchase due to the ban, one kg of tuna, which was sold for Rs. 70, has dropped to Rs. 50 a kg now at Tharuvaikulam, which receives 100 tonnes of tuna a day on an average. Each manufacturing unit, which has employed a minimum of 60 workers, are idle and labourers have been left unemployed for the past two months. While the labourers have no work, the traders who were buying the ‘tuna waste’ for making broiler feed, are also out of business now. “So, the State Government should take up this serious problem with the Centre for repealing the ban at the earliest, which will fetch huge amount of foreign exchange while ensuring the livelihood of thousands of people here,” said Mr. Selvasekar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sri-lanka-ban-on-import-hits-dry-fish-exporters-of-state/article33815597.ece
12 February 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Thousands offer prayers, pay obeisance to ancestors||Thousands of people offered special prayers in memory of their ancestors along the Tamirabharani watercourse from Papanasam to Punnaikaayal on Thursday on the occasion of ‘Thai Amavasai.’ As the COVID-19 lockdown has been relaxed with the number of fresh cases going down sharply everyday, the public, who could not offer the special prayers on ‘Aadi amavasai’ due to restrictions imposed in the wake of the pandemic, gathered in large numbers along the Tamirabharani watercourse to offer prayers. A few thousand people gathered along the 125 km-long water course of the river since morning and offered prayers. In Thoothukudi, the people, besides offering prayers along Tamirabharani watercourse at Murappanaadu, Srivaikundam and Eral, gathered on the beaches at Terespuram and the New Harbour to offer prayers after taking a holy dip in the sea. The coastal town of Tiruchendur attracted thousands of people who offered special prayers on the beach. Kanniyakumari attracted thousands of people, who offered the special prayers on the beach after taking a holy dip in the sea. Thousands of people thronged Rameswaram also to pay obeisance to their ancestors. They took a dip in the sea and had a darshan at Ramanathaswamy Temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thousands-offer-prayers-pay-obeisance-to-ancestors/article33816293.ece
12 February 2021||Tirupathur,TAMIL NADU||Keeping an art form alive||With menacing moustaches, heavy make-up, colourful dresses and a handful dressed as female mythological characters, a few men wait behind a stage to perform at Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami's public meeting in Tirupathur on Wednesday. Around them stand a group of children, looking at their attire with curiosity. The men are construction workers from Mookuner Pudur in Tirupattur district who earn a living by performing Theru Koothu (street play). They also teach the traditional art form free of cost to interested students. Among them is S. Tamil Arasu, a 37-year-old vaathiyar (teacher) of the Theru Koothu troupe, Gokula Kannan Nataka Sabha in Mookanur Pudhur near Pudupettai in Tirupattur district. He works at a construction site to make ends meet. “This is the first performance for a political party this year. We perform plays like Mahabharatha, Ramayana, Kanda Puranam, Shiva Puranam and other mythological plays. Sometimes, the parties ask us to give a political angle to the play, sometimes they ask us to just give a dance performance to keep the audience occupied,” says Mr. Tamil Arasu, who has been teaching the art form for the past 18 years. Stipend to students A minimum of eight persons perform in a play. “Each of us get at least Rs. 1,000 per play and after our expenses, we save Rs. 500. We pool in this amount to pay stipends to students who come to learn the art form from us. We don't charge the students anything,” he says. He adds that many college students from Tirupathur are now coming forward to learn the art from his school. “After March, we get many bookings for temple festivals. During COVID-19 we suffered a lot,” says R. Pandithurai, another troupe member who was dressed as a female mythological character. The troupe members feel that it would be great if the government extends some help for them. “Our earnings are spent on transport itself. We are doing this to keep a traditional art form from dying,” says Mr. Tamil Arasu before getting on to the stage dressed as a character from Mahabarata.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/keeping-an-art-form-alive/article33816298.ece
12 February 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘Muslims will not be affected by alliance’||Muslims in the State need not fear as they will not be affected by the AIADMK’s alliance (with the BJP), party co-coordinator and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said at a meeting with Jamaath leaders here on Thursday. He began his two-day campaign in Tiruppur district and met Jamaath leaders at a private hall on Kangeyam Road. “Alliance is different, and ideology is different. Alliances will keep changing because they are formed for political purposes,” he said, without naming any party. He had given a similar assurance in Ramanathapuram last month. Asserting that the AIADMK did not discriminate on the basis of caste or religion, he said there had not been any communal clash in the State in the past four years. “Any minor [communal] issues are dealt with immediately,” he said, referring to the recent arrest of BJP State executive committee member R. Kalyanaraman at Mettupalayam for his alleged remarks on Prophet Muhammad and Islam. Kicking off his campaign at Avinashi in the morning, Mr. Palaniswami said crop loan waiver certificates would be issued to farmers “within 10 days”. He condemned DMK president M.K. Stalin for claiming that the crop loan waiver, to the tune of Rs. 12,110 crore, would only remain an announcement. He “cannot understand the hardships faced by the poor”, the Chief Minister said. Speaking at Pandian Nagar in the Tiruppur North Assembly constituency, Mr. Palaniswami alleged that DMK MPs had not raised issues concerning the State in Parliament. Criticising Mr. Stalin for collecting petitions from the public during his campaign, he said the State government would soon open the ‘1100’ helpline for the public to file their grievances on the phone. At Valarmathi bus stop in the Tiruppur South constituency, he alleged that the DMK did not take adequate steps to ensure the release of convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. Hence, it was not competent to criticise the AIADMK government on the issue. In the afternoon, Mr. Palaniswami interacted with farmers at Kangeyam. Noting that the Tamil Nadu and Kerala governments were holding talks for the Anamalayar-Nallar scheme, he said the work would begin soon. Later, speaking near the Kangeyam Bus Terminus, he said the government would construct concrete houses for hand-loom weavers and a statue of the famous Kangeyam breed of bull would be installed in the town.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/muslims-will-not-be-affected-by-alliance/article33815579.ece
12 February 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Kanimozhi counters CM’s charge||DMK women’s wing leader and Thoothukudi MP M.K. Kanimozhi on Thursday denied the charge of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami that DMK MPs had never raised the State’s issues in Parliament. She campaigned in various parts of Avinashi and Palladam Assembly constituencies in Tiruppur district on Thursday. In Tiruppur, she said DMK MPs had constantly raised various issues concerning the State. “They [AIADMK] supported the anti-farmer laws. We have opposed it [in the Parliament],” she said. On Mr. Palaniswami’s criticism regarding the DMK’s announcement of a special court to hear corruption cases, Ms. Kanimozhi said it was “an expression of his fear”. Regarding his charge that the DMK government had failed to take steps to ensure the release of the seven convicts in the former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, she said the AIADMK was initially against the release of the convicts and was now attempting to hide that by making false allegations. The farm laws must either be amended after consultations with farmers or must be scrapped, she said. She challenged the State government to list the schemes it implemented.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kanimozhi-counters-cms-charge/article33815574.ece
12 February 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Eco-restoration being done around two tea factories in the Nilgiris||To minimise the harmful impact of tea manufacturing, ecological restoration works are being carried out on the premises of INDCOSERVE tea factories in the Nilgiris. The restoration is being done around the Mahalinga and Kattabettu INDCO tea factories. Prinicipal Secretary to the Tamil Nadu government and Monitoring Officer for the Nilgiris district Supriya Sahu, who is also the CEO of INDCOSERVE, said the process of manufacturing tea was not always environment-friend, as it involved the burning of large quantities of wood, which also generated ash. “There is also a chance that run-off from the factories could pollute nearby streams and water bodies. So we are taking the lead in ensuring that producing tea is sustainable and is more environment-friendly,” said Ms. Sahu. INDCOSERVE has partnered with local NGO, Keystone Foundation, who are assisting in the eco-restoration of the site surrounding the factories. “When we conducted a joint inspection of the areas surrounding the factories, we found huge incursion of invasive flora into the factory premises. We are working with Keystone Foundation to remove the invasive species and also plant Shola tree species and grasses,” Ms. Sahu said. The factories are also being repainted to emphasise their eco-friendly transformation. Ms. Sahu said INDCO tea houses would be opened in the renovated factories that had been upgraded with state-of-the-art machinery to both increase tea output and decrease negative footprint on the environment. Tourists would be invited to the factory to see the rich biodiversity in the area, and an information centre would be set up to brief people on the local environment. Founder-Director of Keystone Foundation Pratim Roy said streams running through the area, which had been blocked and polluted too, would be restored under the project. This would benefit the wildlife and the local communities. “This endeavour is truly path-breaking. We hope that the efforts taken by INDCOSERVE and Keystone Foundation will serve as an example to other tea factories as well,” said Mr. Roy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eco-restoration-being-done-around-two-tea-factories-in-the-nilgiris/article33815636.ece
12 February 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Tribal communities harvest ‘bamboo rice’ in Mudumalai||The gregarious flowering of Dendrocalamus strictus , a tall bamboo species found in the Sigur plateau, is being harvested by tribal groups after many decades. The bamboo, which is said to flower any time between the ages of 25-60, before dying, has bloomed throughout the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve and neighboring Bandipur. Tribal communities, who are allowed to collect the minor forest produce, have been harvesting the seeds, known as ‘bamboo rice,’ for consumption as it is known to be a rich source of protein. Bellessi, a 60-year-old Paniya tribal woman from the village of Erivayal in Thorapalli, said she had last collected and cooked the ‘bamboo’ rice as a child. “We prepare it just like rice,” she said. The tribal people, who use the bamboo seeds that come under the minor forest produce category, said there was also a belief among them that the gregarious flowering of the bamboo was a portent of an adverse ecological event. Godwin Vasanth Bosco, a restoration ecologist from the Nilgiris, said the gregarious flowering of Dendrocalamus strictus was sometimes thought to be a stress response. “As a result, local communities believe that it could be a forewarning of a drought, while the blooming also could lead to an increase in the rat population, which in the past led to crop damage and the spread of disease,” said Mr. Bosco. M. Francis, an agronomist from Karnataka, said it was unlikely that the flowering was linked to any factors such as climate change or as a stress response to a future drought event. “Bamboo is a monocarpic species, which flower, seed and then die. This is its natural life cycle,” said Mr. Francis, who called on the forest department to also limit the amount of seed collection by the local communities. “The department should limit the collection to around 10-15 %, and then propagate the seeds to allow for the bamboo to grow again as they are an important source of food for wildlife,” he said. The bamboo is also one of the prime food sources for elephants and other herbivores, and there is a fear that the resulting death of the bamboo could lead to a reduction in food availability in the region for wildlife, possibly exacerbating human-animal confrontations. “It is important that the bamboo is allowed to re-establish itself as an invasive species of flora, Senna spectabilis, is spreading in the habitat which is occupied currently by the bamboo. If the seeds are not allowed to propagate and grow, their habitats might be taken over by the invasive species,” said Mr. Bosco. “The forest department should also facilitate the setting up of nurseries, where the seeds of these bamboos can be collected and grown before they can be replanted in the forests,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tribal-communities-harvest-bamboo-rice-in-mudumalai/article33815618.ece
12 February 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Tea Board hands over barricades to police||The Tea Board, Coonoor, handed over 10 traffic barricades promoting Nilgiris tea to the district police. In a release, the Tea Board stated that “as part of domestic tea promotional activities, the Tea Board is creating widespread awareness to increase the per capita consumption of tea among the school and college students as well as the public through various cultural programmes, contests and rallies.” The barricades will be used in major tourist spots in the district. Executive director of Tea Board, Coonoor, M. Balaji handed over the them to Superintendent of Police V. Sasi Mohan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tea-board-hands-over-barricades-to-police/article33816087.ece
12 February 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Woman dies in gaur attack at tea estate||A 65-year-old woman died during an accidental encounter with a gaur at the tea estate she worked at in Periya Bikkatty near Coonoor on Thursday. Forest department officials identified the deceased as Lakshmi. She was plucking tea leaves when the animal charged at her. She sustained serious injuries and died on the spot. Forest department staff rushed to the spot and began investigations. They said an interim compensation would be provided to the next of kin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-dies-in-gaur-attack/article33815610.ece
12 February 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore records 12 new cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 20,845 with 12 new cases reported on Thursday. While a total of 20,420 have been discharged, the active cases stand at 76. The district's death toll is 349. In Ranipet district, eight cases were reported, taking the tally to 16,162. In Tirupattur district, two cases were reported and the total cases stood at 7,608. In Tiruvannamalai district, five new cases were reported, taking the tally to 19,413. The number of active cases stands at 37.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-records-12-new-cases/article33816241.ece
12 February 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Sasikala must be wary of Dhinakaran, says Minister||Law Minister C.Ve. Shanmugam on Thursday cautioned V.K. Sasikala, the aide of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, to be wary of her nephew and AMMK leader T.T.V. Dhinakaran. He told journalists in Villupuram that Ms. Sasikala had asked Mr. Dhinakaran to take care of the party [AIADMK] and the government before she left for Bengaluru for undergoing imprisonment in the disproportionate assets case. But Mr. Dhinakaran caused pell-mell and in keeping with the dictum, he smashed the pot to pieces, the Minister said. He urged Ms. Sasikala to ensure that she protects herself and her kith and kin from the machinations of Mr. Dhinakaran. Referring to DMK president M.K. Stalin’s criticism of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami wearing a green shawl, he said the Chief Minister was a farmer to the core, and even now was striving hard to take up agricultural works. Mr. Palaniswami had risen to the position through hard work, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sasikala-must-be-wary-of-dhinakaran-says-minister/article33815577.ece
12 February 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||IT searches in Tindivanam||Income Tax officials on Thursday conducted searches at the office and residence of a civil contractor in Tindivanam. Sources said that a five-member team carried out raids on the premises and office of D.K. Kumar, a civil contractor for government work in Poonthottam, Tindivanam. The search is still on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/it-searches-in-tindivanam/article33816237.ece
12 February 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||60 tonnes of green grams to be procured||The district administration has fixed a target of procuring 60 tonnes of green gram cultivated in the rabi season under price support scheme of National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India. In a press release, Collector R. Kannan said that as per the State government directiveVirudhunagar and Aruppukottai Regulated Markets would procure 60 tonnes of green gram. The green gram should confine to the fair average quality in terms of broken grains and less than 12% moisture content. The regulated markets would offer Rs. 71.96 a kg minimum support price. The money for the procured green grams would be deposited in the savings account of the farmers. The purchase will continue till April 18. Interested farmers should produce their land documents, Aadhar card and savings bank account details. Farmers can get further details about procurement from supervisors of the regulated markets -- 90037-53160 or 04562-245038 (Virudhunagar) and 97905-27019 or 04566-220225 (Aruppukottai).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/60-tonnes-of-green-grams-to-be-procured/article33815607.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Open Tiruvarur - Karaikudi line, urge MPs||Five Members of Parliament have strongly urged the Chairman, Railway Board, New Delhi, to take necessary steps to restore express and passenger train services on the Tiruvarur-Karaikudi section following its conversion from metre gauge to broad gauge more than one-and-half-years ago. Tiruchi MP Su.Thirunavukkarasar; Thanjavur MP S.S. Palanimanickam; Nagapattinam MP M. Selvaraj, Sivaganga MP Karti P. Chidambaram and Ramanathapuram MP Navas Kani met the Chairman, Railway Board and Chief Executive Officer Suneet Sharma at New Delhi on Wednesday and presented a memorandum pressing this and other demands. Appoint gatekeepers They also urged the Railway Board Chairman to appoint gatekeepers without any further delay on the nearly 150-km stretch. The MPs took along with them few representatives of rail users association from Pattukottai, Adhiramapattinam and Aranthangi while meeting the Railway Board Chairman. Mr. Thirunavukkarasar, Mr. Palanimanickam and Mr. Karti Chidambaram subsequently met Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal on Wednesday and handed a representation on the issue. The MPs team said that resumption of train services would benefit the general public of Tiruvarur, Thanjavur, Pudukottai and Sivaganga districts. The memorandum said the Southern Railway was yet to recommence services on the section despite spending crores of money for converting it from metre gauge to broad gauge. The main reason for the delay was that gatekeepers were yet to be appointed for the 72 level crossings falling in this stretch, it further said. Mr. Thirunavukkarasar and Mr. Selvaraj told The Hindu over phone on Thursday that the Chairman, Railway Board, spoke to the Southern Railway General Manager regarding the issue. The MPs team wanted the railway administration to ensure the appointment of gatekeepers at all the level crossing gates in this section which has the potential to connect stations up to Rameswaram. The team urged the Railway Board Chairman to take steps to resume rail services on this stretch coinciding with Tamil New Year’s day in April, said Mr. Thirunavukkarasar and Mr. Selvaraj. The MPs also urged the railway administration to operate a Antyodaya express from Chennai to Rameswaram via Tiruvarur, Pattukottai and Karaikudi and reintroduction of daily overnight express train between Chennai and Karaikudi. Operation of passenger trains between Karaikudi and Mayiladuthurai and an early morning train from Velankanni to Madurai via Tiruvarur, Thanjavur and Tiruchi were also put forth by the MPs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/open-tiruvarur-karaikudi-line/article33815563.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Erode district reports 19 cases||Erode district on Thursday reported 19 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 14,579. While 20 persons were discharged, 174 persons continue to be under treatment. In Salem, 12 positive cases were reported. According to health department officials, seven cases were indigenous and five patients returned from Namakkal and Dharmapuri. In Namakkal, five indigenous cases were reported. Krishnagiri recorded only one case. This has taken the total number of cases to 16 and the total number of infections in the district to 8,101. Dharmapuri recorded three new cases and three discharged cases. This has taken the total number of cases to 27 and total number of infections to 6,621 cases. Coimbatore district reported one COVID-19 death and 47 new cases, taking the overall tally to 55,018 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-district-reports-19-cases/article33815620.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports one death, 47 cases||Coimbatore district reported one COVID-19 death and 47 new cases on Thursday, taking the overall tally to 55,018 cases. The Health Department said the death of a 78-year-old man undergoing treatment for COVID-19 took the district’s toll to 676. The district saw 53,879 recoveries and 463 were active cases. A total of 51 patients were discharged on Thursday. Tiruppur reported 14 fresh cases, taking the district’s tally to 18,091. No deaths were reported in the district. As many as 17,742 patients have recovered and 127 were active cases. Tiruppur district reported 222 deaths so far. On Thursday, 22 patients were discharged. In the Nilgiris, six persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases stood at 8,266. The toll was 47 on Thursday, and 44 persons were undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-one-death-47-cases/article33816086.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Obeisance to ancestors||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/obeisance-to-ancestors/article33815632.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||One more hour of polling in T.N.||Deputy Election Commissioner Umesh Sinha and Chief Electoral Officer Satyabrata Sahoo would work out the details. “When we announce the election, the exact hours will also be announced,” Mr. Arora said at a press conference, accompanied by Election Commissioners Sushil Chandra and Rajiv Kumar. At least two special expenditure observers would be sent to Tamil Nadu to watch for money distribution, he said. These officers would have retired from senior government positions such as Secretary to the Government of India or the Chairman of the Central Board of Direct Taxes. As for ‘randomisation’ of the Central police forces deployed in poll-bound areas, the Commission decided to appoint the coordinator of the Central Armed Police Forces to the apex committee that decides where these forces are deployed. Hitherto, the State governments decided on deployments. The decision would be applicable not only to the five poll-bound States but also to all of India. At the district level too, the senior-most general observer would be part of the local committee. “This is a major decision we have taken. It will be formally conveyed to the Chief Electoral Officers in the next two to three days,” Mr. Arora said. Though political parties in Tamil Nadu were divided over postal ballots for those aged above 80, Mr. Arora hinted that the Commission would go ahead with the decision since no malpractice was found in the casting of postal ballots for the elderly in the Bihar Assembly election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-more-hour-of-polling-in-tn/article33815569.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||DMK MP meets intersex activist||DMK women’s wing secretary and MP M.K. Kanimozhi recently met the South Representative of the National Commission for Transgender Persons Gopi Shankar, in Madurai to discuss issues pertaining to the intersex and the transpersons community. “The meeting lasted for about an hour and Kanimozhi akka said that she was committed to protect the rights of the diverse Sexual Orientation, Gender Identity and Expression and Sex Characteristics (SOGIESC) communities,” Gopi Shankar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-mp-meets-intersex-activist/article33816171.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||ERODE||RD National College of Arts and Science: Hands on training on PC Hardware and Software installation, 10 a.m.; National Productivity Day celebrations, virtual mode, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode/article33815621.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||General||Karpagam Academy of Higher Education: Convocation, G. Laxman, National Joint Organising Secretary of ABVP, chief guest, 10 a.m.  Dr. RV Arts and Science College: Meeting on “Role of Mathematics in our day-to-day life”, 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/general/article33816080.ece
12 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Fee dispute: Parents reluctant to give written complaints||Despite allegations from parents that private schools are not adhering to the government’s directions to reduce tuition fees by 30%, the Department of Public Instruction has received only a handful of written complaints. The department had set up committees at the taluk level to resolve disputes over payment of fees. However, almost all the complaints they have received to date are oral. Parents are reportedly reluctant to put it in writing fearing that their children will be targeted in class. While the government had issued an order stating that parents can pay only 70% of the tuition fees for this academic year and no other fee, many school managements are not willing to comply with it. While some committees have received one or two written complaints, officials say it does not reflect ground reality. “Despite school managements violating the order, parents are not willing to approach the committee as they fear that the school management may pressurise them. Parents fear that teachers will pick on their children,” said an official. An official who heads one of these committees in Bengaluru North said, “I got a written complaint from a parent who said that the school was demanding they pay the full amount for this academic year. But after two days, the parent said that he would pay the entire fees and wanted to withdraw his complaint.” A parent whose school has charged full fees this year said, “We asked the school to refund the fees, they did not oblige. But we didn’t complain because we do not want our child to be cornered in her class,” she added. A Block Education Officer in Bengaluru said that it would help if parents lodge complaints along with the fee receipts issued last year and this year. “If the fees collected this academic year is more than 70% of the tuition fee collected last academic year, then we will issue orders to the school to refund the fees not just to the parent who has complained but to everyone,” he said. V. Anbukumar, Commissioner for Public Instruction, said that officials at the taluk level were instructed to resolve the issue locally. If parents have paid more than 70 % of the tuition fee for this academic year, the government order states that they should be refunded or the amount adjusted with the fees for the next academic year.  Parents are not willing to approach the committee as they fear that the school management may pressurise them An official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fee-dispute-parents-reluctant-to-give-written-complaints/article33815664.ece
12 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State youth Congress chief-elect against ‘dual power centres’ plan||Raksha Ramaiah, who has been declared president of the Karnataka Youth Congress in a “controversial” election conducted by the Foundation for Advanced Management of Elections (FAME), an NGO, has opposed any plan to appoint Mohammed Haris Nalapad as working president and said two power centres will not benefit the party. Mr. Ramaiah, son of the former Minister M.R. Seetharam of Ramaiah Group of Institutions, said he was ready to give up the post in case the party made two power centres by appointing another leader as the working president. Since the declaration of Mr. Ramaiah as president — by disqualifying Mr. Nalapad after he contested the election — has not gone down well with a section of Congress leaders, it is believed that Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D.K. Shivakumar mooted the proposal to appoint Mr. Nalapad as working president. Mr. Nalapad, had secured more votes than Mr. Ramaiah in an online poll conducted by FAME, headed by the former Chief Election Commissioner J.M. Lyngdoh. He was, however, disqualified since a case is pending against him in the court. Reversal in recounting Mr. Ramaiah said that more than 120 of his supporter-candidates at the block level, who were declared as winners after the counting of votes on January 31, were declared “defeated” in the recounting of votes on February 4. Mr. Ramaiah, an alumni of St. Joseph’s College of Commerce, Bengaluru, and Cardiff University, U.K., said his supporters won in 270 blocks out of total 470 in the State. But in the recounting of votes on February 4, only 150 candidates were declared as winners. He claimed that while 27,000 votes were declared invalid on January 31, the number increased to 47,000 votes in the recounting on February 4. “Why were 20,000 more votes declared invalid on February 4? Why are winners declared as losers in the recounting of votes? We want justice,” the youth Congress president said. Dissatisfied with the outcome of the election conducted by Rajpal Bista and Ramji Rao of FAME, Mr. Ramaiah had rushed to Delhi to press for recounting of votes again. He said FAME officials would visit Bengaluru on February 15 or 16 for recounting of votes. Mr. Rao had acted as the returning officer for the election. About the swearing-in ceremony, he said it would be held next month in one of three central Karnataka districts of Chitradurga, Davangere or Ballari. “Generally, the ceremony is conducted in Bengaluru, but this time it will be away from the State capital to allow youth members from other districts to jell better with the party,” he said.  Why were 20,000 more votes declared invalid on Feb. 4? Why are winners declared as losers in the recounting of votes? We want justice. Raksha Ramaiah||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-youth-congress-chief-elect-against-dual-power-centres-plan/article33815811.ece
12 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||5 DWCCs gutted in 15 days||Over the past 15 days, five dry waste collection centres (DWCCs) across the city have been gutted. They are located in Marathahalli, Gottigere, Ganesh Mandir, J.P. Nagar and Kumaraswamy Layout wards and were destroyed in fires between January 25 and February 9. These centres were managed mostly by women. Suspecting foul play, Nalini Shekar from Hasiru Dala, which manages some of the DWCCs, told The Hindu that all these centres were being managed better than the others in the city. “How is it that five well-performing centres have been gutted? There is something fishy,” she said. Hasiru Dala has over the past three years written several times to the BBMP about the need for urgent repairs at the centres in Gottigere, Ganesh Mandir, Kumaraswamy Layout and J.P. Nagar. She pointed out that local civic officials were blaming managers of these centres for the fires, especially in the case of the DWCC in Kumaraswamy Layout. Sampangi, who managed the centre, said she got to know of the fire around 5.30 a.m. on Tuesday. “There is nothing left. I have lost material worth at least Rs. 1 lakh. Local residents supported me all along, yet the local officials are blaming me for the fire,” she said. Ms. Shekar pointed out that Hasiru Dala had tried getting insurance for the DWCCs in 2013-14 with a PSU company. However, after one year, the company refused to renew the policy. They approached another PSU insurance company last year, but DWCC managers were not able to renew the same this year as most of the bills are yet to be cleared by the BBMP, she alleged. She urged BBMP to file a police complaint for an investigation into these fires, restore the buildings within a week, provide fire insurance to all DWCCs, clear all pending bills and compensate the managers for the loss incurred due to the fires. BBMP Special Commissioner (Solid Waste Management) D. Randeep admitted that there seems to be some foul play. “I have directed local officials to investigate and file complaints,” he said.  How is it that five well-performing centres have been gutted? There is something fishy Nalini Shekar, Hasiru Dala, which manages some DWCCs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/5-dwccs-gutted-in-15-days/article33816037.ece
12 February 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Finally, India develops its own varieties of gerbera||Now, India has its own gerbera varieties as scientists at the Indian Institute of Horticultural Research (IIHR) have developed six indigenous varieties of this flower, used extensively in decorations and bouquets. Though the country’s floricultural sector has made rapid strides, it was yet to develop its own gerbera variety. The varieties being cultivated by farmers so far in the country were those from other places, particularly Holland. This had resulted in farmers paying higher costs for plants as the companies selling them had to pay huge royalties to Holland firms. C. Aswath, principal scientist and head of the IIHR’s Division of Floriculture and Medicinal Plants, who led the team of scientists that developed the indigenous varieties of gerberas, said developing indigenous varieties would have multiple benefits, including financial. “Presently, all the 20 to 30 varieties of gerberas grown in the country are those from Holland. Farmers are paying about Rs. 40 per plant which includes a royalty of about Rs. 20. It would cost about Rs. 19 lakh to get these saplings per hectare under such a pricing mechanism as a hectare needs 66,000 saplings in a polyhouse. But if a farmer cultivates indigenous variety of gerbera, then he will be spending only Rs. 7 lakh per hectare,” Dr. Aswath pointed out. “Also, in the present pricing mechanism for Holland varieties, a farmer gets an average rate of Rs. 3 per flower, but spends about Rs. 1.50 on growing each flower. But if he grows indigenous varieties, then the cultivation cost per flower drops to a mere 10 to 20 paise,” he said. According to him, the drop in cultivation costs would have a cascading impact. “The profit margin of farmers increases. Secondly, the market rate of gerbera for consumers, which goes up to Rs. 20 per flower depending upon season, may come down. This is bound to make floral decoration more affordable,” he said. Also, importing of these flower varieties is risky as several pests and diseases have entered the country along with them, he pointed out. Of the indigenous varieties, Arka Ashwa, Arka Nesara, Arka White, and Arka Pink are suitable for polyhouse cultivation and have been available for farmers from the last two years. Arka Krishika and Arka Red varieties could be grown in open cultivation and would be made available to farmers by June, Dr. Aswath said. According to him, these varieties have tolerance to certain pests which would reduce the application of pesticides and also reduce the cultivation cost. In India, gerbera cultivation accounts for 800 hectares in floricultural sector that has a coverage of 3.25 lakh hectares.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/finally-india-develops-its-own-varieties-of-gerbera/article33815814.ece
12 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||DPI wants to reopen upper primary classes||The Department of Public Instruction (DPI) wants to reopen upper primary classes (classes VI to VIII) immediately and start Vidyagama programme for lower primary classes (classes I to V). Officials plans to bat for this at a meeting on Friday with the COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC). This decision was taken following representations from parents and school managements. Schools in Karnataka have been reopening in a phased manner. While classes X and second-year pre-university began on January 1, classes IX and I PU began on February 1. “We have not received any reports of spread of COVID-19 infection on school campuses. Therefore we will ask the committee to allow us to run classes for upper primary classes as well,” said V. Anbu Kumar, Commissioner for Public Instruction. Several academicians have pointed out that the learning levels of students in primary classes have been adversely affected. Azim Premji University, on Wednesday, had released a field study stating that primary schools students not only missed out on regular curricular learning that they would have acquired had schools remained open, but were also ‘forgetting’ what they had learned the previous year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dpi-wants-to-reopen-upper-primary-classes/article33815663.ece
12 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Contempt proceedings against Bar associations||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday initiated suo motu proceedings against office-bearers of some of the Bar associations in Davangere and Mandya districts for giving calls for abstaining from court proceedings. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum passed the order taking note of reports submitted by the court’s registry on the instances of advocates boycotting court proceedings in various taluk courts and the district courts in Mandya and Davangere between January 4 and February 8. The Bench noted that the Bar associations gave a call for abstaining from court proceedings even after the Chief Justice on February 3 made an open appeal to all the Bar associations across the State not to resort to boycotting the court proceedings irrespective of genuineness of the cause. Apart from the fact that prima facie the acts of the Bar associations in Mandya and Davangere amount to criminal contempt of court in the light of the apex court’s judgments, the calls given for boycotting court proceedings caused suffering to the litigants as well as advocates at a time when the courts are returning to normal proceedings after facing difficulties for months owing to COVID-19, the Bench observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/contempt-proceedings-against-bar-associations/article33815807.ece
12 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||12.1 lakh tonnes of paddy to be procured||A State Cabinet sub-committee on fixing support prices for farm commodities in principle approved procurement of 12.1 lakh tonnes of paddy, four lakh tonnes of ragi, and one lakh tonne of white jowar. The sub-committee, headed by Transport Minister Laxman Savadi, met and said the Centre approved a petition given by the State government seeking increase in the quantity of procurement of commodities. The committee approved an increased quantity of procurement commodities. The minimum support price for paddy (common) and paddy (A grade) has been fixed at Rs. 1,868 and Rs. 1,888 per quintal, respectively. The MSP for white jowar and white jowar (Maldandi) has been fixed at Rs. 2,620 and Rs. 2,640, respectively, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/121-lakh-tonnes-of-paddy-to-be-procured/article33815809.ece
12 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Crowdfunding effort||Bengaluru-based couple - Naveen Kumar and Jyothi - have taken to crowdfunding on ImpactGuru.com, a crowdfunding platform, to cover the cost of Zolgensma therapy for their 10-month-old Janish who was diagnosed with SMA. Mr. Kumar, who works as an insurance surveyor and barely earns Rs. 30,000 a month, cannot afford the expensive treatment. The couple were counting their baby’s milestones after his birth in February 2020. They caught his first smile and his first laugh but baby Janish never went past his first two milestones. The parents then rushed him to a pediatrician and from there the baby was referred to Baptist Hospital, said Dr. Ann Agnes Mathew, who has been treating the baby for the last five months. Piyush Jain, co-founder and CEO, ImpactGuru.com, said over Rs. 22 lakh has been raised so far from over 1,500 donors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/crowdfunding-effort/article33815816.ece
12 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Person accused of cruelty can’t retain dogs during probe: HC||Citing right to dignity and fair treatment of animals under law, the Karnataka High Court has found fault with an order of a trial court in granting custody of seized dogs to their owner, who has been accused of treating them with cruelty, during the pendency of the case registered against him by the police. “Right to live in a healthy and clean atmosphere and right to get protection from human beings against inflicting unnecessary pain or suffering is a right guaranteed to the animals under Section 3 and Section 11 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (PCA) Act read with Article 51-A(g) and (h) [fundamental duties] of the Constitution of India,” the High Court observed. Earlier order Justice H.P. Sandesh passed the order on a petition filed by Compassion Unlimited Plus Action (CUPA), an NGO, challenging an order passed by the metropolitan magistrate’s court in giving custody of the dogs to their owner from whom they were seized based on a complaint that he was treating them cruelly. The High Court found that the magistrate had ordered the handing over of the dogs to their owner, Shreyas, a resident of J.P. Nagar, for the technical reason that the investigation officer had handed over the dogs to CUPA without obtaining permission from the court. However, the High Court said that the magistrate failed to notice that owner was breeding dogs without obtaining licence under the law, besides allegedly subjecting many female dogs and puppies to cruelty by confining them in an unsanitary kennel sans proper food, water and veterinary care. Vet’s report The magistrate should have considered the object of the PCA Act to protect the health and welfare of animals and the interpretation of this law by the apex court, the High Court said while referring to the report of the veterinarian that the dogs had sustained injuries in the custody of their owner. While allowing the dogs to be under the custody of care centre of CUPA, the court said that there cannot be any order for payment of money to take care of the animals till the disposal of the case registered against the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/person-accused-of-cruelty-cant-retain-dogs-during-probe-hc/article33815659.ece
12 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bengaluru’s Kanteerava stadium to go hi-tech||The city’s Sree Kanteerava Outdoor Stadium will be remodelled with private partnership at a cost of Rs. 1,500 crore, said Minister for Sports and Youth Empowerment K.C. Narayana Gowda on Thursday. A detailed project report has been prepared for developing the stadium on PPP mode with all hi-tech facilities. “Talks with private developers are under way,” he said. The minister, who chaired a meeting with officials, said a clear picture on the development of the stadium would be known in another two months. Facilities such as multi-storied building, five star hotel, commercial complex, parking, gyms, etc., are planned. The minister took officials to task for not spending the money allocated to the department and said a proposal has been submitted to allocate at least Rs. 1,000 crore in the 2021-22 State budget for sports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bengalurus-kanteerava-stadium-to-go-hi-tech/article33815661.ece
12 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||New deadline for Shivananda Circle flyover||Shifting of utilities, land acquisition and other hurdles that are delaying the completion of the long-delayed 493-metre long flyover at Shivananda Circle must be resolved soon and work completed in three months, Gaurav Gupta, BBMP Administrator directed the civic officials. Accompanied by senior officials from projects, land acquisition and forest cells, the administrator inspected the ongoing work at Shivananda Circle, on Thursday. Construction of nine piers of the total 16 has been completed, and work is currently under way for an additional six. However, work on one is pending, since a BWSSB pipeline measuring 700 mm in diameter is yet to be shifted. Officials informed Mr. Gupta that to shift the pipeline, traffic has to be diverted for at least a week. Some trees have to be translocated, said a forest official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-deadline-for-shivananda-circle-flyover/article33816038.ece
12 February 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Power disruption today||There will be no power supply on Friday between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. in the areas serviced from 66/11 KV Kadugodi sub-station due to maintenance work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-disruption-today/article33816039.ece
12 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||School booked||The police and DPI have taken action against a private CBSE school in Somasundarapalya after a standard 10 student attempted to kill himself earlier this week after he was reportedly not allowed to write an examination and insulted in front of his classmates as his parents did not pay the fees. Action was taken after Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar met the student on Thursday. The boy’s parents, who reportedly intervened in time and saved his life, alleged that the police failed to take action against the school when they tried to lodge a complaint. However, on Thursday the Bandepalya police registered an FIR against Ravindra Bharathi Global School under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act for allegedly humiliating the boy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/school-booked/article33816041.ece
12 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM: Clear applications under Central schemes||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Thursday said implementation of the Centrally-sponsored Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana and PM Street Vendor’s Atmanirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) schemes are slow in the State and told bankers to speedily disburse applications of eligible beneficiaries. Mr. Yediyurappa chaired a meeting with Ministers, senior officials and banking officials here and told them to disburse applications within 15 days of receiving them. Only 53,659 applications were sanctioned under the credit-linked subsidy scheme of Awas Yojana. Out of the sanctioned 3,46,414 applications, work orders had been issued in 1,16,168 cases. Works on only 19,658 houses were completed, he said. Only 2,24,368 applications were received under the PM SVANidhi and loans sanctioned to 66,423 applicants in State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-clear-applications-under-central-schemes/article33815808.ece
12 February 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Fair to conclude today||The five-day national horticultural fair being organised by the Indian Institute of Horticultural Research at its Hessarghatta campus will end on Friday. The fair, which is being held in both physical and digital formats for the first time owing to COVID-19, has been attracting a large number of visitors despite the pandemic. According to an estimate, about 48,000 people from different parts of the country have visited the fair in the last four days. In all, the fair has more than 145 stalls showcasing various technologies and products besides live demonstrations of various horticultural crops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fair-to-conclude-today/article33815812.ece
12 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Some demands of RTC staff conceded||The State government has agreed to fulfil some of the demands made by employees of road transport corporations (RTCs) who had staged protests in December 2020. Employees will be eligible for cashless medical treatment at government hospitals and government-run autonomous hospitals, as per directions issued by the principal secretary of the Transport Department to the MDs of all four corporations (KSRTC, BMTC, NWKRTC and NEKRTC) on February 10. RTCs have been directed to sign an MoU with hospitals. Staff will also be reimbursed for medical expenses incurred along the lines of government employees. The government has agreed to provide Rs. 30 lakh compensation to dependants of employees who died after contracting COVID-19. Corporations, which have been asked to provide monetary compensation, will use internal sources to pay the compensation. RTCs have also been asked to change the administrative set-up to address the grievances of employees at the workplace, human resource management systems, and other processes. Last December, employees of transport corporations went on a four-day strike across the State. Their main demand was to be considered as government employees and receive all the benefits this entailed. However, the State government has not yet considered this demand as it will have huge financial implications on the exchequer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/some-demands-of-rtc-staff-conceded/article33815817.ece
12 February 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Farmers stage protest in Hassan on price issue||Alleging irregularities in the purchase of paddy at support price, farmers staged a dharna by unloading a tractor load of paddy on the premises of Deputy Commissioner’s office in Hassan on Wednesday. The owner of a rice mill identified to purchase paddy at Palya in Alur taluk deducted the weight at the rate of 8 kg per quintal, the protesters alleged. Kanagal Murthy, a leader of Raitha Sangha, said, “If a farmer loses 8 kg for a quintal, he would be getting Rs. 200 less per quintal. With this the purpose of fixing the support price for paddy would not be served”. Deputy Commissioner R.Girish met the protesters and assured them that he would consult the officers and ensure the farmers get the price fixed by the government. Later, he also instructed the Deputy Director of Food and Civil Supplies E. Puttaswamy to visit the procuring centre at Palya to enquire about the allegations.  Six centres The district administration has set up six centres to purchase paddy from the growers in the district. The Karnataka Cooperative Marketing Federation procures paddy through rice mills. As many as 12 rice mills have been identified to purchase paddy in the district. The support price fixed for paddy is Rs. 1,868 per quintal. Mr. Puttaswamy, Deputy Director of Food and Civil Supplies, told The Hindu , “The rice mill staff at Palya had deducted a few kilos in some bags citing the poor quality of paddy. However, we have resolved the issue.” The rice mills would procure paddy considering its quality, cleared by the graders, appointed by the Agriculture Department. “The paddy procured has to meet the standards set by the Central Government, which purchases paddy for public distribution,” he said. The procuring will be done till March 7. As many as 2,575 farmers have registered their names to sell paddy at the support price. The officers are expecting 86,339 quintals of paddy in the district. The rice mills will have to supply 67 kg of rice per quintal of paddy procured from farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-stage-protest-in-hassan-on-price-issue/article33815793.ece
12 February 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||KSE orders probe into working of Nirantara Jyothi scheme in Shivamogga||Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa has instructed the Deputy Commissioner of Shivamogga to form a committee and probe the alleged irregularities in implementing the Nirantara Jyothi Scheme in Shivamogga district. Mr. Eshwarappa, who is also Minister in charge of the district, in a meeting with officers in Shivamogga on Wednesday, said the committee would include experts and elected representatives and it would submit its report within 15 days. The officers of MESCOM, the implementing agency of the scheme, would have to furnish all documents related to the works to the committee, he said. There were allegations of ignoring the guidelines in allotting the work. Some contractors received payment from the agency, though they had not completed the work as per the guidelines, and there was no clarity on the number of electric poles installed. The officers allegedly did not take indemnity bonds from the contractors before allotting them the work. Deputy Commissioner K.B.Shivakumar and other officers were present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kse-orders-probe-into-working-of-nirantara-jyothi-scheme-in-shivamogga/article33815794.ece
12 February 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Smart City works progressing’||All the works under the Smart City project are going on a fast pace in Shivamogga and it will be developed into a model city, said Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S.Eshwarappa on Thursday. Mr. Eshwarappa, who is also Minister in charge of the district, inspected the progress of works. Speaking to presspersons on the occasion, he said the works had been going on under the supervision of officers. Some lapses had been noticed. The officers had been instructed to rectify them. During the lockdown over COVID-19, some works could not progress at the expected pace because of non-availability of workers. However, in recent months the works had resumed. “The residents of the city also faced inconvenience because of the delay in completing some works. Soon the works will be completed.” The construction of a freedom park on eight acres of land would be completed soon. Before the onset of monsoon the city would get a new look, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/smart-city-works-progressing/article33815791.ece
12 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||AAP plans to take out padayatra on Sunday||On Valentine’s Day (February 14) as love birds express their love for each other in different ways, members and office-bearers of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will say “I love Hubballi-Dharwad” and take out a foot march to express its commitment towards making the twin cities world class. Addressing presspersons in Hubballi on Thursday, president of Dharwad district unit of AAP Santosh Naragund said that on Valentine’s Day, hundreds of workers and office-bearers of AAP will take out a padayatra to express their love for Hubballi-Dharwad and will take a pledge to make them world class cities. Mr. Naragund said that while Saint Valentine who symbolised love and harmony and sacrificed his life for it, visionaries and reformers of India, including Basaveshwara, Kabir, Guru Nanak, Kanakadasa, Raheem, Akka Mahadevi, Tukaram, Swami Vivekanand, Mahatma Gandhi, and others had spread the message of love and harmony through their lives. “In the present era, burying the barriers of caste, creed and differences and spreading the message of love and harmony are crucial and AAP’s effort is towards this,” he said. Mr. Naragund said that during the time of divisive and communal politics, AAP is pursuing the politics of love and brotherhood, politics of Kayaka (work) and development and within seven years of establishment has given the Delhi Model of Governance to the country. He said that as part of its ambitious plan to build a world class city, it has already formed a vision group under the former vice-chancellor of Women’s University V.B. Maganur to work out a strategy, while incorporating opinions and suggestions from all quarters in it. To a query, he said that they were in the process of building the party in the region and plan to field candidates from all wards in the forthcoming elections to the municipal corporation. “In a few wards we have already short-listed candidates,” he said. Executive committee member of district unit Shashikumar Sullad said that the padayatra under “I love Hubballi-Dharwad” campaign will begin from Kittur Chennamma Circle at 10 a.m. on Sunday and will conclude at around 2 p.m. at Siddharoodh Mutt in Old Hubballi. Unit secretary Pratibha Divakar and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/aap-plans-to-take-out-padayatra-on-sunday/article33815657.ece
12 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘With study pending, rallies for Kuruba quota premature’||Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah on Thursday accused the BJP and the RSS of trying to divide the Kuruba community on the pretext of providing reservation and said the protest led by Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa “against his own party” had exposed their true motive. Mr. Siddaramaiah told presspersons here that holding rallies demanding reservation at this stage was premature. “The Kulashastriya Adhyayana (ethnographic study) on including Kurubas under the Scheduled Tribes is still going on. We had referred the matter for the ethnographic study when our government was in power,” he said. “This apart, we had also recommended inclusion of Kurubas under the ST category in the districts of Kodagu, Kalaburagi, Yadgir, and Bidar. These things happened during our government. I never said Kurubas should not be included under the ST category,” Mr. Siddaramaiah said. On his non-participation in Kuruba rallies, Mr. Siddaramaiah said the BJP and the RSS were “indulging in politics” over the issue and holding rallies at a time when the ethnographic study was still under way was premature. He said the RSS was using Mr. Eshwarappa to politicise the issue of Kuruba reservation.  ‘Don’t need certificate’ On Mr. Eshwarappa’s comment on his achievements as a Chief Minister, Mr. Siddaramaiah sought to know why he should give a report card to Mr. Eshwarappa. “I don’t need certificate from Mr. Eshwarappa. I need certificate from the people of the State,” he said. Later in the day, Mr. Siddaramaiah took to Twitter to express his views on Kuruba rallies. He said rallies were not needed “at this point”. In another tweet, he accused the RSS and the BJP of playing politics and said their main motive was “to divide Kuruba community”. In another tweet, he asked why Mr. Eshwarappa was “protesting against his own party”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/with-study-pending-rallies-for-kuruba-quota-premature/article33815805.ece
12 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Janata Dal (S) helping BJP’||On the decision of the Janata Dal (Secular) to not contest the ensuing bypolls in the State, Congress leader Siddaramaiah on Thursday said the elections were being held in north Karnataka where the JD(S) does not have much strength. “And whatever little strength they have, they want to use it to help the BJP and that’s why they are not contesting,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/janata-dal-s-helping-bjp/article33815806.ece
12 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||U-16 cricket tournament||Hubballi Cricket Academy will organise “PRN Trophy Under 16 Invitation Cricket Tournament” in Hubballi from February 13 to 21. And, eight teams of Hubballi-Dharwad will be participating in it. Addressing presspersons in Hubballi on Thursday, academy secretary Vincent Baburao and assistant secretary D.R. Kulkarni said that the invitation tournament will have a cash prize of Rs. 10,000 and Rs. 5,000 along with trophies for the winners and runners-up. A former cricketer Vijay Kamat and patron Pandurang Naidu said that the tournament has been organised with the objective of promoting young cricket talents in the twin cities and it is strictly restricted to players residing in Hubballi-Dharwad. The tournament will be played on league basis and each team will play three league matches of 30 overs each. The semi-finals and the final matches will be of 50 overs each. While the league matches will be played at the Railway Institute (South) Ground on Gadag Road, the semi-finals and the final will be played at the Karnataka Gymkhana Association Ground at Deshpande Nagar in Hubballi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/u-16-cricket-tournament/article33815655.ece
12 February 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Programme launched to improve SSLC pass percentage in Kalaburagi||In an effort to improving pass percentage of SSLC students in Kalaburagi district, the Dharam Singh Foundation has launched a programme titled Akshara Avishkar Mission 100, according to Ajay Singh, Jewargi MLA and Chief Whip of the Congress in Legislative Assembly. Addressing presspersons here on Thursday, Dr. Singh explained that a team comprising education experts and retired professors will lead the Akshara Avishkar Mission 100 programme, under which teachers have been instructed to adopt a certain number of students who have learning difficulties and to impart them remedial teaching. Dr. Singh said that a team led by retired professor R. Nagarajaiah will train teachers and guide them to classify students in all the 79 schools in Jewargi taluk. Teachers will further classify students into three grades — fast learners, average learners and slow learners. The team will help teachers to identify slow learners in each class and conduct special classes to help improve their academic performance and ensure that they face the examinations confidently. Initially, the foundation will launch the programme in Jewargi taluk on a pilot basis and it will be extended across the district. And, even Kalyana Karnataka region can be covered in the academic years that follow. Of the 79 schools, 42 are government high schools, ni-ne aided high sch-ools, four residential schools and 24 are unaided sch-ools. The Akshara Avishkar Mission team has conducted a survey and classified these schools into three categories — 25 schools as grade A, 20 schools as grade B and 10 schools as grade C. Subject experts will conduct training for 350 teachers in Jewargi taluk and bring the taluk to the top position in pass percentage by the next academic year. Prof. Nagarajaiah, sharing his experience, asserted that if the programme is expanded across Kalaburagi district, the district will be in the top 10 ranks in SSLC results in the coming three years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/programme-launched-to-improve-sslc-pass-percentage-in-kalaburagi/article33815654.ece
12 February 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Cong. sets up panels for next MLC polls||In view of the next elections to the Graduate and Teachers’ constituencies, the Congress has decided to constitute committees at the taluk and the district-levels to galvanise support.. KPCC Graduates and Teachers’ Cell State president R.M. Kuberappa, addressing presspersons in Kalaburagi on Wednesday, said that the Congress will prepare the ground to win more MLC seats in the next elections. Dr. Kuberappa is touring all the districts across the State to hold meetings with party workers, teachers, and graduates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-sets-up-panels-for-next-mlc-polls/article33815658.ece
12 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||30 of 45 affected by garbage slip get compensation amount||The Dakshina Kannada District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) on Thursday completed the process of paying interim compensation to most of the residents of Kudupu Mandara who were affected by garbage slip from a landfill site of Mangaluru City Corporation in Pachchanady in August 2019. According to Commissioner, Mangaluru City Corporation, Akshy Sridhar, 30 of the total 45 claimants received compensation amount on Thursday. It amounted to 80 % of the Rs. 14 crore earmarked for paying interim compensation. The compensation amount was not given to those property owners who did not turn up for it on Thursday and also those whose property are under dispute, he said. The Commissioner said that the civic body has already paid Rs. 2.7 crore for crop loss in the area due to the garbage slip from the landfill site. During a recent hearing of public interest litigation on the issue by the Karnataka Legal Services Authority, the High Court of Karnataka directed the city corporation to pay forthwith interim compensation to the residents whose land, buildings and structures were damaged in the garbage slip. Also, the District Legal Services Authority was asked to scrutinise the property documents and be present when the corporation paid interim compensation. DLSA Member-Secretary Shilpa A.G. and other advocates on the authority panel held a series of meetings with officials from the district administration, the city corporation and affected residents. The city corporation arrived at the interim compensation amount by taking into consideration the guidance value of property. The DLSA scrutinised documents of 45 claimants on Wednesday and called them on Thursday to receive the compensation amount. Mr. Sridhar gave away tokens for interim compensation after receiving an undertaking from the claimants. Mr. Sridhar said that the interim compensation amount will be deposited in the bank accounts of the claimants in 24 hours. Some among the claimants could not get compensation as they did not turn up on Thursday for receiving the tokens. Ms. Shilpa said that claimants reserve the right to get higher compensation and they will not be displaced from the place where they have been rehabilitated, till they are paid the compensation amount fully. Thanking the Karnataka Legal Services Authority for standing by the affected victims, Chandrahas, who lost his house and farm in 10 cents of ancestral property, said that the authority has given hope for residents who were totally distraught following the incident. “Two months ago, my father passed away. He was mentally disturbed following the garbage slip and subsequent relocation to the quarters (of Karnataka Housing Board where affected families are relocated). We are yet to come out of the trauma (caused by garbage slip),” said Jayanti who came with her mother Lakshmi to complete the process. Ms. Shilpa said that she will submit a report to the High Court on Friday. The DLSA will also place before the court its objection to the way interim compensation amount has been arrived at. Mr. Sridhar said that the city corporation will abide by directions of the High Court with regard to paying compensation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/30-of-45-affected-by-garbage-slip-get-compensation-amount/article33816193.ece
12 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Kannada literary meet from today||The three-day 24th Dakshina Kannada District Sahitya Sammelana will begin at Sharada Vidyalaya here on Friday with the theme, “Traditional and Modern Approach to Atmanirbhar Bharat”. Scholar and talamaddale Arthadari M. Prabhakar Joshi will preside over the meet. The former Vice-Chancellor of Kannada University, Hampi, and Karnataka State Open University B.A. Vivek Rai will inaugurate the event. An exhibition of art works by 22 artists will be an attraction with other activities. The exhibition, Varna Kavyanjali, to be organised under the auspices of Karavali Chitrakala Chavadi, will get under way at 4.30 p.m. on Friday. It will remain open for visitors on Saturday and Sunday from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. Artists Ganesh Somayaji, Permude Mohan Kumar, Sharat Holla, Dinesh Holla, John Chandran, Kamal, Manoranjani Upadhya, Sapna Naronha, Jayashree Sharma, Veena Punchithaya, Khurshid Yakub, Rachana Suraj, Nisha Bangera, Roopa Vasundhara Acharya, Jyothi Shetty, Sanjotha Dharma, Eeranna Thippannavar, Muralidhara K.S., Naveen Kodical, Arun Karanth, Naveenchandra Bangera and S.M. Shivaprakash will exhibit their art works. There will be a felicitation programme where achievers in various sectors will be honoured. And, the “Kannada Siri” honorary awards will also be given away. The event will feature literary sessions, Kavi Goshti and other cultural programmes. There will be a session on National Education Policy on Sunday at 10 a.m. Vice-Chancellor of Mangalore University P.S. Yadapadithaya will preside over this particular session. Teachers Praveen Martis, Kumaraswamy H., Karunakara Kotekar and Ashalatha will speak on different aspects of the policy. The sammelan will witness a session on Healthy Society on Sunday where doctors will speak on allopathy treatment, Ayurveda and naturopathy, Homoeopathy and dental treatment. There will be an interaction with the president of the sammelan on Sunday afternoon. An open session will be held under the presidentship of S. Pradeep Kumar Kalkura, president of Dakshina Kannada Sahitya Parishat, on Sunday evening to mark the end of the event. There will be an exhibition of books and other products.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kannada-literary-meet-from-today/article33816184.ece
12 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Highway encroachers evicted at Uchila||Udupi Police evicted those who had encroached upon National Highway 66 at Uchila on Thursday to enable Navayuga Udupi Tollway Pvt. Ltd. (NUPTL), concessionaire of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), to construct a service road there. The encroachers had put up some petty shops in the area. When NUPTL asked the petty shop owners to vacate, they had resisted and continued to do their business. When earthmovers were pressed into service to remove the stalls, its owners raised objections stating that they needed more time to shift the stalls. The stand-off continued for about one-and-a-half hours. Later, local elected representatives convinced the owners to vacate as they had put up the stalls illegally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/highway-encroachers-evicted-at-uchila/article33816190.ece
12 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Accused in Deepak Rao murder case assaulted||Pinky Nawaz, 26, the prime accused in the murder of BJP activist Deepak Rao near Surathkal in January 2018, was allegedly assaulted by a group of six persons near Pulithoor Nagabana of Katipalla 2nd block on Wednesday. The police said the assailants, which included one Shakib alias Shabbu, allegedly came in a car and waylaid Nawaz. As he began to run away, the group chased him and rained blows on him on Wednesday evening. Nawaz has been admitted to a hospital and he is out of danger. The preliminary investigation has revealed that Shakib and Nawaz had some differences relating to their family matters. The police said Shakib, a resident of Katipalla, was an accused in chain-snatching and other crimes. Special team has been formed to trace the accused, the police said. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar visited the spot and spoke to the victim in the hospital. Pinky Nawaz was among the 12 persons arrested in connection with the murder of Deepak Rao. In the 500-page chargesheet ,the police said Nawaz and his alleged associates had attacked Bharat Raj in 2016 and they were apprehending retaliatory attacks. Nawaz used the clash between Hindu and Muslim communities in 2017 over placing of bunting to murder Hindu activists and targeted Rao, who led Bajrang Dal activities in Surathkal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/accused-in-deepak-rao-murder-case-assaulted/article33816198.ece
12 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Minor’s rape: Three persons arrested||The Vitla police arrested three persons, including the brother of a minor girl, in connection with her sexual assault in Bantwal taluk. The police said Aboobacker Siddiqui and his friend Chappi were accused of sexually assaulting the girl on January 25 and threatening her with releasing pictures of the incident if she reported about the act to her family members and the police. The accused allegedly forced her to have sex for a couple of times by showing the pictures of earlier sexual assault. Following a complaint by the girl’s members, the Vitla Police on Tuesday arrested Abbobacker Siddiqui. He was booked under Sections 376 (2), 376 (D) and 506 of Indian Penal Code and under Sections 4 (2), 5 (g), 6 and 14 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. A team of Vitla Police proceeded to arrest Chappi from a hideout. The police said Chappi reportedly received information about their action from the brother of the victim and he escaped. The police also arrested the victim’s brother under Section 225 (resistance or obstruction by a person to lawful apprehension) of the IPC. Meanwhile, a police team from Puttur Rural on Wednesday arrested Ashraf Tarigudde, 40. The police said Ashraf had not appeared before the jurisdictional courts for the last two years in connection with cases of theft registered at Puttur City, Puttur Rural, Uppinangady, Sullia, Bellare and Bantwal Rural police stations. As many as 18 non-bailable warrents had been issued by the courts, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minors-rape-three-persons-arrested/article33816199.ece
12 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Create awareness on KFD, health officials told||Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha on Thursday asked Health Department officials to create awareness among people on Kyasanur Forest Disease (KFD). People should restrain from venturing out in the forest to avoid coming in contact with ticks that cause KFD, he said, while inaugurating a workshop on KFD organised by the district administration in Udupi. Mr. Jagadeesha said that the Health Department should take preventive measures whenever there is a breakout of communicable diseases. He said that the risk of more people in Dakshina Kannada getting COVID-19 is high from those who travelled from Kerala. Hence, people in Udupi district should be cautious. The Health Department may declare places such as educational institutions, hostels and other places as containment zones if more COVID-19 positive cases are reported from such specific places, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/create-awareness-on-kfd-health-officials-told/article33816185.ece
12 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Cobra halts traffic||Movement of vehicles came to an abrupt halt for about 30 minutes at the busy Kalsanka Junction in Udupi on Thursday when a cobra suddenly appeared on the road. Traffic Police stopped motorists after seeing the cobra slithering across the road. The motorists waited patiently as the cobra moved slowly across the hot road surface. A few motorists took photographs. Just as the cobra crossed the road, a man caught it and took it away for treatment, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cobra-halts-traffic/article33816194.ece
12 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Jagadish Adhikari pays penance for statement||Vice-president of the BJP district unit Jagadish Adhikari recently visited a ‘Garodi’ of Koti Chennayya and paid his penance for his controversial statement on the revered twins. Mr. Adhikari made the statement in a meeting of the association of hereditary trustees of temples and other religious institutions a week ago. He reiterated it during a conversation with his friend wherein he spoke about Billavas, Koti Chennayya, and senior Congress leader B. Janardhana Poojary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jagadish-adhikari-pays-penance-for-statement/article33816197.ece
12 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Mysuru can be SME hub’||Minister for Small-Scale Industries C.C. Patil on Thursday told officials of the District Industries Centre (DIC) to provide suitable setting for the establishment of more number of small and medium enterprises here as Mysuru has the potential to emerge as an industrial hub. Speaking at a meeting of officials from the DIC and the Department of Industries and Commerce here, Mr Patil, who is also Minister for Information and Public Relations, said the Centre has launched ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ programme in a bid to support small industries and added that he was going to New Delhi soon to discuss how small industries from the State can make best use of the benefits under the programme. He said the small and medium enterprises were supplying raw materials to big industries of Mysuru. But most of these small enterprises were functioning on rented premises and efforts should be made to provide them permanent factory space in the industrial areas. This will encourage them to improve their production, thus helping the economy, he felt. DIC Joint Director Lingaraju, Deputy Director of Information and Public Relations Vinod Chandra, Assistant Director Raju and Department of Industries and Commerce Deputy Director Meghala were present. Mr. Patil earlier visited the Chamundeshwari Temple atop the Chamundi Hills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-can-be-sme-hub/article33815802.ece
12 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Vairamudi festival on March 31||The‘Vairamudi Brahmotsava’ at Melkote in Mandya district will be held on March 31 and the authorities are expecting a large turnout of devotees from various parts of the State and from Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh for the ‘darshan’ of Lord Cheluvanarayanaswamy. The rituals as part of the grand spectacle will commence on March 19 and the “Kiritadharana Mahotsava”, where the idol of Lord Cheluvanarayana will be adorned with the diamond-studded Vairamudi crown, will be held on March 24. Meeting A meeting was held at Melkote today to discuss the arrangements to be made for the event. Former Minister and Melkote MLA C.S. Puttaraju, Deputy Commissioner M.V. Venkatesh, and Pandavapura Assistant Commissioner Shivanandamurthy attended. The deputy commissioner told the Pandavapura taluk officials to make all arrangements, including safe drinking water, temporary toilets, ambulance, security and other required facilities in anticipation of a big turnout of devotees. Illumination Mr. Venkatesh directed the officials to ensure special illumination of the temples and proper parking arrangements in the town besides uninterrupted power supply, road repairs and special bus services to the town. The entire temple precincts and the kalyani area should be spruced up, he said, adding that steps should be taken for keeping waste bins at various places to ensure hygene and deployment of traffic police for handling vehicle movement. If necessary, introduce one-way traffic so that no road faces any congestion, he said. MLA’s suggestions Mr. Puttaraju suggested providing drinking water facility to devotees at five places across Melukote and setting up temporary toilets at five places. Each village in and around Melkote should be lit with bright lights and special illumination provided to the Yoga Narasimhaswamy Betta, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vairamudi-festival-on-march-31/article33815800.ece
12 February 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Cheated depositors end stir following assurance by DC||The depositors of Green Buds Agro Farm Company, who had launched an indefinite dharna in protest against the delay in the refund of their deposits, have decided to temporarily call off their agitation following an assurance given by Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri. Ms Sindhuri met the protesters at the site of their demonstration in front of the Deputy Commsisioner’s office on Wednesday evening and assured them that their demand will be met in 45 days’ time. “Hence, a decision has been taken to temporarily call off the agitation’’, said Kurubur Shanthakumar, President of Karnataka Sugarcane Farmers’ Association, who had lent his support to the agitation. The cheated depositors of the company from different parts of the State had gathered near the Deputy Commissioner’s office in Mysuru since the last three days in protest against the delay by the authorities to refund their deposits by auctioning the seized properties of the company that had defrauded them. More than 1.8 lakh depositors from different parts of Karnataka had paid varying sums of money through more than 73 branches of the company. But, when the company was unable to return the deposits, which were to have doubled in five years, a case was filed against the promoters of the company in 2013, leading to their arrest. Subsequently, the then State government had ordered a CID probe, which submitted a report after which the government in 2016 ordered confiscation of the company’s properties, including the land acquired from the deposits collected from the people. Claims More than 1.8 lakh people had submitted their claims in 2018 to the Assistant Commissioner of Mysuru, the competent authority appointed by the government, but the authorities were yet to submit the details of the details to the special court and set in motion the process of auctioning the confiscated property to refund the money to the depositors, according to Lakshmidevi, the President of Green Buds Agro Farm Company Depositors Protection Forum. However, Ms. Sindhuri assured them that the details will be collated and submitted to the court soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cheated-depositors-end-stir-following-assurance-by-dc/article33815795.ece
12 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Will ORR’s non-working street lights get attention?||Is there a solution in sight to the problem of non-functioning street lights on the Outer Ring Road (ORR), which is undergoing a major clean-up drive, clearing all piled-up debris since the past few days? The lights never functioned on a regular basis since the formation of the 42-km-long road. After the National Highways took over the road, the streetlights mostly remained non-functional in most stretches of the busy road barring the Dasara festivities. Despite several warnings to the MUDA and the MCC by the Ministers in-charge of the district since many years to sort out issues to ensure street lights’ normal functioning, the ring road continues to be deprived of illumination and its users are facing untold hardships after nightfall. The road has become unsafe as darkness overwhelms the long stretches, limiting visibility on the carriageway. The area around the ORR is seeing rapid development with a large number of residential areas coming up beyond the carriageway. This has made the six-lane road a key link. A few residents of Bogadi and Vijayanagar ask, “Why cannot the government sort out the issue once for all in the interest of the motorists and the residents of areas adjoining the ORR since the local authorities have ignored the problems faced by the people in the absence of street lights.” The streetlights function normally only when the festivities come. “Why cannot they function regularly and why cannot the government direct the local bodies to ensure their working regularly,” they asked. When V. Somanna was the Minister in charge of Mysuru district, he ensured streetlights function even after Dasara. But, they did not function for long and thereafter nobody cared. Same thing happened when S.T. Somashekar was made Minister in-charge of Mysuru district, who intervened on receiving complaints of non-functional street lights. The residents of Ananda Nagar and Kanakadasanagar said it was time to find a permanent solution to the issue since the road clean-up drive is underway. Mysuru MP Pratap Simha had said that the ORR will soon be undergoing asphalting with a sum of Rs. 160 crore sanctioned for the work and therefore the clean-up drive was taken up to facilitate the work. The service road too is expected to be asphalted. With no clarity on who should operate the lights and lack of will for resolving the issue, the problem continued to persist. As the MUDA and the MCC continue to pass the buck on the responsibility of maintaining the street lights, permanent illumination of the road continues to remain a non-starter. Until the six-lane ORR was handed over to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), the MUDA was maintaining the road. After the road was transferred to the NHAI, the MUDA washed its hands off the job. The MCC continued to argue that the street lights on the ORR were not its responsibility since its limits does not cover areas beyond the ring road. The indiscriminate and illegal dumping of building waste and solid waste along many stretches of the road drove the clean-up exercise with a warning to dumpers not to discard waste on the road anymore. The MCC and the MCC have warned of slapping penalty on the dumpers besides booking cases against them. Mr. Somashekar has told the local bodies to act strictly against the dumpers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/will-orrs-non-working-street-lights-get-attention/article33815798.ece
12 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Nirmithi Kendra to construct war memorial||The delay in the construction of a war memorial in Mysuru has prompted the district administration to take back the project from the Department of Public Works. Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri on Thursday said the project has now been handed over to the Nirmithi Kendra, Mysuru, which will carry forward the construction, following the delay in carrying out the work by the officials of the PWD. A sum of Rs. 50 lakh had been released to the project as the first instalment and the PWD has been told to return the funds so that Nirmithi Kendra can take over the construction. At a meeting here, Ms. Sindhuri told officials to constitute a committee to monitor the progress of the construction and directed the Nirmithi Kendra to complete the work as scheduled.  PWD told to refund Rs. 50 lakh released as first instalment  Committee to monitor progress of work||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nirmithi-kendra-to-construct-war-memorial/article33815796.ece
12 February 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Retired professors plan agitation||Professors of University of Mysore, who have retired after April 1, 2018, have threatened to begin an agitation from Friday seeking release of full pensionary benefits. In a letter addressed to Vice-Chancellor Hemantha Kumar, the retired professors said they will gather in front of Crawford Hall in Mysuru on Friday and begin their dharna. “The University is supposed to give DCRG (Death-Cum-Retirement Gratuity) and other benefits immediately on the day of superannuation. But, surprisingly, it is not the case in reality. All of us (particularly for those 45 professors, who superannuated after April 1, 2018 till this day), are given only half of the pensionary benefits; the other half of the amount is due to us from the University”, the letter said. The retired professors are upset with the authorities for their failure to release the full pensionary benefits despite several representations made to the Vice-Chancellor. Though the University issued revised pension orders in May 2020, the arrears due to us are not yet paid, the letter said. On the other hand, Bengaluru University, Davangere University, Karnatak University, Kuvempu University, Mangalore University and all government colleges in Karnataka have already released full pensionary benefits to the professors who had retired after April 1, 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/retired-professors-plan-agitation/article33815803.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BBMP rapped for sluggish waste management||The BBMP has been directed to achieve 100% segregation of waste at source, take immediate action for biomining the legacy waste in waste processing sites and comply with the Solid Waste Management (SWM) Rules, 2016. These are just some of the directions issued by Subhash B. Adi, chairman of the State Level Committee constituted by the National Green Tribunal. Recently, in a meeting with officials of both BBMP and the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB), Mr. Adi pulled up the civic body for not showing appropriate progress in waste management as per SWM Rules, 2016. He also expressed displeasure over the delay in putting in place the new tenders that envisage separate collection of different streams of waste, and the low segregation levels. BBMP officials were directed to submit a plan of action for achieving 100% segregation at source ward-wise by end of March. Mr. Adi has also directed the civic body to install GPS on all vehicles transporting waste and provide details of the same to KSPCB. The BBMP has filed an affidavit in the High Court seeking more time, admitting that achieving 100% segregation at source by March-end would not be possible. BBMP Special Commissioner (SWM) D. Randeep told The Hindu that over a period of time, the civic body had been able to clear a majority of black spots across the city, improve segregation levels and reduce the quantum of mixed waste. He said 100% segregation at source would be possible only if new tenders, dry waste collection centres and effective dry waste collectors are available in all 198 wards. The new tenders have been activated in 63 wards. The civic body was hoping to put them in place in at least 150 wards over the next two months, he said. There were 120 DWCCs, and the BBMP had floated tenders for around 35 centres. “However, this includes centres that need to be demolished and rebuilt, where major repairs have to be taken up and new structures in wards without DWCCs,” he said. Leachate treatment The KSPCB officials, who were present at the meeting, pointed out that 750 tonnes of rejects are being stored at Doddabidarakallu processing plant and 1 lakh litres of leachate, which is stored at the site, is flowing into low-lying areas. Though a 25 KLD leachate treatment plant was established at the site, it was being operated at a capacity of 6 KLD. At Kannahalli plant, 5,000 tonnes of waste is being stored in the open and the 25 KL leachate tank overflowed into an abandoned quarry. BBMP officials, meanwhile, stated that suitable technology selection for leachate treatment had been placed before the Technical Guidance Committee, and the technology is expected to be selected shortly.  100% segregation at source would be possible only if new tenders, dry waste collection centres and effective dry waste collectors are available in all 198 wards D. Randeep, Special Commissioner (SWM), BBMP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-rapped-for-sluggish-waste-management/article33816032.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Say goodbye to free parking anywhere in city||Free parking is set to become a thing of the past with the Parking Policy 2.0 recently getting the stamp of approval from the Urban Development Department (UDD). This means that parking charges will be applicable in areas where they were not before, including in residential areas. “The Directorate of Urban Land Transport shall prepare the Area Parking Plans in accordance with the policy. The BBMP shall implement the Parking Policy 2.0,” the order said. For instance, noting that parking is largely unregulated across the city and on-street parking is rampant as it is not chargeable in most places, increasingly causing issues of safety for other road users and reduced carrying capacity of roads, the policy recommends a Residential Parking Permit (annual fee) of up to Rs. 5,000 for ward-level roads. The policy document says the few locations where parking is charged are managed without coordination by the unorganised sector, and charges levied vary ‘as per whims of the operator’. “The high parking demand seen on roads, especially in business areas, is not only due to the sustained spurt in vehicle ownership and population over the past decade, but also because of the inefficient public transport system connecting all parts of the city, poor pedestrian infrastructure, inefficient last- and first-mile connectivity, and absence of demand management measures, such as pricing of parking,” the policy says. The BBMP adopted a parking policy in 2012. But since its adoption, there have been several changes in the demand for parking, such as the commissioning of the metro, aggregator-run taxis, increasing popularity of micro mobility options, like shared cycles and bikes for last-mile connectivity, conversion of residential plots to commercial use, and infringement of residential roads by vehicles accessing nearby commercial areas, which makes a case for reviewing the old policy. The new policy is touted as an attempt to move from “chaotic to well-organised parking”, free parking to paid, and from government-driven parking supply to market driven parking supply and management. It recommends schools staggering class timings to distribute the load experienced by roads during opening and closing hours. BBMP Administrator Gaurav Gupta said traffic congestion in the city has been compounded by illegal parking. Allowing parking only in authorised locations will help a great deal. “Already, automated parking has been put in place on five major roads. The same system is being incorporated on five more roads, and it will be ready by the end of the month. By May, 30 roads will have automated parking systems,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/say-goodbye-to-free-parking-anywhere-in-city/article33816034.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||KPSC paper leak: One more person held||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) police on Thursday arrested one more person in connection with the leak of the Karnataka Public Service Commission (KPSC) first division assistant question paper. The accused, Venkatesh, is a relative of Rachappa, one of the prime accused who was arrested shortly after the racket came to light. “Venkatesh was also appearing for the FDA exam and is suspected to have shared the paper with others,” said a police officer. He was on the run soon after Rachappa’s arrest, but the police tracked him down to his home town in Athani, Belagavi. “We have taken him into custody to ascertain how many people he had shared the leaked paper with,” the officer added. A day before the competitive examination was scheduled to be held in January, the police arrested a gang selling answer scripts to clients for lakhs of rupees. The prime accused in the case are Rachappa and Chandru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kpsc-paper-leak-one-more-person-held/article33815818.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Residents oppose eviction drive||An eviction drive conducted by the Slum Development Board and police on Thursday was met with stiff resistance from affected families at Agrahara Dasarahalli. In 2014, the Board built 65 flats (G+3) using BBMP funds, of which 35 flats were allotted to beneficiaries identified by the civic body. The authorities claim that the remaining flats were being occupied illegally by various families. On Thursday morning, officials landed in the area with heavy police force, including women personnel, to evict 17 families accused of illegal occupation. The police forcibly evicted residents, who accused them of acting at the behest of local political leaders. Opposing the eviction, a woman allegedly attempted suicide. A resident said, “The slum board officials are selectively targeting some families for political reasons. Where will they go?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/residents-oppose-eviction-drive/article33816036.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Concern about child marriage’||Following reports of a rise in child marriage and labour cases during the pandemic, Primary & Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar demanded inspections be carried out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/concern-about-child-marriage/article33816040.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||A duet||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-duet/article33816196.ece
12 February 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Inaugurated||Rest houses under the Public Works Department in the State have been upgraded with modern facilities and made available for the public, Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran has said. He was inaugurating the new and renovated buildings of the PWD rest house at Kallissery, near Chengannur, on Thursday. Mr. Sudhakaran said that revenue from the rest houses had increased to Rs. 16 crore from Rs. 2 crore five years ago. “We have introduced uniforms for rest house employees. Steps have also been taken to keep rooms clean and tidy,” the Minister said. The facility at Kallissery was renovated at a cost of Rs. 2.75 crore. It has 15 rooms, including one suite room, conference hall, pantry area, and two car porches. Inaugurating the PWD rest house at Karumadi, Mr. Sudhakaran said the annual revenue from rest houses in the State would touch Rs. 25 crore. “There are 200 rest houses in the State. Of these, 25 are newly constructed. A combined 3,000 rooms are available in these rest houses,” he said.  Link to Gandhi The rest house at Karumadi is situated close to Musavari Bungalow, which had hosted Mahatma Gandhi. As part of conserving the old building, a statue of Mahatma Gandhi will be installed there at a cost of Rs. 3.44 crore. The Karumadi facility has six rooms, including two VIP rooms, kitchen, dining room, office room, lobby, and conference hall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2-new-rest-houses-in-alappuzha/article33815730.ece
12 February 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Will contest on own party ticket: P.C. George||If the Congress stands united, the United Democratic Front (UDF) will win the Assembly polls with a slight margin, Kerala Janapaksham (Secular) leader P.C. George has said. He told mediapersons at Thodupuzha on Thursday that a divided Congress would tilt the result in favour of the Left Democratic Front. He said he would contest the polls from Poonjar on his party ticket. He would not join any other party or contest as an Independent. He said he would win in Poonjar with a majority of 35,000 votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/will-contest-on-own-party-ticket-pc-george/article33815733.ece
12 February 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||CM to announce Wayanad package today||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will announce the Wayanad package that envisages comprehensive development of the hill district, at the Chandragiri auditorium here at 11 a.m. on Friday. Carbon neutral park Mr. Vijayan will also release the detailed project report of the Carbon Neutral Coffee Park on the occasion. The Wayanad package also aims at ensuring the overall development of tribal people and farmers in the district. Finance Minister Thomas Isaac will preside over the function. Commerce Minister E.P. Jayarajan will inaugurate various projects to promote the consumption of coffee being produced in the district under the brand name of Wayanad Coffee and ensure a sustainable income to coffee farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-to-announce-wayanad-package-today/article33815679.ece
12 February 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Women’s panel mega adalat||A mega adalat of the State Women’s Commission will be held at the district panchayat hall here at 10.30 a.m. on Monday, organisers of the event said in a release issued here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/womens-panel-mega-adalat/article33815681.ece
12 February 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Kamaruddin released from jail||Manjeswaram MLA M.C. Kamaruddin, who had been lodged at Kannur Central Jail for several months in a jewellery investment fraud case, was released on bail on Thursday. Mr. Kamaruddin was released from the jail after he was granted bail by the court in all the 148 cases filed against him. He had been in the jail for 93 days. Speaking to reporters, the MLA said there was a big conspiracy against him. He was imprisoned for three months, but that did not worry him. He said there were a number of conspiracies against him ever since he won the byelection by an overwhelming majority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kamaruddin-released-from-jail/article33815747.ece
12 February 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Delay in getting Forest dept. approvals slows down Hill Highway work||Even though the Public Works Department is seeking to speed up the work on the Hill Highway project, the delay in getting the approval to lay the road through forest regions is holding up the work. The 1,251-km Hill Highway, which is being constructed at a cost of Rs. 3,500 crore, will pass through 13 of the 14 districts, the exception being Alappuzha. The PWD is facing major problems in places such as Kottayam, Idukki, Ernakulam, Muvattupuzha, Thrissur, Malappuram, Wayanad, Kozhikode, and Kasaragod where the proposed highway will cross forest land. Five requests submitted by the Kerala Road Fund Board (KRFB) were rejected by the forest department stating that it could not approve the existing alignment, said Darlene Carmelita d’Cruz, Project Director of KRFB. The KRFB, entrusted with getting the approvals for the acquisition of the land and completion of the highway, had submitted 11 requests to the forest department. In the case of six applications, the DFOs concerned had completed visits to three sites. However, the forest department was yet to give the approval even these cases, she said. Ms d' Cruz said the alignment for the Hill Highway was prepared by the National Transportation and Planning and Research Centre (NATPAC). After objections were raised by the forest department in five areas, NATPAC had been asked to realign the project. Ms d’ Cruz said the 12-metre-wide highway would have a 7-metre tarmac and a 1-metre-wide walkway on both sides. “With conditions such as free surrender of land and the delay in getting the approvals, we are not sure how long it will take for completing the Hill Highway project,” she said. In Kasaragod district, the highway would cross the two forest regions of Marutham and Pandi. While 0.61 hectare was required in Marutham, 4.332 hectare in two stretches would be needed in Pandi, said K.P. Vinod Kumar, PWD executive engineer in Kasaragod.  D.K. Vinodkumar, Chief Conservator of Forests (Northern Circle), said the his department was not against constructing the Hill Highway. The delay in granting pprovals had happened due to technical reasons. There has also been support for the project from various quarters, including local residents. Raju Kattakayam, president of Balal panchayat, who led several protests demanding the completion of the project, said that the Hill Highway through the region would improve tourism activities, provide employment to the local people and lead to an increase in the land value. However, environmentalists have strongly opposed roads and other development activities in forestland. Advocate Rajendran, president of the Kasaragod District Environmental Protection Committee, said that the Western Ghats and connected forests were being destroyed in the name of development. “The work was being carried out without getting the Environmental Impact Assessment done.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/delay-in-getting-forest-dept-approvals-slows-down-hill-highway-work/article33815682.ece
12 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Bastion Bungalow, Hill Palace to reopen today||The new museum at the 450-year-old Bastion Bungalow in Fort Kochi tells the tale of the region through the imperial powers who spotted opportunities to cart off spices, ivory, sandalwood, and teak from the Malabar coast, shaping the area’s history in the process. Developed as a District Heritage Museum documenting Ernakulam’s maritime trade links, it fittingly stands in the bungalow that was built initially by the Portuguese as their fort, then claimed and rebuilt by the Dutch. It eventually fell into the hands of the British and was taken over by the Revenue Department post-Independence. The museum houses no artefacts, and all archival material displayed are reproductions. The wall-mounted panels are packed with details on Kochi’s international connections, explained through copies of maps and paintings from museums in Lisbon and Amsterdam, besides copies of letters between the Raja of Cochin and officials of the Dutch East India Company. “Conservation of the building itself was an important component of the project and was a challenge,” said V. Venu, Additional Chief Secretary, who oversees the Department of Cultural Affairs (Archaeology, Archives, Museums). The Rs. 3.58-crore project took nearly three years to complete and was implemented by Keralam Museums, the nodal agency tasked by the government with establishing and renovating museums across the State. An entire gallery in the museum is devoted to the Hortus Malabaricus, where a wall is dedicated to detailed illustrations from the work commissioned in the 17th century to document the plant species of Malabar, Mr. Venu said. The museum at Bastion Bungalow is part of a string of museums that are being set up across the State. Along similar lines, the museum at the Hill Palace at Thripunithura was “modernised”. Rather than a jumble of artefacts that constituted the museum earlier, it has now become thematic, Mr. Venu pointed out. Renovation of the Hill Palace Museum had been pending since 1986, when the first proposal to refurbish it was submitted, said K.V. Sreenath, who is in charge of the palace and is the registrar of the Centre for Heritage Studies. Work worth Rs. 2.37 crore began last year on the museum which, spread over 51 acres, is the biggest in the State. Prasanna Varma, who curated the new display and is a descendant of the royal family, said ensuring their story was told objectively was a challenge. “The museum is no longer just a collection of artefacts with a caption and date. These are backed up with stories now,” said Ms. Varma. Some aspects about the family were perplexing, she admitted. Both museums, managed by the Department of Archaeology, will be inaugurated on Friday. Entry is likely to be free for the public for a month after inauguration. Ticket prices are yet to be fixed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bastion-bungalow-hill-palace-to-reopen-today/article33816164.ece
12 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Edappally-Kodungalloor work from May||Considerable progress has been made for the project to widen the 25-km Edappally-Kodungalloor NH 66 stretch into a six-lane highway, with a bulk of land acquisition proceedings over, following which widening and road construction work will begin in May, sources in the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) said. This is part of the 164-km Edappally-Ramanattukara NH 66 stretch (of the Mumbai-Kanyakumari NH corridor), which falls under the Kochi project implementation unit of the NHAI that is awaiting six-laning. The stretch which begins at Edappally and ends at Ramanattukara in Kozhikode has been divided into five reaches. The portions north of the Edappally-Kodungallor stretch are Kodungalloor, Thalikulam, Kaprikkad, Valanchery, and Ramanattukara. On either side The widening will be effected on either side of the existing NH corridor, with slight variations in alignment at a few places, mainly to straighten curves, the sources added. The NHAI has deposited Rs. 2,400 crore of the total Rs. 3,200 crore needed for acquisition of 203 hectares, it is learnt. The most critical in the Edappally-Ramanattukara NH 66 corridor is the widening of the 25-km Edappally-Kodungalloor stretch, which has been hanging fire since 2005. “Here, 22 hectares from areas falling under eight villages have been acquired, and the valuation of buildings on these lands is under way. Their compensation amount based on the valuation will be declared by the end of February. We have fixed a 30-month deadline to widen the congested corridor. This may go up to a maximum of 36 months,” NHAI sources said. Simultaneously, work on the elevated six-lane highway on the busy 15-km, four-lane Aroor-Thuravoor NH 66 corridor too is expected to begin shortly. The project has to be completed in 36 months. The DPR consultant is in the process of finalising its design. Samiti demand Meanwhile, the NH Samyukta Samara Samiti has reiterated its demand for an elevated highway in the 32-km Edappally-Moothakunnam NH 66 corridor, where people had surrendered land over two decades ago to build a 30-metre-wide highway. Accidents and snarls are the norm here, since the tarred portion of the road is hardly 10 metres wide, while the rest of the land is encroached upon or weed-infested. “The very same people will have to be evicted yet again, if a 45-metre-wide NH is built here. This is a humanitarian crisis, and the NHAI must at least at this eleventh hour drop the widening plan and opt for an elevated highway,” said Hashim Chendampilly, chairman of the Samiti. The NHAI will have to allocate Rs. 2,794 crore for further widening the stretch into a 45-metre one. This includes Rs. 1,690 crore for land acquisition and Rs. 1,104 crore for road and bridge construction. “An elevated highway can be built here at a cost of Rs. 2,287 crore, in which case the NHAI can save over Rs. 500 crore. This will lessen accidents too, since the elevated highway will be access-controlled, except every 5 km where a ramp will link it with the road beneath,” he added.  22 hectares in eight villages acquired for road widening Samiti demands elevated highway on 32-km Edappally-Moothakunnam corridor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nh-66-six-laning-to-be-over-by-2024/article33816153.ece
12 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||High Court allows schools to collect fee with discounts||The Kerala High Court has allowed some of the CBSE schools in the State to collect fee with discounts of 15% to 40%, offered by the managements before the court, for the current academic year in view of the COVID-19 situation. Justice Devan Ramchandran passed the verdict on Thursday while disposing of a batch of writ petitions filed by parents against the managements’ decision to collect higher fee. The court observed that it was indeed gratifying that all schools had now agreed to offer a minimum discount of 15% and some even up to 40%, in the fee to be charged from their students for this academic year. This consensual offers made by the schools augured well for the educational system and it was greatly laudable, since District Educational Officers had found that most of them might have to suffer loses this academic year. The school managements had offered to provide the discount in fee in response to a court's suggestion of a minimum bench-limit of 15% discount in comparison to last year’s fee. The court directed the parents of the students to pay the discounted second term fee on or before February 26, 2021. The discount would be applicable for the academic year 2020-21, the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/high-court-allows-schools-to-collect-fee-with-discounts/article33815744.ece
12 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Cusat teachers seek withdrawal of order||Faculty members at the School of Engineering at the Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) have flayed the government’s decision not to bear the financial burden arising out of their appointment. Teachers, who had been expecting regularisation, were in for a shock after the Higher Education Department issued an order on February 4, stating that the financial commitments (including salary and pension) should be met from the internal revenue of the School of Engineering. The varsity authorities had requested the government to give concurrence to the appointment of 102 faculty members and 67 non-teaching staff. The first appointments were made in 1999. They were paid scales as per University Grants Commission (UGC) / All India Council for Technical Association (AICTE) norms. The faculty members pointed out that their appointments were made exactly in the same manner as in the case of other teaching posts at the university. The promotion of teachers is also effected in accordance with the guidelines of UGC / AICTE and the government, they said. The teachers recalled that the School of Engineering was started under the Cusat Act, 1986 as a constituent organisation of the varsity and not as a self-financing institution. The appointments were made from the common pool of teachers and by adhering to the communal rotation register for appointment of permanent / regular teachers. “The contents and conditions specified in the Government Order are contrary to facts and provisions of the Cochin University of Science and Technology Act, 1986. The university has not started any self-financing schools of engineering as stated in the order, as the SOE is a department under it,” said G. Ajithkumar, professor and general secretary, Cochin University Teachers Forum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/withdraw-order-demand-cusat-teachers/article33815739.ece
12 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||HMT denies indifference to dumping of waste||The management of the Kalamassery-based HMT Machine Tools has taken strong exception to allegations that it was not cooperative in stopping dumping of waste on its sprawling campus. A statement issued by its general manager S. Balamurugesan on Thursday dispelled the charges, before going on to add that the company was not responsible for the dumping of waste by the public, which was beyond its control. The company also attributed the trend to anti-social activities carried out with the help of miscreants to malign its reputation. Notices In a story on the alarming frequency of fire breakouts on refuse dumped on the HMT campus carried by The Hindu on Wednesday, Nishad A.K., health standing committee chairman of the Kalamasserry Municipality, had blamed the alleged unresponsiveness of the company to the municipality’s notices on dumping of waste on its property. “It is their responsibility to ensure that their property is not turned into a waste dumping ground,” he had said. “Earlier, our estate areas were totally fenced with concrete pillars and barbed wires, which were destroyed with the help of anti-social elements. Whenever we objected these anti-social activities for protecting our properties, political intervention prevented our efforts. Our security forces are patrolling round-the-clock to track the culprits. In spite of all such vigil, some miscreants have been dumping waste in the company compound and nearby roads,” the statement said. Street lights absent It further said that the absence of street lights along Seaport-Airport Road further aided dumping of waste even from other municipalities and the Kochi Corporation. The management claimed that it had been asking the municipality to lit up the road and the police to strengthen patrolling since 2007 through various letters. The statement also accused the municipality of turning a deaf ear to the demand to deploy CCTV cameras to track down those dumping waste and to take strict action against offenders. “But our complaints were not taken seriously, and no such strict actions were taken by officials to protect our land from disposal of waste,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hmt-denies-indifference-to-dumping-of-waste/article33816157.ece
12 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Ernakulam registers 632 new COVID cases||Ernakulam district recorded 632 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday. Five health workers were among those who tested positive. Edathala saw a spike with 44 new cases, while 22 cases were recorded in Thripunithura and 19 each in Elamkunnapuzha and Rayamangalam. With 669 people testing negative on Thursday, the active caseload stands at 10,261. A total of 9,856 samples were sent for testing. 31 more centres Vaccination for COVID-19 for frontline workers began in the district on Thursday. As many as 31 additional centres will begin administering the vaccine to frontline workers from Friday, said Dr. M.G. Sivadas, Reproductive and Child Health Officer and nodal officer for vaccination. Naval Base Vice Admiral Anil K. Chawla, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the Southern Naval Command, kick-started the vaccination drive by receiving the first shot at naval hospital Sanjivani. The Vice Admiral along with Commanding Officers of the Southern Naval Command’s frontline ships and air squadrons were among the initial personnel to be vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-registers-632-new-covid-cases/article33816161.ece
12 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Postings made during VS rule: Chennithala||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has said the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government is now regularising the temporary appointments of Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] cadres made during the previous LDF regime under V.S. Achuthanandan. “The claims by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan that the government is regularising the appointments made during the Congress-regime are false. The Chief Minister said the government is regularising the temporary appointments made 10 years ago. Those appointments were made when Mr. Achuthanandan was the Chief Minister,” he said here on Thursday. Mr. Chennithala said the youth were forced to protest on the streets after witnessing large-scale back-door appointments by the government. The statement by the Chief Minister that those protesting did not figure on the rank list was not true. “Social media posts by the protesters saying that they are denied appointment despite figuring on the rank list have now come to the fore. The government should hold talks with the agitators to meet their demands,” he said. The Chief Minister is demeaning the protesters similar to the position adopted by Prime Minister Narendra Modi against the agitating farmers, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/postings-made-during-vs-rule-chennithala/article33815764.ece
12 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Govt. acquires 53.21 acres||The State government has acquired 53.21 acres belonging to Hindustan Lever company along Old Railway Station Road as excess land. Sub Collector’s order The acquisition of land was in accordance with the Kerala Land Reforms Act. The action was in compliance with the order issued by Kanayannur taluk land board chairman and Fort Kochi Sub Collector Hareesh Rashid. A team led by Kanayannur tahsildar P. Saji carried out the land acquisition process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-acquires-5321-acres/article33816159.ece
12 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Ban on operation of drones||The City police have banned the operation of drones with immediate effect in view of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to the city on Sunday. District Police Chief (Kochi City) C.H. Nagaraju issued the orders in view of the security protocol that will kick in with the visit. The ban will be in place till February 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ban-on-operation-of-drones/article33816158.ece
12 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||e-auto feeder service soon, says Mayor||The Kochi Corporation and Smart Sut GIZ (Integrated sustainable urban transport systems for smart cities - German Society for International Cooperation) will jointly launch an e-auto feeder service in Kochi, Mayor M. Anilkumar has said. He was speaking after inaugurating the office of Ernakulam District Autorickshaw Drivers Cooperative Society at Revenue Tower here. The function also saw funds pooled in by employees of the Ernakulam RTO office being handed over to the family of M.B. Thampy, an auto driver who died after his BP shot up, soon after he took an accident victim to a hospital at Maradu in his vehicle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/e-auto-feeder-service-soon-says-mayor/article33816165.ece
12 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||PM to open maritime skill centre||Vigyana Sagar, a knowledge and skill development centre, will be inaugurated at the Cochin Shipyard by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will attend the event. The 70,000-sq ft education complex, built at Rs. 27.5 crore and spread over 3.5 acres of land, is envisaged as a premium maritime learning centre catering to the digital and technological advancements in the field, pre-sea and post-sea maritime training and the regular Graduate Marine Engineering Training programme. “We are focussed on building top-class ships as well as achieving our business goals. Developing knowledge for young professionals is also equally important. The company came up with a plan to develop a Knowledge and Skill Development Centre to train young international talent.” said Madhu S Nair, Chairman and Managing Director, CSL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pm-to-open-maritime-skill-centre/article33815745.ece
12 February 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||NSS moves court for EWS list among forward castes||In view of the ‘delay’ on the part of the State government in releasing the list of economically weaker sections (EWS) among forward communities, the Nair Service Society (NSS) has approached the Kerala High Court with a petition seeking to publish the same in a time-bound manner. A statement on Thursday said the publication of the list would bring in clarity on the eligibility of different castes for reservation. The absence of such a list appeared to have caused reluctance among revenue officials in issuing non-creamy layer certificates. “Though the State government has approved a report including the list as prepared by the Commission for Forward Communities in 2019, the delay in publishing the same was one of the reasons for the eligible sections not receiving the benefit of reservation,” noted G. Sukumaran Nair, NSS general secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nss-moves-court-for-ews-list-among-forward-castes/article33815748.ece
12 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Minor allies make seat sharing a tough task for CPI(M), Congress||With coalition dynamics working in their favour, minor parties having no big stakes in the State’s polity appear to be giving a tough time to both the CPI(M) and the Congress ahead of seat-sharing for the upcoming Assembly polls. The CPI(M)-CPI combine of the Left Democratic Front (LDF), which had successfully steered the coalition to victory in the recent three-tier local body polls after experimenting with a rainbow coalition, has been facing the trouble right from the beginning with the entry of the Jose K. Mani faction of the Kerala Congress (M), and also after the induction of the Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) that had abandoned the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF). Despite local rifts, the CPI(M) managed to smartly juggle its partners in the local body polls in which 21,865 seats were available in grama panchayats, block panchayats, district panchayats, municipalities and corporations. However, with only 140 seats in the Assembly, each constituent demands a bigger share to stay afloat in the State’s political space. Vote share The CPI(M) had failed to stave off the situation when the Janata Dal (Secular) split, and now the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) is likely to bid adieu to the Left coalition. Incidentally, the JD(S) and the NCP have three legislators each and these parties secured 1.5% and 1.2% votes respectively of the total vote share in the 2016 Assembly elections. Since small margins could make a huge difference in the Assembly polls, the CPI(M) and the Congress are forced to rely upon their constituents. More than engaging in multilateral bargaining within the fronts, minor parties have been demanding a bigger share in the electoral pie in the run-up to the polls. Kadannappally Ramachandran, as Congress (S) nominee, got a Ministerial berth after his party received just 0.27% of the total votes. Similar is the case with NCP leader A.K. Saseendran, who was inducted into the Cabinet. In the UDF camp, the Congress party offered 24 seats to the Indian Union Muslim League, which won 18 seats and obtained 7.4% of the popular votes. The Kerala Congress (M) which won six seats was able to muster only 4% of the total votes. The Janata Dal (United) not only drew a blank after contesting seven seats, but received only 1.5% of the total votes, the same as its socialist rival, JD (S) which was in the LDF, although the party nominees won from three segments. Now, the Congress has to face a daunting task to satisfy the NCP after its possible entry into the UDF, as well as the P.J. Joseph faction of the KC(M).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minor-allies-make-seat-sharing-a-tough-task-for-cpim-congress/article33815680.ece
12 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Mahapanchayat’ on February 18||The Rashtriya Kisan Maha Sangh, the farmers’ coordination committee spearheading the agitation against farm laws in New Delhi, will orgainse a ‘mahapanchayat’ in Kerala on February 18, its south Indian coordinator P.T. John has said. He told the media here on Thursday that the event would be held at Ramankari in the Kuttanad region of Alappuzha district, where a protest had been going on for the past few weeks. Similar events would be held in other panchayats in the coming days. A meeting to be held in Thrissur on February 13 would chalk out the future plans. He said the committee had been holding talks with Central trade unions on conducting a joint protest. The farmers would pray for 10 minutes on February 13. “A day of protest will be observed on February 14 when Mr. Modi visits the State. A march will be taken out from Kakkanad in Ernakulam in the evening,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mahapanchayat-on-february-18/article33815765.ece
12 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Focus on social entrepreneurship||Stressing the need for a better ecosystem for women empowerment, Health Minister K.K. Shylaja on Thursday said the State government was ready to draft a clear policy for the promotion of social entrepreneurship in Kerala. Social entrepreneurship is an approach in which individuals, groups or companies implement solutions to social or environmental issues with profit being not the chief aim of business. Opening the three-day International Conference on Gender Equality (ICGE) at the Gender Park in Kozhikode, the Minister said the opinion of stakeholders and the public would be crucial in the formation of the draft policy. “The whole world is now discussing social entrepreneurship and its role in achieving the goal of women empowerment. It can really create more opportunities for women entrepreneurs and address unemployment crisis,” said Ms. Shylaja. According to her, the government’s attention during the formation of such a policy would be the possibility of covering maximum number of families under it. “There should be efforts to protect vulnerable groups and families. We are open to suggestions from all sectors for the formation of the draft policy,” she said. Lauding the big role played by the Gender Park in women empowerment activities, the Minister said efforts were on to upgrade it as a regional hub of the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women) covering India, Bhutan and Maldives. The Gender Park would soon get an exclusive research centre for women for which Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan would lay the foundation stone on February 14, she added. Addressing the meet, Aishwarya Rutuparna Pradhan, who is India’s first transgender bureaucrat, said the Kerala model of transgender welfare policy could be an adoptable model for the rest of India. “Transgender people should get social acceptance. Better gender sensitivity should be there in all sectors, and people should be treated equally irrespective of their gender by the mainstream,” she said. Cultural empowerment Virtually addressing the event, Communist party of India (Marxist) leader Brinda Karat said the cultural empowerment of women was also crucial in the process of sustainable development and gender equality. “Empowerment of women with market relations and strategies alone cannot be the only focus. Unless there is cultural empowerment or self-mobilisation, smashing of those cultural barriers will be impossible,” she observed. A. Pradeep Kumar, MLA, presided over the event, which is being conducted as a carbon neutral event. Three plenary sessions with the online presence of international delegates were hosted on the inaugural day. The event would draw to a close on February 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/focus-on-social-entrepreneurship/article33815686.ece
12 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||CM to open new facilities||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the newly completed projects, including a gender museum, library, mega convention centre and amphitheatre, at the State government’s Gender Park in Kozhikode on February 14. According to Social Justice Department officials, it will also mark the inauguration of the first phase of all completed development works at the park. One of the major projects on the cards is the International Women’s Trade and Research Centre (IWTRC). Mr. Vijayan will lay the foundation stone for the project during the inaugural ceremony. The IWTRC envisages a secure and sustained ecosystem for women entrepreneurs and a space for them to market their products. Gender park coordinators say the project has been designed with a vision to help women and transgenders become sustainable entrepreneurs. The Rs. 200-crore project on the 24-acre campus will work in collaboration with UN Women, they add. Health Minister K.K. Shylaja will preside.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-to-open-new-facilities/article33815687.ece
12 February 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Youth Commission adalat||The Kerala State Youth Commission will hold a district adalat in Kozhikode on February 12. A release said that those aged between 18 and 40 may submit complaints at the event which will begin at 11 a.m. at the PWD rest house conference hall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-commission-adalat/article33815678.ece
12 February 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||614 fresh cases recorded||As many as 614 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported from Kozhikode district on Thursday. The District Medical Officer said in a release that 599 of them were locally acquired infections and the source of 15 others was not known. Kozhikode Corpoation accounted for 179 cases of local transmission, Thalakkulathur 49, Vadakara 19, and Kuttiyadi 18. As many as 7,117 samples were tested and the daily test positivity rate is 8.62%. A total of 666 people recovered from the infection and the active case load from Kozhikode district is 6,930.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/614-fresh-cases-recorded/article33815683.ece
12 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||City govt. hospital’s annexe to be opened today||The new annexe building attached to the Government Hospital for Women and Children at Kottaparamba in the city will be opened on Friday. According to M. Sujatha, Superintendent of the hospital, the facility will have 10 labour suites with space for companions, post-delivery wards, special newborn care units, and a patient dining area. The newborn care units would be helpful for those with breathing difficulty and underweight children. The patient dining area will be for patients and their husbands or female companions. There is a passage to the new block from the old block, she added. Recognitions The new facility is coming up just days after the hospital bagged the Union government’s Kayakalpa award for promoting hygiene, cleanliness, and better infection-control practices. Sources said that the Rs. 50 lakh award money was expected to be spent on development projects. It had also got the Haritha Kerala Mission’s Green Kerala Award with 100% marks and ‘A’ grade. The hospital is reportedly the only such government facility to get an accreditation from the National Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Healthcare Providers. It had also been awarded National Quality Assurance Standards recognition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/city-govt-hospitals-annexe-to-be-opened-today/article33815689.ece
12 February 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Traffic curbs between Adivaram, Lakkidi||Road traffic will be regulated between Adivaram in Kozhikode and Lakkidi in Wayanad between February 15 and March 15 in view of the road improvement works taken up on NH 66 passing through the Thamarassery Ghat Road. Vehicles coming from Wayanad to Kozhikode should take a turn from Kainatti and go via Nalam Mile and Chakramthalam Churam. Those going to Malappuram should go via the Nadugani Ghat Road from Gudallur. Goods vehicles and buses will not be allowed to ply between 5 a.m. and 10 p.m. between Adivaram and Lakkidi. The Kerala State Road Services Corporation will ply mini-buses on the route. One-way traffic will be allowed for small vehicles in places where construction of retaining walls is going on and where tarring is being done, said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traffic-curbs-between-adivaram-lakkidi/article33815684.ece
12 February 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||694 test positive in Pathanamthitta||As many as 694 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Thursday. Of the new cases, 670 persons contracted the virus through local contact. The contact source of 28 cases is yet to be identified. The disease claimed two more lives in the district, a 51-year-old woman from Kokkathodu and 29-year-old woman from Konni. With 571 recoveries during the day, the district has 6,134 active cases. In Kottayam, 383 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. All but four of the new cases, including a health worker, were infected through local transmission. The fresh cases also included 25 children and 82 persons aged above 60. With 502 recoveries during the day, the district has 4,646 active cases. Alappuzha logged 342 COVID-19 cases, of which 335 contracted the disease locally. The infection source of two remains unknown. Vaccinated As many as 423 people tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 4,434. The second phase of COVID-19 inoculation drive started on Thursday. As many as 557 people received COVID-19 vaccination at 12 centres.  (With inputs from Kottayam and Alappuzha bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/694-test-positive-in-pathanamthitta/article33815736.ece
12 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Mass drive to make city waste-free||The city Corporation has decided to take up campaigns for making the city waste-free and its beautification in the coming days. The civic body’s decentralised waste management campaign will be expanded and waste dumped in all its 100 wards in the wake of COVID-19 removed, Mayor Arya Rajendran said at a press meet here on Thursday. The campaign named ‘Anicheraam Azhakarnnoru Ananthapurikkayi’ will be held from February 19 to 25. On February 19, the campaign will be inaugurated at five centres. These are Museum RKV Road, the Peroorkada market, Palayam TRIDA compound, Manacaud market, and Medical College TRIDA compound. It will be a mass campaign with involvement of Ministers, people’s representatives, traders’ organisations, voluntary organisations, residents’ associations, and so on, the Mayor said. From February 20 to 25, similar campaigns will be held in each of the 100 wards of the Corporation. Public involvement would help the masses see at close quarters the activities of the Corporation and make them take up responsibility for the waste generated by each one of them, the Mayor said. Health inspectors had been asked to prepare comprehensive reports on waste-dumping centres in each health circle. Spot the Dump The Smart Trivandrum mobile application would have a new link ‘Spot the Dump’ so that people could report and upload photographs of locations where waste was being dumped. Waste would be segregated, and non-biodegradable waste cleaned and handed over for reuse or recycle. Biodegradable waste would be turned into compost. To avoid further dumping of waste in such places, dustbins would be set up or the space maintained by the city Corporation with public support. Community composting too would be taken up wherever needed. Thumboormuzhi-model aerobic bins would be set up in every ward for processing biodegradable waste. Material-recovery facilities too would be set up. Non-biodegradable waste collected door-to-door by agencies or the Kudumbashree would be segregated, cleaned, and handed over to Clean Kerala after discussions with the company. The rest would be scientifically processed by the civic body. The Mayor expressed concern over the increase in the use of disposables in the wake of COVID-19, and said attempts would be made to reduce their use after consultations with traders and experts. Biocomposter bins would be installed wherever possible to ensure reduction of waste at source. These bins and organic-waste converters would also be installed in apartment complexes subject to government directions. Dry waste collection drives as per a calendar published by the Corporation would be resumed while door-to-door collection would be taken up by the Haritha Karma Sena. Green credit cards Green credit cards will be introduced to promote handover of segregated non-biodegradable waste by the public. Value for the waste handed over at material-recovery facilities as per price decided by Clean Kerala will be transferred as points entered on the green credit card, and can be used to make purchases at select stores. A campaign for cleaning up waterbodies and their protection will also be taken up. A monitoring committee will coordinate activities of various departments for this.  Public involvement will make them take up responsibility for waste generated by them Arya Rajendran Mayor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mass-drive-to-make-city-waste-free/article33816276.ece
12 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSRTC reduces fares by 30%||In a bid to increase patronage, the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has reduced bus fares by 30% in services operated by Volvo, Scania, and multi-axle buses within the State from Friday. It has also decided to reduce fares of air-conditioned low-floor JnNURM (Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission) buses by slashing the fares hiked during the COVID-19-induced lockdown. While the minimum charge for 5 km has been retained at Rs. 26, the fare for subsequent km has been reduced from 187 to 126 paise. Temporary basis Chairman and Managing Director Biju Prabhakar said the reduction in fares was on a temporary basis and the 30% fare reduction was available in the inter-State services operated by Volvo, Scania, and multi-axle buses. Every hour, the KSRTC is operating low-floor air-conditioned buses from Thiruvananthapuram via Alappuzha and Ernakulam to Kozhikode. Low-floor air-conditioned services are also operated via Kottayam to Kozhikode every hour from Thiruvananthapuram and reduction in fares would be applicable for these services, he added. In December, the KSRTC had done away with the cess on tickets collected from commuters for ordinary buses for six months. Those commuting in ordinary buses up to 47.5 km and paying fares up to Rs. 49 do not have to pay the cess and this resulted in the bus fare going down by Rs. 1 to Rs. 2. With the new decision, the Rs. 1 cess collected on tickets from Rs. 15 to Rs. 24 and the Rs. 2 cess collected for tickets from Rs. 25 to Rs. 49 have been avoided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtc-reduces-fares-by-30/article33815766.ece
12 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Second phase of vaccination begins across State||The State began the second phase of COVID-19 vaccination on Thursday with front-line workers – ASHA and anganwadi workers, the police and allied services, panchayat, municipality and revenue officials – began receiving the first dose of vaccine. In Thiruvananthapuram, State Police Chief Loknath Behera, Additional Director General of Police Manoj Abraham, and District Collector Navjot Khosa received the first dose of vaccine. In Ernakulam, Additional District Magistrate K.A. Mohammed Shafi and in Kottayam, District Collector M. Anjana, District Police Chief D. Shilpa and Subcollector Rajiv Kumar Choudhary were the prominent among the front-line workers to receive the vaccine.  The first phase of vaccination, in which nearly 3.9 lakh health-care workers had registered for receiving the vaccine, is drawing to a close in the State. So far, 3,32,915 health workers have been vaccinated. On Thursday, 2,140 health-care workers and 5,450 front-line workers received the vaccine. A total of 1,29,258 front-line workers have registered so far for receiving the vaccine. They include 78,701 employees of the Home Department, 6,600 municipality employees, 16,735 revenue officials and 27,222 panchayat employees. On Thursday, 167 vaccination sites were arranged across the State. Thiruvananthapuram had 50 sites.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/second-phase-of-vaccination-begins-across-state/article33815760.ece
12 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Another corridor of NH 66 opened||Overcoming several hurdles, the four-lane 4.5-km corridor from Pravachambalam to Kodinada of the 29.2-km Karamana-Kaliyikkavila stretch of the National Highway 66 was opened for traffic on Thursday. Commissioning the stretch through videoconferencing at a function organised at Pravachambalam Junction, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the government had been able to undertake NH development by acquiring land and overcoming delays. Even infra projects that had been abandoned were being executed and roads and bridges were being completed on a time-bound manner. The Chief Minister said the Public Works Department (PWD) had alone spent Rs. 20,000 crore in the State in the last four years. Presiding over the function, Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran said the government had been able to usher in development without any urban-rural divide. Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac, Minister for Tourism and Cooperation Kadakampally Surendran, legislators, district panchayat president D. Suresh Kumar, block and grama panchayat members, and PWD officials were among those who spoke. The 30.2 m-wide corridor, which has been given a BM&BC topping along the 21-m carriageway, has a centre median of three metre, footpath with tactile tiles on both sides, railings for safety, and utility duct of 1.20 m on both sides. As many as 250 street lights have been provided on the centre median that can accommodate the pillars of the MRTS. High-mast lights and traffic signals have been provided at the Pravachabalam, Pallichal, Vedivachankovil, and Madavoorpara junctions.  Rs. 112-crore work Uralunkal Labour Contract Cooperative Society Ltd. had executed the work for the PWD National Highway wing at Rs. 112 crore. The funds for the Reach II had been mobilised from the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). A sum of Rs. 281 crore had been spent on land acquisition. For the next 1.5-km stretch from Balaramapuram to Vazhimukku, the government has given administrative sanction for acquiring land. Steps to finalise alignment for four-laning of the 18.7-km stretch from Vazhimukku to Kaliyikkavila on the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/another-corridor-of-nh-66-opened/article33816266.ece
12 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Agitators not PSC rank holders, says Minister||Reiterating that the government’s move to regularise contract workers is a humanitarian act, Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan has alleged that none of the job aspirants who have been agitating in the State capital figured on Public Service Commission (PSC) rank lists. Mr. Jayarajan, during an interaction with the media here on Thursday, later modified his claim to say “barring a few, a majority of the agitators were United Democratic Front (UDF) workers, some of whom were panchayat members.” ‘Not under PSC purview’ “Some of the protesters have also admitted that they were not rank holders as had been initially claimed. Besides, none of the posts to which workers were regularised came under the purview of the PSC. The public will see through such ploys,” he said. The Minister said the Industries Department too had decided to adopt the policy in the sector. According to him, the beneficiaries of the government decision were mostly workers who were employed by the previous UDF government. Some of the workers had been serving in various institutions for over 15 years. He blamed the previous UDF government for making appointments on contractual basis without proper guidelines which, he claimed, had now led to the current scenario. On the other hand, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government had removed the recruitment freeze that had existed when it came to power and ensured all vacancies were reported to the PSC. K. Elangovan, Principal Secretary, Industries, said investments to the tune of Rs. 15,000 crore by way of ASCEND Kerala 2020 were expected within the two years. While land has been identified for 100 of the 148 finalised projects, funding has been finalised for 62 projects. Detailed project reports were also ready for 82 projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/agitators-not-psc-rank-holders-says-minister/article33815751.ece
12 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Ensure flat complex complies with permit: K-RERA||The Kerala Real Estate Regulatory Authority (K-RERA) has directed a prominent builder in Thiruvananthapuram to ensure that a residential building complex constructed at Pattoor is in accordance with the “permit and plan and as per the promises/commitments given to the allottees”. The order issued by K-RERA chairman P.H. Kurian and member Preetha P. Menon came on a complaint filed by nine allottees of Artech Empire, a residential building constructed by Artech Realtors Pvt. Ltd. According to the complainants, the builder misled them about the floor area ratio (FAR), and encroached upon 60.9 cents — which constituted their undivided share — and the setbacks of the residential complex for constructing the Artech World shopping mall. The complainants sought the demolition of the mall. They also accused the builder of violating fire safety provisions, reducing the number of emergency exits from two to one, and failing to ensure proper water and electricity supply. ‘No violation’ On its part, Artech Realtors contended that there had been no violation in the implementation of the project. It informed K-RERA that construction was carried out strictly in conformity with the permit. However, the authority concluded that the promoter failed to hand over the project to the complainants as promised, thereby violating the provisions of the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act. It directed the builder to expedite pending cases related to the project. The authority has directed Artech Realtors Pvt. Ltd to submit a compliance report within two months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ensure-flat-complex-complies-with-permit-k-rera/article33816273.ece
12 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Active case pool on the decline||The State on Thursday reported 5,281 new cases of COVID-19 when 71,656 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, taking the cumulative case burden to 9,88,655. While 42,866 of these tests were rapid antigen assay, RT-PCR tests numbered 26,172. Other molecular diagnostic tests such as Truenat and CBNAAT constituted the remaining tests. The test positivity rate was 7.37%. The active case pool has been decreasing steadily after a good number of recoveries daily. With 5,692 patients reported to have recovered from their disease, the active case pool has dropped to 63,915 cases. The cumulative recoveries till date have risen to 9,20,539. On Thursday, 16 more deaths were added to the official list of fatalities, taking the toll ever since the pandemic began to 3,936. Alappuzha reported six deaths; Kottayam three; Ernakulam and Kannur two each; Kollam, Thrissur and Kozhikode reported one each. Official reports said the number of critically ill COVID-19 patients being treated in ICUs in various hospitals was 775, with 225 of them requiring ventilator support. Among districts, Pathanamthitta topped with the maximum number of new cases at 694, followed by Ernakulam 632, Kozhikode 614, Kollam 579, Malappuram 413, Kottayam 383, Thrissur 375, Alappuzha 342, Thiruvananthapuram 293, Kannur 251, Palakkad 227, Idukki 196, Wayanad 180 and Kasaragod 102.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/active-case-pool-on-the-decline/article33815757.ece
12 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Rights panel for speedy submission of chargesheets||The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has said that the police should not delay submission of chargesheet in cases where children are an accused. The commission comprising members Fr. Philip Parakkat and K. Nazeer said recently that in cases where adults too were an accused, if the trial got delayed till a chargesheet was submitted in court, the purpose of the investigation would be lost and this would be against the best interests of the child.   The commission said that under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, in cases involving children in conflict with law, the police had to submit the chargesheet to the juvenile justice board. It was the responsibility of the board to dispose of such cases within four months. This could be extended for a maximum of two months. If the child attained the age of 18 during the time the chargesheet got delayed, the order of the board would lose any relevance. Hence, the police should take timely steps to collect certified copies of documents from the courts concerned for submission of the chargesheet to the juvenile justice board. The State Police Chief should issue a circular asking all Station House Officers to follow the direction properly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/directive-on-cases-with-children-as-accused/article33815737.ece
12 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||A wrongful arrest inspired his debut film||Life changes irrevocably for 17-year-old Kosa, a tribal youth from Chhattisgarh, when he gets picked up by the police, mistaken for a Maoist. Through the story of this youth, inspired from a real incident, filmmaker Mohit Priyadarshi tells the larger story of Adivasis in the country’s heartland, who are caught in the crossfire between the establishment and the corporates on one side and the Maoists on the other. Mohit, a native of Bihar, thought of his debut feature Kosa during his days in the Film and Television Institute of India (FTII), after hearing about the incident of the wrongful arrest of a boy. It was perhaps a coincidence that one of the headlines in Indian newspapers, on the day the movie was screened at the International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK), was on a forensic report that seemed to say that evidence was remotely planted on the laptops of intellectuals and academicians accused in the Bhima Koregaon case. “The situation has been like this for the Adivasis for a long time, with their spaces being invaded and them being arrested on fabricated charges. Now, it has entered a more bizarre stage with the same method coming to the cities and to academic places. Branding everyone as ‘urban naxals’ is a method of clamping down on dissent. The whole idea is to create a climate of fear. When people are jailed for ten years without charge, they are silenced and nobody else would want to do even the basic things like working on the ground and helping and mobilising people,” says Mohit, in an interview to The Hindu .  Mohit and his crew, including two Keralites — editor Davis P. Manuel and Ananthakrishnan, one of the cinematographers — began the work on the ground in 2017. Since he wanted raw performances, he looked for non-professional actors. Kunal Bhange, who plays Kosa, was identified from a theatre group while Kareena Jagat and Mona Vaghmare, both from the Adivasi community in these regions, were also picked from other small-time theatre groups. Independent venture “I started with my own money and then requested people I know to pitch in, by showing them a short video on what the film was all about. I did not go to any producer because I thought no one should curtail my freedom. Our only concern was to just tell the truth, rather than releasing it,” he says. The film hints at the basic issue behind the conflict in the regions, when it touches upon the corporate plans for specific pieces of land, and the methods they employ to get the people at the various levels of the establishment on their side. The character of a small-town journalist, also inspired from a real-life character, shows the struggles of reporters in the hinterland.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-wrongful-arrest-inspired-his-debut-film/article33816272.ece
12 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||A rollercoaster ride down a never-ending spiral||When common elements appear in the successive works of a filmmaker, one can assume it to be a case of either the person having arrived at a distinctive style or a hangover of the previous film. In Lijo Jose Pellissery’s Churuli , premiered at the International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK) on Thursday, there is a little of both. Tone of a folk tale As we journey up the green, misty high ranges again, one gets a sense that Jallikkattu is beginning all over again, with all the sense of the timelessness of being caught inside the untamed wild, of entering a world where the laws of the land do not matter. Here, Pellissery sets the tone of a folk tale initially with an animation intro. Drawing on the short story Kaligeminaarile Kuttavaalikal by Vinoy Thomas, an exciting young writer in Malayalam, the film is almost its faithful adaptation for most parts, except for the phases where it slips into fantasy. Antony (Chemban Vinod Jose) and Shajeevan (Vinay Forrt), two police officers, are travelling in disguise to a remote village in the hills to nab an accused in a long-pending case. But once they cross a broken bridge, which is almost like a portal to this secret space, things do not turn out the way they intend to. Everything, from the behaviour and language of the seemingly gentle people seen outside the village to the geography, transforms once they cross this last connection to the outside world. Much of the action here is around a toddy shop, which also transforms into a makeshift church and into the centrepiece of a village fair. Air of foreboding The adapted screenplay by S. Hareesh keeps things taut in the initial parts, maintaining the element of mystery and an air of foreboding. The visual and sound design come together to evoke a sense of disorientation, which the character Shajeevan puts into words as “it seems I have been living here forever”, just a day after arriving there. It goes well with the basic idea of the film, of history repeating itself in cycles. But there are points at which this attempt at disorientation goes a little overboard, which could invite accusations of being pretentious. The pace and mood of the film are frenetic and raucous, with ribaldry being commonplace. But in creating this lawless land, one could also see the film’s viewpoint as the ‘civilised’ outsider’s judgemental eyes falling on this wild people, something that was there in Jallikattu too. The women here too are mostly side characters, except in a couple of scenes where they stand up to the men.  Churuli is a rollercoaster ride down a never-ending spiral, a ride that is exciting in parts and confounding in others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-rollercoaster-ride-down-a-never-ending-spiral/article33815753.ece
12 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SHRC orders probe by Crime Branch||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has directed that a case registered in connection with the disappearance of a young woman and her two-year-old daughter be handed over to the Crime Branch. Panel chairperson Antony Dominic issued the direction to District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram Rural). The case was registered by the Maranalloor police in 2011. The order comes on a complaint by Mahin Kannu of Poovar against the Poovar sub-inspector (SI). He alleged that when he appeared in front of the SI on Decembe 30, 2019, as per the provisions of anticipatory bail, he was physically and mentally abused inside the station and the police vehicle. The SI denied the allegation, and informed the panel that the complainant was in a relationship with the missing woman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shrc-orders-probe-by-crime-branch/article33816267.ece
12 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Demonstrations in capital turn violent||Several activists of the Bharatiya Janata Party and its feeder organisations were arrested during agitations in front of the Secretariat on Thursday in protest against the alleged back-door appointments made by the government. Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha, Mahila Morcha, and Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) workers were apprehended by the police during separate demonstrations held in solidarity with the Kerala Public Service Commission rank-holders who have been agitating for nearly three weeks. The demonstrations turned violent after the protesters attempted to jump over the barricade, prompting the police to use water cannons and hurl grenades at the protesters. The situation briefly appeared to worsen after a grenade shattered the rear windscreen of the car of a media outlet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/demonstrations-in-capital-turn-violent/article33816268.ece
12 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||18,000 front-line workers line up for vaccination||The capital district’s COVID-19 case graph dipped significantly to 4,437 on Thursday as 400 people recovered from the illness, even while 293 were diagnosed with the disease during the last 24 hours. Almost all of the new cases were attributed to local transmission of the infection. One health-care worker was among those who tested positive. The death toll has grown to 788, according to official statistics available as on Wednesday when four recent deaths were added to the tally. The deceased people were two women, aged 75 and 83 years, and two men, aged 55 and 80 years. The district administration placed 2,071 people in quarantine while an equal number of people were permitted to conclude quarantine after completing the mandated self-isolation period. There are currently 25,926 people who are quarantined at their homes and 58 in various institutions in the district.  Confidence booster  The vaccination drive has entered its second phase in the district with front-line workers, including the police, the Fire and Rescue Services, and Revenue and Local Self-Government Department officials brought under its ambit. As many as 42,000 health-care workers in the district have been administered the vaccine thus far. In a confidence-boosting measure, State Police Chief Loknath Behera and District Collector Navjot Khosa led the front-line workers lined up for vaccination at the General Hospital on Thursday. Emerging after receiving the vaccination, Mr. Behera told media persons that the confidence level of the police force was expected to increase with the progress of the vaccination drive as Assembly elections were round the corner. Dr. Khosa said 18,000 front-line workers had registered themselves on the dedicated portal for the vaccination. Additional Director General of Police, Headquarters, Manoj Abraham, and Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order, Traffic) Vaibhav Saxena were among those who took part in the drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/18000-front-line-workers-line-up-for-vaccination/article33816278.ece
12 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Show-cause notice to officer in job fraud case||Sanjaykumar Gurudin, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Thiruvananthapuram Range, issued a show-cause notice to former Neyyattinkara Inspector T. Sreekumaran Nair for allegedly failing to proceed with a job fraud case against solar scam-accused Saritha S. Nair. The case that pertained to two persons getting allegedly defrauded after the accused promised them employment had been investigated by Mr. Sreekumaran Nair, who was recently transferred to Pathanamthitta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/show-cause-notice-to-officer-in-job-fraud-case/article33816281.ece
12 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kudumbashree products via Supplyco outlets||Food products manufactured by Kudumbashree entrepreneurs will be sold through 500 Supplyco outlets in the State, Minister for Food and Civil Supplies P. Thilothaman has said. He was speaking after inaugurating a project for sale of Kudumbashree products through Supplyco on Thursday. There were over 1,600 Supplyco outlets in the State, and steps were under way to set up more, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashree-products-via-supplyco-outlets/article33816232.ece
12 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CM opens Rangakala Kendram||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurated on Thursday through videoconferencing Rangakala Kendram, an initiative of Vision Kerala Varkala Infrastructure Development Corporation, at Varkala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-opens-rangakala-kendram/article33816269.ece
12 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||K-TET exam in May||The K-TET exam 2021 will be held in May. The notification and time table will be issued later, an official release here said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/k-tet-exam-in-may/article33816274.ece
12 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State school PTA awards announced||The State school PTA awards for 2019-20 have been announced. The first prize (C.H.Mohammed Koya Smaraka Award) for the best PTA at the primary level goes to the Government Lower Primary School, Kodali, Thrissur. At the secondary level, the first prize goes to the Government Higher Secondary School, Payyoli, Kozhikode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-school-pta-awards-announced/article33815750.ece
12 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Tapan Rayaguru is CEO of KSUM||The government has appointed Tapan Rayaguru as Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM) for a period of three years. Mr. Rayaguru, an alumnus of IIM, Calcutta, and IIT, Kharagpur, has more than 25 years of global experience in the technology and analytics services industry leading client advocacy, execution, and grooming future leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tapan-rayaguru-is-ceo-of-ksum/article33815755.ece
12 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Coaching for MBA admission||The Kerala Institute of Cooperative Management is offering a two-week online coaching programme for students taking the K-MAT and C-MAT exams for admission to MBA course of 2021. The first 250 applicants will gain admission for the course, which is free of cost. For registration, visithttp://bit.ly/kmatmockregistrationor dial 8547618290.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/coaching-for-mba-admission/article33815756.ece
12 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Stir by builders’ forum today||The Builders Association of India, the largest association of builders, contractors and organisations in the building industry, has called for a nationwide strike on February 12 in protest against the ‘artificially hiked’ prices of cement, steel and other building materials. The other demand was the setting up of a price regulatory authority, Association State chairman P. Harikumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stir-by-builders-forum-today/article33816275.ece
12 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Renovated stadium inaugurated||Industries, Youth Affairs, and Sports Minister E.P. Jayarajan has said the government has spent Rs. 1,000 crore for sports development in the State. He was speaking after inaugurating the renovated stadium of the Government High School, Kattachakonam, in Nalanchira on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/renovated-stadium-inaugurated/article33816279.ece
12 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||O Rajagopal holds demonstration||O. Rajagopal, MLA, observed a dharna on Thursday to protest against the State government’s alleged discriminatory stance towards the Nemom Assembly constituency. BJP State president K. Surendran, who inaugurated the demonstration at Thirumala, accused the Left Democratic Front government of scuttling several development works at Nemom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/o-rajagopal-holds-demonstration/article33816280.ece
12 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KTDC’s Chaithram hotel rebranded||The Kerala Tourism Development Corporation’s Chaithram Hotel at Thampanoor has been renovated with state-of-the-art amenities and rebranded as Grand Chaithram. Grand Chaithram will have 88 rooms, a multi-cuisine restaurant, a beer and wine parlour, and round-the-clock WiFi. The hotel has been renovated at a cost of Rs. 9 crore, which includes a government grant of Rs. 7.2 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ktdcs-chaithram-hotel-rebranded/article33816283.ece
12 February 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Ramachandran to be back on festival grounds||The district administration has given conditional permission for parading the elephant Thechikkottukavu Ramachandran for festivals. The permission is for parading the elephant twice a week for festivals in Thrissur and Palakkad districts. Four mahouts should always accompany the elephant and a 5-m distance should be maintained between the animal and the public. A special elephant squad should be present. Earlier, an expert committee had examined the elephant’s health condition and given a report to the district administration. A ban was imposed on parading Ramachandran, which enjoys huge fan following, after the death of two persons after the elephant turned unruly near Guruvayur a few years ago. The majestic Ramachandran has a dubious record of killing 13 persons, including six mahouts, and three elephants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ramachandran-to-be-back-on-festival-grounds/article33816285.ece
12 February 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||375 test positive in Thrissur||A total of 375 COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Thursday while 373 people recovered from the disease. There are 4,384 active cases in the district and 102 persons from the district are undergoing treatment in hospitals in other districts. So far 92,411 COVID-19 cases have been reported from the district and 87,405 people have recovered. According to official statistics, 372 people, including one health worker, contracted the disease through local contact on Thursday. Of them, 57 people are above the age of 60 and 20 are children below the age of 10. In all, 3,101 people are under home care and 110 persons were admitted to the hospital on Thursday. A total of 7,504 samples were collected on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/375-test-positive-in-thrissur/article33816231.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Laurel for collective effort||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/laurel-for-collective-effort/article33815741.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Art of protest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/art-of-protest/article33815762.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Tailors’ protest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tailors-protest/article33815768.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Heritage on show||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/heritage-on-show/article33816287.ece
12 February 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man bludgeoned to death, dumped in canal||The body of an unidentified middle aged man was found dumped in the Tungabhadra High Level Canal at Unthakallu village in Bommanahal mandal of the district on Thursday. It was initially suspected to be a case of human sacrifice, with the presence of a lemon in the vicinity. As the night preceding new moon day is generally believed to be suitable for such superstitious practices, there were rumours that the person might have been “sacrificed” and thrown into the canal. However, the police stated it to be a case of murder, as the victim was found bludgeoned to death and the body partly burnt to destroy his identity. Previous instances of human sacrifice cases typically had painting of weird images and hack injuries on the body, which the police could not find in this case. According to Rayadug police, a case has been booked under Section 302 (murder).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-bludgeoned-to-death-dumped-in-canal/article33815512.ece
12 February 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector asks officials to ensure webcasting in sensitive panchayats||District Collector and District Election Authority Vivek Yadav has instructed mandal revenue officers, mandal development officers and election personnel to ensure that the second phase of gram panchayat elections being held in Narsaraopet division are held in a free, fair, transparent and peaceful manner. Elections in the faction-ridden Palnadu region have always been challenging. Mr. Yadav, who reviewed the election preparedness at a meeting held at Narasaraopet along with Superintendent of Police, Guntur Rural, Vishal Gunni, Sub Collector Srivas Nupur, directed the MROs and MPDOs to extend their cooperation to election officers discharging their duties in voting, counting of ballot papers, etc,. The Collector asked the revenue officials to arrange maximum number of tables in the counting halls. “Ensure that the counting of votes starts soon after the voting is over and ensure that the counting of votes is over by 9 p.m. Ensure that the polling officers and assistant polling officers are trained again in mock counting of votes and ensure that training classes are held again before the day of polling. We have already appointed a district level officer for every two mandals to monitor elections,” the Collector said. He directed the revenue personnel to ensure that webcasting was done at sensitive and most-sensitive areas. Mr. Gunni said a strong police bandobust had been arranged and barricading was complete at polling booths. Later, the Collector accompanied by the Mr. Gunni and Ms. Nupur inspected the election arrangements at Lingamguntla village, Rompicharla mandal and Nakerikallu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collector-asks-officials-to-ensure-webcasting-in-sensitive-panchayats/article33815508.ece
12 February 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Red sanders ‘smuggler’ booked under PD Act||The Kadapa district administration has slapped P.D. Act on ‘notorious inter-State red sanders smuggler’ Shaik Mastan alias Babu (39), who is wanted in several cases of smuggling and murder in Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. Mastan, son of Khadar Basha and a resident of Isukapalli village in Railway Kodur mandal, has reportedly been involved in smuggling for the last three years and there are 10 cases against him since 2018 in Kadapa district, apart from two cases of murder, a murder attempt case and a theft case. He had developed contacts with several international smugglers and was actively involved in roping in workers from Tami Nadu for tree felling assignments in Guvvalacheruvu ghat, Veeraballi and Sundupalli forest areas. He used to neatly chop them as logs and transport the same to the neighbouring States for a premium price. Based on a proposal from the Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan, the district Collector Ch. Hari Kiran issued orders to book him under the P.D. Act late on Wednesday. The order copy was presented to the authorities of the Kadapa central prison, where Mastan is currently lodged after his recent arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/red-sanders-smuggler-booked-under-pd-act/article33815433.ece
12 February 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Reinstallation of TU-142 aircraft commences on Kakinada beach||The Andhra Pradesh Urban Infrastructure Asset Management Limited (APUIAM) has commenced the reinstallation of the decommissioned aircraft TU-142 M on the three-acre campus proposed to develop an aircraft museum on the Kakinada beach in East Godavari district. Decommissioned aircraft The Godavari Urban Development Authority (GUDA) is developing the museum which would display one of the three decommissioned TU-142 aircraft. The two other TU-142 aircraft are being displayed at the aircraft museums in Kolkata and Visakhapatnam. “Several parts of the TU-142 aircraft have arrived in Kakinada by road from the INS Rajali Naval Air Station in Tamil Nadu. The reinstalling exercise has already commenced. It is expected to be completed within a week,” said APUIAM senior manager Chetan Yarlagadda on Thursday. The refurbishment and renovation works are targeted to be completed by the March-end, he said, adding that a team of experts from Tamil Nadu-based Taneja Aerospace and Aviation Limited (TAAL) are reinstalling the aircraft, he added. The TAAL experts have set up the aircraft museums in Kolkata and Visakhapatnam. The museum project at Kakinada was delayed due to lockdown induced by coronavirus pandemic. On Thursday, GUDA Vice-Chairman A. Raveendranath and the APUIAM team held talks on the feasibility of completing the project within a few weeks. According to GUDA authorities, the length of the TU-142 aircraft is 53 metres and width is 50 metres. The height of the 100-tonne weight aircraft is 12 metres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/reinstallation-of-tu-142-aircraft-commences-on-kakinada-beach/article33816215.ece
12 February 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three held for stealing ballot papers||Three persons have been arrested for allegedly stealing 47 ballot papers during the counting of votes of Kandarada gram panchayat in Pithapuram mandal of East Godavari district. On the midnight of February 9, a group reportedly gained entry into the counting centre at ZP High School in Kandarada village and allegedly stole 47 ballot papers from the ballot boxes, leading to suspension of the election. On Wednesday, East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy issued orders to conduct repolling on February 13 based on the directions from the State Election Commission. More arrests likely In an official release issued on Wednesday night by East Godavari Superintendent of Police Adnan Nayeem Asmi, police arrested three persons — Vakapalli Suribabu, Sytana Varaprasad and Vasamsetty Sudhakar belonging to the same gram panchayat — in the case. “The trio has been arrested and produced before a local court on Wednesday. Cases have been registered under IPC Section 120B, 188, 452, 353, 506, and 171-C. The investigation is on to nab some more locals who were involved in the case,” said Mr. Asmi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-held-for-stealing-ballot-papers-in-east-godavari-dist/article33816249.ece
12 February 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two postgraduates among new Nellore sarpanches||Two post-graduates were elected sarpanches in the Kavali revenue division of Nellore district in the first phase of panchayat elections held on February 9. K. Prasanthi, a post-graduate in computer application, was chosen as the sarpanch of Gatlupalli village. She is the highest qualified among the women sarpanches elected during the first phase of the elections held in 138 villages in Kavali revenue division, an official release said here on Thursday. P. Rajendra, who has completed his masters in business administration, was elected sarpanch of Chintapalem panchayat. T. Susheela was elected sarpanch with a single vote margin in her maiden election in the newly-formed Pamurupalle panchayat, while P. Ranjith Kumar won the sarpanch post with a maximum margin of 2,014 in Isakapalli. Among the women who were elected for the sarpanch posts, R. Divya from Kaligiri was elected with the highest margin of 823 votes. The oldest among the newly-elected sarpanches is 73-year-old Y.Ankamma from Kommi village in Kondapuram mandal. Upa-sarpanch posts The scheduled election for the post of upa-sarpanch could not be held in 21 panchayats in the district owing to the lack of quorum. The elections would be held on a later date, which will be decided by the State Election Commission, the release said.  Second phase Meanwhile, arrangements were swiftly being made for the second phase of elections to be held in 10 mandals of Atmakur revenue division for 158 Sarpanch and 999 ward member seats on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-postgraduates-among-new-sarpanches-in-nellore/article33816208.ece
12 February 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two killed as RTC bus hits bike||Two persons were killed and another sustained injuries when the motorcycle they were riding was hit by an APSRTC bus on the arterial Chennai-Kolkata highway at Gudur in Nellore district on Thursday. The victims were triple riding on the wrong side of the highway and they were nor wearing helmets. Two of the victims were going to Naidupeta, the police said. The driver of the bus that was going from Tirupati to Nellore could not notice the bike coming on the wrong side of the six-lane highway leading to the mishap, said Gudur (Rural) Sub-Inspector G.Pulla Rao. M.Venkateswara Reddy (45), a native of Giddalur of Prakasam district, died on the spot, while his friend Md. Sharief succumbed to his injuries while undergoing treatment in a private hospital in Nellore. The third victim, Suresh, was admitted to another private hospital in Nellore. His condition is critical, the SI said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-killed-as-rtc-bus-hits-bike/article33815509.ece
12 February 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anti trafficking units sought in all districts||Vimukti, an organisation set up by the victims of human trafficking, has demanded the State government to expedite the setting up of Anti-Human Trafficking Units (AHTUs) to check the menace. The setting up of AHTUs in all districts is of utmost importance, said the representatives of ‘Vimukti’ on Thursday. AHTU, an integrated task force, was set up in 2007 by drawing personnel from the police and other related departments, with the funding by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs. However, their expansion to the district level has not done to the desired level, said Vimukti State convenor Mehurinasa.  Luring gullible girls The three AHTUs set up in the State are yet to be notified at a time when the cases of girls getting trapped is increasing. Traffickers lure gullible girls with on the pretext of job, marriage and etc., said Vimukti State co-convenor Bhanupriya.’ “More than 92% of the trafficking victims are either women or children. There is an urgent need for plugging the loopholes in the existing laws as the perpetrators of heinous crimes go scot-free on many occasions,” she said, adding that more focus is needed on community-based rehabilitation of victims rather than institution-based rehabilitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anti-human-trafficking-units-sought-in-all-districts/article33816207.ece
12 February 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||SHOs should ensure fair elections: Srikakulam SP||Srikakulam Superintendent of Police Amit Bardar on Thursday asked Station House officers concerned to book bindover cases on rowdy-sheeters and troublemakers in panchayat elections. He visited sensitive villages including Kanugulavalasa, Korlakota of Amadalavalasa mandal, Narasannapeta and Polaki mandal headquarters to study the ground-level situation. He suggested Circle Inspectors and Sub-Inspectors to ensure free and fair election and also see to it that stern action is taken against people who violate law and order at the polling booths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/shos-should-ensure-fair-elections-srikakulam-sp/article33816251.ece
12 February 2021||TIRUMALA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Profits elusive for many TTD kalyana mandapams||Indiscriminate construction of kalyana mandapams, coupled with poor maintenance and low occupancy rate, have become a major cause of concern to the TTD, which of late, is finding it hard to bring them on the path of profit. Despite introducing several initiatives, the management, much to its dismay, has found a majority of them to be still reeling under huge losses. The TTD has 299 kalyana mandapams in various parts of the State as well as in the neighbouring States. While 212 of them exist in the State, Telangana has (77) followed by Karnataka (5) Tamil Nadu (3) and one each in Kerala and Odisha. The kalyana mandapams, particularly those constructed in various municipal towns, mandal headquarters/villages, have been registering losses ever since their inception, while those located in district headquarters and corporations have posted a meagre profits. The TTD has constructed 35 kalyana mandapams at various district headquarters/ municipal corporations, 65 in municipal towns and the rest 199 in mandal/villages. The most interesting factor is that a majority of them have been constructed at the behest of public representatives of the successive governments with no respect for the public money. While the kalyana mandapams existing in mandals/villages have registered a combined loss of Rs. 361.73 lakh in the year 2017-18 and Rs. 329.00 lakh in 2018-19, those in municipalities recorded a loss of Rs. 69.49 lakh and Rs. 50.51 lakh during the same period. Perturbed at the perennial losses, the TTD at one stage handed over some of the buildings to the State-run endowment temples and private agencies but soon realised the move not encouraging as the buildings continued to reel under poor maintenance fraught with repairs. Panel recommendation The works committee recommended entrusting management of the buildings to qualified private agencies for a certain period of time, empowering them to fix service charges. However, the TTD is yet to arrive at a final decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/profits-elusive-for-many-ttd-kalyana-mandapams/article33816228.ece
12 February 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD releases 25,000 tickets online for Ratha Sapthami||The TTD on Thursday released online quota of 25,000 special entry darshan tickets (Rs. 300 each) for the Ratha Sapthami festival on February 19. The TTD which had already released the online quota for the entire month of February a couple of weeks back, however, had kept the tickets pertaining to February 19 on hold as the festival usually draws tens of thousands of devotees every year, and it was yet to take a decision on limiting the crowd due to COVID threat. It resolved to enhance the daily quota of online tickets by 5,000. At present, about 20,000 tickets are being issued to devotees on a daily basis. The additional quota for the rest of the days in the month will also be made available online from today. The decision comes in the wake of further relaxation of unlock restrictions by the Central government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-releases-25000-tickets-online-for-ratha-sapthami/article33815432.ece
12 February 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chinta slams Sharmila over ‘Rajanna Rajyam’||Congress Working Committee (CWC) member and former Union Minister P. Chinta Mohan lampooned Y.S. Sharmila, who recently announced that she would foray into the Telangana political arena, for invoking the phrase ‘Rajanna Rajyam’, while referring to the ‘golden rule’ during the Chief Ministerial tenure of her father Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy. “The party high command had offered the posts of Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) president and Chief Minister of undivided Andhra Pradesh to Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy twice. However, he had built his image at the cost of the Congress which nurtured him. And this eventually led to its collapse of the party in the State,” said Mr. Chinta Mohan. He also accused YSR of disrupting the political career of his fellow Congressmen such as M.V. Mysoora Reddy, J.C. Diwakar Reddy, Kasu Krishna Reddy and Kotla Suryaprakash Reddy. ‘Schemes hijacked’ Mr. Chinta Mohan also said that welfare schemes such as farm loan waiver, free power, housing for all and Aarogyasri were introduced by the Congress government after all. “However, all such schemes were projected as YSR’s pet projects and later hijacked by the YSR Congress Party,” he said.  Mr. Chinta Mohan also alleged that the RSS and the BJP were trying to wield control over the TTD management.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chinta-lampoons-sharmila-over-rajanna-rajyam/article33815511.ece
12 February 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Melkote pontiffs lauds ORI for preserving manuscripts||Melkote pontiff Sri Dhanurdasa Ramanuja Jeeyar expressed satisfaction over the manner in which ancient palm leaf manuscripts are preserved at the Oriental Research Institute (ORI) on the Sri Venkateswara University campus here. The seer, who was on a pilgrimage to Tirupati along with his fellow pontiff Sri Munivahana Ramanuja Jeeyar, visited the ORI on Thursday. They browsed through the palm leaf manuscripts on ‘Valmiki Ramayana’ and Sanskrit works such as ‘Tattva Sangraha Ramayana’, ‘Jyotisha Ratnakaram’, the micro scripture of Vruddagiri Puranam (Tamil) and Telugu works such as ‘Amuktamalyada’, ‘Panchakshari Mahatmyam’ and ‘Kedareswara Katha’. ORI Director T. Surendra Reddy showed the seers some rare texts and explained their significance. The seers evinced interest in the seven printed editions of ‘Sribhashyam’, ‘Visishtadwaita Vaijayanti’ and ‘Nyaya Purusha’.  Dr. Reddy explained the process of digitalisation of the manuscripts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/melkote-pontiffs-lauds-ori-for-preserving-manuscripts/article33816211.ece
12 February 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Couple found dead under suspicious circumstances||A couple was found dead under mysterious circumstances in Pakala town of Chittoor district on Thursday. S. Samiya (30) and her husband, S. Althaf Hussain (32), were found dead in the bathroom of their house in Bharatham Mitta locality of the town. Samiya was working as Grameena Mahila Samakhya Karyadarsi (woman police) in the K. Oddepalli village secretariat, while Hussain, employed with a software company in Bengaluru, was operating from Pakala under work from home mode. As Samiya did not report to duty on Wednesday, the panchayat secretariat members visited her residence on Thursday. When their continued knocks on the door failed to evoke any response, her colleagues peeped through the window and found the two bodies lying on the bathroom floor, the Pakala police said. The police suspect that the couple could have died due to electrocution, but do not rule out the suicide angle. The police sent the bodies for post-mortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/couple-found-dead-in-pakala/article33816209.ece
12 February 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Saptagiri Bank ties up with insurance company||In an attempt to provide better services to its customers, the Saptagiri Grameena Bank has forged a tie-up with Universal Sompo General Insurance Company to facilitate bancassurance, a segment that deals with the sale of life assurance and other insurance products by banking institutions. The bank, which serves individuals and small and micro enterprises in Chittoor and Krishna districts through its 223 branches, believes that the tie-up would benefit its customers in the form of comprehensive insurance cover. The Universal Sompo has footprints with 86 branch offices in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/saptagiri-bank-ties-up-with-insurance-company/article33815513.ece
12 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Builders seek regulatory body for steel, cement sectors||The Joint Action Committee (JAC) of BAI, CREDAI, NAREDCO, SABCA and Workers’ Associations will stage a protest near Metropolitan Hotel here on Friday, demanding that the State and Central governments take necessary steps to establish a regulatory authority for steel and cement sectors. Addressing a press conference here on Thursday, JAC representatives said that constituting a cement regulatory authority for the sector would curb cartelisation and ‘undue profiteering’ by manufacturers. Similarly, authority for the steel sector was necessary to keep a tab on irrational hike in prices. The steel and cement companies had cartelised pushing the construction industry into doldrums, they said. The JAC leaders said a regulatory authority would prevent manufacturers from indulging in unethical trade practices which had been causing irreparable damage to the growth and hurting the interests of the construction industry. The steep rise in steel and cement prices had hit the industry below the belt. Resultantly, the construction costs had gone up phenomenally. Bank loan instalments were overdue for those who had taken a bank loan. An increase in the rate of interest had also created a financial burden on the builders, they said, adding a protest is being organised to highlight these issues. Builders Association of India (BAI) State chairman D. Pankaj Reddy, CREDAI AP chapter president R.V. Swamy, Y.V. Ramana Rao (CREDAI), National Realestate Development Council (NAREDCO) Vijayawada General Secretary Vamsi Krishna Vasireddy, Siva Kumar,GS Prasad and MRT Prasad of State of Andhra Pradesh Building Contractors Association (SABCA), and others spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/builders-seek-regulatory-body-for-steel-cement-sectors/article33815515.ece
12 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM: tap revenue sources for implementing Navaratnalu||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has directed the officials to focus on expanding the revenue sources of the State for implementing Navaratnalu and other welfare schemes promised in the YSRCP manifesto. During a review meeting on Thursday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy called for focus on high revenue yielding mining activities and ordered that works related to silica sand mining be expedited. Also, he insisted that priority be given to speeding up the works in the coal mines at Bramhadiha block in Jharkhand, Suliyari in Madhya Pradesh and Madanpur in Chhattisgarh acquired by the A.P. Mineral Development Corporation. Red sanders stock Further, the Chief Minister directed the Forest Department officials to obtain permission from the Central government as soon as possible for selling the red sanders stocks. While striving to generate more revenues, people should not be burdened, the Chief Minister told the officials.  While striving to find ways to generate more revenues for welfare schemes, care has to be taken to ensure that people are not burdened Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-tap-revenue-sources-for-implementing-navaratnalu/article33816222.ece
12 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Withdraw false cases against contestants: Naidu||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has requested the State Election Commission (SEC) to conduct an inquiry and initiate stringent action against the police officers who allegedly threatened the candidates contesting the gram panchayat elections. In a letter on Thursday, Mr. Naidu urged the SEC to withdraw all “false and illegal cases” filed against the candidates, TDP leaders and others. Mr. Naidu further demanded that security be provided with the Special Protection Force to ensure free and fair elections in Vinukonda mandal and Macherla Assembly segment. A section of the police was playing a demeaning role in the ongoing elections by vitiating peace, and law and order, he alleged. “The police officers have issued threats to contestants at villages in Vinukonda mandal. They have also prevented aspirants from filing their nominations in the Macherla Assembly segment in order to ensure the unanimous election of the YSRCP-backed candidates,” Mr. Naidu alleged in his letter, and sought immediate action by the SEC.  A section of the police is playing a demeaning role in the ongoing elections by vitiating peace, and law and order N. Chandrababu Naidu TDP national president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/withdraw-false-cases-against-contestants-naidu/article33816148.ece
12 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Call to make cities resilient||There is a need to bring in the component of resilience when we design buildings, said Prof. Louise Rice from the University of West England, Bristol, here on Thursday. He was delivering the key-note address at an international conference on “Resilient and liveable city planning”, a four-day event organised by the Department of Planning in the School of Planning and Architecture (SPA), Vijayawada. Prof. Rice said as professionals, architects need to change their strategies and cited examples of the shift in perspective in the western countries. In the inaugural session on Wednesday, key-note speaker Piyush Tiwari from University of Melbourne, emphasised the emerging role of FinTech and Blockchain technologies in the restructuring of real estate sector towards its ongoing consolidation in post-pandemic contexts. Markus Schwai from Norwegian University of Science and Technology spoke about the need to engage with local communities in building resilient and liveable city spaces and showcased project examples from Bosnia and Norway. President of the Council of Architecture, New Delhi, Khan Habeeb Ahmed said through designing spaces and built form architects and planners could influence social conditions. An architect of international repute from Goa Dean Gabrel D’Cruz stressed on participatory and ecologically sensitive approaches to city planning . Convener Adinarayana R. said making cities more liveable was key to achieving long term sustainability and economic competitiveness in the rapidly growing urban and metropolitan regions. Director, SPA-V, Minakshi Jain called for a holistic approach while planning large-scale multi-functional open and green spaces within the cities. “A fundamental change is required in how we think about economics to reverse biodiversity loss and protect and enhance our quality of life,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/call-to-make-cities-resilient/article33816317.ece
12 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P. tops in cocoa production, thanks to tech support||What started with a modest cultivation in 1990s has transformed Andhra Pradesh into a leading producer of cocoa in the country now. The State’s cocoa production stood at 10,903 metric tonnes (MT) during 2020-21 as against the total production of 27,072 MT in the country. Identifying its potential, the State government has been promoting cocoa cultivation in a big way. Cocoa is being promoted as an intercrop in the State and the awareness about its profitability has been rising among coconut and palm farmers. With improved technology and higher yields, the cross cultivation between coconut, arecanut and other palms has resulted in an increased profitability for farmers and popularity for the programme, say officials. Cocoa is grown primarily as an intercrop in Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Kerala as the tree requires 40 to 50% shade. Coconut, arecanut, oil palm and rubber plantations are suited for an intercrop. The total area under cultivation in the four southern States at the end of 2005-06 was 29,471 hectares. It rose to 99,004 hectares by 2020-21. Of this, Andhra Pradesh’s share was 11,830 in 2005-06 and 37,488 hectare in 2020-21, they say. Success stories Horticulture Commissioner Chiranjeev Choudhary says that cultivating cocoa as an intercrop with coconut and oil palm is very lucrative. Cocoa farmers like M. Srimannarayana Raju of Velagaduru village and S. Gopala Krishna of Kuchimpudi village in West Godavari district are scripting success stories. The yield has increased up to 1,400 kg per hectare from a mere 750 kg due to adoption of technology. The net income per hectare has increased up to Rs. 1.90 lakh from Rs. 90,000, he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-tops-in-cocoa-production-thanks-to-tech-support/article33816213.ece
12 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Feb. 18 last date for senior Inter exam fee payment||The Board of Intermediate Education (BIE) has notified that the last date for payment of examination fee for students for the second year Intermediate Public Examinations, scheduled in March, is February 18. The college principals should ensure online transfer of the fee amount to the BIE account on February 19 and on February 20, the MNRs and the fee paid data printout should be submitted in the RIO office. In a statement on Thursday, the Board Secretary V. Ramakrishna said these dates are applicable to both General and Vocational category students, previously failed students, attendance exempted candidates for Humanities only (without college study) and the candidates who wish to appear for IPE, March 2021 with change of group. He said there would be no further extension of date for paying of examination fee and there is also a provision to pay the fee directly online from the BIE website bie.ap.gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/feb-18-last-date-for-inter-exam-fee-payment/article33816229.ece
12 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI supports farmers’ ‘rail roko’ on Feb. 18||The CPI has extended its support to the ‘rail roko’ called by the farmers’ associations on February 18 in protest against the new farm Acts enacted by the Central government. Addressing the media here on Thursday, CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna said party workers and leaders would participate in the protest planned from 12 noon to 4 p.m. across the country. The farmers’ associations had announced the four-hour blockade as part of their plans to intensify the agitation. “The CPI will support the farmers’ demand for repeal of the Acts, which are against their interests,” Mr. Ramakrishna said. VSP row Referring to the Union government’s plan to privatise the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, Mr. Ramakrishna demanded that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy call for an all-party meeting to discuss issue. He also requested the Chief Minister to discuss the issue with the trade unions before meeting the Prime Minister. Referring to the ward and village volunteers’ demand for hike in their “salary,” the CPI leader objected to Minister Botcha Satyanarayana’s remark that the volunteers were being paid “honorarium” and not “salary.” “Public representatives too receive honorarium. Why are they being paid lakhs of rupees,” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpi-supports-farmers-rail-roko-on-feb-18/article33816147.ece
12 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State reports 87 new COVID cases||The State reported 87 new COVID-19 infections in the 24 hours ending Thursday morning. No death was reported during the period. This is the fourth time that there have been no deaths due to the virus this month. The tally increased to 8,88,692 and the toll remained at 7,161. As many as 79 patients recovered during the period, taking the total number of recoveries to 8,80,678. The recovery rate remained at 99.10%. The number of active cases slightly increased to 853. In the last 24 hours, 30,527 samples were tested with a positivity rate of 0.28%. So far, 1.345 crore samples with 6.61% positivity rate were tested. Three districts reported new infections in double digits. They included Visakhapatnam (18), Chittoor (12) and West Godavari (12). They were followed by Kadapa, Krishna and Nellore (6 each), East Godavari and Kurnool (5 each), Guntur, Prakasam and Srikakulam (4 each), Anantapur (3), and Vizianagaram (2). The overall district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,24,345), West Godavari (94,271), Chittoor (87,182), Guntur (75,595), Anantapur (67,683), Nellore (62,380), Prakasam (62,192), Kurnool (60,844), Visakhapatnam (59,898), Kadapa (55,304), Krishna (48,799), Srikakulam (46,156) and Vizianagaram (41,148).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-reports-87-new-covid-cases/article33816313.ece
12 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana Governor meets Harichandan||Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Thursday met her Andhra Pradesh counterpart Biswa Bhusan Harichandan in Hyderabad where he is recuperating after undergoing an eye surgery. Ms. Soundararajan wished him speedy recovery. Mr. Harichandan underwent an eye surgery on Tuesday morning and has been advised rest till Friday. He is scheduled to return Vijayawada on Saturday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telangana-governor-meets-harichandan/article33816316.ece
12 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Teach YSRCP a fitting lesson in panchayat polls’||The Telugu Rythu State president Marreddy Srinivasa Reddy has appealed to the voters to teach a lesson to the YSRCP in the panchayat elections for its “20 months of misrule.” Addressing the media on Thursday, Mr. Reddy alleged the government had destroyed the future of Andhra Pradesh, attacked constitutional institutions and left the construction workers in the lurch. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had failed to fulfil his promise to make sand available in just one hour. “A Union Minister had told Parliament that lack of supply of sand stopped works at AIIMS, Mangalagiri. This shows the severity of the crisis,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/teach-ysrcp-a-fitting-lesson-in-panchayat-polls/article33816217.ece
12 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth suffers burns while taking selfie on train||A teenager sustained severe burn injuries following an accident while taking a selfie on a train at Jaggaiapeta in the district on Thursday. According to the information, Ramu, an Intermediate student of Mangollu village came to the railway tracks for a photoshoot along with friends. Ramu reportedly climbed a goods train and tried to capture a selfie during which he came in contact with live high tension electric wire. He was rushed to hospital by locals and railway staff and is undergoing treatment in Government General Hospital in Vijayawada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youth-suffers-burns-while-taking-selfie-on-train/article33816314.ece
12 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||LAWCET-2020 admission schedule released||The Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) on Thursday released the details of the Andhra Pradesh LAWCET-2020 admission schedule. Candidates seeking admission in LLB / LLM courses should register their names from February 16 to 18, the verification of certificates and exercising of options will also be from February 16 to 18. Allotment of seats will be made on February 20 and the candidates will have to report at the colleges on February 22 and 23, according to a statement released by the APSCHE Vice-Chairman K. Rama Mohan Rao, who is also the Convener of Andhra Pradesh LAWCET-2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lawcet-2020-admission-schedule-released/article33816219.ece
12 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Elections for filling two MLC seats on March 14||Elections for filling two vacancies in the Andhra Pradesh Legislative Council will be conducted on March 14, as per the schedule announced by the Election Commission of India. The elections are necessitated as the tenures of TDP Teachers’ Constituency MLCs A.S. Ramakrishna (Krishna - Guntur) and Ramu Surya Rao (East & West Godavari) will come to an end on March 29. Notification for the elections will be issued on February 16 and nominations have to be filed by February 23. Scrutiny of nominations will be done on February 24, and February 26 is the last date for withdrawing the nominations. Polling will be conducted from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. on March 14. Counting of votes is scheduled for March 17, and the elections will be completed by March 22. The Model Code of Conduct will come into immediate effect in the constituencies concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/elections-for-filling-two-mlc-seats-on-march-14/article33816220.ece
12 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||IIIT student ends life||A 17-year-old student pursuing second year of the six-year integrated undergraduate programme at IIIT Nuzivd allegedly ended his life by hanging in his room on Thursday. According to Nuzvid police, Tirupathi Paramesh, a native of Vizianagaram district, was found hanging in the afternoon by other students. The police, who inspected the spot upon receiving information, rushed Paramesh to nearby hospital where he was pronounced dead. Police are yet to arrive at a conclusion about the cause behind the extreme step taken by Paramesh. His parents were informed about the incident and body will be handed over after post-mortem. Police booked a case under section 174 of Cr.P.C. and took up investigation. Those in distress can seek help by dialling 100.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/iiit-student-ends-life/article33815487.ece
12 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman duped over ‘COVID vaccine’||A woman was allegedly duped by a fraudster in Malakkapatnam of Machilipatnam in the district in the pretext of administering COVID vaccine. The incident which took place on Tuesday came to light on Thursday after police teams inspected the woman’s house for clues. According to Chilakapaludu police, V. Kusuma, 55, told police that a man approached her in the guise of a government health worker and offered to administer COVID vaccine when she was alone at home. After the accused administered some injection, the woman fell unconscious and the former went around the house scouting for gold and other valuables. Upon finding no valuables, the accused left the house, according to the woman's complaint. Based on the complaint, police are looking to CCTV footage and other clues at the woman’s house to trace the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-duped-over-covid-vaccine-in-machilipatnam/article33815507.ece
12 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Tribal Affairs Ministry released Rs. 95 cr. since 2016’||Union Tribal Affairs Minister Arjun Munda has informed Rajya Sabha that as per the information provided by the Government of Andhra Pradesh, 59 Hostels / Ashram Schools had been sanctioned to the State between 2002-03 and 2015-2016, and all of them were completed. Replying to a question by YSRCP member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy, he said that as per the State government’s policy, all hostels had been converted into Ashram Schools with hostel facility in the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) areas and residential schools in the plain areas. Accordingly, the demand for independent hostels reduced, which in turn led to lesser allocation, the Minister said. EMR schools  Further, funds allocated to the State were also utilised for construction of Eklavya Model Residential Schools (EMRS). The Ministry of Tribal Affairs had released Rs. 95 crore towards providing infrastructure in the educational institutions between 2016-17 and 2020-21, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tribal-affairs-ministry-released-rs-95-cr-since-2016/article33816218.ece
12 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District gearing up for second phase of polls||With the second phase of gram panchayat elections coming up, Collector V. Vinay Chand on Thursday organised a video-conference with officials regarding arrangements for the polls scheduled to be held on February 13, at Narsipatnam revenue division. The Collector asked officials to coordinate with various departments and conduct the elections peacefully. He said that mandal special officers, tahsildars and Mandal Parishad Development Officers (MPDOs) should discharge their election duties properly. The election material should be distributed right from 7 a.m. on Friday, he said, and asked the officials to ensure all basic amenities at the polling centres. Meanwhile, N. Mourya, Sub-Collector of Narsipatnam and Deputy District Election Authority, Narsipatnam, inspected the distribution centre at Nathavaram mandal on Thursday. Enquiring about the elaborate arrangements being made for the panchayat elections scheduled on Saturday, Ms. Mourya appealed to the public to come forward and cast their vote freely without any worry. She said that 581 sarpanch candidates are going to elections in 239 gram panchayats in 10 mandals of Narsipatnam revenue division. Similarly, 4,641 candidates are going for elections to 2,184 ward member posts. The poll will be held from 6.30 a.m. to 3.30 p.m. The counting would start from 4 p.m. the same day, she said. The Sub-Collector also said that out of total 261 gram panchayats, 22 were unanimously elected. Among the 261 gram panchayats, as many as 80 are sensitive, 88 are extremely hypersensitive and 86 are normal. As many as 89 micro-observers, 95 returning officers, 95 assistant returning officers were appointed for the polls, she said. Security arrangements “We have instructed liquor shops to remain closed from February 11 to 14. Police bandobust will be arranged at all the polling booths. A special control room with contact numbers 7731803255, 8465013255 has been arranged at the Sub-Collector’s office,” she added. Nearly 1,800 police personnel including three Deputy Superintendents of Police (DSP), 10 Circle Inspectors, 103 Sub-Inspectors, 272 ASI/Head Constables, 781 police constables, 284 home guards and other police personnel are being deployed for the peaceful conduct of the second phase of GP elections on Saturday, said Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao. He took part in a coordination meet ahead of the polls at Narsipatnam on Thursday. ‘Remain alert’ He instructed the police personnel to be alert right from the morning till the end of counting, and keep a close eye on other procedures and ensure that no untoward incidents are reported in the revenue division. The SP asked police personnel to make sure crowds do not gather within a radius of 100 m from the polling centre. He also reiterated to the police to treat voters, especially elderly persons and women, with respect and to ensure queues are maintained. “Keep a list of senior police officials handy and alert them immediately in case you come across any suspicious activity,” he told the staff. Narsipatnam Assistant Superintendent of Police Tuhin Sinha and other police officials were present at the meeting.  We have instructed liquor shops to remain closed from February 11 to 14. Police bandobust will be arranged at all the polling booths N. Mourya Sub-Collector||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/visakhapatnam-gearing-up-for-2nd-phase-polls/article33816257.ece
12 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||RSEA opposes move to privatise steel plant||The Retired Steel Executives’ Association (RSEA) staged a protest at the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant on Thursday demanding that the plant be kept in the public sector. They raised slogans against the proposal of the Centre to privatise the plant. Those who participated in the dharna include former ED (MM) S.N. Rao, former company secretary K.M.A. Narayana Swamy, former general managers Murali Mohan and E.M.S. Sastry, AITUC State leader Obulesu and K. Peddiraju. In a letter to the Prime Minister, RSEA president Maturi Srinivasa Rao and secretary Dadi Siva Ramu recalled the sacrifices made by the people of Andhra Pradesh for the establishment of the steel plant. After a lot of teething troubles, the plant had stabilised and it had started its production in 1991. The steel plant had gone through difficult phases and achieved a turnaround from the position of going to BIFR, to making cash profits, with the hard work and dedication of its workforce. The losses that VSP is said to be accruing are only operational with the primary reason being non-availability of captive iron ore mines, they said. “Since 2007, its silver jubilee year, there have been promises that VSP will be sanctioned captive mines. Never was this promise made good, but many private steel companies were sanctioned captive mines. VSP had to compete with private companies and also with China steel companies, without a level-playing field. Despite these difficulties, till 2015, VSP has been making profits. Thereafter, the situation has worsened because of trade cycle effects. Fortunately, this year it is coming back to normalcy with prices of steel going up, and the company has started making profits. If captive mines are sanctioned, VSP can compete with any private company even internationally,” the protesters said. As per Article 39(b) of the Constitution under the Directive Principles of State Policy, the State shall, in particular, direct its policy towards securing that the control of material resources of the community are so distributed for common good, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rsea-opposes-move-to-privatise-steel-plant/article33816252.ece
12 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Soorya reaches out to budding artistes||The struggles he faced during the early days of his career in getting a foothold in theatre, made him make up his mind to provide a platform for budding artistes to showcase their talent. He established a black box theatre in Thiruvananthapuram for this purpose. Meet Nataraja Krishnamoorthy, popularly known as Soorya Krishnamoorthy, who was in the city to participate in the golden jubilee celebrations of Kerala Kala Samithi. A writer, director and art promoter, Mr. Krishnamoorthy has published five books, three screenplays and 15 dramas besides conceiving, designing and directing105 stage shows, in his career, spanning over four decades. In 1977, he founded Soorya Movement, which claims to be the largest cultural organisation in the world, with chapters in 38 countries apart from 60 centres in India. “These days an artiste has to spend Rs. 4 lakh to Rs. 5 lakh for an ‘arangetram’ and this is killing talent. I do not charge any rent, and in addition I provide light, sound and other amenities free of cost to upcoming artistes,” says Mr. Krishnamoorthy in a chat with The Hindu . Interestingly, Mr. Krishnamoorthy has no family background in art or theatre with many of his close relations and family members being engineers. He had joined ISRO as a scientist/engineer in 1972 and worked under scientists like APJ Abdul Kalam, who later became the President, for 27 years before opting for VRS to devote his full time to the promotion of art and theatre. “The greatest advantage for me at ISRO was that my superiors were all fond of theatre and arts. Kalam himself was a great veena player. This allowed me to pursue my passion even when I was working at ISRO,” he recalls. He had won several national and international awards including ‘Kala Ratna’ of the Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Akademi and ‘Kalaimamani’ from the Government of Tamil Nadu in 2006 for Stage and Craft Direction. COVID-19 crisis “I had set up a foot-operated sanitiser dispenser unit to keep the 100 members of our theatre troupe engaged as there is no work for the last one year. Despite my efforts, it pains me to say one member of our troupe had committed suicide,” says Mr. Krishnamoorthy. “I later found out that he was unable to support his aged parents, which made him take the extreme step. He never told me of his problem and now, he had left his parents at the mercy of others. The pandemic hastaught us a lesson that one should not wait till someone asks for help,” he signs off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/soorya-reaches-out-to-budding-artistes/article33816248.ece
12 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Beach Control Unit effective, say police||The Beach Control Unit initiated by the city police two weeks ago has been working effectively and rescuing missing children apart from coordinating issues of law and order, monitoring traffic and preventing drowning incidents in the local beaches. This was initiated under the direction of Commissioner of Police Manish Kumar Sinha. Since the last two weeks, more than 10 children, mostly below 10 years of age, have been rescued by the unit working with the unit at Rama Krishna Beach. As part of the unit, the police have arranged 19 rooftop surveillance points from Naval Coastal Battery to It SEZ Junction. Two police personnel were allotted at each point and they are equipped with binoculars, high-power torch lights and communication system. Police have also arranged a number of sub-control rooms at various places like Appughar, Rushikonda, Thotlakonda along Beach Road stretch. “As part of security arrangements, 190 police personnel are deputed to monitor law and order, traffic, rooftops, sub-control rooms and watch movement of suspicious activities on road from Naval Coastal Battery (NCB) to I.T. SEZ Junction. So whenever the teams find any children lost or missing, they immediately inform and take them to the beach control unit. The Beach Control Unit announces in loudspeakers about the rescued children, so that parents can approach us,” said Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Ch. Adinarayana, who is monitoring the unit. The ADCP said that the crowd movement in the local beaches, Tenneti Park and Rushikonda has gradually increased over the years, especially during weekends, public holidays and festivals. So there are chances of children missing and the control unit has rescued all the missing cases. He also said that the unit is equipped with latest communication system and technology. Police personnel in the control room will be coordinating with other police regarding any activities including traffic chaos, crimes or even movement of suspicious persons. Keeping in view of a few property offences and law and order situation, the city police have been asking the beach visitors right from NCB to Bheemili to leave the premises from 10.30 p.m. However a few locals expressed that the police should allow them at least till 12 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/beach-control-unit-effective-say-police/article33816319.ece
12 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP misleading people on VSP, alleges TDP leader||TDP North Andhra in-charge Buddha Venkanna has alleged that the YSRCP leaders are trying to mislead the employees of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) and the people by feigning ignorance on the Centre’s decision to privatise the steel plant. Addressing the media here on Thursday, Mr. Venkanna referred to Union Steel Minister Dharmendra Pradhan’s reply on the Floor of Parliament that POSCO and Hyundai had evinced interest in setting up a greenfield steel plant on the premises of RINL-VSP. The Union Minister had also said that an MoU was signed in October 2019 between RINL and POSCO. Alleging that the deal had happened right under the nose of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy, the TDP leader said the YSRCP leaders were interested in real estate business in Visakhapatnam. Referring to the statement of Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy, during the agitation for VSP, that the State government would buy the steel plant, if needed, Mr. Venkanna alleged that the YSRCP general secretary was eyeing the invaluable land. The TDP leader said that if the Chief Minister was committed to the cause of saving the VSP, he should write a letter to the Centre that all the YSRCP MPs would quit if the Modi government did not drop the proposal. He opined that TDP MLA Ganta Srinivasa Rao’s resignation alone was not of much use. The TDP leader recalled that the TDP MPs had met the then Prime Minister A.B. Vajpayee and prevented the VSP from being referred to the BIFR when N. Chandrababu Naidu was the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-misleading-people-on-vsp-alleges-tdp-leader/article33816224.ece
12 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rich tributes paid to Pt. Deendayal Upadhyay||Rich tributes were paid to Pt. Deendayal Upadhyay, a great humanist and former president of the erstwhile Bharatiya Jana Sangh, on his death anniversary, at the BJP office at Lawson’s Bay Colony here on Thursday. BJP State general secretary and MLC P.V.N. Madhav recalled that while everyone had thought that it was the end of the Jana Sangh after the death of Syama Prasad Mukherjee, they later realised that they were mistaken. Pt. Upadhyay had not only revived the party but also strengthened it all over the country with his hard work and dedication, Mr. Madhav said. BJP Parliamentary district president M. Raveendra said that Pt. Upadhyay, who was born in an ordinary family, had attained great heights with his hard work. His death on the railway tracks near Mughal Sarai railway station in UP on February 11, 1968 remains a mystery. BJP State official representative K. Suhasini Anand, State executive members M. Nagendra, S.V.S. Prakash Reddy, Sagi Kasi Viswanadha Raju, district general secretaries K.V.S.N. Prasad, S. Jagapathi Raja Bahadur and J. Damodar Yadav were among those who attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rich-tributes-paid-to-pt-deendayal-upadhyay/article33816320.ece
12 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) wants Assembly resolution on VSP||The State government should convene a special meeting in the Assembly to adopt a resolution demanding reversal of the decision to privatise the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), CPI(M) city secretary B. Ganga Rao has said. In a statement on Thursday, Mr. Ganga Rao sought that the meeting should also adopt resolutions demanding captive mines to the plant and conversion of outstanding loans into equity. He said that Union Steel Minister Dharmendra Pradhan, in response to a query of Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy, said that the State government had approved allocation of land to the POSCO on the VSP premises. The Minister also said that the government was aware of the agreement between the RINL and POSCO. “The Chief Minister should clear the air on the issue. The allegations and counter allegations by the YSRCP and the TDP should end. The MPs from the State should stall Parliament till the Centre revokes its decision,” said Mr. Ganga Rao. Postcard campaign Meanwhile, a postcard campaign is being launched against the proposed privatisation of the VSP. A.P. Editors’ Association president V.V.R. Krishnam Raju told the media that one lakh signatures would be collected against the decision of the Centre. He, along with social media state chairman SUN Murthy and Editors’ Association vice-president Bharanikana Rama Rao released a poster for the campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpim-wants-assembly-resolution-on-vsp/article33816321.ece
12 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trains cancelled due to modernisation work||Several trains have been cancelled and a few of them partially owing to the safety-related modernisation works undertaken in connection with Non-Interlocking works between the Yelahanka and Maklidrug stations for commissioning of the doubling works in the Yelahanka-Dharmavaram section. Train no. 02063 Puri- Yesvantpur Weekly Special Express, which is scheduled to leave Puri on February 19, and 02064 Yesvantpur-Puri, scheduled to leave Yesvantpur on February 20, have been cancelled, said Waltair Senior Divisional Commercial Manager A.K. Tripathi. Train no. 08463 Bhubaneswar- KSR Bangalore Special Express, scheduled to depart from Bhubaneswar between February 11 and 23 will be short-terminated at Satya Sai Prasanthi Nilayam. Train no. 08464 KSR Bangalore–Bhubaneswar Special Express, scheduled to leave KSR Bangalore between February 12 and 24 will start journey from Satya Sai Prasanthi Nilayam, instead of KSR Bangalore. There will be no service of this train between Satya Sai Prasanthi Nilayam and KSR Bangalore during the period. Some parcel special trains will run on the diverted routes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trains-cancelled-due-to-modernisation-work/article33816253.ece
12 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribals protest for electricity||Villagers of Dayarthi, Rachakilam and Madrabu villages staged a protest at Dayarthi village of Ananthagiri mandal of Araku Assembly constituency in Visakhapatnam district on Thursday seeking provision of panchayat funds for providing electricity in the tribal villages. The villagers said they were living without electricity for the last seven decades after Independence. The tribals were being forced to bring generators from Devarapalle during festivals. These villages were not given any money under the 14th and 15th Commission. They demanded provision of electricity if they had to go out and vote in the gram panchayat elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tribals-protest-for-electricity/article33816322.ece
12 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Engineering exams at AU from March 4||Additional Controller of Examinations, Andhra University, J. Adilakshmi in a release on Thursday said that engineering examinations in Andhra University and in its affiliated colleges would commence from March 4, 2021. She said that the fifth semester B. Tech, B. Arch, Integrated Dual Degree examinations will be held from March 4, while the third semester of these courses will be conducted from March 15. Similarly, 4-1 B.Tech. and Integrated dual degree courses & 5-1 B.Arch examinations will be held from March 26. She also announced the schedule for M.Sc, M.Tech and other courses. She said that the examinations will be conducted from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/engineering-exams-at-au-from-march-4/article33816323.ece
12 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man dies in accident on highway||A man in his thirties died after reportedly being hit by a lorry on the National Highway-16 near Thatichetlapalem Junction here on Thursday night. The lorry, going towards Maddilapalem from the NAD Junction reportedly hit the man, killing him on the spot. The man was said to be mentally-challenged. The IV-Town police reached the spot, but are yet to ascertain the details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-dies-in-accident-on-highway/article33816324.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farm fresh||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farm-fresh/article33816309.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Long wait||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/long-wait/article33816226.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Colours of devotion||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/colours-of-devotion/article33816255.ece
12 February 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||CPI(M) launches 5-day padayatra||Senior CPI (M) leader and former Bhadrachalam Member of Parliament Dr Midiam Babu Rao has demanded that the Central government should give clarity about the potential submergence threat posed by the upcoming Polavaram project in Andhra Pradesh to Bhadrachalam in Telangana. "If the flood level in the Godavari reaches 61.5 feet at Bhadrachalam, nearly half of the temple town will be inundated," he said, highlighting the possible scale of impact of the backwaters of the Polavaram project, once completed. He was speaking at AMC Colony in the temple town on Thursday after flagging off the five-day padayatra by the CPI (M) town committee. The party State committee members Bandaru Ravi Kumar and A J Ramesh, town committee secretary G Swamy, among others were present. The CPI (M) town committee launched the padayatra to draw the attention of the government to protect Bhadrachalam from the potential threat of submergence from Polavaram project and ensure comprehensive development of the temple town. In his inaugural address, Dr Babu Rao slammed both the Central and State governments for their alleged apathetic attitude towards the development of Bhadrachalam. "The Centre should make its stance clear on the impending submergence threat to Bhadrachalam Agency, including the temple town, from the Polavaram project under construction in Andhra Pradesh," he demanded. He deplored that Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s assurance to release Rs. 100 crore for the development of Bhadrachalam still remained unfulfilled. "The TRS dispensation has remained indifferent to the submergence threat faced by Bhadrachalam Agency from the upcoming Polavaram project," he charged. Other speakers demanded that the present design of the Polavaram project be altered to reduce the height of the dam to ward off danger to Bhadrachalam. They sought re-transfer of five gram panchayats situated in close proximity to Bhadrachalam from Andhra Pradesh to Telangana’s Bhadrachalam Agency to pave way for the development of the Agency. Their other main demands include immediate release of Rs. 100 crore for development of Bhadrachalam before the ensuing Sri Rama Navami festival, removing prevailing uncertainty over the status of the major Gram Panchayat of Bhadrachalam, extending the existing Karakatta (flood bank) along the banks of the Godavari and laying railway line between Pandurangapuram to Sarapaka near Bhadrachalam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cpim-launches-5-day-padayatra/article33816133.ece
12 February 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Bhakta Ramadasu jayanthi fete on Feb. 14||The historic Sri Sitaramachandra Swamy temple in Bhadrachalam will host a classical music extravaganza on February 14 as a mark of tribute to renowned Vaggeyakara Bhakta Ramadasu (Kancherla Gopanna) on the occasion of his 388th jayanthi. The daylong music concert titled “Vaggeyakara Utsavm” will kick off with Bhakta Ramadasu Navaratna Keertanala Goshti Ganam at Chitrakuta Mandapam on the precincts of the temple complex on Sunday morning, sources said. Noted musicians from various parts of the State and also the neighbouring Andhra Pradesh will perform at the devotional music concert in commemoration of the legendary saint composer’s enduring legacy. It will feature a rendition of Ramadasu’s keertanas. The event will culminate with “Anjaneya Utsavam” at 8 p.m. on the same day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bhakta-ramadasu-jayanthi-fete-on-feb-14/article33816135.ece
12 February 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Pseudo naxal gang members arrested||The Yeddulla Bayyaram police on Thursday arrested four members of an alleged pseudo- naxalite gang for “extorting” money from businessmen and sand ramp operators in Pinapaka mandal. Four members of the “fake naxalite gang” were nabbed at Janampeta village in Pinapaka mandal during a vehicle checking drive by the police on Thursday morning. Sources said the arrested persons hail from Warangal Urban district and Bhadradri-Kothagudem district. A dummy pistol, Rs. 5 lakh cash and a motor bike were seized from their possession.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pseudo-naxal-gang-members-arrested/article33816262.ece
12 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KCR cocks a snook at BJP by allying with MIM||The partnership of TRS and the AIMIM in the Mayor election, where the latter supported the TRS candidates for both the Mayor and Deputy Mayor posts, has sent a strong signal to the BJP that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao was not ready to be cowed down by the ‘unholy’ alliance criticism. The well thought out strategy was loaded with several political statements by the TRS, importantly sending a message that it was not afraid of the MIM ‘appeasement’ charges constantly being levelled by the BJP. These allegations charged up the atmosphere in Telangana recently delivering electoral success to the BJP. At the same time, the Chief Minister was careful enough to minimise the criticism by not selecting a minority candidate as Deputy Mayor like the 2016 GHMC elections when Baba Fasiuddin of the TRS was chosen. By opting for a candidate from the Backward Classes, KCR has also kept the BJP in check as it was strongly building its base on the BC plank. Initially, sources said, KCR favoured a candidate from the Reddy community for the top post as it wanted to offer the Deputy Mayor post to the MIM. Khairatabad Corporator P. Vijaya Redy and Tarnaka Corporator Mothe Srilatha Reddy were the two choices. The offer to MIM was open till Wednesday evening and once it refused to take the offer but assured unconditional support, the Chief Minister decided to change his strategy preferring Gadwal Vijaya Lakshmi, a candidate from the Backward Classes. Had the MIM taken the Deputy Mayor post offer, perhaps the choice of Mayor candidate would have been a bit more interesting. Khairatabad Corporator P. Vijaya Reddy, daughter of P. Janardhan Reddy, was not willing to settle anything less than the Mayoral post. The party decided to pick Srilatha Reddy as the Deputy Mayor given her husband Mothe Shobhan Reddy’s long association with the TRS. Selecting two women for the top posts the CM also avoided the possible friction in the functioning. A male Deputy Mayor would have been more dominant, thus leading to friction in the administration, a party leader opined.  Elections far away The decision to take on the BJP head on despite the recent electoral setbacks was apparently taken as the elections to both Assembly and the Parliament, where the emotions on religious divide may run high, are three years away. There is no immediate political threat from the BJP’s criticism. Since the AIMIM-TRS alliance has reaped benefits in the last six years with the ruling party benefiting enormously, the TRS party also feels it would benefit from the same in the Graduate MLC elections, Nagarjunasagar bypoll and the elections to Khammam and Warangal municipal corporations. “At least the alliance will not harm the TRS.” Party leaders also feel the Hindu-Muslim plank may not really impact the immediate elections and negate the TRS positivity in favour of the BJP unlike the GHMC elections. The issues in these elections cannot be emotive as the minority voters would be minimal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-cocks-a-snook-at-bjp-by-allying-with-mim/article33816111.ece
12 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Schedule for Graduates constituency MLC poll released||Election for the two Legislative Council seats under the Graduates constituency quota will be held on March 14. The Election Commission of India on Thursday released the schedule for the election to the Graduates constituency seats – Hyderabad, Ranga Reddy and Mahabubnagar and Warangal, Khammam and Nalgonda. The two seats are falling vacant following the expiry of the term of sitting members on March 28. Hyderabad, Ranga Reddy and Mahabubnagar constituency is represented by BJP’s N. Ramachander Rao, while Warangal, Khammam and Nalgonda constituency is represented by Palla Rajeshwar Reddy. According to the schedule announced by the Election Commission of India, notification for the election would be issued on February 16 and the last date of filing nomination papers would be February 23. Scrutiny of nominations would be taken up the next day and the last day for withdrawal of nominations would be February 26. Election would be held on March 14 from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. and counting of votes would be taken up on March 17. The results are likely to come out the same day.  The election process should be completed before March 22, the commission said adding the model code of conduct in the areas going to polls would come into force with immediate effect.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/schedule-for-graduates-constituency-mlc-poll-released/article33816130.ece
12 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KCR asks corporators to enhance brand image of Hyderabad||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has vested the newly elected corporators of GHMC with the responsibility of enhancing the brand image of Hyderabad which was already recognised as a global city that was home to people from diverse regions and cultures. There were several advantages in Hyderabad. People from other States have settled down here. There is Sindhi colony, Gujarati `galli’, Parsigutta and, coming to communities, Bengalis, Malayalis, Marwadis and Kayasth who were proud of identifying themselves as Hyderabadis. The city is a mini-India. It has love and affection for everyone. “The future of such a great city is in your hands”, Mr. Rao said when the newly elected corporators of GHMC called in him at his camp office today. Mayor G. Vijayalaxmi and Deputy Mayor M. Srilatha were also present. Mr. Rao asked the corporators to work to the best of their ability to enhance the image of the city. They must honour all sections of people. The government will also take up several programmes to develop the city. The Chief Minister asked the corporators to see the compulsion in rewarding only one of them with the post of Mayor though several of them were qualified for it. But, everyone could not be given. Anyone in his position would have done the same. He also said very few people got the opportunity to get elected as public representatives out of crores of population. That was not important. What was important was to make optimal use of the opportunity given to them by public and earn a good name for themselves. In these days, Mr. Rao said people were targeted even if they were right. A small dark spot somewhere was enough to bring a bad name for them. Therefore, they must be careful in their conduct . People in high posts must be restrained, tolerant and simple in public life. They should not shed their natural character under any circumstances. Neither their dress nor language should change. Their needless and out of context talk took them nowhere and, instead, proved counter productive. He asked the corporators to give people approaching them a patient hearing. An earnest attempt should be made to understand their problems and solve them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-asks-corporators-to-enhance-brand-image-of-hyderabad/article33816122.ece
12 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Bhatti challenges KCR to a debate on projects||Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Bhatti Vikramarka has claimed that the intemperate language of the Chief Minister, K. Chandrashekhar Rao against the Congress was due to the rising opposition from the people which he is unable to digest. Speaking to the farmers in Anthargam in Ramagundam as a part of his “Interaction with Farmers” tour, he said the irresponsible and frustrated language against the Congress in the Haliya meeting will not be spared. He reminded that Telangana was a reality due to Sonia Gandhi and asked Mr. Rao whether he would have been the Chief Minister had Congress not granted separate state. Without Sonia Gandhi and her pressure to introduce the Telangana bill in the Parliament, separate State would have remained a dream, he said. Mr. Bhatti said Mr. Rao has become selfish and so is criticising the party that made Telangana what it is today. It is natural that he is getting frustrated with opposition rising from within and outside, Mr. Bhatti claimed. The CLP leader said it has become a habit for KCR to tell lies on welfare of farmers. They are not getting the MSP while loan waiver promise has been forgotten and now they are being threatened by Mr. Rao with closing down all the procurement centres, Mr. Bhatti charged. Accusing KCR of indulging in huge corruption in the irrigation projects, Mr. Bhatti challenged him to come for a debate at any project. "I am ready for a discussion at Sripadasagar Yellampalli with all the documents. Is he ready?." He also ridiculed the Rs. 1,000 crore fund fresh promise for Dalits and said the government was supposed to spend Rs. 1.05 lakh crores under SC/ST Sub Plan in the last seven years but Mr. Rao is mum on it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bhatti-challenges-kcr-to-a-debate-on-projects/article33816132.ece
12 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Kazakhstan keen on tapping into NMDC mining expertise||Kazakhstan Ambassador Yerlan Alimbayev on Thursday met the top brass of NMDC to discuss ways to leverage the public sector mining major’s capabilities to further strengthen the Kazakh mining industry. A release from NMDC on the visit of the Ambassador said Mr.Alimbayev met CMD Sumit Deb, Director (Finance) Amitava Mukherjee and Director (Technical) Somnath Nandi. Strengthening the strategic partnership with high-level visits and mutual collaborations was also discussed. Kazakhstan remains one of the world’s most promising emerging markets for natural resources and among the top 10 countries for mineral reserves. Citing official estimates, the release said Kazakhstan is the world’s leading producer of uranium and possesses vast reserves of chrome, copper, manganese, iron, lead, and zinc. NMDC, with its experience of over 60 years in the mining industry, is well positioned to invest in Kazakhstan’s mineral deposit, which are near operating stage, the release said. Mr.Deb said “we had fruitful discussions and have decided to explore mutual collaboration opportunities in many promising prospects of bilateral interest. Kazakhstan is a resource rich country and NMDC would love to share its expertise in this space with Kazakh companies.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kazakhstan-keen-on-tapping-into-nmdc-mining-expertise/article33816140.ece
12 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Mayor a highly educated and accomplished person||Newly elected GHMC Mayor Vijayalakshmi R. Gadwal is well known as the daughter of veteran leader and member of the Rajya Sabha K. Keshava Rao. She is a second-time elect to the GHMC Council from Banjara Hills in consecutive terms. Apart from her political lineage, she is a highly educated and accomplished person. Studying entirely in Hyderabad, she completed her schooling in Holy Mary High School in Saifabad, and went on to graduate in Arts from the Raja Bahadur Venkata Rama Reddy Women's College, Narayanguda. Later, she finished her course in Journalism too from the Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan institutions, and pursued LLB from Sultan Ul Uloom Collge of Law, Banjara Hills. Married to Bobby Reddy, Ms. Vijayalakshmi, 56, stayed in the United States of America for 18 years, where she worked as a research assistant in Duke University of North Carolina in the department of Cardiology, a biographical note from GHMC mentioned. She returned in 2007, after giving up her American citizenship to join her father in politics. In 2016, she contested as a corporator from TRS. Deputy Mayor Mothe Srilatha, 49, completed her schooling from the Railway Girls’ High School, North Lallaguda, and was self-employed as beautician, before contesting the GHMC elections. Her husband Shobhan Reddy had been a student leader, and a labour leader before contesting unsuccessfully as a corporator in 2002. He has been a loyal supporter of TRS since its initial days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mayor-a-highly-educated-and-accomplished-person/article33816115.ece
12 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP, Congress cry foul as MIM reconnects with the TRS||Soon after the Mayor and Deputy Mayor election results were announced on Thursday, the Bharatiya Janata Party and Congress corporators decried the truck between the Telangana Rashtra Samithi and the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen. Speaking to the media at the GHMC’s main gate, Goshamahal corporator Lal Singh, who won on a BJP ticket, claimed that the AMIM and TRS did not have an alliance in the morning, but in the GHMC Council, they were ‘one’. “They are deceiving the public. In the next elections, the people of Telangana will show them. They are one in the house, and are taking the public of Hyderabad and Telangana for a ride,” he said. ‘Communal politics’  Other BJP corporators alleged that the TRS and AIMIM were indulging in communal politics. AIMIM corporator from Akberbagh Syed Minhajuddin said that the party is looking forward to work for the development of the city. “There are challenges which the lockdown and COVID-19 have thrown at us which need to be looked at minutely, and tackled. We have to deal with this, and hope this can be done through cooperation. We chose to support a secular party,” he said. Congress corporator elected from Uppal M Rajitha said that while the TRS candidates won GHMC seats with the Rs. 10,000 compensation to flood victims, the BJP candidates were successful after promising Rs. 25,000 to victims. “Both TRS and BJP candidates have not seen the faces of the victims after the GHMC elections,” she said, and alleged that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao went to Delhi, met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah and did their bidding in the Mayor and Deputy Mayor elections. Later, a section of BJP corporators raised slogans against the TRS, alleging that its tenure in the State is corrupt and marked by looting of funds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-congress-cry-foul-as-mim-reconnects-with-the-trs/article33816117.ece
12 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No COVID-19 death reported in State on Wednesday||After a long gap, particularly after June last year, no death was reported with novel coronavirus (COVID-19) symptoms for the first time in Telangana on Wednesday. According to a bulletin issued by the Director of Public Health on the status of COVID-19 cases in the State as at 8 p.m. on Wednesday, 146 new positive cases of the infectious virus were reported during the 24-hour period till 8 p.m. on February10, taking the total positive cases reported in the State to 2,96,134. As no COVID-19 deaths were reported on Wednesday, the number of total fatalities remained at 1,613. The case fatality rate in the State also remained at 0.54% against 1.4% at national level. The number of cases recovered from COVID-19 reached 2,92,696 as 118 persons were declared recovered on Wednesday. The rate of the recovered in the State is 98.83% against 97.2% at national level. Active cases The bulletin stated that the number of active cases at 8 p.m. on February 10 stood at 1,825 including 1,060 people undergoing treatment in various private and government hospitals in the State and another 765 staying in home and institutional isolation. A total of 29,755 samples were collected and screened for COVID-19 positivity on Wednesday including 26,202 in government facilities and 3,553 in private hospitals and laboratories. Total tests done in Telangana stood at 82,13,768. Of the COVID-19 positive cases reported on Wednesday, 25 were from GHMC area followed by 11 from Rangareddy and 10 from Karimnagar. Four districts – Jogulamba-Gadwal, Kamareddy, Narayanpet and Wanaparthy – reported zero positive cases on Wednesday, while the remaining 26 districts reported positive cases in single digits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-covid-19-death-reported-in-state-on-wednesday/article33816118.ece
12 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||50th Kisan Rail transports onions from Nagarsol||The South Central Railway (SCR) has achieved a major milestone when the 50th Kisan Rail from Nagarsol station in Maharashtra has been started in a short span of 38 days period with 19,318 tonnes of onions to places in eastern and north-eastern States -- New Guwahati, Malda Town, New Jalpaiguri Agartala, Baihata, Gour Malda, Nau, benefitting traders/farmers. All these Kisan rails have been given 50% tariff concession under the scheme “Operation Greens - TOP to Total” by Union Ministry of Food processing Industries facilitating economical transport facility with less en route damage. Nagarsol and its surrounding areas are very famous for onion cultivation and the produce is transported to different parts of the country with major share by roadways. Freight team of the Nanded division convinced the farmers/trading community to make use of Kisan rails informing them about the relatively less requirement of quantity to start a train, tariff advantages, hassle-free and fast transportation among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/50th-kisan-rail-transports-onions-from-nagarsol-to-north-east-states/article33816129.ece
12 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Mayoral election conducted with no hiccups||Despite the hype and suspense built around the election of Mayor and Deputy Mayor posts of GHMC Council, the outcome was a foregone conclusion for all the members present, as well as outsiders. The names of Vijayalakshmi R. Gadwal and Mothe Srilatha, the winning candidates, were being exchanged as hot favourites since the beginning of the session, with corporators and shutterbugs alike hovering around them vying for attention. With 56 corporators and a large number of ex-officio members in its kitty, it was not a great effort for the ruling party to clock a decisive win, and it was apparent for everybody. The divide along party lines was reflected in the colours and attires the members bore. Party flags adorned the shoulders of all the corporators, while women members chose saris matching their respective party colours. MLC Kalvakuntla Kavitha decided otherwise, and came in off-white. BJP corporators turned heads by uniformly wearing special headgear in saffron and gold. By 11 a.m., all the 149 corporators arrived for oath taking, in the presence of 31 ex-officio members. Presiding Officer Swetha Mohanty agreed for the suggestion by several members to administer oath in groups based on language, and conducted the ceremony in four batches respectively for Telugu, Urdu, English and Hindi. Officers were appointed for each row to assist the members in oath taking as well as to count the votes the contesting candidates drew. Election was a smooth affair, with the whole process for Mayor and Deputy Mayor wound up in 20 minutes. The divide along party lines came to fore yet again when MIM members raised their hands in support of the candidates proposed by the ruling party. BJP corporators began to chant ‘Shame Shame’, followed by the slogans of ‘Jai Shriram’, which were promptly answered by the slogans of ‘Jai Telangana’ from TRS side. Other than this, congenial atmosphere prevailed in the house before the session, with members across the party lines huddling and discussing common topics. Security arrangements by the police created some difficulties, as vehicles were not allowed inside the premises and instead asked to be parked in the MLA Quarters nearby. The whole area surrounding the Council hall had huge presence of uniformed men.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mayoral-election-conducted-with-no-hiccups/article33816113.ece
12 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GoAir flight to connect Hyderabad to Maldives||GMR Hyderabad International Airport Limited (GHIAL) launched GoAir’s maiden direct flight service from Hyderabad to Malé, Maldives on Thursday. The GoAir aircraft took off from Hyderabad to Malé around 11.40 a.m. amidst a festive atmosphere at the airport. GoAir also started the touch-less e-boarding facility for international passengers with this service. Senior officials from GMR Hyderabad International Airport along with GoAir officials, other airport stakeholders were at the terminal to see off the passengers and crew. GoAir’s Flight G8 1533 will depart from GMR Hyderabad International Airport at 11.30 a.m. and arrive at the Maldives Velana International Airport at 1.30 p.m. Return flight G8 4033 will depart from Malé at 2.30 p.m and arrive in Hyderabad at 5.30 pm. Flights will operate between GMR Hyderabad International Airport and Malé four times a week - Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/goair-flight-to-connect-hyderabad-to-maldives/article33816141.ece
12 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Four held for pharma student’s rape||Four autorickshaw drivers were taken into custody by the Rachakonda police on Thursday in connection with the alleged abduction and gang rape of a 19-year-old B Pharm student. Sources associated with the investigation of the case said the autorickshaw drivers — Raju, Nadam Shiva, Bhaskar and Ramesh — all aged between 25 and 30 years are residents of Yamnampet in Pocharam municipality. “At least 15 people, who were in contact with the suspects, are being questioned at SOT Bhongir,” an officer said. The prime accused Raju was following the victim for the past few days, and on February 10 evening, when she boarded his auto, he along with three others took her to the bushes near the railway tracks and allegedly assaulted her. On a complaint lodged by her mother, Keesara police registered a case under Sections 365 (kidnapping) of Indian Penal Code. After Dial 100 call, the victim was traced to Ghatkesar and sent for medical assistance. “She was unable to give her statement immediately due to trauma. On Thursday, she was taken to Gandhi hospital for reexamination and her statement was recorded,” the officer said. Based on her statement, police have altered the Sections and added Sections 376 (D), 324, 354 (B) of Indian Penal Code to the existing section of 365 IPC. Police said that scientific investigation is on and the victim's health is stable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/four-held-for-pharma-students-rape/article33816144.ece
12 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Paint firm to set up new facility near Hyderabad||A new manufacturing facility with an investment of Rs. 25 crore to meet the growing demand is being established by Techno Paints near Hyderabad. “We will start work on our new plant soon. It will be ready for production by December,” said Akuri Srinivas Reddy, founder of Fortune Group, which markets its products under Techno Paints brand. A release from the company said the new plant with a capacity of 2.5 lakh tonnes will be set up in three acres at Sultanpur Industrial Estate, near here. Mr.Reddy said with the existing five units running at full capacity the company was expediting plans to set up the new facility. With the new plant, the total capacity will reach 3.3 lakh tonnes. The company has drawn up plans to set up two more plants in other States by 2025. It also plans to make an initial public offering (IPO) in five years. Techno Paints, which also provides painting services, has completed 650 projects so far. The company has 200 projects in hand, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/paint-firm-to-set-up-new-facility-near-hyderabad/article33816138.ece
12 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Twin posts held by women for first time||A unique aspect of the latest election for Mayor and Deputy Mayor posts of GHMC Council, which was held on Thursday, was that both the posts are being held by women for the first time ever. GHMC Secretarial office confirmed that there had been no instance in the past when both the posts were simultaneously held by women, though women did hold both posts in different terms. As per the information shared by GHMC from its records, Vijayalakshmi R. Gadwal will be the fifth woman Mayor of the corporation, after Rani Kumudini Devi in 1962-63, Sarojini Pulla Reddy in 1965-66, B. Kumud Naik in 1968-69 and Banda Karthika Reddy in 2009-11. Mothe Srilatha, on the other hand, will be the third woman to hold the Deputy Mayor’s office. The other two deputy mayors on the records were merely noted as Smt M.Venkatesham in 1961-62, and Smt. M.Venkaiah in 1964-65.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/twin-posts-held-by-women-for-first-time/article33816112.ece
12 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Owaisi thanks TRS for offering Dy. Mayor post||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen president Asaduddin Owaisi on Thursday thanked the Telangana Rashtra Samithi for offering his party the post of the Deputy Mayor. Taking to Twitter, the Hyderabad Parliamentarian said, “I hope that GHMC will carry out its works with honesty & financial propriety. Also appreciate TRS for offering us Deputy Mayor’s post,” an excerpt of his tweet reads. He did not explain why his party chose not to accept the offer. Mr Owaisi also hoped that the Greater Hyderabad Municpal Corporation would do its duty with honesty and ‘financial propriety’. Mr Owaisi extended his best wishes to those who were elected and took the oath on Thursday. “Congratulations to the newly elected Mayor & Deputy Mayor of GHMC. Hope that, under their leadership, Hyderabad will be taken to new heights and public works will be actively taken up in areas that need them the most, including Old City of Hyderabad,” he tweeted. At around 9 a.m. on Thursday, AIMIM corporators converged at party headquarters at Darussalaam to attend a meeting ahead of the Mayor and Deputy Mayor elections. It was at this meeting senior party leaders informed the corporators of the decision to support the Telangana Rashtra Samithi in elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/asaduddin-owaisi-thanks-trs-for-offering-deputy-mayor-post-to-aimim/article33816108.ece
12 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||High Court notices to State, central govts. on Right to Education Act||Telangana High Court on Thursday issued notices to State and central governments over a PIL petition seeking implementation of Section 29 of Right to Education Act comprising different provisions, including the introduction of mother tongue as medium of instruction in primary schools. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B.Vijaysen Reddy heard the plea and directed both the State and the Centre to file counter affidavits in response to the plea. The CJ, however, expressed disappointment over the petitioner not making private schools as respondents in the plea since he stated that majority of private schools were not following the practice of mother tongue being medium of instruction in elementary education. The petitioner was instructed to include private schools as the respondents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-notices-to-state-central-govts/article33816127.ece
12 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRS-Majlis ‘secret alliance’ exposed: BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said that the “secret alliance” between TRS and the Majlis has once again got exposed following the election of Mayor and Deputy Mayor on Thursday. “The support of the Majlis to TRS candidates and the party being offered the Deputy Mayor post after claiming to be adversaries before the election is political debauchery at its worst,” charged party State president Bandi Sanjay Kumar. In a press release, the BJP leader said if the TRS did not have an electoral understanding with the Majlis for the GHMC elections, its victory would be have been in single digit. “We have been saying from the beginning that both parties are together and now have fooled the electorate with their lies and treachery. The steering wheel of TRS is now firmly in the hands of the ‘communal’ Majlis Party,” he said. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and his son K.T. Rama Rao have claimed that there was no alliance with the Majlis before the polls but had an underhand deal to ensure that the BJP chances are scuttled by fielding their party candidates in the Majlis strongholds to split the votes of the majority community, claimed Mr. Sanjay Kumar. ‘Poor governance’  The last six years of TRS rule in the city has only taken the development back and the citizens fed up with the lackadaisical governance had elected BJP candidates in 48 divisions. TRS figure came down drastically from 99 earlier to 56 -- forcing it to seek Majlis help to retain the Mayor post, it only means people have rejected the ruling party, he said. The BJP president said the party will play the role of a watchdog and will not allow the allies to “loot” the city. “We will keep a strict vigil of the functioning of the civic body for the next five years. People of Hyderabad and Telangana are not going to tolerate such opportunistic politics and will surely teach a lesson to the parties in the days ahead,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-majlis-secret-alliance-exposed-bjp/article33816143.ece
12 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Four killed in two road accidents||Four people were killed in two different road accidents that took place at Peddamberpet and Shamirpet on the outskirts of the city on Wednesday night. At Peddamberpet of Hayathnagar, two people died when a DCM vehicle going towards the RGI Airport, Shamshabad rammed another DCM moving in the same direction. Further, the ill-fated DCM crashed into an SUV which resulted in the instant death of the car driver Kasindula Hanumanth Rao (39) from Guntur and Choudhary, a farmer who was travelling in the first DCM, police said. “Two others who were trapped in the vehicles were rescued,” they said. Meanwhile at Turkapally of Shamirpet two masons Mallesh (28) and Narasimha (35) died after the bike they were riding came under the wheels of a lorry on Wednesday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/four-killed-in-two-road-accidents/article33816120.ece
12 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Ponnam questions KCR’s intemperate language||The Congress took strong objection to “there are some dogs” comments of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on a section of the crowd in the Haliya public meeting and sought an apology from him. TPCC working president Ponnam Prabhakar said the Chief Minister must apologise to women who wanted to give representations to him. How can he call them dogs, he asked, and said such language reflected his arrogance and frustration over his failures. It has become a habit, he said referring to Mr. Rao's reported statement denigrating the CM's position comparing it with a slipper. Opposing the criticism of the Congress, Mr. Prabhakar asked Mr. Rao to introspect and sincerely question himself whether he owed his present post to Sonia Gandhi or not. "KCR is a liar who will stoop down to any level and it reflects in his behaviour," he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ponnam-questions-kcrs-intemperate-language/article33816131.ece
12 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Enjoyment survey ordered in 5 Nalgonda villages||The State government has asked the Nalgonda district collector to take up enjoyment survey of 3,495 acre land in five villages of Tirumalagiri Sagar tanda of the district. The draft list of enjoyment survey would be published in the five villages – Nellikal, Chintalapalem, Tunikinootala, Jammanna Kota, and Yellapuram (Sunkishala tanda) – for receiving objections if any. Thereafter, pattas and pattadar passbooks would be issued to all eligible landholders. The development follows the assurance given by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on resolution of long pending land issues relating to the five villages during his tour of Nalgonda district on Wednesday. Energy Minister G. Jagdishwar Reddy and Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar convened a meeting of senior officials here. The meeting decided to complete the entire exercise within a week. The process would benefit about 1,700 farmers enabling them to get their pattadar passbooks over the landholdings. This would also entitle them to get benefits under the Rythu Bandhu and Rythu Bima schemes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/enjoyment-survey-ordered-in-five-nalgonda-villages/article33816146.ece
12 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cyient, eolos form partnership||IT firm Cyient and Berlin-based industrial consultancy and investment firm eolos have formed a strategic partnership to co-develop an engineering practice to support industries transition toward greater sustainability. The engineering practice will address needs of industries facing the most stringent changes in their standards and regulations by offering solutions for traceability, material engineering (reduction, re-use, and regeneration), obsolescence management and supply chain (including packaging, disposal, and waste management). The primary focus will be on the rail, automotive, aerospace and med-tech industries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cyient-eolos-form-partnership/article33816260.ece
12 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Agri export processing unit near Shamshabad likely||The government has plans to establish an agri export processing unit near Shamshabad and it has been taking various steps to encourage the export of agriculture as well as horticulture products with demand in the international market, said agriculture secretary B. Janardhan Reddy on Thursday. Participating in a workshop on “Boosting Agri Exports from Telangana by Air Cargo”.organised by the GMR Hyderabad Air Cargo (GHAC), a division of GMR Air Cargo and Aerospace Engineering Limited (GACAEL), which is a 100% subsidiary of GMR Hyderabad International Airport Limited (GHIAL), Mr. Reddy said the demand for providing irradiation facilities for export of mangoes was also being explored. RGIA CEO Pradeep Panicker, CEO of Air Cargo Saurabh Kumar, senior officials from customs, airlines; representatives of exporters, freight forwarders and other stakeholders participated, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/agri-export-processing-unit-near-shamshabad-likely/article33816261.ece
12 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC notices to govt. over Hill Fort palace preservation||The High Court on Thursday directed the State government to file a detailed counter affidavit in a PIL petition seeking revival of Hill Fort palace in city’s central part in Naubhat Pahad. Observing that it is a State protected building, a bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B.Vijaysen Reddy said the onus of preserving it lies on the State govt. The bench directed the petitioner to delete the Union of India and the Archaeological Survey of India as respondents in the plea. The PIL petition was filed by Hyderabad Heritage Trust stating that the government is neither showing any interest nor taking steps to revive the historical building. The trust represented to the government to permit it to revive and preserve the monument but to no avail, its counsel said. Special Government Pleader Sanjeev Kumar explained how the management of the building changed hands and assured that the government is always for revival and protection of such important monuments. Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy remarked that many passing by the road frequently notice how the monument is in neglected stage. It was abandoned and one day it would not be surprise to hear any eventuality relating to the historic monument slipping into dilapidation stage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-notices-to-govt-over-hill-fort-palace-preservation/article33816126.ece
12 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||SSC student found dead||A class X student was found dead at her residence in Kakatiya Nagar of Neredmet here Thursday morning. The victim, Yashaswini (15), died by hanging herself from a ceiling fan. Police said she was depressed as her parents, both daily wagers, failed to pay Rs. 3,000 school fee and resorted to the extreme step.“She was not attending classes as they didn’t pay the fee,” they said. Call Roshni, Hyderbad-based suicide intervention centre, on +914066202000 or 6666 1117 in case of any emotional breakdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ssc-student-found-dead/article33816145.ece
12 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||PJTSAU gets M&M award||Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University (PJTSAU) has been honoured with ‘Samruddhi Krushi Shiksha Samman’ award instituted by Mahindra & Mahindra for promoting irrigated-dry method of cultivation among the farming community. The award was presented to Vice Chancellor of the university V. Praveen Rao here on Thursday by representative of Mahindra & Mahindra K. Vamshi Krishna Reddy. The award presentation ceremony scheduled in March last year was put off following the outbreak of coronavirus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pjtsau-gets-mm-award/article33816125.ece
12 February 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Parents get lifer for poisoning newborn girl child||Principal District Judge of Nalgonda, M.V. Ramesh, on Thursday convicted a tribal couple, Ramavath Jayaram and Nagamani, for murder of their newborn girl, and awarded them life sentence and Rs. 5,000 penalty each. The incident occurred in February 2017, and the couple had tried to bluff officials saying the newborn died of illness. But a child welfare official’s initiative in petitioning the Gudipally police expressing suspicion over the death led to launch of investigation. According to officials who investigated the case, the baby was third girl child to the couple from Padamati Thanda of Pedda Adiserlapally in Devarakonda. Their second child died due to illness by the time, and they had been expecting a boy. They were disappointed with the third girl birth, but when officer Bhukya Sakkubai from the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) counselled, they agreed to hand over the child to Sishu Gruha, the State’s shelter for abandoned newborns, in case they “cannot afford raising another girl child.” On February 4 that year, the parents said that the baby died, despite treatment by a rural medical practitioner and intervention at Devarakonda Area Hospital. However, ICDS officer Ms. Sakkubai who sensed something amiss went ahead and filed a complaint with the police. Investigation by health officials and police later revealed that the 45-day-old baby died of poisoning, and the very motive of the parents in poisoning their newborn girl was “cannot afford raising another girl child.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/parents-get-lifer-for-poisoning-newborn-girl-child/article33816263.ece
12 February 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Villagers told to vacate Etigaddakishtapur||Revenue Divisional Officer K. Ananta Reddy made it clear to the oustees of Etigaddakishtapur in Toguta mandal that they have to vacate the village. Informing that about 2,300 houses are being constructed at Mutrajpally near Gajwel for the oustees of Mallannasagar, the RDO said that open plots for the oustees will be allotted at some other place. With heavy police force, the revenue officials got some houses in the village dismantled on Wednesday which has irritated some oustees. The officials informed them that houses need to be razed for construction of the bund. With the pressure mounted by villagers, Pratap Reddy, village sarpanch, organised a grama sabha on Thursday, which was attended by Mr. Ananta Reddy. “You have promised us the moon but nothing transpired. You have said in the past that we will be asked to vacate the village only after completing the construction of houses and handing them over to us. The houses are not yet completed and it will take some more months? Where do we have to live till then?” the villagers grilled the officials. It was informed that the sarpanch has suggested them to make some temporary huts till the houses were completed. At this juncture there were heated arguments and the officials left the meeting mid-way. Later, the sarpanch took some of the oustees to Mutrajpally to show the ongoing construction of houses, abruptly ending the meeting. "We fear that we will be forced to vacate the village forcibly, like it happened in the case of oustees from Kondapochammasagar villages that had submerged about an year ago. We do not know what is in the store for us," said a villager on condition of anonymity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/villagers-told-to-vacate-etigaddakishtapur/article33816137.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Weapon of the brave||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/weapon-of-the-brave/article33816150.ece
12 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Singhu locals demand removal of barricades||The locals of Singhu on Thursday said they waited all day to meet senior police officers to request them to remove the barricades installed at the entry of the village but they were returned without being heard. They said the barricades were installed on January 29 and since then, they have been facing several problems related to vehicular traffic.  Problems faced Government employee Pradeep Sehrawat, 31, from the village, said it takes them more than an hour to cross a distance of 1.5 km as they have to take a narrow path from inside the village. This particular distance — in case the barricades were not installed — would take only a few minutes to cross, using the main road. “The path from inside the village is so narrow that only one car can cross at one time,” he said. The locals also said women and children are now not free to walk and roam inside the village. “The bikes are speeding inside the village all the time. Often kids get hit by two-wheelers. Women feel unsafe as well,” he said. Those going to office, school and other destinations get late and sometimes have to pay a heavy price. Sandeep Dubey, who runs a school inside the village, said three days ago, his aunt complained of chest pain and had to be rushed to hospital in Madhuban Chowk. “It took us an hour and a half to reach the hospital. Even ambulance couldn’t be called here,” he said, adding that teachers complain of not being to reach because of lack of public transport. “There are hardly any buses coming here. Only a handful do”. The locals also said accidents have become rampant inside the village. Mr. Sandeep said that two days ago, a small tempo driver and his helper fell in the drain while driving because of the kaccha path. “With extreme difficulty, villagers pulled them out of the drain. No complaint was filed with the police,” he said. Sintu Kumar Jha, 24, said his sister got late for a competitive examination last week. “We had left at 7 a.m. for an exam at 8.30 a.m. and still got late,” he said. Mr. Dubey added: “Around 7.30 p.m, they [officials] told us that senior officers won’t be able to meet and we should come on Friday morning.”  The bikes are speeding inside the village. Often kids get hit by two-wheelers. The path inside the village is so narrow that only one car can cross at one time   Pradeep Sehrawat Resident of Singhu village||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/singhu-locals-demand-removal-of-barricades/article33815825.ece
12 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Activist uploads video seeking release of Deep Sidhu||Gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana — wanted in Red Fort violence case — uploaded a video on social media on Wednesday, calling out for support for arrested activist Deep Sidhu. On Tuesday, the police arrested Sidhu, a former Punjabi actor, from Haryana’s Karnal. In the video, he is seen asking protesters to raise voice against the arrest of Sidhu and other people. The farmers’ leaders should hold talks with the government until the police release the arrested persons and withdraw FIR against them, said Mr. Sidhana. He insisted on more and more people joining the farmers’ protest. The police said after videos and photos of Sidhu that establishes his presence at Red Fort, they have managed to establish his presence at Red Fort by going through his call data records. Sidhu’s location traced Finding his call location was the key. “Our technical team found that Sidhu’s mobile location was in and around the Red Fort premises on Republic Day. Next, in the evening, he was around the Singhu border but during late night his location was traced to Kurukshetra in Haryana. Then he switched off his phone,” said the officer. On January 27, he switched on his phone to recharge an OTT platform, which gave police a lead in the case. Later in the day, his location was traced to Patiala. He kept using other mobile numbers but police kept tracking him and finally nabbed him from Karnal, the officer said. “We have asked details of his bank account to find out the source of the money he spent on farmers’ protest,” said the officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/activist-uploads-video-seeking-release-of-deep-sidhu/article33815829.ece
12 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||EOW files FIR against Haryanvi singer, others in cheating case||Delhi Police’s Economic Offences Wing has registered an FIR against Haryanvi singer Sapna Choudhary and others on charges of alleged misappropriation of funds, cheating and criminal conspiracy, officers said on Thursday. The FIR was registered against them on Wednesday as per a complaint by Pawan Chawla, director of P&M Movies Pvt. Ltd., a firm engaged in the business of celebrity management and events, they said. According to the FIR, Ms. Choudhary approached the complainant in March 2018 through a common friend after her exit from a popular reality show and showed keen interest to work with the firm for financial stability. After several discussions, an artist-management agreement was executed between Mr. Chawla and Ms. Choudhary in 2018. As per the terms and conditions, she was not allowed to work or join any other company or have contact with any clients of the complainant. From May 2018 onwards, she took around Rs. 4 crore loan from Mr. Chawla, citing various personal reasons, as per the FIR. Breach of trust “The accused persons have committed breach of trust and misappropriated huge amount collected by organising several events clandestinely. The intention of the accused was to extract money by way of loan extended to over Rs. 3.5 crore on the pretext of emergent need for purchase of house and other emergencies,” the FIR stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/eow-files-fir-against-haryanvi-singer-others-in-cheating-case/article33815831.ece
12 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Newsletter on women to be published, distributed at farmers’ protest sites||A newsletter called Karti Dharti — written by women and about women — will be published and distributed at least in two protest sites here on Friday. The newsletter is the brainchild of an IT analyst and freelance writer. The first page of the first newsletter also has an article on Nodeep Kaur, a Dalit woman who was supporting the agitation and was arrested on January 12 by Haryana Police. Chandigarh-based Sangeet Toor was invited for a talk about a month ago on women’s participation in the ongoing protest against the farm laws. “A speaker there asked me if there was any newsletter or paper being published on this subject. That’s when we thought, why not?” However, what set things moving was “media clampdown”. Ms. Toor said recently that media is not even being allowed to freely report on the farmers’ protest. “Government crackdown on media freedom led us to think that we really really need to push it out,” she said. On the content, the team is Ms. Toor, three students from the University of Delhi, a Pakistan-native professor based in New York, and a few other women. The designing of the newsletter is by Chandigarh based costume designer Navjeet Kaur, and the funding and production of the letter is by Ms. Toor’s sister, Sargam Toor. “The newsletter, in the beginning, will solely concentrate on the participation of women in the protest. The first edition is basically about the experience of women after January 26 tractor parade. Coming issues will have other stories as well, but not this one because there is hardly anything that is written about women in the protest, what is going in their mind and what they are facing,” she said. The newsletter will be published in two scripts — Gurumukhi and Shahmukhi — , which means Punjabi and Punjabi in Persian script respectively. “Shahmukhi because it is mostly used in West Punjab and Punjabi has been written in Shahmukhi for centuries there. Baba Farid, Shah Hussain wrote Punjabi in Shahmukhi,” she said. This newsletter was also to be published in Hindi. However, the woman working on the version had to dissociate herself for personal reasons. For Saturday, 2,500 copies are being printed to be distributed at Singhu border and Tikri border. Ms. Toor said that she will further travel to Punjab and distribute the newsletter. It is the second such initiative after Trolley Times , another four-page newsletter published in Punjabi and Hindi to “clarify real news amid fake news and represent people’s voices”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/newsletter-on-women-to-be-published-distributed-at-farmers-protest-sites/article33815823.ece
12 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Domestic help held for sexually abusing 2-year-old boy||A 16-year-old boy was apprehended for allegedly sexually assaulting a two-year-old boy in west Delhi’s Subhash Nagar, police said on Thursday. The accused, hailing from Bihar, had been working as a domestic help at the victim’s house for two-and-half years, they said. The matter was reported on Tuesday by the victim’s father. In his complaint, he alleged that at about 11.50 p.m., the domestic help took his son from his wife and assured her that he would make him sleep. The accused took his son to the first floor. After a while, when his wife went upstairs to check on their son, she found the room locked from inside and her son was crying and screaming. She got the door unlocked and found her son bleeding from his private parts. When she confronted the domestic help, he escaped from there, the complainant alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/domestic-help-held-for-sexually-abusing-2-year-old-boy/article33815832.ece
12 February 2021||New Delhi,||‘Some shaming country’s law and order for political gains’||The BJP government at the Centre was “fully committed” towards doubling the income of farmers, said the party, adding that some people were engaged in “shaming the country’s law and order” on the pretext of the peasant movement for their political interest. The comments were made at the Kisan Sammelan, which was organised to discuss the Union Budget among the Capital’s farmers over “doodh jalebi” where the party accused the Oppositionof seeking to make its “politics shine” in the name of the farmers’ movement. “Even after 70 years of Independence, no one ever thought about the condition of poor farmers living in the villages in the country. Today, in the name of farmers’ movement, some people are trying to make their politics shine by spreading confusion against the Centre,” said Kisan Morcha national president Rajkumar Chahar.   Today, in the name of farmers’ movement, some people are trying to make their politics shine by spreading confusion against the Centre MP Rajkumar Chahar Kisan Morcha national president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/some-shaming-countrys-law-and-order-for-political-gains/article33815826.ece
12 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man, 3 friends arrested for killing woman||A 21-year-old man and his three friends have been arrested for allegedly stabbing a woman to death after she put pressure on him to get married to her, the police said on Thursday. The accused — Sumit Kumar, a driver — hatched a conspiracy with his three freinds — Ravi, Arun and Amit — and killed the 32-year-old woman. She was already married, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-3-friends-arrested-for-killing-woman/article33815833.ece
12 February 2021||New Delhi,||Singhu border: Farmers improve facilities, infrastructure to prepare for prolonged protest||With a resolution of the stalemate over the new farm legislation seeming unlikely anytime soon, the agitating farmers at the Singhu border have started strengthening the infrastructure at the protest site to prepare for a long haul. “We are strengthening our communication and other infrastructure to continue the agitation for a long period,” said Deep Khatri associated with managing logistics at the Singhu border protest site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/singhu-border-farmers-improve-facilities-infrastructure-to-prepare-for-prolonged-protest/article33815821.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||FIRs against CDV for posing as policemen||Three FIRs have been registered against civil defence volunteers for impersonating as policemen while checking for mask violation in the city, said an officer on Thursday. He said the police received several PCR calls and complaints where people were harassed by “CDV”. Police to public The police said “we appeal that people may verify their identity (CDV) before accepting any challan”.  The officer said three FIRs have been registered in North East, New Delhi and West district and the volunteers have been arrested and sent to jail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/firs-against-cdv-for-posing-as-policemen/article33815827.ece
12 February 2021||Chandigah,||Cong. protests in Punjab against Centre’s policies||The Congress on Thursday staged protests in parts of Punjab against the BJP-led government at the Centre, alleging that its anti-people policies were responsible for the spike in fuel and cooking gas prices. State party president Sunil Jakhar, leading the protest in Abohar, hit out at the BJP government, accusing it of implementing policies that have adversely affected every section of society. “When the Congress was in power in 2014, the price of crude oil in the international market was 104 US dollar per barrel and now it is around 60 dollar per barrel, yet the fuel prices are being hiked. As a result, consumers in Punjab alone are facing an additional financial burden of Rs. 750 crore every month,” he said.  ‘Subsidy reduced’ Mr. Jakhar said that the faulty policies of the BJP government has also increased the price of cooking gas drastically, while the subsidy on cylinders had been reduced by 90% compared to year 2014. Referring to the ongoing farmers protest, he said that the BJP government had enacted three farm laws to encourage black market and destroy the agriculture sector. “Farmers from different states have been struggling on the Delhi borders for the last two-and-a-half months to get the contentious laws repealed but iron nails have been laid on the roads to prevent ‘anndata’ from entering Delhi. These nails were piercing democracy and if the current situation prevails then they will work as nails in the coffin of the BJP,” he said. “Only by withdrawing the black laws can the farmer be saved,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cong-protests-in-punjab-against-centres-policies/article33815844.ece
12 February 2021||GUWAHATI,||‘Exiled’ Bengal leader hints at ST status for Koch-Rajbongshis||An “exiled” leader of West Bengal has hinted at his community, the Koch-Rajbongshi, being granted Scheduled Tribe (ST) status in Assam. A self-proclaimed king of Cooch Behar in northern West Bengal and a spiritual leader, Ananta Rai has been living in Chirang near Bongaigaon town for a few years. He had claimed to have been in exile for fighting for the “independent state” of Cooch Behar. “Good news for the Koch-Rajbongshi community is on the way,” Mr Rai told journalists after Union Home Minister Amit Shah paid him a visit around noon on Thursday. Mr Shah’s visit is believed to be significant because of Mr Rai’s clout in the community who comprise a sizeable chunk of voters in western Assam and northern West Bengal, which once formed the medieval Koch kingdom. The Koch-Rajbongshis are one of six communities — the others are Adivasi, Chutia, Matak, Moran and Tai-Ahom — that have been demanding ST status for decades. The BJP has been splurging on the Adivasis, referred to as “tea tribes”. The Adivasis form about 20% of Assam’s population.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/exiled-bengal-leader-hints-at-st-status-for-koch-rajbongshis/article33815845.ece
12 February 2021||Guwahati,||Assam-Mizoram border tense, blockade on||There were no fresh incidents on the troubled Assam-Mizoram border but the situation remained tense as the economic blockade on Mizoram by Assam-based organisations continued for the second successive day on Thursday. Trouble along a disputed stretch of the inter-State border flared up on Tuesday evening after miscreants, allegedly from Mizoram attacked people at Kachurthal in southern Assam's Hailakandi. Police said 10 people were injured and more than 40 houses and shops were set ablaze. Assam-based groups reacted by imposing an economic blockade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/assam-mizoram-border-tense-blockade-on/article33815846.ece
12 February 2021||Mumbai,||Ballot papers won’t return: Pawar||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Thursday expressed complete faith in electronic voting machines (EVMs) and asserted that the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government does not want the use of ballot papers in elections. Interacting with reporters in the city, Mr. Pawar, a senior NCP leader, said EVMs work fine, but they have become the target of criticism from the losing sides in elections. There is no discussion within the government to bring in ballot papers. “Everything is fine with people in any party if they get the majority. But they start alleging that EVMs were manipulated if they get routed. EVMs are working fine. Work becomes paperless. What can I say... I have faith in EVMs,” Mr. Pawar said. Before resigning as Speaker, Nana Patole, now State Congress chief, had directed the Law and Judiciary Department to frame a law to give voters the option of using ballot papers besides EVMs in local governing bodies and Assembly polls. Mr. Patole issued the instruction during a meeting held earlier this month after complaints about alleged EVM tampering in polls. When asked about Mr. Patole’s instruction, Mr. Pawar said, “Each individual can have a different view. They think that way and I have said what I feel.” Speaking about the government’s official stand on the issue, Mr. Pawar said the MVA dispensation, in which the Shiv Sena and the Congress are the other two constituents, “absolutely does not” want the use of ballot papers. Mr. Patole said there were differing views on the issue, but he stands by his demand as it is within the ambit of the Constitution. He said Article 328 gives State governments the right to decide how elections should be conducted within the State. “We are not asking to scrap EVMs. We are only seeking the ballot paper as an option along with EVMs. If Ajit dada wants to vote using EVMs, he can. If someone else wants to vote on paper, then that person should have that option,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ballot-papers-wont-return-pawar/article33815719.ece
12 February 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra records over 6,000 recoveries||Maharashtra reported 6,107 recoveries on Thursday as opposed to 3,297 new COVID-19 cases. The active case tally has now declined to 30,265, while the total tally stands at 20,52,905. Twenty-five fatalities saw the death toll climb to 51,415. The tally of recoveries has risen to 19,70,053, while the recovery rate has marginally risen again to 95.84%. “Of 1,51,63,781 laboratory samples tested so far, 20,52,905 (with case positivity rate down to 13.54%) have returned positive with over 55,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate, adding that the State’s case fatality rate has dipped to 2.5%. Dr. Awate said after eliminating duplication of cases and making changes as per the residential address of patients, there had been a dip of 2,645 cases in the tally. Pune reported over 550 new cases to take its tally to 3,92,908. Two deaths took the toll to 8,007. There are 4,384 active cases, with a recovery rate of 96.56%. Mumbai saw 510 new cases, taking its tally to 3,12,303, of which 4,197 are active. Three deaths took the toll to 11,405.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-records-over-6000-recoveries/article33815718.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Patole to take charge today||Nana Patole will take charge as Maharashtra Congress chief at August Kranti Maidan on Friday after a public rally from Hutatma Chowk in Fort. After paying tributes to martyrs of Samyukta Maharashtra movement, he will head to Girgaum chowpatty on a tractor to highlight opposition to the farm laws. The leader will then travel to August Kranti Maidan on a bullock cart to protest rising fuel prices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/patole-to-take-charge-today/article33815717.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||In call with Xi, Biden talks of ‘unfair economic practices’||U.S. President Joe Biden spoke with his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping on Wednesday evening (Washington time), the first call between the two leaders since Mr. Biden assumed office on January 20. Mr. Biden highlighted concerns about Beijing’s economic practices, its human rights record and “assertive actions in the region”, while affirming his priority of preserving a “free and open Indo-Pacific”, the White House said in a read-out of the call. “President Biden affirmed his priorities of protecting the American people’s security, prosperity, health, and way of life, and preserving a free and open Indo-Pacific. President Biden underscored his fundamental concerns about Beijing’s coercive and unfair economic practices, crackdown in Hong Kong, human rights abuses in Xinjiang, and increasingly assertive actions in the region, including toward Taiwan,” the White House said. Mr. Xi, however, is reported to have said that Hong Kong, Taiwan and Xinjiang are matters internal to China, as per China’s state-run Xinhua news agency. China and the U.S. should “jointly safeguard peace and stability in the Asia-Pacific region”, Mr. Xi said. “The Taiwan question and issues relating to Hong Kong, Xinjiang, etc., are China’s internal affairs and concern China’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, and the U.S. side should respect China’s core interests and act prudently,” Mr. Xi said, as per Xinhua. Strained ties Mr. Biden, who, as Vice-President in the Barack Obama administration, had worked with Mr. Xi, has entered the White House at a time when U.S.-China relations are deeply strained over a trade war (started during the Trump administration) and growing Chinese assertiveness in Asia. The Trump administration — towards its end — had criticised Beijing for its human rights abuses against China’s Uighur Muslim minority and crackdowns in Hong Kong. The Biden administration is conducting a review of Trump administration’s trade policies on China as well as a review of the impact of Chinese tech companies on U.S. national security. The administration is also, at least for the moment, not going forward with a Trump administration ban on social media app TikTok and its takeover by a U.S. company, according to reports. However, the Biden administration hopes to build on the Trump administration’s strengthening of the Quad (the Indo-Pacific group of countries comprising India, the U.S., Australia and Japan), U.S. National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan recently said. Tackling COVID-19 The Biden administration has said it will cooperate with China when it is in America’s interest to do so, a message that was reiterated in the call as per the White House. “The two leaders also exchanged views on countering the COVID-19 pandemic, and the shared challenges of global health security, climate change, and preventing weapons proliferation. President Biden committed to pursuing practical, results-oriented engagements when it advances the interests of the American people and those of our allies,” the read-out said. Mr. Xi told Mr. Biden that cooperation was the “only right choice” for the U.S. and China, who stand to lose from confrontation, according to Xinhua. “The two sides should re-establish the various dialogue mechanisms, read each other’s policy intentions accurately, and avoid misunderstanding and miscalculation,” Mr. Xi is reported to have said. Both read-outs made a reference to greetings being shared for the Chinese (Lunar) New Year — the Year of the Ox.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/in-call-with-xi-biden-talks-of-unfair-economic-practices/article33815409.ece
12 February 2021||Yangon,||U.S. imposes sanctions on Myanmar||Anti-coup protesters on Thursday took to the streets of Myanmar for a sixth consecutive day, after U.S. President Joe Biden announced sanctions against the Southeast Asian nation’s Generals and demanded they relinquish power. There has been an outpouring of anger and defiance since the military ousted civilian leader Aung San Suu Kyi last week and detained her along with other senior figures of her National League for Democracy (NLD) party. Security forces have used tear gas, water cannon and rubber bullets against the protesters, with isolated reports of live rounds also being fired. Police also ramped up their harassment of the NLD with a raid on its headquarters. But demonstrators again marched peacefully on Thursday in Naypyidaw — the capital and military stronghold — as well as Yangon, the largest city and commercial hub, which saw tens of thousands flood into the streets. Western nations have repeatedly denounced the coup, with the U.S. leading calls for the Generals to relinquish power. In the most significant concrete action to pressure the junta, Mr. Biden announced on Wednesday that his administration was cutting off the Generals’ access to $1 billion in funds in the U.S. “I again call on the Burmese military to immediately release democratic political leaders and activists,” Mr. Biden said, as he flagged further sanctions. “The military must relinquish power.” European Union Foreign Policy Chief Josep Borrell has also warned the bloc could impose fresh sanctions on Myanmar’s military.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-imposes-sanctions-on-myanmar/article33815418.ece
12 February 2021||Beijing,||China pulls BBC World News off air for content ‘violation’||China’s broadcasting regulator announced on Thursday it has pulled BBC World News from the air, saying the channel’s content had “seriously” violated guidelines for reporting in the country. In a statement, China’s National Radio and Television Administration (NRTA) said BBC World News reports about China were found to “seriously violate” broadcast guidelines, including “the requirement that news should be truthful and fair” and not “harm China’s national interests”. The move comes after the BBC aired a report on February 3 detailing harrowing accounts of torture and sexual violence against Uighur women in Chinese camps. The NRTA “does not permit the BBC to continue broadcasting in China, and does not accept its new annual application for broadcast,” the statement from Beijing said. The BBC said it was disappointed with the move. “The BBC is the world’s most trusted international news broadcaster and reports on stories from around the world fairly, impartially and without fear or favour,” a BBC spokesperson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-pulls-bbc-world-news-off-air-for-content-violation/article33816016.ece
12 February 2021||WASHINGTON,||Chilling video footage of siege a key exhibit in Trump’s trial||Chilling security video of last month’s deadly insurrection at the U.S. Capitol, including of rioters searching menacingly for House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Vice-President Mike Pence, has become a key exhibit in former President Donald Trump’s impeachment trial, as lawmakers prosecuting the case wrap up their opening arguments for why Mr. Trump should be convicted of inciting the siege. The House will continue with its case on Thursday, with Mr. Trump’s lawyers set to launch their defence by the week’s end. The footage shown at the trial, much of it never before seen, has included video of the mob smashing into the building, distraught members of Congress receiving comfort, rioters engaging in hand-to-hand combat with police and audio of Capitol police officers pleading for back-up. It underscored how dangerously close the rioters came to the nation’s leaders, shifting the focus of the trial from an academic debate about the Constitution to a raw retelling of the January 6 assault. The footage included rioters roaming the halls chanting “Hang Mike Pence”, some equipped with combat gear.  Earlier in the day, prosecutors laid out their case by methodically linking Mr. Trump’s verbal attacks on the election to the violence that resulted when hundreds of loyalists stormed the building. Mr. Trump did nothing to stem the violence and watched with “glee”, the Democrats said, as the mob ransacked the building.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chilling-video-footage-of-siege-a-key-exhibit-in-trumps-trial/article33815417.ece
12 February 2021||Moscow,||Moscow urges Tehran to show ‘restraint’ after new breach||Russia on Thursday urged Iran to show restraint after it started producing uranium metal in a new breach of limits laid out in Tehran’s nuclear deal with world powers. “We understand the logic of their actions and the reasons prompting Iran. Despite this, it is necessary to show restraint and a responsible approach,” Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov told state news agency RIA Novosti. The Vienna-based International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) said on Wednesday that it had verified the production of 3.6 grammes of uranium metal at a plant in Iran. The landmark deal — reached in 2015 by the U.S., China, Russia, Germany, France and Britain — contained a 15-year ban on “producing or acquiring plutonium or uranium metals or their alloys”. Iran said last month it was researching uranium metal production, a sensitive issue because uranium metal can be used as a component in nuclear weapons. Mr. Ryabkov said Iran’s move demonstrated Tehran’s “determination not to put up with the current situation”, after it warned that time was running out for U.S. President Joe Biden’s administration to save the agreement. In 2018, the then U.S. president Donald Trump dramatically withdrew from the Iran nuclear deal and reimposed crippling economic sanctions on Tehran. Mr. Biden is seeking to revive the agreement, but the two sides appear to be in a stand-off over who acts first.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/moscow-urges-tehran-to-show-restraint-after-new-breach/article33815415.ece
12 February 2021||Ankara,||Erdogan’s call for revamped Constitution stirs suspicions||Four years after Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan assumed sweeping powers, he has wrong-footed his opponents once again by calling for a new Constitution, sparking accusations of trying to set up a diversion from the country’s woes. Taking seemingly everyone off guard, Mr. Erdogan mentioned early last week during one of his near-daily speeches that “it may be time for Turkey to reopen the debate about a new Constitution”. The timing aroused immediate suspicions over the intentions of a man who has been at the apex of Turkish political life since 2003, first as Prime Minister and as President since 2014. The 66-year-old Turkish leader is facing a sudden burst of student protests, an economy that was under strain even before the COVID-19 pandemic struck last year, and polls showing a melting support base. The current Constitution was changed in a controversial 2017 referendum, which created an executive presidency. It went into force barely a year later when Mr. Erdogan won re-election, with the amendments allowing him to consolidate his power. Since then the only politicians demanding constitutional changes have been members of the opposition, all calling for a return to the previous parliamentary democracy. ‘Change the agenda’ Few think this is what Mr. Erdogan has in mind. “This is only an attempt to change the agenda so that the economy, the pandemic, farmers’ concerns, traders’ worries and rights violations aren’t discussed,” Idris Sahin, deputy chairman of the opposition Democracy and Progress Party (DEVA), said. DEVA was launched last year by Ali Babacan, a former Erdogan ally who won the West’s trust as Economy Minister. Mr. Sahin dismissed Mr. Erdogan’s move as “absolutely not a sincere idea”, describing it instead as a belated response to opposition parties’ attempts to dilute the executive presidency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/erdogans-call-for-revamped-constitution-stirs-suspicions/article33815411.ece
12 February 2021||ISLAMABAD,||Pak. test-fires ‘high precision’ ballistic missile||Pakistan on Thursday successfully test-fired a short range surface-to-surface ballistic missile capable of hitting land and sea targets with “high precision” up to 490 km away, its military said. In a statement, it said the Babur cruise missile was “launched from a state-of-the-art Multi Tube Missile Launch Vehicle”. According to the statement, Pakistan’s President Arif Alvi, Prime Minister Imran Khan and the military leadership congratulated engineers over the launch of the missile.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pak-test-fires-high-precision-ballistic-missile/article33815408.ece
12 February 2021||London,||AstraZeneca profits soar as global vaccine drive gains momentum||AstraZeneca said on Thursday that its profits had doubled in 2020, as the World Health Organization approved its jab for those over 65 and the global immunisation drive gained momentum.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/astrazeneca-profits-soar-as-global-vaccine-drive-gains-momentum/article33815410.ece
12 February 2021||San Francisco,||Facebook to follow audio social network Clubhouse: report||Facebook is looking to carve out its own spot on the audio social networking scene that has seen invitation-only startup Clubhouse rocket to popularity, The New York Times reported on Wednesday.afp||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/facebook-to-follow-audio-social-network-clubhouse-report/article33815412.ece
12 February 2021||Toulon,||French nun, Europe's oldest person, turns 117 after surviving Covid||Europe’s oldest person, French nun Sister Andre, turns 117 on Thursday after surviving COVID-19 last month and living through two world wars, with a special birthday feast, including her favourite dessert — baked Alaska.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/french-nun-europes-oldest-person-turns-117-after-surviving-covid/article33815414.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Is India’s Digital Services Tax discriminatory?||Last month, a United States Trade Representative (USTR) investigation report found India’s Digital Services Tax (DST) to be discriminatory. It said the tax is “inconsistent with prevailing principles of international taxation”, and burdens or restricts U.S. commerce. India has denied these charges. The bone of contention is a 2% tax that India has charged since April 2020 on revenues from digital services, applicable only to non-resident companies. In a discussion moderated bySriram Srinivasan, Suranjali Tandon and Nikhil Kapoor discuss this issue. Edited excerpts:  India introduced a 6% equalisation levy in 2016. From then to taxing a broader basket of online services in 2020, how do you view what India has done, especially in the context of the rest of the world? Suranjali Tandon:We have to rewind to 2013, when the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) programme by the OECD [Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development] was launched at the behest of the G20 countries. Under the 15 action points, action point one was to look at the tax challenges of the digital economy. By 2015, action point one still remained a work in progress. The main problem was to find a new way of taxing digital companies that are not adequately taxed because of how the rules are designed. So, the primary concern was that companies don’t have a physical location in the markets where they operate. And use the intangibles, which are hard to value. India, in 2016, became the first country to implement the equalisation levy, on advertising services at 6%. This was basically on payments made to a non-resident by a resident advertising on the platform. The thinking was that when a solution is reached at the global level, this would sort of be phased out. In 2019, in a sharp departure from its original thinking, OECD put out a policy note saying that there’s an elephant in the room, which is the redistribution of taxing rights, which this action point seems to bring up again and again, and unless we address this, finding a consensus will be difficult. Different countries took different positions. India, originally in 2018, had introduced a test for significant economic presence in the Income Tax Act, according to which, if a company had users in India, it sort of defined its economic connection with India, and therefore gives India the right to tax. While this was introduced in the Act, it did not have any value because the treaties would have to incorporate a similar provision for it to be applicable. Fast forward to 2020, and the U.S. in the G20 meeting said even if OECD does find a consensus, there should be an option of applying some safe harbour basis, which is to say that the company can choose whether this consensus applies. This startled a lot of countries. They were apprehensive that tomorrow if a safe harbour basis were to be applied, would it serve the purpose. And to contextualise India’s equalisation levy, this was the sort of conversation brewing at the international level. In a surprise move, the new equalisation levy, which expands the scope significantly, even to e-commerce, was introduced in 2020. And after that, the U.S. has taken a stance that it would interrogate such measures as a hindrance to its commerce and trade. And irrespective of the position that the U.S. takes on this, countries such as France, India, and 10 countries against which the investigations have been initiated, have taken a position to say that this might be perhaps an interim solution. Nikhil Kapoor:In 2016, the Akhilesh Ranjan Committee Report had suggested that in order to create a level-playing field between online businesses and brick-and-mortar businesses, digital businesses which do not have a physical presence in India but are able to enjoy a sustainable economic presence should be paying a certain amount of tax. This was how the equalisation levy of 2016 was conceptualised. India has always maintained that once there is a global consensus, it would cease to keep the equalisation levy in force. India has been engaged in the global discussions at the OECD level. And OECD had promised to deliver a consensus-based solution by mid-2019. That did not happen owing to the pandemic, but because of the growing needs of India to generate tax revenues, this was a sudden move that took the entire digital community by surprise. Unlike the 2016 levy, this 2020 levy was devoid of any sort of public consultation. It was a major surprise for the digital community. And that is perhaps why the first two deadlines for paying the equalisation levy 2020 was also missed by a lot of multinationals. Even other countries introduced DSTs akin to India’s equalisation levy. However, these have not been devoid of public consultation. For instance, the U.K. DST underwent significant public scrutiny, and the result is that it is more sound than what perhaps India’s levy is. How different is the U.K. tax? NK:One of the primary criticisms against India’s equalisation levy is that it is a tax on revenue as opposed to being a tax on profits. The U.K. allows companies to not pay any tax if their net operating margin is negative. Another would be a transaction that involves three jurisdictions. Take the example of an Indian user located in the U.K., receiving services from a U.S. company. The U.K. DST contemplates that only 50% of the revenues from such a transaction would be chargeable to the U.K. DST. This makes it a better law. Another major difference is that companies that sell their own inventories are explicitly excluded from the scope of the U.K. DST. Whereas, India’s equalisation levy covers everything under the sun. ST:The U.K. makes a slight departure in terms of details and it’s slightly different from how India has implemented it. But the U.S. also looks at the U.K. taxes in some way as discriminatory. The USTR report finds India’s DST problematic. But is it discriminatory?  NK:The investigation finds that India’s equalisation levy discriminates against U.S. companies in particular. The reason for it is that the tax incident by design is on non-resident companies. And because the incident of the equalisation levy is mostly on U.S. companies, which is 72%. It’s arbitrary, as per the U.S. I don’t really find any objection to this because the law is arbitrary. But there are several grounds which are not in consonance with what could be a valid reason to call a certain act as discriminatory. For instance, the report claims that India’s approach to taxing just non-residents is quite unique, but that is not true. The USTR report also says that the same services offered non-digitally are not taxed, and this is leading to a ring-fencing of the digital economy. The Akhilesh Ranjan Committee Report said the idea behind the equalisation levy was to create a level-playing field between the ordinary businesses that have a physical presence in a country and pay regular taxes and the ones that are operating digitally that can avoid such taxes. I cannot say that the law is very clear but to say that it’s discriminating particularly against U.S. companies would essentially be overstepping. The report also claims is that DST taxes companies with no permanent establishment in India, contravening international tax principles. Now, the BEPS project is based on the fact that digital companies are able to enjoy sustained economic presence in other jurisdictions without being physically present. The international community is moving towards a scenario where such transactions ought to be taxed. Therefore, to say that it’s contrary to international tax principles would be overstepping a little. The report also claims that DST taxes a company’s revenue rather than its income. This is inconsistent with international tax practice that income, not revenue, is the appropriate basis of corporate taxation. Over here also, since the issue of taxing digital companies is unique, a lot of scholars have argued that taxing revenue for digital transactions as location-specific rent is more feasible than a digital presence, because it would lead to lesser compliance costs. ST:Why is it seen as discriminatory? One is that they say that it applies to only U.S. companies. I find there’s a problem with the argument, because if the market itself is dominated by U.S. firms, the fact that it applies to those firms may be the result of the market structure. Is it unreasonable? Well, to the extent that clarifications were not issued, perhaps it’s unreasonable. But other than that, the threshold that India has laid down for the equalisation levy is actually much below what the EU envisages. The report also makes the mention of it violating the principles of international tax. If the companies that currently operate within that framework do not stand up to the measures or the principles of international tax, the introduction of a tax to plug that gap should not be looked at as a perverse move. What could happen next? Retaliation by way of tariffs? NK:See, this issue becomes very political in the sense that Section 301 investigations had themselves become obsolete before the Donald Trump administration came in. Now, Section 301 investigations are unilateral in nature, because the USTR is essentially deciding whether a measure is violative of the U.S.’s rights. So, there is an inherent bias as to what the findings are going to be. But I believe they would want to collaborate with India and find an amicable solution rather than imposing strict trade tariffs, which is what happened between France and the U.S. The criticism against Section 301 investigations is that after the WTO law and the dispute settlement mechanism came into picture and the scope of the General Agreement on Trade in Services were expanded to include services as well, countries have been of the view that an international body should be looking at such disputes. And because it’s not the Trump administration now, the way Section 301 investigations are going to be used in the future is still something that remains to be seen. How do you see a consensus on the broader issues emerging? ST:There are a few ways forward. The position that India has taken is to remain committed to the OECD process, to influence it, and to say that there are ways to tweak this design, because it will be put out in June 2021. So, the design could be worked out better to take into consideration the interests of the developing countries. Second, the United Nations is taking some sort of leadership on this to design its own proposal, which is an automated DST which is to say that within the existing treaty framework today, we introduce a withholding on payments that are made from markets to jurisdictions. And third, which I think is a possibility, maybe to apply the DST and then allow countries to bilaterally negotiate with their respective partner countries a process of crediting this tax.  Other countries introduced DSTs akin to India’s equalisation levy. However, these, unlike India’s, have not been devoid of public consultation. Nikhil Kapoor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/is-indias-digital-services-tax-discriminatory/article33815406.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||The agonising cost of ham-handed development||Following flash floods at Chamoli in Uttarakhand, defence personnel are looking for missing persons in a mélange of rock, mud, water, and debris, airlifting rations to inaccessible villages, and repairing bridges and telecommunication networks. Social scientists are assessing the disaster’s impact on the region’s economy. Scientists and policy makers are debating whether climate change or unchecked development in an ecologically fragile region was primarily responsible for the disaster and the death toll. News reports of ancient temples having been swept away in the Alakananda’s raging waters are bringing back traumatic memories of the Kedarnath floods in 2013. All these developments show the profound significance attached to this region and they prompt a historian to ask two fundamental and interrelated questions: How did the Uttarakhand Himalayas emerge as a deva bhumi and how did it develop into a focus of Hindu pilgrimage? Borderland to sacred place A study of the archaeological record and inscriptional evidence suggests that many and varied agents and processes played important roles in gradually transforming this borderland into a sacred landscape. Artefacts found in the Himalayan foothills that are datable to the period extending from 300 BCE and 600 CE include an Ashokan rock edict, brick altars for conducting ashvamedha yagnas , coin hoards, and sculptures. The forms of these artefacts and their find-spots indicate deepening contact between communities living in the Gangetic plains and in the foothills. These very developments fostered the growth of Haridwar and Kalsi as cosmopolitan towns and as “gateways” into the Himalayas. Initially, mendicants in search of retreats, merchants eager to enlarge trading networks, adventurous princes in their quest to establish principalities, and artisans in search of employment passed through these gateway towns. Eventually, in the seventh century, a regional tradition of stone temple architecture commenced in the Uttarakhand Himalayas. The earliest shrines in this tradition were built at Palethi and Lakhamandal, just upstream from Haridwar and Kalsi, by visiting sovereigns. Early developments However, these two sites with royal patronage never became major tirthas . Instead, Jageshwar, situated well east of Lakhamandal and Palethi attained this stature. Between the seventh and tenth centuries, builders at Jageshwar modified local geography and ecology to encourage comparisons between it and celebrated locales such as Kashi and Devadarunavana, Shiva’s legendary deodar forest. Eventually, Jageshwar came to have 150 stone temples. These early developments at Jageshwar are relatable to the sway of the Pashupatas and other Shaiva ascetics and not to the rise of local dynasties. In fact, the influence of these ascetic groups in this period distinguishes Uttarakhand from adjoining kingdoms where aristocratic lineages were the primary power brokers. In time, the development of a distinctive architectural tradition, increases in the priestly population, greater availability of skilled craftsmen, and the emergence of small principalities, helped further alter the status of this borderland and perceptions of it. By the twelfth century, architects, master-masons, and sculptors from lands as far away as Gujarat travelled to Uttarakhand to build temples in elaborate typologies associated with their homelands. And by the thirteenth century, larger entourages of ascetics, and occasionally rulers from distant lands began undertaking pilgrimages to established and emerging tirthas in this mountainous region. Their journeys and activities ultimately paved the way for the Char Dham Yatra. The pilgrimage circuit The Char Dham Yatra today consists of a pilgrimage to Badrinath, Kedarnath, Gangotri, and Yamunotri. Like many other tirthas in Uttarakhand, Badrinath and Kedarnath have long been associated with gods and sages. For instance, in the Mahabharata , Badrinath is described as the site of Narayana’s discourse to Nara. Kedarnath is mentioned in the Skanda Purana , in medieval lists of jyotirlingas , and in the names of temples built as far away as Karnataka. Additionally, both Badrinath and Kedarnath are associated with Adi Shankara who is said to have visited them in the eighth century. Possibly his followers played a role in constructing temples at Pandukeshwar where medieval edifices built in the Dravida and Nagara modes stand side-by side. The oldest historical evidence of the establishment of a sacred centre at Badrinath comes from a charter dating to the ninth century preserved at Pandukeshwar. Issued by a hill ruler, the charter instructs priests living at nearby villages of Joshimath and Pandukeshwar to help brahmacharis upstream at Badrinath. Centuries later, in 1808, when a motley troupe of Englishmen reached the Badrinath temple in disguise, they reported it as welcoming 45,000-50,000 pilgrims annually. Given its location in an avalanche-prone valley above the tree line, it is likely that the Badrinath temple has been built and rebuilt several times in its history. Like the present Badrinath temple, the temple standing at Kedarnath today, dates to the early modern period. As sites located close to the glacial sources of the Ganga and the Yamuna, Gangotri and Yamunotri have also been given sacred associations. Historically sought out by fearless sadhus, in the more recent past they have been visited by intrepid Englishmen eager to participate in ongoing efforts to map India. In the early 20th century, the Jaipur royal family supported the construction of a temple at Gangotri. The shrines at Yamunotri today are ever newer. Shifts, ecopressures Demographic, political, social and economic shifts that have occurred in the past six decades have led to an increase in the number of pilgrims visiting sacred centres in Uttarakhand. After 1962, the Indian government recognised that the world’s highest and loftiest mountain range no longer served as an insurmountable wall. To safeguard against future incursions, a massive development programme along the country’s mountainous northern border was launched. Agencies such as the Border Roads Organisation, the Indo Tibetan Border Police, and the THDC India Limited (formerly Tehri Hydro Development Corporation Limited) were established. They were granted sizeable budgets, and charged with the construction of roads, tunnels, bridges, cantonments, hospitals, dams, and telecommunication pylons. Over time, these efforts stimulated the region’s economy, nurtured new settlements, and introduced infrastructure that facilitated pilgrimage to select sacred centres. The foundations laid by the agencies intensified after 2000 when owing to regional demands for greater political autonomy, Uttarakhand was carved out of sprawling Uttar Pradesh. Recognising religious tourism as an important source of income for a landlocked State mostly covered by snowcapped peaks and dense forests, a succession of governments have created further amenities for pilgrims, widely publicised initiatives, and embarked on the construction of new dams, multi-lane highways, and railroads. As a result of these efforts, many more individuals now undertake sacred journeys, which until 60 years ago were made by only the bravest, fittest, and most determined pilgrims. Revisiting ideas The 2013 Kedarnath floods and the flash floods that have swept through the Alakananda Valley earlier this week suggest that ham-handed development in the name of god, or otherwise, can come at an agonising cost. Now is the time for our leaders to recommit themselves to the ideas and activism of Chandi Prasad Bhatt, Gaura Devi, Guru das Agrawal, Ravi Chopra, Sunderlal Bahuguna, Vandana Shiva, and other Gandhian environmentalists and social workers. Over the past few decades, they have mobilised local communities to protect Uttarakhand’s forests, created local employment, and questioned the wisdom of constructing large hydroelectric projects in a seismically sensitive sacred landscape. They have also reminded us that unless we change our course of action, another Himalayan miscalculation is imminent. Nachiket Chanchani is an associate professor at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, U.S. and the author of ‘Mountain Temples and Temple Mountains: Architecture, Religion, and Nature in the Central Himalayas’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-agonising-cost-of-ham-handed-development/article33815394.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||In Biden’s policy pursuit, the world order challenge||Some of the remarks by Joe Biden, now the United States President, during the U.S. presidential election campaign have come to haunt him. He had, in August 2019, been a strident critic of the U.S. withdrawal from the nuclear agreement with Iran, formally the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). He had then promised that, subject to Iran’s compliance with its obligations, the U.S. would re-enter the agreement. Iran’s Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif, in a recent Foreign Affairs article (https://fam.ag/2Nhz80U), has reminded Mr. Biden of his commitment and called on him to end the “failed policies” of the earlier administration that had made West Asia “the most militarised region in the world”. He also warned that “containment” of Iran would not work. Israel has given the opposite message: its armed forces commander, Lt. Gen. Aviv Kochavi, in a belligerent speech on January 26, said that the nuclear agreement was “bad and must not be allowed”. He added that Israel had operational plans to take “decisive action”. Israel and the U.S.’s Gulf allies, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, have also insisted that they be involved with the discussions with Iran on the revival of the agreement. Regional concerns In office, Mr. Biden has shown little urgency on the JCPOA matter. Clearly, there are some serious issues at stake here. Despite the sanctions, Iran’s regional influence remains significant, based on the backing of Shia militia in such diverse locales as Lebanon, Iraq, Yemen and Syria. The Iranian ability to mobilise militants across the region is viewed by Israel and some the Gulf Arab states as threatening their security, the latter being concerned about Iran’s influence with their Shia populations as well. The capabilities of Iran’s precision missiles and drones are also a matter of regional anxiety. Iran has focused on the domestic development of missiles due to international sanctions on defence supplies. Iran views them as defensive assets that give it a deterrence capability. Given the advanced air and missile power available with Israel, Saudi Arabia and some other Gulf states, there is no prospect of Iran curtailing its missiles and drone programmes. Mr. Biden in office has already revealed that despite some differences in policy content and diplomatic style, his term is likely to show more continuity than change where the U.S.’s core interests are concerned, specifically in its ties with Russia, China and Iran. For instance, in his CBS interview on February 7, Mr. Biden said he had not spoken to the Chinese President, Xi Jinping, who “doesn’t have a democratic bone in his body”, and anticipated “extreme competition” on global economic issues. The U.S. Secretary of State, Antony J. Blinken, was tough with his counterpart in their telephonic conversation, and raised “human rights and democratic values” in the context of Xinjiang, Tibet and Hong Kong. Biden’s policy approaches Again, Mr. Biden is likely to reverse his predecessor Donald Trump’s personal accommodative approach towards Russia and adopt the U.S.’s traditional confrontational posture. The White House said that, in his conversation with Russian President Vladmir Putin on January 26, he made it clear that the U.S. “will act firmly in defence of our national interests in response to actions by Russia” and brought up Ukraine, the cyber attacks and the poisoning of Russian Opposition leader Alexei Navalny. Mr. Biden’s Iran policy is likely to match Mr. Trump’s hardline approach on substantive matters, but without the bravado and crude brinkmanship of the former President. On January 29, the Pentagon spokesperson described Iran as a “malign actor” in the region, referred to Iran’s “active ballistic missiles” programmes, the fact that it is still “re-spinning centrifuges”, and highlighted the need to protect the U.S.’s regional partners from Iran’s “acts of terrorism” — these issues and the accompanying rhetoric are the same as those of the Trump administration. This approach also panders to Iran’s regional rivals who wish to see the Islamic republic emasculated and isolated. There will thus be no dramatic change in the U.S.’s approach to Iran on the nuclear question. The appointment of a Special Envoy for Iran, Robert Malley, suggests that the U.S. is looking at a long-term diplomatic engagement not just on nuclear issues but on all matters that have security implications for the U.S. and its regional partners. To encourage this dialogue, the U.S. could offer some palliatives to Iran, such as International Monetary Fund providing funds to combat the novel coronavirus pandemic, but with no early easing of sanctions on oil sales. Iran may quickly find that it has to largely depend on its own resources to manage its interests at home and in the region. Its elections in June could thus put in place leaders who see no benefits in working cooperatively with western powers. The international lines Battle lines will thus remain in place in the region — Israel, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates will be in a face-off with Iran and its allies, Iraq, Syria and its Shia militia — in a prolonged war of attrition that does not resolve any issue, but continues to wreak death and destruction.  Alternatively, we could see a genuine regional effort to ease tensions and promote regional confidence, spearheaded by Qatar, working with Russia and, possibly, China. Qatar’s Foreign Minister has already proposed direct engagement with Iran. Perhaps, Saudi Arabia and the UAE, already facing heat from the Biden administration, will see the value of this approach as they had done during heightened tensions in the Gulf waters in 2019: the UAE had then discussed maritime security with Iran, while Saudi Arabia had encouraged mediation efforts by regional states. As Mr. Biden pursues policies of an earlier era, he will find that much has changed in West Asia and the world since he was last in office. Not only is Russia now an influential player in the region, China, too, with its Belt and Road Initiative, has high stakes in regional stability. The Sino-Iran 25 years agreement, which was leaked last year, envisages their substantial and long-term cooperation in political, security, military, economic, energy and logistical connectivity areas. Its formal finalisation was deliberately postponed by both sides to see what the U.S. elections would throw up. With Mr. Biden being confrontational, they are likely to pursue this partnership more openly and robustly. Mr. Biden will thus witness a new world order, shaped by a coalition of Russia, China and Iran, in which the U.S. is no longer the most significant role-player. This tectonic change will define international affairs in coming decades. Talmiz Ahmad is a former diplomat||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/in-bidens-policy-pursuit-the-world-order-challenge/article33815397.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||A resilient future for Uttarakhand||Days after a glacier burst in the Chamoli district of Uttarakhand caused flash floods, the scientific community is still struggling to understand what triggered the disaster. At the time of writing this article, the death toll was 34 with more than 170 people missing. The floods have also caused heavy damage to public and private infrastructure, including the NTPC’s Tapovan-Vishnugad hydropower project and the Rishiganga mini hydro project. The incident was reminiscent of the 2013 disaster in Uttarakhand which killed thousands. Why is Uttarakhand vulnerable? Uttarakhand is located in the midst of young and unstable mountains, and is subject to intense rainfall. But these natural characteristics can’t be solely responsible for devastations the State has witnessed in the past decade. For years geologists, glaciologists and climate experts have voiced their fears about an impending disaster due to climate change, rapid and indiscriminate construction activities, and the subsequent ecological destruction in the region. The occurrence of the current glacier burst was loosely attributed to erosion, a build-up of water pressure, an avalanche of snow or rocks, landslides or an earthquake under the ice. According to the Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology, a rock mass, weakened from years of freezing and thawing of snow, may have led to the creation of a weak zone and fractures leading to a collapse that resulted in flash floods. What has intrigued experts and the local community is that this avalanche occurred unexpectedly, out of the regular flood season. Experts also identified large-scale human settlements and expansion of agricultural activities leading to massive deforestation, as a possible trigger. Studies have shown that widespread settlements, farming, cattle grazing and other anthropogenic activities could destroy the natural barriers that control avalanches and floods, thereby enhancing the possibilities of a glacial lake outburst flood. The Hindu Kush Himalaya Assessment Report (2019) had pointed out that one-third of the Hindu Kush Himalaya’s glaciers would melt by 2100 and potentially destabilise the river regime in Asia, even if all the countries in the region fulfilled their commitments under the Paris Agreement. It also warned that any ecologically destructive activities would lead to more intensified disasters like landslides. Experts and activists have incessantly asked for scrutiny into the construction of hydroelectric power projects in Uttarakhand. There have also been allegations about the use of explosives in the construction of dams and other infrastructure. In 2014, an expert committee led by Dr Ravi Chopra, instituted to assess the role of dams in exacerbating floods, provided hard evidence on how haphazard construction of dams was causing irreversible damage to the region.  Some immediate steps The need of the hour is to invest in long-term crisis response mechanisms and resilience solutions. A few immediate steps include: (i) investing in resilience planning, especially in flood prevention and rapid response; (ii) climate proofing the infrastructure such as by applying road stabilisation technologies for fragile road networks and strengthening existing structures like bridges, culverts and tunnels; (iii) strengthening embankments with adequate scientific know-how; (iv) reassessing development of hydropower and other public infrastructure; (v) investing in a robust monitoring and early warning system; (vi) establishing implementable policies and regulatory guidelines to restrict detrimental human activities, including responsible eco- and religious tourism policies; and (vii) investing in training and capacity building to educate and empower local communities to prevent and manage risks effectively. The time for wake-up calls is long behind us. India needs to urgently rise up to the challenge by applying innovative and inclusive solutions that support nature and marginalised communities, to restore and rebuild a resilient future for Uttarakhand. A. Nambi Appadurai is Director, Climate Resilience Program, World Resources Institute, India. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-resilient-future-for-uttarakhand/article33815402.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Order at the border||India and China finally reaching an agreement on disengagement at Pangong Lake, which has been at the heart of the recent LAC tensions, is a promising start towards restoring peace in the border areas. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh has said both sides will cease their forward deployments on the north and south banks of the lake in a phased, coordinated, and verified manner. China’s Ministry of Defence announced an agreement “to start synchronised and organised disengagement”. Both sides have agreed to a temporary moratorium on patrolling in the disputed areas north and south of the lake. The withdrawal of armoured elements, including tanks that have been in dangerously close proximity, began on Wednesday. All frontline personnel will subsequently be withdrawn over the next two to three weeks. North of the lake, China’s troops will return to their base at Sirijap, east of Finger 8, while India’s troops will similarly return to their permanent base at Dhan Singh Thapa post, at Finger 3. India previously patrolled on foot up to Finger 8 — there is no motorable road access from India’s side to areas east of Finger 4 — while China has dominated up to Finger 4, having already built a road there and enjoying superior logistics. Starting last summer, Chinese troops had prevented India from reaching Finger 8, leading to the crisis. Now, the entire contested area, from 4 to 8, will become a buffer zone and all temporary infrastructure built after April 2020 will be withdrawn. Similarly, both sides will return to their bases south of the lake, where India will vacate the heights it occupied in an effective countermove in late August in the Kailash range, which gave India much needed leverage to negotiate as well as demonstrated its resolve to match China’s actions. The stand-offs on the north and south banks, involving troops and artillery, remained the hardest nut to crack over nine long rounds of talks between military commanders. With this agreement, the only pending problems now are smaller, less concerning stand-offs involving fewer troops in Patrolling Points 15 and 17A in the Gogra-Hot Springs area, which will be taken up 48 hours after disengagement at Pangong Lake is completed over the next few weeks. In the Depsang plains, there is no stand-off situation or heavy deployment of troops, but a long-running dispute over the LAC and blocking of patrols that predates the current crisis and as yet remains unresolved. The success of the new disengagement plan will finally depend on whether it is implemented on the ground in letter and in spirit. The events of last year have left enormous distrust, which remains a hurdle and China’s actions on the ground have not always matched its commitments. Both sides should keep in mind what is at stake for the broader relationship between the two most populous countries, which ultimately hinges on peace on the border.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/order-at-the-border/article33815388.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Tender cut||The government’s statement about bringing in a law on cryptocurrencies is welcome, as it could put an end to the existing ambiguity over the legality of these currencies in India. The vagueness exists notwithstanding the fact that the government has, from time to time, suggested that it does not consider them to be legal tender. It has not, however, been able to channel this understandable disapproval — arising out of the fact that such currencies are highly volatile, used for illicit Internet transactions, and wholly outside the ambit of the state — into any sort of regulation. In 2018, the RBI did send a circular to banks directing them not to provide services for those trading in cryptocurrencies. But this was eventually set aside by the Supreme Court, which found the circular to be “disproportionate,” given that the central bank had consistently maintained that virtual currencies were not banned in India. Also, the RBI could not show that entities that it regulated were adversely impacted by exchanges dealing in virtual currencies. The Minister of State for Finance, Anurag Thakur, who on Tuesday confirmed in the Rajya Sabha that a Bill was in the offing, highlighted the complexity in regulation. He said, “Regulatory bodies like RBI and Sebi etc also don’t have a legal framework to directly regulate cryptocurrencies as they are neither currencies nor assets or securities or commodities issued by an identifiable user.” This legal ambivalence has not, however, been able to prevent cryptocurrencies from having a growing clientele in India. Their attraction may only grow now, given that the most well-known of them as also the most valuable, Bitcoin, has hit new peaks in price and is gaining influential followers such as Tesla founder Elon Musk. So, what will the Bill seek to do? Those associated with this niche but growing ecosystem will be worried about this question the most. Cryptocurrency exchanges, which have sprung up, are reportedly lobbying with the government to make sure these currencies are regulated rather than banned outright. Smart regulation is preferable, as a ban on something that is based on a technology of distributed ledger cannot be implemented for all practical purposes. Even in China, where cryptocurrencies have been banned and the Internet is controlled, trading in cryptocurrencies has been low but not non-existent, as an India inter-ministerial committee found out. Despite this and the fact that most countries it studied had opted for regulation, this committee still went ahead to recommend an outright ban. Of course, it encouragingly also batted for an official digital currency as well as for the promotion of the underlying blockchain technology. The government must resist the idea of a ban and push for smart regulation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/tender-cut/article33815389.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||From Myanmar to Pakistan, lots of words but no action||First speeches after coups are important. When a man in uniform takes over and deposes a civilian government, he goes on television to announce the contours of his mission. He usually promises order, stability and growth — a renewal of the nation after the disorder — and elections in a bit. Two days after the February 1 coup ousting Aung San Suu Kyi and other National League for Democracy (NLD) leaders from power in Myanmar, Senior General Min Aung Hlaing found fault with the November 2020 general elections that returned the NLD to power with an increased majority. “After emergency provisions tasks are finished, free and fair multiparty elections will be held according to the Constitution. The winning party will be transferred state duty according to democratic standards,” he promised. On October 12, 1999, I was in Islamabad and had the once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to report how General Pervez Musharraf ousted Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif from power in a bloodless coup. At 2.50 a.m. on the morning of October 13, Gen. Musharraf went on State-run Pakistan Television (there were no private channels then) and announced that he had moved in as a “last resort” to prevent “any further destabilisation”. Addressing “his countrymen”, Gen. Musharraf stated, “I request you all to remain calm and support your armed forces in the re-establishment of order to pave the way for a prosperous future for Pakistan.” The olive greens and khaki leaders always promised order and stability. In Myanmar, the Senior General seems to suggest that his actions are in accordance with the Constitution and “proper” elections will lead to the restoration of “democracy”. Even in the pre-social media world, Gen. Musharraf took the title of ‘Chief Executive’ and not Chief Martial Law Administrator (CMLA) like his predecessors Zia-ul-Haq, Yahya Khan and Ayub Khan. He was anxious not to give the impression that he was a full-fledged military dictator. There was a fourth, albeit civilian, CMLA – Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto, who took over a Pakistan that was reeling from the loss of its eastern wing. Like in Pakistan, coups and decades of military rule in Myanmar have been institutional. There has been little room for a cabal of officers to take over (though attempts have been made); coup leaders have survived (and thrived) only because they had institutional support from their officers and men. The international context is key for the survival of the generals — Ayub in Pakistan was much loved by the West, especially the Americans. Zia, from being shunned, turned out to be a ‘saviour’ for the Americans after the Soviets invaded Afghanistan. Gen. Musharraf, correctly accused of presiding over a military establishment that promoted terror groups, gave up Al-Qaeda leaders in instalments and placated an angry U.S. President George W. Bush. In contrast, the West never engaged with isolationist Burmese generals. In the end, while first words matter, actions speak louder. Military rulers have contributed little to improving the lot of common people — in Myanmar or in Pakistan. They simply ended up perpetuating uniformed establishments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/from-myanmar-to-pakistan-lots-of-words-but-no-action/article33815401.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Cartoons from the Hindi Punch||We have received a copy of the Twenty-first annual publication of Cartoons from the Hindi Punch edited by Mr. Bargorji Nowrosji. The album contains interesting caricatures depicting important events of the year 1920 and provides impressive instruction on matters political, social, educational, and economical. Although the editor claims in the preface to be non-partisan in his views we notice that throughout the volume Non-co-operation has come in for not a little of cheap ridicule and misrepresentation. The reforms were also unduly extolled. Otherwise the caricatures show a good deal of artistic skill, humour and insight. The public feelings against the Punjab wrongs and the Khilafat are well depicted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/cartoons-from-the-hindi-punch/article33815398.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Pak. sore about China’s silence||According to diplomatic reports from Islamabad, Pakistan is quite sore about China’s continued silence over the recent hijacking episode, since Peking has not rendered even lip sympathy in support of the Pakistani protests against the suspension of overflights by India in retaliation. Apart from a perfunctory paragraph that appeared in the People’s Daily reporting the bare news a week after the incident, China has made no noise at all against the Indian action. In its daily propaganda blasts beamed to India and Pakistan, Peking Radio has not referred even once to the hijacking of the Indian aircraft and its subsequent destruction in Lahore, or the ban imposed by India on the Pakistani overflights. If anything, the Chinese Charge d’Affaires in Delhi not only turned up when he was summoned to the External Affairs Ministry to receive the Indian version of the incident, but also agreed to pass it to Peking for the information of his Government. If this had happened a couple of years ago, he would have straightaway rejected the Indian complaint about Pakistan’s complicity and left abruptly accusing India of hijacking its own aircraft. The other Foreign Missions in New Delhi have not failed to take note of this new accent moderation in China’s diplomatic behaviour, which is also reflected by its progressive disengagement from the Indo-Pakistani controversies. While it continues to support the Pakistani demand for a plebiscite in Kashmir, China is no longer automatically endorsing all that Pakistan says against India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/pak-sore-about-chinas-silence/article33815399.ece
12 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Amazon moves SC in Future case||E-commerce major Amazon moved the Supreme Court on Thursday to stay the operation of a Delhi High Court order of February 8, which had revoked an earlier direction to Future Group to maintain status quo on the sale of its retail assets to Reliance Industries. ‘Order illegal’ Amazon said the February 8 order was ‘ex-facie arbitrary and illegal’. The order was passed by a Division Bench of the High Court on an appeal filed by Future Retail Limited (FRL). The bench’s order had countermanded a February 2 order by a Single Judge of the High Court, which had directed FRL to maintain status quo on the deal with Reliance pending a final order. “It is evident that the Single Judge order to maintain status quo was directed for the limited purpose of protecting the substratum of the dispute till a detailed order was issued... However, the High Court, instead of waiting for a detailed order, has issued the interim order (February 8) staying the operation, implementation and execution of the Single Judge order without giving any reasons,” Amazon contended. Amazon urged the apex court to protect its interests by granting an ex parte stay on the deal between FRL and Reliance. The U.S. firm said the court should intervene to protect its rights as the “balance of convenience” was in its favour. “Respondents [Future Group] have unequivocally stated that they will continue to take steps to complete the transaction. The greater the progress made towards the completion of the transaction, the harder it will be to unravel it. Over time, the interests of additional third parties may also become entwined and be subsequently compromised,” Amazon said in its petition. It added “irreparable harm” would be caused if the court did not stay the February 8 order. Amazon argued that an appeal, as preferred by FRL against the Single Judge’s order, was barred under Section 17(2) of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/amazon-moves-sc-in-future-case/article33815371.ece
12 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘PV wholesales rose 11.1% in Jan. amid supply chain issues’||Passenger vehicle wholesales rose 11.14% in the country in January even as supply chain challenges continued to affect the functioning of the industry, the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM) said on Thursday. Dispatches by manufacturers to dealers stood at more than 2.76 lakh units last month as against about 2.48 lakh units in January 2020, data shared by the industry body showed. While car sales declined 1.16% to about 1.53 lakh units, sales of utility vehicles increased 37.26% to more than 1.11 lakh units. Two-wheeler sales rose 6.63% to about 14.30 lakh units, driven by a 9% growth in scooter sales to about 4.54 lakh units and a 5% increase in motorcycle sales to more than 9.16 lakh units. Sales of electric two-wheelers grew from 27 units in January 2020, to 241 units in January 2021. SIAM Director General Rajesh Menon noted that the sales of more than 2.76 lakh passenger vehicles in January 2021 was a CAGR growth of just 1.61% over the previous highest sales of 2.64 lakh in January 2018. Similarly, for two-wheelers, sales of 14.3 lakh units was a contraction of 5.32% from the highest sales of 16.85 lakh in January 2018. “The total sales from April to January period of passenger vehicles were still below 2014-15 levels and for two-wheelers it is below 2013-14 levels,” he said, adding that sales of three-wheelers continued to suffer a contraction of 56.76% compared with January 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/pv-wholesales-rose-111-in-jan-amid-supply-chain-issues/article33815384.ece
12 February 2021||MUMBAI,||Reconsider closure plan, labour union tells GM||The labour union of General Motors Company has urged the management to reconsider its decision to shut the Talegaon plant and either revive production till the unit is sold to GWM or keep it functional. The U.S. automobile firm had made it clear that its decision to close down the Talegaon plant in Maharashtra was final and the company would not facilitate any automatic transfer of employees to China’s Great Wall Motors (GWM) along with the plant. The union denied that it was called by the management for any negotiation for separation. “The claim of GM that there is no demand for the cars produced here is wrong. Since they were scheduled to transfer the plant to GWM in mid-December 2020, they did not accept any orders,” said Sandip Bhegade, president, General Motors Employees Union, Talegaon. In an e-mailed response last week, George Svigos, Director of Communications – International Markets, GM, stated the closure decision was taken because there was no demand in export markets for the vehicles previously produced in Talegaon.  The claim of GM that there is no demand for the cars produced here is wrongSandip Bhegade,president, employees union||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/reconsider-closure-plan-labour-union-tells-gm/article33815367.ece
12 February 2021||Chennai,||ALL posts net loss of Rs. 19.4 crore on VRS costs||Ashok Leyland reported a standalone net loss of Rs. 19.38 crore for the quarter ended December, which includes a one-time expenditure of Rs. 85 crore towards a voluntary retirement scheme. The commercial vehicle manufacturer had posted a net profit of Rs. 27.75 crore a year earlier. In the most recently ended quarter, revenue from operations rose 20% to Rs. 4,814 crore. Finance costs almost doubled to about Rs. 66 crore, according to a stock exchange filing. “The performance for this quarter, which resulted in a positive Ebida of 5.3%, was made possible owing to the revenue enhancement and operational efficiency initiatives of the company during challenging times,” said Gopal Mahadevan, director and CFO. “LCV, aftermarket, defence and power solutions businesses have performed well. The focus on resetting the operating cost to revenues and material cost optimisation will continue,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/all-posts-net-loss-of-rs-194-crore-on-vrs-costs/article33815373.ece
12 February 2021||Chennai,||MRF profit doubles to Rs. 512 cr. on higher sales||MRF Ltd. on Thursday said standalone net profit for the third quarter ended December has more than doubled to Rs. 512 crore on increased sales volume, compared with the year-earlier period. During the quarter under review, revenue from operations increased by 14% to Rs. 4,567 crore, while financial costs declined to Rs. 64 crore from Rs. 70 crore, the company said in a filing. The leading tyre manufacturer also said that its redeemable non-convertible debentures of Rs. 180 crore are secured by way of legal mortgage of its land in Gujarat and hypothecation by way of first charge on plant and machinery at the Trichy unit, equivalent to the outstanding amount. The board also approved a second interim dividend of Rs. 3 per share for the year ending March 31. The company has fixed February 19 as the record date for the dividend, it said in a regulatory filing. The board also approved raising of up to Rs. 1,000 crore by way of issuance of non-convertible debentures on private placement basis in one or more tranches.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mrf-profit-doubles-to-rs-512-cr-on-higher-sales/article33815376.ece
12 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||ITC posts Rs. 3,587.2 crore profit for third quarter||ITC Ltd. on Thursday reported a consolidated net profit of Rs. 3,587.2 crore for the third quarter ended December. The company had posted a net profit of Rs. 4,047.9 crore during the October-December quarter of the previous financial year, ITC said in a regulatory filing. Revenue from operations during October-December 2020 stood at Rs. 14,124.5 crore. It was Rs. 13,307.5 crore in the year-earlier period. Meanwhile, the diversified conglomerate said in a statement the results are not comparable as they also include the revenue of Sunrise Foods, which it had acquired on July 27, 2020. “Accordingly, the results of the quarter and nine months ended December 31, 2020, are not comparable with previous periods,” it said. ITC’s total expenses were at Rs. 9,765.6 crore in the third quarter of 2020-21. Shares of the company  on Thursday declined 0.53% to Rs. 226.45 apiece on the BSE.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/itc-posts-rs-35872-crore-profit-for-third-quarter/article33815382.ece
12 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Natco Pharma net falls 39% on lower sales||Natco Pharma reported a more than 39% decline in consolidated net profit to Rs. 63.40 crore for the quarter ended December, in the face of lower sales and realisation from key products. Revenue declined almost 25% to Rs. 386 crore. The decline in revenue and profits was due to lower sales in domestic oncology and weak realisation of profits from anti-viral oseltamivir (generic of Tamiflu) in the U.S., the company said on Thursday. The firm declared a third interim dividend of Rs. 1 per equity share. In terms of contribution to revenue, share of formulations exports, including profit share and foreign subsidiaries, was the highest at Rs. 162.1 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/natco-pharma-net-falls-39-on-lower-sales/article33815365.ece
12 February 2021||MUMBAI,||Muthoot Finance profit rises 17%||Muthoot Finance Ltd. reported third quarter consolidated net profit rose almost 17% to Rs. 1,007 crore from the year-earlier period. Total revenue rose 16% to Rs. 3,001 crore. Standalone net profit stood at Rs. 991 crore (Rs. 815 crore). Total revenue rose 19% to Rs. 2,765 crore. In a statement, it said consolidated loan assets under management (AUM) increased by 28% to Rs. 55,800 crore for nine months ended December. Consolidated profit after tax increased by 20% to Rs. 2,795 crore. Standalone loan AUM increased by 31% to Rs. 50,391 crore for the nine-month period, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/muthoot-finance-profit-rises-17/article33815368.ece
12 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||HC dismisses Bharti’s plea for stay on ITC||A Division Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court dismissed an application from Bharti Airtel, seeking a stay on the implementation of Sec. 16(2)(C) of the Central GST Act (CGST) Act and APGST Act. Section. 16(2)(C) provides that input tax credit (ITC) must be allowed to the recipient only when the supplier had discharged the output liability through utilisation of the ITC admissible in respect of the supply or by cash. Bharti had challenged the validity of the section 16(2)(C) saying it cannot be deprived of ITC for a fault of the suppliers who had not remitted the tax collected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hc-dismisses-bhartis-plea-for-stay-on-itc/article33815369.ece
12 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Aim to wind up BPCL stake sale by June’||The government is aiming to conclude the strategic sale of BPCL in the June quarter, Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) Secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey said on Thursday. “I think we are targeting the first quarter (of FY22). The engagement... is at the due diligence stage. Our process is of value maximisation,” he said at an event organised by Aditya Birla Sun Life Mutual Fund. The government has received three preliminary bids for the government’s 52.98% stake in India’s second-largest fuel retailer Bharat Petroleum Corp. Ltd. (BPCL), Vedanta being one of them. The other two are said to be global funds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/aim-to-wind-up-bpcl-stake-sale-by-june/article33815370.ece
12 February 2021||Chennai,||TVS units file follow-up to MFA at NCLT||Member companies of the TVS Group have filed a composite scheme of amalgamations and arrangements with the Chennai Bench of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) as a follow-up to the December 10 memorandum of family arrangement (MFA) and the subsequent arrangement. The composite scheme “involving, inter-alia , T V Sundram Iyengar & Sons Pvt. Ltd., Sundaram Industries Pvt. Ltd., Southern Roadways Pvt. Ltd. and TVS Sundram Fasteners Pvt. Ltd. has been filed” with the NCLT, Sundram Fasteners Ltd. (SFL) Chairman Suresh Krishna wrote to SFL, as per a filing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tvs-units-file-follow-up-to-mfa-at-nclt/article33815377.ece
12 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Bosch||Bosch Limited on Thursday posted a net profit of Rs. 184.25 crore in the third quarter ended December, a 3.15% decline compared to Rs. 190.24 crore in the year-earlier period. The company reported sales of Rs. 3,029.64 crore as against Rs. 2,536.64 crore, marking a year-on-year growth of 19.44%. Shortage of semiconductors adversely impacted imports, the company said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bosch/article33815366.ece
12 February 2021||Chennai,||KVB||Karur Vysya Bank’s standalone profit for the quarter ended December more than doubled to Rs. 35 crore. Net interest margin remained flat at 3.29% and net interest income contracted to Rs. 197 crore from Rs. 215 crore, the bank said. Gross NPAs declined to 7.37% from 8.92%, while net NPAs declined to 2.55% from 4.13%. Provision coverage ratio improved to 77.35% from 65.43%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/kvb/article33815374.ece
12 February 2021||Chennai,||Tube Investments to foray into 3 wheeler EV||Tube Investments of India Ltd. (TII) has decided to foray into the manufacture and sale of electric three-wheelers. On Thursday, the board approved the company’s foray into EVs at an outlay of Rs. 200 crore while electing non-executive and non-independent director M.A.M. Arunachalam (also known as Arun Murugappan) as its chairman with immediate effect.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tube-investments-to-foray-into-3-wheeler-ev/article33815379.ece
12 February 2021||New Delhi,||Rs 819-cr RailTel IPO to open on Feb 16; price band set at Rs 93-94||State-owned RailTel Corporation of India on Thursday fixed a price band of Rs. 93-94 a share for its initial share sale, which will open for public subscription on February 16. The IPO is entirely an offer-for-sale through which the government will offload 87,153,369 equity shares, amounting to 27.16% stake. The government would raise a little over Rs. 819 crore.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rs-819-cr-railtel-ipo-to-open-on-feb-16-price-band-set-at-rs-93-94/article33815380.ece
12 February 2021||Chennai,||A breakdown of England’s success story||What makes England such a successful team in the sub-continent? England has now made a habit of defeating Sri Lanka in Sri Lanka, scored a precious Test series victory in Pakistan 2000-01, and has two Test series wins in India, the ‘Final Frontier’ for many, in the last 36 years. Actually, England has outperformed more fancied teams in India. Among the factors for England’s successes in India are:  1. Comprehending the art of grinding: England can bat on and on if it bats first. Batting big if it wins the toss is the first strategy. And the batsmen, Joe Root being the prime example, and Alastair Cook, before him, are men who can wear down an attack with concentration, footwork, tactical nous and sheer hunger to stay at the wicket. Longer the innings, greater the wear and tear on the pitch. Root’s double-hundred here is a shining example.  2. The X-Factor: England has never been short of men who can change a game’s course. Whether it was Kevin Peitersen’s iridescent strokeplay on a sharp turner in Mumbai, 2012, or Ben Stokes’ bludgeoning innings in the recent Test here, England has had men who can alter the direction of a Test in a hurry. And few teams employ the sweep and the slog-sweep better than the Englishmen. This stroke can disrupt the length of the spinners. And with the ball, you have Jofra Archer who is an X-factor with his pace, intent and hostility.  3. Possesses pacemen who could adapt: Both in 2012 and 2021, England had pacemen who could find their length in these conditions. The Indians had problems with the familiar SG ball, not the Englishmen, brought up on the Duke ball. James Anderson’s mastery over reverse-swing in the first Test showed how well he could acclimatise to the dry, abrasive, sub-continental wickets. In 2012 too, Anderson was a force, along with Steve Finn. Going further back, when David Gower’s England shocked India in 1984-85, Neil Foster bent his back to bowl with heart, lift and seam movement at Chepauk. In 1977, John Lever’s prodigious left-arm swing did the trick.  4. Spinners are winners: The English spinners have been winners; whether it was Derek Underwood, so deadly on wet wickets, in 1977, Phil Edmonds and Pat Pocock who ambushed an overconfident India in 1984-85 and the potent duo of Greame Swann and Monty Panesar in 2012. Swann got his deliveries to dip and drift from the off-stump, Panesar bowled quicker through the air and spun the ball just enough to find the edges. Now, in Jack Leach and Dom Bess, England has a spin duo that can hurt the host.  You want to come in when the team is doing well and carry that momentum. It has been impressive to see how well the guys have played Ben Foakes||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-breakdown-of-englands-success-story/article33815483.ece
12 February 2021||Dubai,||Devender, Nimisha win gold||Promising para-athletes Devender Kumar and Nimisha Suresh Chakkungalparambil won a gold medal each as India started its campaign at the 12th Fazza International World Para Athletics Grand Prix event by winning six medals here on Thursday. Devender cleared a distance of 50.61m in his second attempt to take the gold in men’s discus throw F-44 event, while Nimisha won in the women's long jump F46/47 event with an effort of 5.25m. India took the one-two position in men’s discus throw F-44, with Pardeep winning the silver with a throw of 41.77m. Pranav Desai ran 11.76 seconds to claim the silver medal in men's 100m T-64 event, while Vinod Kumar took the bronze in men's discus throw F-52 with a throw of 18.52 metres. Rakshita Raju (5:22.15min) also clinched a bronze medal in the women's 1500m T-11 event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/devender-nimisha-win-gold/article33815545.ece
12 February 2021||MUMBAI,||Malan, Smith and Shakib headline auction pool||Dawid Malan, the top-ranked batsman in international T20 rankings, will go under the hammer for the first time while Steve Smith and Shakib Al Hasan will return to the Indian Premier League (IPL) auction pool when the eight franchises get involved in the annual affair on February 18. The IPL management, on Thursday night, announced the list of 292 players who will hope to attract a bit for the maximum of 61 slots available during the auction, which will start at 3 p.m. at a Chennai hotel. The list includes 164 Indians and 128 overseas players, including three from associate members of the International Cricket Council. Malan, with a base price of Rs. 1.5 crore, has been drawn in the second set of players to be auctioned.  While Malan is expected to be a hot pick this year, it will be interesting to see whether Smith (Rs. 2 crore) and Shakib (Rs. 2 crore) will draw interest from the franchises. While Smith has been released by Rajasthan Royals, allrounder Shakib has returned to competitive cricket after serving a suspension for breaching anti-corruption code. Among the Indians, Hanuma Vihari (Rs. 1 crore) and Cheteshwar Pujara (Rs. 50 lakh) will hope that their recent exploits in the Test series in Australia will result in a return to the IPL fold.  It remains to be seen whether Kedar Jadhav (Rs. 2 crore) and Piyush Chawla (Rs. 50 lakh) attract bids after being released by the Chennai Super Kings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/malan-smith-and-shakib-in-the-fray-at-the-auction/article33815481.ece
12 February 2021||Melbourne,||Kanepi dethrones Kenin; Barty, Tsitsipas and Fognini hang on; Nadal in cruise mode||Defending champion Sofia Kenin exited the Australian Open in tears on Thursday even as World No. 1 Ashleigh Barty negotiated a sticky moment to reach the third round. World No. 2 Rafael Nadal shrugged off any lingering back soreness to storm past qualifier Michael Mmoh for the loss of just seven games, brushing off a bizarre incident that saw a fan thrown out. Svitolina beats Gauff Teenage sensation Coco Gauff lost to Elina Svitolina, Stefanos Tsitsipas went the distance with Thanasi Kokkinakis and Fabio Fognini also needed five sets against fellow Italian Salvatore Caruso — a match that ended in a furious row. Self-imposed pressure has weighed heavily on Kenin, 22, the World No. 4 who was defending a Grand Slam title for the first time. And after an emotional first-up win over wild-card Maddison Inglis, Kenin met her match in the in-form Estonian Kaia Kanepi, who won 6-3, 6-2. While the American became just the third defending champion since 1970 to fail to reach the third round, Barty lifted hopes of a first Australian winner since 1978. Playing with her left thigh heavily strapped, the top-seeded Barty twice failed to serve out the win before ousting her 387th-ranked compatriot Daria Gavrilova 6-1, 7-6(7). Gauff beat Venus Williams and the then-champion Naomi Osaka en route to the round of 16 last year, when she was just 15, but Svitolina had other ideas this time around. The Ukrainian World No. 5 lifted her game in the pivotal moments to win 6-4, 6-3 as she eyes a maiden Grand Slam title.  Nadal has been struggling with tightness in his lower back since arriving in Australia, but showed few signs of it on Thursday. He crushed Mmoh 6-1, 6-4, 6-2 in a match interrupted in the second set when a woman was ejected for heckling and directing rude gestures at him. Nadal took it in his stride, grinning and playing football with the ball while he waited. Asked afterwards whether he knew her, he replied: "No, and honestly I don't want to." Tsitsipas was not expected to be troubled by 267th-ranked Kokkinakis but the Aussie, roared on by his close friend Nick Kyrgios, saved a fourth-set match-point before going down to the Greek 6-7(5), 6-4, 6-1, 6-7(5), 6-4. Spain's Feliciano Lopez, 39, was also taken five sets in his record-extending 75th consecutive Grand Slam before beating Italy's Lorenzo Sonego 5-7, 3-6, 6-3, 7-5, 6-4. But the most combustible match was between Fognini and Caruso, as the two Italians had to be separated by a tournament official during a heated argument after the 16th seed's four-hour, 4-6, 6-2, 2-6, 6-3, 7-6(12) win. Rather than the traditional polite congratulations, the pair started arguing furiously in Italian, while gesturing and pointing. Eventually the court supervisor had to step in between them. Divij, Ankita bow out Ankita Raina, the third Indian woman to secure a place in the main draw of a Grand Slam event, and her partner Mihaela Buzarnecu of Romania lost 3-6, 0-6 in just one hour and 17 minutes to Australian wild-card pair of Olivia Gadecki and Belinda Woolcock. Divij Sharan and Slovakian partner Igor Zelenay lost 1-6, 4-6 to the German pair of Yannick Hanfmann and Kevin Krawietz.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kanepi-dethrones-kenin-barty-tsitsipas-and-fognini-hang-on-nadal-in-cruise-mode/article33815484.ece
12 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Kumble comes out in support of Jaffer||Anil Kumble on Thursday extended his support to former India teammate Wasim Jaffer after the Cricket Association of Uttarakhand (CAU) alleged that he had tried to force religion-based selections as the state team’s coach. Irfan Pathan and Manoj Tiwary also stood in solidarity with Jaffer and supported the leading run-getter in the Ranji Trophy. Jaffer, who quit as Uttarakhand coach owing to a dispute with the state association, on Wednesday rejected allegations by CAU officials that he favoured Muslim players in the team. He got support from Kumble, who currently heads ICC’s Cricket Committee. “With you Wasim. Did the right thing. Unfortunately it’s the players who’ll miss your mentorship,” Kumble wrote on his twitter handle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kumble-comes-out-in-support-of-jaffer/article33815771.ece
12 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Soumya — living her dream||For 18-year-old Guguloth Soumya, hailing from Kisan Tanda in Nizamabad Rural (Telangana), it is a dream come true as she is the only footballer from the State in the Indian women’s football team that will tour Turkey to play in friendly matches from February 14 to 24. The diminutive striker, spotted by coach Nagaraju when she was competing in sprints in inter-school athletics, is obviously delighted “at the huge opportunity to represent India in the seniors category”. “When I started playing the sport — despite early stiff opposition from my parents because they were not really enthusiastic of me sporting shorts and jerseys — I never thought I would come thus far,” Soumya said in a chat with The Hindu from Goa where she is attending the final phase of the three-month, national preparatory camp. “The camp has been really good and tough too. And I am making a conscious effort to make all-round improvement in my game. Training with so many talented players does help me in picking up a few new things in the art of scoring too,” she said.  For someone who had a close shave when an earthquake struck Nepal where the Indian under-14 team was playing in April 2015, Soumya says she is determined to prove a point when given the opportunity to play for the country. “I am sure this Turkey tour will help all of us a long way we will be able to showcase our skills and also make a critical assessment of ourselves too,” the B.Sc. third year student added. G. Palguna, the Telangana Football Association secretary and former international, hoped Soumya will prove to be an inspiration for many more to take up the sport in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/soumya-living-her-dream/article33816096.ece
12 February 2021||Chennai,||Natarajan released from TN squad||Left-arm pacer T. Natarajan has been released from the Tamil Nadu squad for the Vijay Hazare trophy in a bid to keep him fresh for the limited-over series (three ODIs and five T20Is) against England next month. The pacer currently is at the NCA in Bengaluru. Medium-pacer R.S. Jaganath Sinivas will replace Natarajan, while another medium-pacer R. Silambarasan will take the place of Aswin Crist, who is not fully fit. TN plays its group-stage games in Indore from Feb. 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/natarajan-released-from-tn-squad/article33815542.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Maurico saves the day for Odisha||It was a game it desperately wanted to win to keep alive its slim hopes of making the playoffs, but Kerala Blasters had to settle for a 2-2 draw with Odisha FC at the Fatorda Stadium, Margao, on Thursday night. It was the twin strike from Diego Mauricio that saved the day for Odisha, while Jordan Murray and Gary Hooper scored for Blasters in a battle between the basement dwellers of the ISL. Kibu Vicuna’s boys made their intention clear right from the beginning, as they pressed forward and Odisha was forced to defend hard and carefully. Murray, Hooper, Sahal Abdul Samad and K.P. Rahul were a constant threat but failed to put Blasters ahead. Murray got the first of those chances, in the ninth minute, but his shot from the edge of the box went over the bar. At the stroke of half-time, much against the run of play, Odisha scored. A splendid high ball from Jerry Mawihmingthanga found Mauricio, who beat Blasters’ sloppy defence and goalkeeper Albino Gomes to give Odisha an unexpected lead. Blasters, however, came right back into the match seven minutes into the second half through Murray’s strike, off a splendid pass from Hooper. Sixteen minutes later, it was Hooper’s turn to score, after being deftly set up inside the box by Sahal. Just when Blasters looked likely of securing full points, its hopes were dashed by an unmarked Mauricio, who was assisted by Bradden Inman. Both teams toiled for a winner, which never came, thanks in no small measure to some fine work by both the goalkeepers.  The result: Odisha FC 2 (Diego Mauricio 45 & 74) drew with Kerala Blasters 2 (Jordan Murray 52, Gary Hooper 68).   Friday’s match: East Bengal vs Hyderabad, 7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/maurico-saves-the-day-for-odisha-fc/article33815539.ece
12 February 2021||Los Angeles,||Lakers eke out another OT win||LeBron James forced the extra session with a three-pointer and scored 25 points as Los Angeles Lakers won its third consecutive overtime game by outlasting the slumping Oklahoma City Thunder 114-113 on Wednesday. James also had seven assists and six rebounds, Montrezl Harrell scored 20 points, Dennis Schroder contributed 19 and Kyle Kuzma added 15 for the host reigning NBA champion Lakers, who now have six straight wins. Also, Devin Booker drained clutch free-throws with 32 seconds left as Phoenix Suns overcame a 47-point performance by back-to-back MVP winner Giannis Antetokounmpo with a 125-124 victory over Milwaukee Bucks. Elsewhere, Luka Doncic scored 28 points with 10 assists and 10 rebounds as Dallas Mavericks rallied for a 118-117 victory over Atlanta Hawks. Los Angeles Clippers shook off a slow start to beat the Timberwolves 119-112 in Minnesota, avoiding a first three-game losing streak of the season.  The results: Suns 125 bt Bucks 124; Bulls 129 bt Pelicans 116; Nets 104 bt Pacers 94.   Lakers 114 bt Thunder 113 (OT); Nuggets 133 bt Cavaliers 95; Grizzlies 130 bt Hornets 114; Timberwolves 112 lost to Clippers 119; Wizards 115 lost to Raptors 137; Mavericks 118 bt Hawks 117.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lakers-eke-out-ot-win/article33815543.ece
12 February 2021||TOKYO,||Mori to quit over ‘sexist remarks’||Tokyo Olympics chief Yoshiro Mori is to resign after he sparked outrage in Japan and abroad by claiming that women talk too much in meetings, reports said on Thursday. Criticism The decision comes after a barrage of criticism from politicians to sports stars and is the latest headache for organisers as they battle public disquiet over plans to hold the Games this summer despite the pandemic. Multiple Japanese media outlets, citing anonymous sources, said the 83-year-old has told officials he wishes to step down and would announce his resignation at a meeting of Games organisers on Friday. His most likely successor is Saburo Kawabuchi, an 84-year-old long-time sports administrator, local media reported. The former prime minister has come under increasing pressure since remarks he made last week to members of the Japanese Olympic Committee. He apologised for the ‘sexist remarks’, while insisting he was repeating complaints made by others, but then dug a deeper hole when he explained that he “doesn’t speak to women much”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mori-to-quit-over-sexist-remarks/article33815534.ece
12 February 2021||Dubai,||Narain hopes to complete ‘unfinished business’||Nearly 12 years after he crashed out following a freak accident, a more determined and experienced Narain Karthikeyan is back to complete an “unfinished business” in the Le Mans Series endurance racing. India’s first Formula One driver, Narain, dislocated his shoulder in May 2009, forcing him out of the 24 Hours of Le Mans, which is considered one of the world’s toughest races. The 44-year-old is now back, forming an all Indian team comprising former F2 and European Le Mans Series racer Arjun Maini and 2020 IMSA Prototype Challenge champion Naveen Rao. “Yeah, absolutely, I’m here to complete an unfinished business. Le Mans is one of the greatest races in the world and I want to go back and get the job done and not only drive there but be competitive,” Narain said during a virtual media conference on Thursday. The trio will represent Racing Team India which will make its debut in the Asian Le Mans Series in Dubai this weekend in a bid to secure an invitation to the coveted 24 Hours of Le Mans, to be held in France on June 12-13. Racing Team India’s Dubai debut will make it the first outfit with an all-Indian driver line-up to compete in international endurance racing. “It’s such a great thing to hold an Indian licence. All three Indian drivers competing for top honours in LMP2 would be awesome.” LMP2 category The trio will compete in the top class LMP2 category over two, four-hour-long races at the Dubai Autodrome. The two runnings of the 4 Hours of Dubai will take place on Saturday and Sunday respectively before moving to Abu Dhabi’s Yas Marina circuit for another round of two, four-hour races on February 19 and 20. If the team secures an invitation to the 24 Hours of Le Mans, it will become the first squad flying the Indian tricolour to take part in the iconic twice-around-the-clock endurance classic at the Circuit de la Sarthe in France.  All three Indian drivers competing for top honours in LMP2 would be awesome||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/narain-hopes-to-complete-unfinished-business/article33815540.ece
12 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Elavenil rewrites air rifle world mark||World No. 1 Elavenil Valarivan was close to her best as she shot 253.0 in the final to top women’s air rifle in the National shooting selection trials at the Dr. Karni Singh Range, Tughlakabad, on Thursday. The 22-year-old Elavenil’s final score was better than the world record of 252.9 held by Apurvi Chandela, who was below par and failed to make the final. Elavenil had earlier topped qualification with 631.6. She was 0.3 point ahead of Olympian Ayonika Paul who eventually placed seventh. Third-placed Meghana Sajjanar (630.0) and fourth-placed Shriyanka Sadangi (630.9) were also very impressive in qualification. In women’s air pistol, Manu Bhaker was too strong for the field, as she won with a total of 243.7 after having topped qualification with 584. What was commendable was the manner in which the 47-year-old Padma Devaram of the Railways rose to the second spot ahead of a bunch of talented young girls including the Olympic quota winner Yashaswini Deswal. Incidentally, Padma beat Yashaswini in the shoot off to progress after a tie midway through the final. She also had the second best qualification score of 577 along with Shri Nivetha who placed eighth in the final. In men’s 50-metre rifle 3-position, Olympian Sanjeev Rajput emerged on top both in qualification and final ahead of fellow Olympic quota winner Aishwary Pratap Singh Tomar. In rapid fire pistol, Vijayveer Sidhu topped both qualification and final with big margins to emphasise his growing confidence in the event.  The results: Men: 25m rapid fire pistol: 1. Vijayveer Sidhu 35 (586); 2. Bhavesh Shekhawat 29 (581); 3. Adarsh Singh 24 (581). 50m rifle 3-position: 1. Sanjeev Rajput 462.2 (1176); 2. Aishwary Pratap Singh Tomar 458.1 (1172); 3. Chain Singh 445.3 (1161).   Women: 10m air rifle: 1. Elavenil Valarivan 253.0 (631.6); 2. Vanshika Rathore 250.5 (625.7); 3. Meghana Sajjanar 229.0 (630.0).   10m air pistol: 1. Manu Bhaker 243.7 (584); 2. Padma Devaram 240.2 (577); 3. Rhythm Sangwan 220.2 (573) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/elavenil-rewrites-air-rifle-world-mark/article33815549.ece
12 February 2021||Chennai,||More counters to redeem match tickets||The Tamil Nadu Cricket Association will increase the number of counters and operational hours (8 a.m. to 11 p.m.) for fans to redeem match tickets for the second Test between India and England from Friday onwards. The TNCA also announced that tickets can be redeemed on match days from 8 a.m.  On Thursday, fans thronged the stadium to redeem the tickets and were left to wait for hours since only two counters were functioning from 11 a.m. From Friday onwards, the booths will be segregated for different stands to reduce crowding. Fans with tickets for ‘C, D, E and F’ stands can redeem from booths 6 and 8 located on Victoria Hostel Road. Similarly, for ‘I, J, K & H’ stands, tickets can be redeemed from Gate No. 11 and 12 on Wallajah Road. TNCA secretary R.S. Ramasamy said, “We did not expect so much crowd since it was mentioned on the e-tickets that redemptions start from Thursday and not just today. Anyway, we have made arrangements from tomorrow onwards to ensure the process is smooth."||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/more-counters-to-redeem-match-tickets/article33816045.ece
12 February 2021||Pune:,||Sultan Suleiman for feature event||Sultan Suleiman, who hails from trainer Altaf Hussain’s yard, is in good shape and should make amends in the Aziz H. Ahmedbhoy Trophy, the main event of Mumbai races to be held here on Friday (Feb. 12). Rails will be announced one hour before the first race.  PENNYWISE PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30, 1.30 p.m.: 1. Sergio (8) Sandesh 61.5, 2. Caesar (3) Nazil 57.5, 3. Cupido (6) Zeeshan 56.5, 4. Polaris (2) Bhawani 56.5, 5. Lambretta (4) A. Prakash 56, 6. Nusrat (5) Peter 55, 7. Soldier Of Fortune (7) Merchant 54, 8. Principessa (10) Dashrath 51, 9. Cristo Boss (9) Parmar 50 and 10. Velvet Vibes (1) Aniket 49.  1. SERGIO, 2. NUSRAT,   3. CRISTO BOSS .  AZIZ H. AHMEDBHOY TROPHY (1,600m), Cl. II, rated 60 to 86, 2.00: 1. Sultan Suleiman (4) Trevor 59, 2. Majestic Warrior (1) Kaviraj 57.5, 3. Sunrise Ruby (2) Nazil 57 and 4. Daddy’s Pride (3) T. S. Jodha 53.  1. SULTAN SULEIMAN   SAMUEL NATHAN PLATE (2,000m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66, 2.30: 1. Storm Trigger (6) C.S. Jodha 59, 2. Noble Heir (3) Zervan 58.5, 3. Giant Star (1) Sandesh 57.5, 4. Alluring Silver (5) Chouhan 56.5, 5. Successor (4) Trevor 52.5 and 6. Fleur De Lys (2) Kaviraj 51.  1. GIANT STAR,   2. ALLURING SILVER   A HOYT PLATE (1,800m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30, 3.00: 1. Socrates (5) Chouhan 59, 2. Multistarrer (9) Sandesh 58.5, 3. Maplewood (13) C.S. Jodha 58, 4. Dagger’s Strike (7) Ayyar 57.5, 5. Dalasan (1) N.B. Kuldeep 57.5, 6. Guinevere (10) Neeraj 57.5, 7. Kingsway (3) Dashrath 57.5, 8. Rudimentary (14) Trevor 57.5, 9. Touch Of Faith (2) Ranjane 57.5, 10. Royal Castle (11) J. Chinoy 56.5, 11. Arrecife (4) Peter 56, 12. Fairmont (6) S. J. Sunil 56, 13. Walk The Talk (8) Parmar 53 and 14. Jack Flash (12) Nazil 50.  1. SOCRATES, 2. MULTISTARRER,   3. MAPLEWOOD   QUEST FOR CASH PLATE (Div. II) (1,000m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46, 3.30: 1. Enlightened (5) Trevor 59.5, 2. Ms Boss (6) Sandesh 58, 3. Ame (2) Parmar 57, 4. Power Of Neath (3) Merchant 54, 5. Flower Power (1) Aniket 52.5, 6. Princess Snow (4) Dashrath 52.5, 7. Little More (9) Kaviraj 50.5, 8. Phoenix Spirit (8) Raghuveer 50 and 9. Candescent Star (7) Zeeshan 49.  1. ENLIGHTENED, 2. MS BOSS,   3. AME   SIR CHARLES FORBES TROPHY (1,200m) (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only, 4.00: 1. Bernini (2) Sandesh 56, 2. Executive Decision (8) C.S. Jodha 56, 3. Sky Storm (6) Dashrath 56, 4. Spinoza (7) Chouhan 56, 5. Amalfitana (1) Parmar 54.5, 6. Fortune Cookie (4) T.S. Jodha 54.5, 7. Love Warrior (5) Trevor 54.5 and 8. Supreme Angel (3) Neeraj 54.5.  1. SPINOZA, 2. SUPREME ANGEL,   3. FORTUNE COOKIE   QUEST FOR CASH PLATE (Div. I) (1,000m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46, 4. 30: 1. Aegon (7) Trevor 62, 2. Pepper (5) Sandesh 60.5, 3. C’est L’ Amour (8) Aniket 57.5, 4. Guarnerius (2) Santosh 57.5, 5. Spring Grove (3) Parmar 57.5, 6. Northern Singer (9) Kaviraj 56.5, 7. Big Magic (4) Joseph 54, 8. Shes The Queen (10) A. Gaikwad 52.5, 9. Windy City (6) C. S. Jodha 52.5 and 10. La Peregrina (1) Dashrath 51.5.  1. AEGON, 2. SPRING GROVE,   3. PEPPER   PENNYWISE PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30, 5.00: 1. Wayin (4) Chouhan 62, 2. Crosswinds (11) A. Gaikwad 61.5, 3. Gusty Girl (10) Sandesh 61.5, 4. Marrakesh (3) C.S. Jodha 60.5, 5. Peppoli (6) Parmar 60.5, 6. Wafy (9) Ayyar 59.5, 7. Siuted Aces (1) Aniket 59, 8. Trinket (8) Bhawani 58.5, 9. Genau (5) Neeraj 58, 10. So Splendid (2) Kuldeep 57.5 and 11. Rospomare (7) Merchant 57.  1. GUSTY GIRL, 2. WAYIN,   3. TRINKET  Day’s best: SULTAN SULEIMAN  Jackpot: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8. Treble: (i) 5, 6 & 7. (ii) 6, 7 & 8. Tanala: All races. Super Jackpot: 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sultan-suleiman-for-feature-event/article33816202.ece
12 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||I.M. Vijayan named director of KPFA||I.M. Vijayan has been appointed as the director of the proposed Kerala Police Football Academy (KPFA). Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan made the announcement and said the football academy was formed as part of the centenary celebrations of Malabar Special Police (MSP) and will be set up in Malappuram. Honoured “I am honoured to be named as director of the Kerala Police Academy. There is a lot of talent in the State and it is important that we give them proper training at an young age. “I am confident that through this academy we will be able to strengthen the grassroot football development in Kerala and contribute more national and international players from here,” said Vijayan. However, Vijayan, who holds an AFC coaching licence, was non committal on his coaching role but said he will be overseeing the sports activities. “The academy will function under the Kerala Police Sports and Youth Welfare Society and will be located in the MSP School campus. All facilities “The selected boys will be provided free food, accommodation and coaching. A commandant of Kerala Police will look after the day-to-day administration while I will be concentrating more on the sporting activities,” he said. Vijayan, who is closely following the fortunes of Kerala Blasters in the ISL, is disappointed with the performance of the Kochi club. Inconsistent side “It is a pretty inconsistent side. A good team will not consistently squander winning positions like this. I am disappointed at the way they lost to ATK and Mumbai. They have conceded the maximum number of goals this season which shows that there is glaring weakness in the defence,” he said. Vijayan picked Hyderabad’s Liston Colaco as the best player in this season’s ISL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/im-vijayan-named-director-of-kpfa/article33816151.ece
12 February 2021||CHENNAI:,||Cosmos wins South India St. Leger in record time||Darius-trained Cosmos (Suraj Narredu astride) won the South India St. Leger, the last Classic of the season here on Thursday (Feb. 11). The winner is the property of Mr. Rienzie M.K. Edwards & Mrs. P.P.M. Edwards. Cosmos, who was racing a handy fourth till the final turn, gradually improved and joined the issue with My Opinion in the straight. The gelding responded well to the urgings of Suraj and went on to win comfortably in a new course record time of 2 minutes, 54.72 seconds.  1. ROMANTIC DANCER PLATE (Div. II) , (1,000m), 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45: STAR PROOF (Akshay Kumar) 1, Fun Lover (A.M. Alam) 2, Daiyamondo (S. Shareef) 3 and Intox (Kiran Naidu) 4. 2-3/4, lnk and 1. 1m, 0.34s. Owner: M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Trainer: B. Suresh.  2. ROMANTIC DANCER PLATE (Div. I) , (1,000m), 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45: COCOA (M. Bhaskar) 1, Magic Stream (Shahar Babu) 2, Wonderful Era (Nakhat Singh) 3 and Full Bloom (A.M. Alam) 4. Not run: Daring Dancer. 1/2, 4-3/4 and hd. 1m, 02s. Owner: Mr. M.A.M.R. Muthiah. Trainer: Uthaiah.  3. K. SRINIVASAN MEMORIAL TROPHY (1,000m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms): AMORE (Brisson) 1, Glorious Symphony (Kuldeep Singh) 2, Proposed (P. Sai Kumar) 3 and Subjucate (P.P. Dhebe) 4. 6, 2-3/4 and 1. 59.55s. Owners: M/s. Arun Alagappan Racing, Mr. Chandrakanth Kankaria, Dr. Mahendra R, Mr. Angad Singh. Trainer: B. Suresh.  4. SILVER ARROW PLATE (1,400m), rated 20 to 45: GLORIOUS SUNSHINE (P. Trevor) 1, Royal Dreams (Akshay Kumar) 2, Uncle Sam (Kiran Naidu) 3 and Wise Don (Zervan) 4. 2-1/4, 2-1/.2 and nose. 1m, 26.65s. Owners: Mr. Vazhaparambil J. Joseph & Bharat V. Epur. Trainer: Sebastian.  5. MAGICAL SPELL PLATE (1,000m), rated 20 to 45: WAKEFUL (H. Rahul) 1, Rhiannon (Arshad Alam) 2, Incredible Star (P. Sai Kumar) 3 and Renzaccio (Azad Alam) 4. 1-1/2, 3/4 and 9-1/4. 59.25s. Owners: M/s. Arun Alagappan Racing & Mr. Vikram Singh. Trainer: D.K. Futnani.  6. SNOWDRIFT PLATE (2,000m), rated 40 to 65: PENANG (Akshay Kumar) 1, Roman Senator (P. Sai Kumar) 2, Nekhbet (Zervan) 3 and Demerara (Azfar Syeed) 4. 1, 1-1/4 and 1/2. 2m, 6.19s. Owners: Mr. K.R. Muthukaruppan & Mr. V.M. Gopal. Trainer: Mandanna.  7. SOUTH INDIA ST. LEGER (2,800m), 4-y-o & over (Terms): COSMOS (Multidimensional-Hills and Stars) Suraj Narredu 1 , MY OPINION (Dialed In-Love Me Good) Akshay Kumar 2, CAPRISCA (Steinbeck-Xisca) P. Trevor 3 and SECRETIVE FORCE (Multidimensional-Secret Garden) Zervan 4. 1, dist and dist. 2m, 54.72s (record time). Owners: Mr. Rienzie M.K. Edwards & Mrs. P.P.M. Edwards. Trainer: Darius.  8. SHOCKWAVE PLATE (1,200m), 5-y-o & over, rated 00 to 25: BREAK THE SILENCE (A.M. Alam) 1, Symphony In Style (Antony Raj) 2, Azeria (Zervan) 3 and Vibrant Approach (Azfar Syeed) 4. Not run: Arazan's Diamond. 2-3/4, 1/2 and 3-1/2. 1m, 13.73s. Owner: Mr. Tatineni Prasad Rao. Trainer: Sebastian.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cosmos-wins-south-india-st-leger-in-record-time/article33815547.ece
12 February 2021||Chennai,||Axar Patel cleared to play||The surface for the second Test here has not much grass and is darkish in nature. The expectations are that it would be a slow turner. Such a pitch, India believes, would not put too much emphasis on toss. The track is bound better and the chances are it would not break up as the game progresses. There was some good news for India on the injury front. Left-arm spinner Axar Patel batted and bowled without any discomfort, making light of the fitness concerns that kept him out of the first Test. He is expected to come in for Shahbaz Nadeem in the eleven for the second Test. India, 1-0 down in the series, will have to do all the running. Axar has been cleared to play the second Test. This also means left-arm spinner Shahbaz Nadeem, who played the first Test, and leg-spinner Rahul Chahar, both came into the squad after Axar was injured, are now back among the standbyes. The second Test gets underway at the M.A. Chidambaram Stadium on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/axar-patel-cleared-to-play/article33815479.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Harith Noah is stronger, confident after Dakar high||As a kid, Harith Noah used to watch videos of the Paris-Dakar Rally which his dad Mohammed Rafi used to bring home every year. That’s how he got hooked to racing and rallying. “I was around five then but I wanted to do car racing very much. And when I got my bike, I frequently used to race in the plot near my home,” said the 27-year-old TVS Racing team rider here on Thursday. Best by an Indian Last month, Noah had the best finish by an Indian at the Dakar Rally which was held in Saudi Arabia this time. He finished 20th bettering C.S. Santosh’s 34th place in 2018. A multiple National supercross champion earlier, Noah was not thinking of any number when he started the Dakar, one of the world’s toughest rallies. “The goal was to do every stage and when I finished 20, I didn't expect it. I had a major crash in the fourth stage and because of that I thought may be it would be 30 or something. It was definitely a nice feeling.” Asked if a top-10 finish was possible in future, he said: “My goal was to finish the rally and do every stage fast without any major crashes or mistakes. My goal is to implement the same for next year,” said Noah, who was born in Germany. “It's unnecessary pressure if you try to fix something and at the end of the day you can only ride as well as you can. Training is important “The training, what I'm going to do now and every day, is important. Definitely 20th is good but can be much better for sure. It is definitely possible.” His mother Susanne, a German, had come down to Kerala to learn Carnatic music. That's how she met and married Mohammed Rafi, who runs a bakery at Shoranur. The Indo-German connection often sees Noah going to Europe, and to Paris, for training. Noah had touched speeds of 170kmph on certain stretches in the Dakar Rally which has 12 gruelling stages and includes rocky terrain and sand dunes. “Mentally, it's more difficult than anything else. Not just the race, there's also the waking up every day at 4 a.m. and sometimes you have to ride 300km on the road from 4 a.m.,” he said. "So, you're in the helmet for three hours. Or if you have a crash and your leg is hurting for the next day ...a lot of things like that. It's definitely very exhausting." But the experience has made him stronger and confident for the future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/noah-stronger-and-confident-after-dakar-rally-high/article33815724.ece
12 February 2021||Kolkata,||EB to play in Calcutta Hockey League||East Bengal will participate in the Calcutta Hockey League (CHL) after a gap of 20 years. EB last participated in the event in 2001 and had finished runner-up. “With the sponsor coming in, the club is interested in hockey and has got some star players,” said Hockey Bengal joint secretary Khalid Hussain. EB has roped in established players including 2008 Junior World Cup (JWC) winner Vikash Sharma and 2016 JWC winners Vikash Dahiya and Manpreet Singh (Junior). EB will play Police Athletic Club in its first match on Friday. Altogether 13 teams have been divided into two groups in the 132-year-old CHL. Group A consists of Calcutta Electric Supply Corporation (CESC) Sports Club, Punjab Sports Club, Calcutta Customs, Police A.C., Calcutta Adibasis Club, West Bengal Police and East Bengal. Group B has Eastern Railway, Calcutta Port Trust, BNR Recreation Club, Entally, Howrah Union and Bishalakshi. The group matches will be followed by premier league contests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/eb-to-play-in-calcutta-hockey-league/article33815820.ece
12 February 2021||Sharm El Sheikh,||Anirudh & Mchugh out||Anirudh Chandrasekar and Aidan Mchugh of Britain lost 0-6, 6-2, [10-8] to Piotr Matuszewski of Poland and David Poliak of the Czech Republic in the doubles quarterfinals of the $15,000 ITF men’s tennis tournament here.  The results: $15,000 ITF men, Sharm El Sheikh, Egypt: Quarterfinals: Piotr Matuszewski (Pol) & David Poljak (Cze) bt Aidan Mchugh (GBR) & Anirudh Chandrasekar 0-6, 6-2, [10-8] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anirudh-mchugh-out/article33815720.ece
12 February 2021||CHENNAI,||Archer out of second Test||England suffered a huge blow on Thursday with pacer Jofra Archer was ruled out of the second Test against India starting here on Saturday after having an injection in his right elbow, according to an ECB statement. “The injection follows discomfort the fast bowler experienced during the 227-run win in the first Test at the same venue. The issue is not related to any previous injury and it is hoped the treatment will allow the condition to settle down quickly, allowing the player to return to action in time for the third Test in Ahmedabad,” the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/archer-out-of-second-test/article33815477.ece
12 February 2021||London,||Buttler and Bairstow back for T20Is||Senior wicketkeeper-batsmen Jos Buttler and Jonny Bairstow were, on Thursday, named in a 16-member England squad for the five T20 International matches against India, scheduled in Ahmedabad between March 12 to 20.  The squad: Eoin Morgan (Capt.), Moeen Ali, Jofra Archer, Jonathan Bairstow, Sam Billings, Jos Buttler, Sam Curran, Tom Curran, Chris Jordan, Liam Livingstone, Dawid Malan, Adil Rashid, Jason Roy, Ben Stokes, Reece Topley and Mark Wood .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/buttler-and-bairstow-back-for-t20is/article33815480.ece
12 February 2021||LAHORE,||Pakistan edges SA||Pakistan beat South Africa by three runs in the first T20I on Thursday to take a 1-0 lead in the three-match series. Mohammad Rizwan's 64-ball 104 not out, studded with six boundaries and seven sixes, lifted the hosts to 169 for six. The tourists finished on 166 for six, with Reeza Hendricks hitting 54 and Janneman Malan scoring 44. The remaining matches will be held on Saturday and Sunday, also in Lahore.  The scores: Pakistan 169/6 in 20 overs (Mohammad Rizwan 104 n.o.) bt South Africa 166/6 in 20 overs (Reeza Hendricks 54, Janneman Malan 44).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pakistan-edges-sa/article33815486.ece
12 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Carlsen survives scare||Magnus Carlsen survived back-to-back defeats at the hands of the fearless Russian Daniil Dubov in the rapid games before winning the decider Armageddon game to enter the semifinals of the $100,000 Opera Euro Rapid online chess on Wednesday. Carlsen will face Maxime Vachier Lagrave who stayed undefeated in the second set to advance by virtue of this triumph in the first set. Wesley So blanked Jan-Krzysztof Duda 2-0 to emerge as the most impressive winner of the day. He takes on Teimour Radjabov who won the blitz tie-breaker against Anish Giri.  The results (quarterfinals, set two rapid games):   Daniil Dubov (Rus) bt Magnus Carlsen (Nor) 2.5-0.5; (tie-breaker blitz: Carlsen drew with Dubov 1-1; Armadeggon Game: Carlsen wins); Maxime Vachier-Lagrave (Fra) drew with Levon Aronian (Arm) 2-2, Vachier qualifies; Wesley So (USA) bt Jan-Krzysztof Duda (Pol) 2-0; Anish Giri (Ned) drew with Teimour Radjabov (Aze) 2-2 (tie-breaker: Radjabov wins 1.5-0.5).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/carlsen-survives-a-scare/article33815531.ece
12 February 2021||DHAKA,||Bonner props up Windies||Nkrumah Bonner scored an unbeaten half-century as West Indies and Bangladesh shared the honours on the opening day of the second and final Test here on Thursday. Bonner hit 74, guiding the West Indies to 223 for five at stumps after skipper Kraigg Brathwaite elected to bat, at the Sher-e-Bangla National Stadium. Pacer Abu Jayed (two for 46) and left-arm spinner Taijul Islam (two for 64) were the successful bowlers for the host, which must win the match to avoid a defeat in the two-Test series. Safe approach Brathwaite hit 47 from 122 balls as the West Indies seized the early momentum, before the host clawed their way back into the contest.  The scores: West Indies 223/5 in 90 overs (Kraigg Brathwaite 47, Nkrumah Bonner 74 batting) v Bangladesh.   Toss: West Indies .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bonner-props-up-windies/article33815532.ece
12 February 2021||New Delhi,||Vaccination for Olympic athletes soon||The COVID-19 vaccination for India's Tokyo Olympic-bound athletes is likely to start from the end of March after the sports ministry formally requested the health ministry to enlist the qualifying sportspersons and their coaches in the priority category. According to a Sports Ministry official, they had already prepared a blue-print and if given a go-ahead by the health ministry, they plan to start the vaccination for Olympic-bound athletes from next month. “The Sports Ministry has formally requested the Union Health Ministry to place Tokyo Olympics-bound Indian athletes on priority list. “We have already chalked out a plan for the two-phased vaccination of athletes, coaches and support staff,” the ministry official told PTI . "Right now, we are waiting to hear from the Health Ministry. As and when they give us the green signal, we will start executing our plan. “We intend to start vaccination of Olympic qualifying athletes from March end.” The development comes close on the heels of the Indian Olympic Association writing to the Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, requesting him to consider vaccinating the Olympics-bound athletes on a priority basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vaccination-for-tokyo-bound-athletes-likely-from-march-end/article33815772.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Big win for Young Challengers||Young Challengers FC blanked ADE FC 3-0 in the BDFA Super Division football league here on Thursday.  The results: FC Deccan 0 drew with Students Union FC 0; Young Challengers FC 3 (Nihal Colaco 42, Ankith 50, 62) bt ADE FC 0 .    Thota Azaan’s 118 helped Mangalore Zone post 294 in its 57-run win over Mysore Zone in the KSCA under-19 inter-moffusil tournament here.  The scores: Dharwad Zone 274/9 in 50 overs (Rohan Yareshmi 25, Chirag Nayak 102, Aditya Hiremath 26, Anilgouda Patil 30 n.o., Punith Kumar 4/65, Ashutosh Khuba 3/32) bt Raichur Zone 220 in 44.1 overs (Thippa Reddy 32, S.P. Shreyas 65, Vijay Reddy 40, , Sayaam Appannavar 3/33).   Mangalore Zone 294 in 50 overs (Thota Azaan 118, Hardik Suvarna 86, Manvanth Kumar 5/53, Bhuvan Kumar 3/40) bt Mysore Zone 237/8 in 50 overs (Manvanth Kumar 79, Surendra Rathore 28, C. Ritheesh 37, Advith Shetty 3/45).   Tumkur Zone 233 in 47.3 overs (N.R. Darshan 110, T.P. Prapul 28, M.A. Wasaaf 29, B. Prajwal 3/24) bt Shimoga Zone 227 in 49.3 overs (Shravan Babu 56, Shreyank Sagar 41, D.A. Rishabh 53, Fardin Khan 44).    Prakash Jayaramaiah’s unbeaten 138 powered Karnataka past Kerala in the IndusInd Bank National Nagesh Trophy T20 cricket for blind tournament here.  The scores: Kerala 190 in 20 overs (Maneesh 61) lost to Karnataka 193/2 in 15.1 overs (Prakash Jayaramaiah 138 n.o.).   Jammu and Kashmir 142/4 in 20 overs (M. Azeem 71) lost to Tamil Nadu 145 for no loss in 13.5 overs (P Arun Kumar 89 n.o.).   Andhra Pradesh 229/3 in 20 overs (Venkateshwara Rao 115 n.o., Ajay Kumar Reddy 56 n.o.) bt Haryana 142/ 9 in 20 overs (Venkateshwara Rao 3/14).   Jharkhand 159/8 in 20 overs (Nishit Williams 66 n.o. Rahul Mahale 3/22) bt Maharashtra 128/7 in 20 overs.   Goa 265/7 in 20 overs (Ashutosh Mawaskar 65, Akshay Borikar 56) bt Tripura 187/7 in 20 overs (Debdul Sarkar 58 n.o.).   West Bengal 209 in 20 overs (Prasenjit Adak 77 n.o., Ajay Sidam 3/21) bt Madhya Pradesh 180/8 in 20 overs (Matan Kakodiyan 55, Arindam Mondal 3/25).   Pondicherry 154/7 in 20 overs (G. Dinagaran 52, Aman Deep 3/27) lost to Uttarakhand 155/3 in 13.1 overs (Ashish Negi 69).   Bihar 162/8 in 20 overs (Saheb Hussain 45) lost to Himachal Pradesh 163/3 in 15.2 overs (Vinay Kumar 58).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/big-win-for-young-challengers/article33816023.ece
12 February 2021||HYDERABAD:,||Jaiswal, Tanay shine||Mickil Jaiswal (MP Colts, 170, 151b, 12x4, 12x6) and Tanay Tyagarajan (Budding Stars, 118, 101b, 12x4, 4x6) batted well in the A1-Division (one-day) knock-out cricket championship on Thursday. In the A2-Division (two-day) league, Vamshi Ramavath (238, 142b, 35x4, 8x6) for Noble CC and Md. Ayub Khan (166, 126b, 27x4, 2x6) for Vijaypuri Willowmen shone. Meanwhile, HCA said on Thursday that the remaining matches in the A1-Division (one-day) knock-out championship have been postponed in view of the non-availability of some players who were selected to represent Hyderabad in the Vijay Hazare Trophy. The dates of the semifinals and finals will be announced soon.    The scores:   A1-Div. (one-day) knock-out: R. Dayanand 209 in 47.3 overs (K. Nitesh Reddy 68, Nishanth Yadav 42, Manish K. Rai 3/29) lost to Budding Stars 213/6 in 38.1 overs (Tanay Tyagarajan 118, Bhavesh Seth 57, C. Hitesh Yadav 4/53).   Gemini Friends 265 in 49.3 overs (M. Abhirath Reddy 46, Tilak Varma 66, Maruthi Reddy 58, Yash Gupta 63) bt SCRSA 222 in 45.5 overs (Shyam Sunder 37, M. Suresh 46, Sudhakar 35 n.o., Tilak Varma 4/50).   MP Colts 279/10 in 50 overs (Mickil Jaiswal 170, G. Rahul Radesh 55, Karthikeya Kak 5/49) bt Sporting XI 250 in 48.3 overs (Tanmay Agarwal 98, G. Sadhan 53, Karthikeya Kak 34, G. Gireesh Goud 4/45).   A2-Div. (two-day) league: Shalimar 135 in 36.2 overs (Abhid Ali 4/40) lost to Adilabad Dist 138/2 in 19.1 overs (L. Mahesh 62, D. Venkatesh 56 n.o.).   Mega City 101 in 37 overs (Jai Kiran 35 n.o.) lost to Nizamabad Dist 105/3 in 28.3 overs (Dama Ajith 56 n.o.).   CCOB 316 in (Abdul Rahman 109, Sai Kiran 41, Arham Kothari 3/41, P.T. Sai Krishna Murthy 3/30) vs Crown 40/0 in 11 overs.   HBCC 295 in 58.5 overs (Md. Khalid 110, Kaushik 46, Apratim Tiwari 32 n.o., B. Sujan 3/53) vs PKM.   Ours 310 in 87.3 overs (Kaushik Chevendra 58, B. Pranav Reddy 123, K.R. Dhanush 40, P. Sai Karthik 4/44) vs National 28/1 in 9 overs.   Team Speed 340 in 62.2 overs (M.A. Jayanth 91, Deepanshu Chowhan 85, Md. Abdul Raheem 7/75) vs Elegant 21/1 in 6.5 overs.   Venus Cybertech 147 in 57.5 overs (Divesh Bajaj 45) vs Rakesh XI 80/3 in 30 overs.   WMCC 196 in 38.5 overs (S.V. Aditya Varma 58, Vilash Reddy 37, Karthik Kumar 3/44, Vikranth Reddy 3/43) lost to HUCC 199/5 in 39.3 overs (Laxmi Sree Madhan 102 n.o., Nikunj Patel 40, Anish Reddy 4/27).   Vijaypuri Willowmen 559 in 88 overs (Karun Yadav 64, B Balaji 73, Md. Ayub Khan 166, Saketh Reddy 32, Md. Nayeemuddin 42, Williams 55, Dhanush 48, Abhinay Kumar 3/112) vs Hyd Panthers.   Pasha Beedies 198 in 72.2 overs (Kush Jog 37, Faiz Ahmed 34 n.o., Raghava Pattapu 4/48) vs Deccan Wanderers 69/1 in 16 overs (Jawad Khan 42 n.o.).   Adams XI 145 in 36.1 overs (Shashank Reddy 40, Imam Shareef 44, S. Prajwal Rao 4/48, Gautam 3/4) lost to XI Masters 149/2 in 15.3 overs (S. Prajwal Rao 106 n.o.).   Acrylic 128 in 43 overs (G. Arvind 46, V. Sai Teja 4/16) lost to Karimnagar Dist. 132/3 in 14.2 overs (P. Rishwanth 50, A. Raju 53).   Abhinav Colts 424 in 67.1 overs (Varun Tej 52, Harish Reddy 48, Sachith Naidu 145, Varun Reddy 53, Sunder Nara 59, Preetham Reddy 3/105, Satya Narayana 3/29) vs Bharat CC 79 for no loss in 22 overs (Preetham Reddy 33 batting).   Hyd. Academy 295 in 77.4 overs (K. Pranav 77, Sahil Parikh 57, Shaik Zaheer Abbas 39, Ch. Anvit Reddy 37) vs Shanti XI 42/2 in 11 overs.   Noble 551/8 in 90 overs (Vamshi Ramavath 238, Y. Akash 57, T. Krishna Kant 53 n.o., B. Ambarish 52, Shabaz 3/109) vs Mayura.   Vijayanand 360/9 in 90 overs (Abhinay 69, Ravi Teja 117, Akshar 41, Chakravarthi 39 n.o., Praveen 4/61) vs Manikumar 12/1 in 6 overs.   Saint Sai 160 in 55.2 overs (Arjun 50, G. Ritwik 8/42) lost to SK Blues 164/5 in 39 overs (Ibrahim Khan 84).   Secbad Gymkhana 285 in 89 overs (Md. Adil 103, A. Sai Prachotan 30, Anuj Singh 55, N. Saketh Reddy 3/60) vs Warangal Dist. 48/1 in 8 overs (Banoth Kumar 37 batting).   Kishoresons 124 in 39.1 overs (Surya Prakash 36, Mihir Dange 5/32) lost to Rushiraj 127/4 in 42.5 overs (P. Sunil 38, A. Nikshit 30, B. Sai Chandra 35 n.o.).   Anu 87 in 31.5 overs (Mujaheeed Khan 7/32) lost to Azad 90/3 in 25.1 overs (K. Ganesh Kumar 44 n.o.).   Lords 183 in 52.2 overs (Md. Azheruddin 62, Jasper 42, Shrunjith Reddy 5/52) lost to RJCC 185/5 in 43.1 overs (E. Akshay 121 Tirumala 182 in 73 overs (K. Vishal 62, Jayant Reddy 56, R. Rohit 4/55) vs Swastik Union 24/0 in 14 overs.    Chandigarh shocked defending champion Hyderabad 69-55 in the final of the all-India SBI inter-circle basketball championship for men.  The scores (final):   Chandigarh 69 (Hunny Nehra 35, Kunal Gill 17, Varinder 10) bt Hyderabad 55 (Subbaiah 12, P.B. Srinath 21, Kiran Kumar 11).    India star Hanuma Vihari will lead Andhra in the Vijay Hazare Trophy one-day cricket championship to be held in Indore from February 20 to 28. Ambati Rayudu was not considered for selection as he was not keeping well, and regular wicketkeeper-batsman K. Srikar Bharat is with the Indian team as stand-by. Andhra is in the Elite B Group along with Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha. L.N. Prasad Reddy will be the mentor.  The team:   Hanuma Vihari (captain), Ricky Bhui (vice-capt), Ch. Kranti Kumar, K. Aswin Hebbar, C.R. Gnaneswar, Maheep Kumar, K. Karan Shinde, U.M.S. Girinath (wk), P. Girinath Reddy, Shoaib Md Khan, S. Ashish, K.V. Sasikanth, Ch. Stephen, I. Karthik Raman, S. Dhruv Kumar Reddy, G. Manish, D. Naren Reddy, K. Nitish Kumar Reddy, M. Harishankar Reddy, S, Charan Saiteja, S, Tarun (wk) and B. Santosh. Head coach: C.D. Thompson. Coaches: Vikram Varma, N. Nirmal Kumar and P. Madhusudhan Reddy. Manager: Jugal Kishore Ghia .    V. Vishal scored a century (108, 108b, 14x4, 1x6) to help Welcome Cricket Club record a six-wicket win over Everest Cricket Club in the KDCA A-division one-day league cricket championship for Katragadda Madhusudhana Rao memorial trophy.  The scores: Everest CC 246/7 in 50 overs (P. Harshavardhan 78, D.G.J. Chaitanya 44) lost to Welcome CC 247/4 in 38.2 overs (V. Vishal 108, Noor Basha 78 n.o.).   New Everest 221/5 in 50 overs (Navneet Singh 91 n.o., G. Venkat Yadav 46 n.o.) bt Railways 108 in 36.3 overs (P.K. Chakri 5/21, K. Aryaan 4/29).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jaiswal-tanay-shine/article33816094.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Vow of a bhakta||Those with bhakti towards Lord Krishna have immense love for Him, and this love is reciprocated by the Lord. We see many instances of this, said V.S. Karunakarachariar in a discourse. Krishna had vowed not to take up any weapon during the Kurukshetra war. And Bhishma had vowed that he would make Krishna take up a weapon. The battle begins. On the third day, Bhishma fights aggressively, but Arjuna fights half heartedly, for he is reluctant to fight Bhishma. Lord Krishna then picks up His Sudarshan chakra and rushes towards Bhishma. Bhishma praises the Lord and His weapons. Arjuna then assures Krishna that he will fight with full vigour. But Bhishma has succeeded in his vow of making Krishna take up a weapon. Was Krishna’s act an impulsive one? To describe it so would be to do a grave injustice to the extent of the Lord’s love for His devotees. He did not pick up the weapon in a forgetful moment. Where is the question of impulse or forgetfulness for the all knowing One? It was a conscious and wilful act on Krishna’s part. But why did He break His own vow? He did so because He wanted to show the world that a devotee is never defeated in his vows. Further proof that it was a deliberate act on the part of Krishna comes to us later. We see Him picking up the chakra again on the ninth day of the battle, demonstrating clearly that He wanted the world to know the greatness of Bhishma. So He obviously wanted the world to know that the vow of a bhakta always succeeds, and for this, He was prepared to forego His own vow. Such a quality of the Lord’s is reassuring to His bhaktas and we must enjoy this quality of His. Because of His love for His devotee Arjuna, He took hits from arrows and bled from the wounds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/vow-of-a-bhakta/article33815474.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 08:52 IST,||Sudoku — February 12, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-february-12-2021/article33816588.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||A valentine for all||Basil Joseph Varghese from Kochi has just completed painting a bowl of fruit. It took him two days and he is satisfied with how it has turned out. “He will either keep it for himself or sell it,” says his mother Saju Joseph. Basil, 23, has Asperger’s Syndrome, which comes under Autistic Spectrum Disorders. “He is trained by artist Ashil Antony and the sessions have helped him a lot in improving his skill. Now, not a day passes when he does not draw. I cannot express my happiness to see him sell his works and earn a living out of it. It has helped improve his confidence a lot,” she says. Basil is one of the eight artists with disabilities from across India to be a part of the campaign Portrait Perfect Valentine, which creates custom portraits to celebrate Valentine’s Day. The campaign is organised by Atypical Advantage, a digital talent platform for people with disabilities to facilitate job recruitments and sale of their artworks. It was launched in December 2020 by Vineet Saraiwala, who is visually challenged. Vineet says, “According to the World Health Organization, over one billion people live with some form of disability. In India, they constitute only 0.5% of the formal workforce. Through this space, I want to showcase the abilities, skills, and talents of people with disability.” This is Atypical Advantage’s first awareness drive and people can choose from the nine artists. “All of them have their unique styles. For example, Payal Shrishamal, who has muscular dystrophy, paints with coffee; and Varun Naren, with Fragile X Syndrome, does more of oil pastel works,” says Vineet. Once an order is placed, it will take about a week to finish the work and volunteers help in shipping it. Vineet also works as an inclusion lead in Big Bazaar, and  got the idea to launch this platform after he found it difficult to find a voice-over artist and a model for a project for his company. Atypical Advantages now has 290 people registered with it; their skills include writing, acting, designing, modelling, etc. “Anyone can join it free of cost and we have volunteers who help them make a profile and resumes if needed,” adds Vineet. While proceeds go directly to the artists, Vineet charges a nominal fee for sale of artworks, saying, “It helps us sustain the organisation.” While he agrees that there is a better understanding of issues like inclusivity today, he adds that there is still a long way to go. “It should be taught from a young age and organisations and institutions should improve their infrastructure so that everyone can have equal access. Only then can we make this an equal world,” he says.  Visit https://atypicaladvantage.in   /arts/portrait-perfect-valentine   artists on roster Payal Shrishrimal-Coffee and charcoal painting Anjan SatishDigital portrait Ajay JayaprakashUpside down portrait Vyshak EttukudukkaAcrylic painting Swaminathan Manivannan- Charcoal painting Basil Joseph Varghese Acrylic painting Varun NarenCharcoal painting Priya BhargavaAcrylic painting||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-valentine-for-all/article33815691.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Feel the soul||Movie: Soul (2020)  Genre: Animation, Adventure Joe Gardner is a middle school teacher with a passion for jazz music. He aspires to be a professional jazz musician and, after many attempts at chasing his dream, he finally gets a huge opportunity to play in the band of jazz legend, Dorothea Jones. However, on his way home to prepare for his first performance, he gets into an accident that separates his soul from his body. He is now a soul heading to “The Great Beyond”. Unwilling to die before his big break, he tries to escape but ends up in the “Great Before”, where soul counselors prepare unborn souls for life on Earth. Devicing a plan Joe pretends to be an instructor who is set to train the souls and is assigned 22, a cynical soul who has remained in the Great Before for a millennium and sees no point in living on Earth. 22 reveals that she has a badge that fills up with traits. She needs to find her “spark” to complete it and agrees give it to Joe so that he can return home and so she can continue living in the Great Before. Joe accepts her offer and tries to help 22 find a passion but keeps failing. With no other options left, 22 takes Joe out to “the zone”, an area that people enter when their passion sets them into a euphoric trance; it also houses the lost souls who become obsessed. Joe meets Moonwind there, who helps him go back to Earth but accidentally brings 22 with him, resulting in 22 entering his body and Joe entering the body of a therapy cat. What happens to Joe? Does he get to fulfil his dream? Does 22 ever find her ‘spark’?  Soulful trivia:  Like most Disney-Pixar films, Soul also had many hidden references to past movies, such as the Pizza Planet truck which was in the Hall of Everything - a reference to the Toy Story series. Animators used footage of several music performers, including jazz composer Jon Batiste, performing as reference for the film's musical sequences. Actor Tina Fey, who voiced 22, also contributed to the screenplay, having helped write her character's lines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/feel-the-soul/article33816405.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Summer’s End Back in the frame||The story so far: When Moti Uncle hears the boys’ story, it triggers a memory. He rushes to find a picture he bought some time ago. Sure enough he has his answer.  By now all plans of leaving Coonoor had been abandoned. The landslides ensured that there was no way they could get out. Moti uncle took the photograph downstairs. “Get me newspaper to wrap this is in,” he said. While Dhruv went to find paper, Keya looked at the picture. At first glance, it was nondescript. But now she observed the details. A soft, yellow sun rose in the horizon behind a mountain. Its gentle light touched the trees tops with its faint glow. There was a stone bench in front of a house that was in silhouette. Silver oak trees lined one side. Pack it up “Will this do?” shouted Dhruv, rushing with newspaper. Keya looked and nodded, “Dhruv, take a look at this picture.” Keya went back to studying it, while Dhruv peered over her shoulder. “See, it is a picture at dawn. You can see how the sun’s rays are lighting up everything. But the house is still in darkness…no one seems to be awake…” “Don’t blabber; …just wrap it up,” said Dhruv brusquely, as he grabbed it and began to cover it with the newspaper. Suddenly, it was snatched from his hands and he shouted, “Keya, what do you think…” But Keya was standing open-mouthed by his side. “I didn’t do anything. It just…” The picture fell to the ground with a clatter. Keya picked it up and placed it carefully on the table once again. “What’s the noise?” asked Moti uncle as he entered the room. The children were still dazed by what had just happened. “I picked it up to wrap it…” began Dhruv. “...and it was just snatched from his hands,” completed Keya. “Is it damaged?” asked Moti uncle, concerned. They looked down at the picture. A woman sitting on the stone bench outside the house. “How did she get back in there?” asked Moti uncle, surprised. “That must be how it fell…” said Dhruv. They observed the way the woman sat on the stone bench, the partly in the light, yet in the shadow. The photographer had captured her grief and her pensive mood. As they watched, she turned her head and looked malevolently directly at them. “No doubt about it, this is going back,” said Moti uncle. “NOW.” But the car seemed to have a mind of its own and Moti uncle had to battle with the steering wheel to keep the wheels on the road. Sometimes, they heard a mow moan from the picture, now covered and placed in the seat pocket.  To be continued...   They observed the way the woman sat on the stone bench, the partly in the light, yet in the shadow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/summers-end-back-in-the-frame/article33816344.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||From the heart||Materials:  Thick sheet of cardboard/ thermocol - about 1.5 cms thick  Pins  Long piece of thread (of any colour)  Pencil||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/from-the-heart/article33816353.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Let’s walk our way||Christopher and Columbus were two crabs that lived by the sea. They were the best of friends and one could always see them holding claws and doing their sideways walk together. One day Christopher said, “I wish I could walk forward rather than sideways.” “What a preposterous idea,” said Columbus, who always used big words. “It is not pre-pos-te-rous,” shot back Christopher. “I just want like to walk forwards like everybody else.” “But what is wrong with moving sideways? I think it’s grand. Do you know very few animals can move sideways? Just us, the rattlesnakes and the little hummingbirds. That’s what makes us stupendous! Of course, now that I think about it octopuses can move in any direction with those eight dangly legs….” Why blend in? But Christopher was not listening. “Stupendous? Is that another word for stupid? Because, that’s how I feel. When everybody walks forwards, why do we have to walk sideways and look stupid?” “Stupendous means amazing. And I think you are amazing just the way you are.” “I don’t want to be amazing. I want to blend in and be normal,” said Christopher. “Blend in?” asked Columbus. “But we do blend in. Just the other day, I was admiring the sunrise, and an early morning jogger almost squashed me with his big feet. He didn’t see me because I am the colour of the sand. I managed to jump sideways in the nick of time.” But Christopher was sad. He really wanted to walk forwards. “There are many advantages to walking sideways. You must celebrate your uniqueness,” Columbus said. Suddenly, they heard someone shout. “Help, help!” It was a baby seagull. Her leg was stuck between two rocks. Many birds were trying to put their beak into the gap between the rocks but they could not reach the baby’s leg. “Oh, someone help,” cried the mother seagull. Christopher rushed to the rescue. He knew he could help because he had a flat body. He entered the crack sideways. Soon, with his legs that were placed on the sides of his body, he nudged the seagull out of the wedge. The baby seagull was free! “Thank you,” said the mother seagull gratefully. “If you hadn’t been able to wiggle in sideways, nobody could have helped my baby.” “It was my pleasure, said Christopher, shyly. “I wish I could move sideways like you. I wish I had my legs on the side,” said the baby seagull. “Oh, you are amazing just the way you are. Be careful now,” waved Christopher and walked away. He searched for his friend with his beady eyes. Christopher found Columbus watching the sun set. “Well, my friend,” said Columbus with a smile. “I know, I know. We are all unique creatures. If I couldn’t walk sideways, I could not have helped the seagull today,” said Christopher, laughing. “That’s right. Now, how about a nice sideways walk down the beach.” “Gladly,” said Columbus. And off they went into the sunset, holding claws.  Do you know very few animals can move sideways? Just us, the rattlesnakes and the hummingbirds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/lets-walk-our-way/article33816379.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Take to the skies||King Ravana was well known for his aeronautics and design skills. Legend has it that he built the Pushpaka vimaan — a flying chariot — with the help of his father-in-law Mayasura, the great architect who ruled Talatalaloka. Meghnath, the eldest son of Ravana and his wife Mandodari, was a very smart kid, and curious about flight techniques. He would always sit with his father and grandfather when they designed and tested flying machines. One such day, Ravana, after a flight on his pushpaka vimaan , wanted to do some updates on his plane. Ravana and Mayasura were in the workshop making some changes to the flight control system, when Meghnath entered.  Meghnath: What are you doing, grandpa?  Mayasura: We are trying to update the flying machine so that it can reach the Svarga Loka (heavenly world).  Meghnath: That means it will be able to fly till the edge of Mount Meru (the sacred five-peaked mountain).  Ravana: Yes. Twelve kilometres above the ground. We can reach the Svarga Loka and say hello to our old friend, Indira, the king of Svarga .  Meghnath: Dad, when you will teach me how to fly and to build these flying machines?  Ravana (to Mayasura): Uncle, he is now six years old. Is it a right age to start?  Mayasura: Of course, my king! His birth made the people in heaven scared, and he plays with lions! He is absolutely ready to learn the basics.  Meghnath: Thank you, grandpa! I am so excited! Let’s start!  Ravana: Of course, son. Before you begin building actual machines, you can start making small planes using paper and learn how to control them. Let us start with the “Dart” plane, one of the fast moving ones.  Vaayusastra Aerospace is an ed-tech startup that offers Air Science workshops for children between five and 14 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/take-to-the-skies/article33816384.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||A world of wonders||Putti’s spending his summer vacation in Deolali and he thinks life is going to be fun with his new friend Inu. But with their parents forbidding them from playing with each other, the two kids are flabbergasted. So they decide to find out why. Can Mr. Om Namaha and Dr. Solanki help? Or will Inu and Putti have to go up the hill to ask the fearsome Tekdichi Mhatari? Harshikaa Udasi’s Friends Behind Walls is a book on the importance of friendship, the petty tendencies of adults to hold grudges and the magic of old memories! The vegetables from Ammu’s parents’ cart have disappeared! Who could have stolen them? Amma and Appa are sure the thief must have come in a helicopter. But Ammu, following a trail left by the thief, finds some very strange clues. Part of the Hook Book series, C.G. Salamander’s Moodunnit is a fun, tongue-in-cheek richly illustrated read. As a nationwide lockdown is imposed to battle the novel coronavirus, Ajja and Ajji welcome their grandchildren to Shiggaon. While stitching masks, sharing household chores, preparing food for workers the children also lose themselves in enchanting world of goddesses, kings, princesses, serpents, thieves, and others. The myriad stories told by their grandparents become the biggest source of joy, making the children compassionate, worldly-wise and more resilient than ever. Bim loves Poondy, where fruits are always falling on people's heads; whether it is jackfruit, coconut or the date palm. To avoid injuries, all Poondizens wear fruit-helmets invented by the legendary Falwala. And then there’s the Wise Man and the barber-detective. But when Bim's mother, who drives a coffee-coloured taxi, decides to move away, Bim's last two weeks are full of strange and exciting adventures — from a bat attack to a bike theft! Arjun Talwar’s debut novel captures the magic on an idyllic Indian childhood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/a-world-of-wonders/article33816390.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||The Creative Juices||ACROSS 1 Art made using many smaller pieces of art (7) 4 Made with clay (3) 7 Piece of limestone used for drawing (5) 10 A coating applied on wood (7) 11 Perfume (5) 12 The Colosseum was built by this empire (5) 14 ___ and dye: A fabric printing method (3) 16 ___ art: Optical illusion art (2) 17 Ancient Chinese paintings were made on this fabric (4) 19 Create a picture (4) 20 They have heads and tails (5) DOWN 1 Surface for painting (6) 2 The person who makes art (6) 3 Engrave (4) 5 A type of paint base (3) 6 ____ room: Where actors put on makeup (5) 8 Moving images (9) 9 Terracotta is baked in this (4) 12 Petroglyph: Carving on ____ (4) 13 Tanjore paintings use foil made of this metal (4) 15 Tempera is made from this (3) 17 Work with needle and thread (3) 18 Resin used to make sealing wax (3)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/the-creative-juices/article33816362.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Let the world know how curious you are.||How do black moles develop on our body? Do animals have moles too?  Moles are common, usually harmless, growths that occur when cells in our skin grow in a cluster, instead of spreading out. In medical terms, moles are an overgrowth of melanocytes — pigment-producing cells. This pigment is what gives moles their colour, and they’re not just black. Their colour ranges from pink to dark brown. These cells are found in animals as well, especially mammals. So, animals get moles too but cannot be seen because of the hair/fur on their body.   Why don’t birdslike kites and eagles flap their wings continuously?  Birds like kites and eagles do flap, but less frequently than other birds. Instead, they soar through the skies — hold their wings outward, and float like the gliders. Instead of flapping, these birds rely on rising air currents called updrafts that are produced when the wind blows over hills and mountain ridges to help them reach higher altitudes and stay afloat. By flapping less frequently, these strong fliers save a lot of energy. Experts found that the Andean condor spent just 1% of its time aloft flapping its wings, which was mostly during take-off. One bird flew more than five hours without flapping its wings!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/let-the-world-know-how-curious-you-are/article33816336.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||The wonderful dream||The stars are twinkling in the sky, Above the garden of roses. And I drifted off to my wonderful dream, In which I was in Candy Land. There I found mountains of chocolate And houses of cake; Trees of ice-cream and bushes of candies. I took some candies for myself, And took some for my friends and family. Then suddenly I opened my eyes And thought, “Oh! It all was a dream!”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/the-wonderful-dream/article33816339.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Ruling the airwaves||You may think a radio is old fashioned and out of date but it’s an example of technology that’s never gone out of use. Take a look at how it came to be what it is today. The radio was one of the first modes of ‘wireless’ communication. The term ‘radio’ actually refers to the technology of using radio waves to carry information but, over time, began to be applied to the device itself. The technology for the electric telegraph and telephone, which were developed earlier, helped develop the radio.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/ruling-the-airwaves/article33816399.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/garfield/article33816332.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Let’s walk our way||Christopher and Columbus were two crabs that lived by the sea. They were the best of friends and one could always see them holding claws and doing their sideways walk together. One day Christopher said, “I wish I could walk forward rather than sideways.” “What a preposterous idea,” said Columbus, who always used big words. “It is not pre-pos-te-rous,” shot back Christopher. “I just want like to walk forwards like everybody else.” “But what is wrong with moving sideways? I think it’s grand. Do you know very few animals can move sideways? Just us, the rattlesnakes and the little hummingbirds. That’s what makes us stupendous! Of course, now that I think about it octopuses can move in any direction with those eight dangly legs….” Why blend in? But Christopher was not listening. “Stupendous? Is that another word for stupid? Because, that’s how I feel. When everybody walks forwards, why do we have to walk sideways and look stupid?” “Stupendous means amazing. And I think you are amazing just the way you are.” “I don’t want to be amazing. I want to blend in and be normal,” said Christopher. “Blend in?” asked Columbus. “But we do blend in. Just the other day, I was admiring the sunrise, and an early morning jogger almost squashed me with his big feet. He didn’t see me because I am the colour of the sand. I managed to jump sideways in the nick of time.” But Christopher was sad. He really wanted to walk forwards. “There are many advantages to walking sideways. You must celebrate your uniqueness,” Columbus said. Suddenly, they heard someone shout. “Help, help!” It was a baby seagull. Her leg was stuck between two rocks. Many birds were trying to put their beak into the gap between the rocks but they could not reach the baby’s leg. “Oh, someone help,” cried the mother seagull. Christopher rushed to the rescue. He knew he could help because he had a flat body. He entered the crack sideways. Soon, with his legs that were placed on the sides of his body, he nudged the seagull out of the wedge. The baby seagull was free! “Thank you,” said the mother seagull gratefully. “If you hadn’t been able to wiggle in sideways, nobody could have helped my baby.” “It was my pleasure, said Christopher, shyly. “I wish I could move sideways like you. I wish I had my legs on the side,” said the baby seagull. “Oh, you are amazing just the way you are. Be careful now,” waved Christopher and walked away. He searched for his friend with his beady eyes. Christopher found Columbus watching the sun set. “Well, my friend,” said Columbus with a smile. “I know, I know. We are all unique creatures. If I couldn’t walk sideways, I could not have helped the seagull today,” said Christopher, laughing. “That’s right. Now, how about a nice sideways walk down the beach.” “Gladly,” said Columbus. And off they went into the sunset, holding claws.  Do you know very few animals can move sideways? Just us, the rattlesnakes and the hummingbirds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/sudoku/article33816330.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||The story behind the Pancharatnam||In 1949, on the day of the aradhana, Bangalore Nagarathnamma, who spent her life’s savings to build the Tyagaraja Samadhi at Tiruvaiyaru, led a group of musicians in singing the 108 names that she had composed in praise of the saint-poet. After the musicians rendered a few more pieces, the gathering began to sing the Pancharatna kritis: ‘Jagadanandakaraka’ (Nattai), ‘Dudukugala’ (Gowla), ‘Sadinchene’ (Arabhi), ‘Kanakanaruchira’ (Varali) and ‘Endaro Mahanubhavulu’ (Sri). It was first time the congregational singing was held in Tiruvaiyaru. Since then many past masters such as Maharajapuram Viswanatha Iyer, Semmangudi Srinivasa Iyer and Palladam Sanjeeva Rao have participated in the group singing. Over the years, it gained immense popularity and soon began to be organised around the country and the world. On the concluding day of the ‘Anubhav Festival: Sri Tyagaraja Vaibhavam,’ hosted online by Paalam TV, vocalist and musicologist Radha Bhaskar explained the significance of the Pancharatna kritis in her lec-dem. The group rendering did away with the differences in the versions of the Pancharatnam, referred to as keertanas/kritis earlier, with the help of books by stalwarts such as Semmangudi Srinivasa Iyer, which had notations for these five songs. “The songs create a feeling of divinity that adds to the Ghana raga Pancharatnam — so called because they are in the five Ghana ragas — Nattai, Gowla, Arabhi, Varali and Sri — that are often played as tanam on the veena,” said Radha. Radha gave insights into the variations in the pancharatnam’s melodic structure, its swara and sahitya, and the special sangatis in the pallavi and anupavalli (of ‘Jagadanadakara,’ for instance) that have evolved over time. “Tyagaraja handles the vivaditvam (discordant notes in close proximity), beautifully through his thoughtful prayogas in the kritis, for instance in ‘Jagadanandakaraka’ (Nattai) or ‘Kanakanaruchira’ (Varali),” said Radha. Talking about Varali raga and the superstition that it causes a strained relationship between the guru and the sishya, she said, “If that had been true, Tyagaraja would have never chosen it.” Different ideas crystallise The past masters, who enhanced these kritis with their distinct style of rendition, suggested that ‘Endaro Mahanubhavulu’ be sung during the Aradhana. So by the 1950s, all the five kritis were set up for group singing. Before the tradition of singing the pancharatnam began, the line-up of songs included ‘Sri Ganapatini’ as suggested by veteran musician Thuraiyur Rajagopala Sharma and later, a guru kriti, ‘Gurulekha,’ was also added. In fact, Ariyakkudi Ramanuja Iyengar suggested ‘Evarani,’ but since others were not familiar with it, their instant choice was ‘Endaro Mahanubhavulu,’ a favourite of most contemporary musicians too. ‘Chetulara,’ played by the great flautist, Palladam Sanjeeva Rao, is a tradition that continues till today. This composition in which Tyagaraja bows to all great devotees portrays the saint-poet’s humility. This is also refered to by the late T.S. Parthasarathy, a renowned musicologist, in his 1967 magnum opus, the Tamil translation of the complete works of Tyagaraja. Even suits jazz Vainika/vocalist P. Ganesh, founder of Gayatri Fine Arts, compares the melodic beauty of Tyagaraja Pancharatnam to Draksha rasa, meaning it can be instantly savoured by the listener. “Each piece is unique, for example, ‘Jagadanandakaraka’ apparently has 108 names of Rama,” he says. “‘Sadinchene’ has every avataram of Krishna,” he observes, recalling how at Cleveland Aradhana a few years ago, jazz artistes played the notes of the Pancharatnam, while he and others sang the sahitya. “If jazz artistes can play it, I wish Hindustani music festivals would take on the Pancharatnam too,” he says. Speaking from Tiruvaiyaru on Bahula Panchami day this year, ghatam artiste Madipakkam Murali, organiser of Nanganallur Tyagaraja Aradhana, said that Tyagaraja incorporated laya patterns in the swara-sahityam passages and this is the reason behind the percussionists’ exuberant playing during the group rendition. Bengaluru-based musician Uma Ramakrishnan, founder of Amritavarshini, recalls how when she in Belgium initiated the Pancharatnam singing at Tyagaraja Aradhana there. “The Indian community in Belgium was excited to join the group singing as they were able to experience the ‘Tiruvaiyaru’ effect,” she says.  The writer is a trained   classical musician.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-story-behind-the-pancharatnam/article33816005.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||A legend in his lifetime||When you speak of Professor C.V. Chandrasekhar, Bharatanatyam exponent and guru, music composer who is adept in both systems of Carnatic and Hindustani, and a choreographer, it is difficult to steer clear of the cliché, ‘a legend in his lifetime’. Memories of the maestro in his heyday resurfaced recently when a film, Nrithya Gandharva – Prof. C. V. Chandrasekhar, His Art & Life, premièred on YouTube. During the 1970s and 1980s, students of Kalakshetra, the guru’s alma mater, would hear of his exploits as an impressive dancer and composer. When he performed with his wife Jaya Chandrasekhar and subsequently also with daughters Chitra and Manjari, the student community watched in awe. The guru would dance, then further along the programme, take his seat with the orchestra to sing and perform nattuvangam while the daughters danced. And Kalakshetra the next day would smile with tales of how the boy Chandrasekhar, cheerfully belting out kalpanaswaras, had joined Rukmini Devi Arundale’s institution to learn music, and how his dancing talents had then been honed alongside. No doubt his own attraction towards dance was a driving factor, but perhaps his musical prowess also drew Rukmini Devi to put into practice her belief that the best dancers are those who sing well. Among the celebrated Kalakshetra alumni, Chandrasekhar epitomises this principle that the founder often reiterated.  Journey across the country In the late 1980s, as his troupe in Vadodara (where he was spearheading the work of the dance department at the M.S. University, Baroda) came of age, he toured the country with acclaimed productions. When Guru Chandrasekhar settled in Chennai in 1992, after a long sojourn in the northern parts of the country, having taken early retirement as Head of the Faculty of Performing Arts at Baroda, he started a new chapter in his life with the same energy and enthusiasm that had characterised his earlier artistic forays. In his late 1950s, an age when many performers consider retiring from the stage, he dove into an inspiring solo career, displaying a technical brilliance that put younger dancers to shame. It was at this time too that audiences heard another aspect of Chandrasekhar’s story. Often during the commentary between compositions — many of them featuring his own music and dance creations — he would talk of his days of struggling to be recognised as a soloist. It had not been easy to succeed as a male Bharatanatyam dancer. While women performing solo were accepted, organisers consistently asked a male dancer to perform with a female duet partner, he said. The implication was that they looked for the decorative and entertaining aspects of a performance rather than considering the skills and depth of each soloist. While his work has been recognised by honours such as being named a Fellow of the Sangeet Natak Akademi and receiving the Padma Bhushan and the Kalidas Samman, Guru Chandrasekhar’s life story, despite his eminence, is not widely known. This prompted documentary filmmaker Vinu Vasudevan and Kuchipudi exponent Madhavi Mallampalli to make Nrithya Gandharva . After being stalled by the lockdown, the film was released now. As a tribute to C.V. Chandrasekhar, Nrithya Gandharva covers a lot of ground. Scripted and directed by Vasudevan with narration and subtitles by Madhavi, the documentary has been shot in Chennai, Varanasi and Vadodara, the three important centres in Chandrasekhar’s life. Madhavi, a Kuchipudi dancer whose Madhura Kala Niketan has produced the film, finds the Chandrasekhars “blissfully untouched by the stress and politics of the art world the rest of us are familiar with.” She says she and Vasudevan “felt this story had to be told, of such people having lived lives totally unpolluted by commercial or professional gain... and still living, happily and in the moment.” The filmmakers would have done well without the the history of Bharatanatyam, a far too casual and sweeping mention at that. The film includes dramatised episodes of Chandrasekhar’s life. To those familiar with the personalities represented, this is not always palatable, but Vasudevan says he wanted to use the docu-fiction method. “I know, people [are] aware this is not real Chandrasekhar, but I am sure they can connect it with him. This also happened in the case of singing. [The actor] is sir’s grandson, Viraj Rajendra Kumar. He is a music student and has some similarities in appearance.” Tracing Chandrasekhar’s schooling and dance training in Chennai to his graduation in Botany from Banaras Hindu University (BHU), the film goes on to tell us that while pursuing his doctorate in Botany, he was offered a dance teacher’s job at the Vasant Kanya Mahavidyalaya. Here his skills in teaching and choreography began to sharpen. We hear the guru recount with a fond laugh, “Meantime, I was 27, Jaya came into my life, and then we got married”. Jaya was a lawyer, he a scientist, and both were accomplished dancers and singers. Since accompanying musicians for Bharatanatyam were hard to come by in those days in Varanasi, they sang for each other’s performances, he says. Several personalities, largely from the field of Bharatanatyam, have been interviewed in the documentary. A noteworthy inclusion is that of Sanskrit scholar Kamlesh Dutt Tripathi, who describes the immense contribution of the Chandrasekhars to the production of Sanskrit plays at Banaras Hindu University and to developing a practical application for the precepts of the Natya Shastra, particularly in the presentation of the poorvaranga , which was more or less a forgotten concept in the 1970s. The maestro pays tribute to the many people who groomed him, from Gurus S. Sarada and Sarada Hoffman, who meticulously taught him Bharatanatyam, to the many scholars and musicians he met while working in Varanasi and Vadodara. Of his mentor Rukmini Devi he says, “From inside she was meetha (sweet),” and remarks that though she did not personally put him through his paces, she ignited his passion for dance and opened his mind. Perhaps the greatest tribute to his mentor is that some 70 years later, that passion continues to burn bright.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/a-legend-in-his-lifetime/article33815986.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||The last act||When Rugmini begins to fan the esteemed guest in the palace, Kuchela objects politely. “I’ve come just to see your husband Krishna, my childhood friend,” says the poor man. And, as the blue-hued god dances, Kuchela gestures, “Meeting him has driven away my fatigue.” When the famed Vishnu temple in Tiruvalla in south-central Kerala hosted a Kathakali night on October 1, 2020, after the seven-month lockdown, Mathoor Govindankutty played the key role of Kuchelan. He had turned 80 just the week before. As festivities slowly resumed, the veteran began to get many such invitations to perform. And when he danced as Kunti in mid-January at Mynagappally near Kollam, it turned out to be his swansong.  Rich lineage Govindankutty was born into an affluent family known for its cultural lineage. Many members of the Mathoor household in the paddy belt of Kuttanad, of what is now Alappuzha district, were experts in the Velakali war dance. In the 18th century, the founder of the family, Mathoor Panicker headed the army of king Devanarayana of Chembakassery. The Mathoor family owned a Kaliyogam that had Kathakali paraphernalia, artistes, masters and classes in Nedumudi village. The endeavour generated a grand line-up of Kathakali performers. The most celebrated among them was Mathoor Kunjupilla Panicker (1873-1929). A contemporary of his was Kurichi Kunjan Panicker. He was Govindankutty’s teacher in the formative period. The boy had earlier been a pupil of locally renowned Nedumudi Kuttappa Panicker. As a youngster, Govindankutty began gaining popularity for his female roles. That led him to train under Kudamaloor Karunakaran Nair, who was instrumental in enhancing the status of Kathakali heroines on stage. “Govindankutty could imbibe much of Kudamaloor’s acting style. Together they performed extensively, developing a good chemistry,” says late author Aymanam Krishna Kaimal in his encyclopaedia on the art form. The guru, meanwhile, became Govindankutty’s father-in-law as well and shifted base to Kudamaloor on the outskirts of Kottayam. Govindankutty was further mentored by Ambalappuzha Sekhar, who was groomed in the dance-centric Kalluvazhi stream at Kalamandalam. “A mix of both methods enriched Govindankutty’s skills and craft,” notes scholar-percussionist Manoj Kuroor. Kalamandalam Gopi says, “Govindankutty acted opposite me for a long time. As Devayani who is in love with Kacha, as Damayanti reuniting with Nala, as Kunti who shocks Karna with the truth behind his birth, and not once did he disappoint spectators.” Margi Vijayakumar, also known for his female roles, says that Govindankutty insisted on perfection in choreography even while emphasising on abhinaya. Benign and simple As he grew old, Govindankutty began to don male roles that could hide or blur the creases on his face. “The move worked well,” says aesthete M. Mahesan. Babu Namboothiri, who teaches music in Kalamandalam, recalls the way Govindankutty encouraged accompanists. “‘You sang so well’, he would tell me. Imagine being complimented by an artiste 30 years older than me!”  Chennai-based Saritha Varma has fond memories of performing with Govindankutty in Santhanagopalam at a 2018 festival. Adds Jayasree Mohandas, a Kathakali artiste from Mumbai, where Govindankutty performed a couple of years ago. “In the greenroom, he was very jovial.” In no way was he meek. Blogger Ambujakshan Nair notes that Govindankutty mobilised colleagues and admirers to seek national recognition for Kathakali. “Even while in hospital last month, he called me and said we must protest against the art form being left out of the Padma awards this time as well.” Govindankutty received the Fellowship of the Ministry of Culture and Kalamandalam, besides awards from the Central Sangeet Natak Akademi and the Kerala government. His son, Kudamaloor Muralikrishnan, is also a Kathakali artiste, while his two grandchildren are undergoing training. The Mathoor tradition is alive.  The writer is a keen follower of Kerala’s performing arts.   As festivities slowly resumed, the veteran began to get many invitations to perform. And when he danced as Kunti in mid-January at Mynagappally near Kollam, it turned out to be his swansong.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-last-act/article33816014.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Remaking the traditional tanpura||A scientific rethink of a craft steeped in tradition, unencumbered by hallowed strictures, can shatter long-held beliefs, shed valuable insight, and provide interesting perspective. Dr. Bhushan M. Jayarao of The Pennsylvania State University, a non-musician, has constructed a tuneful tanpura with local material and knowhow from the Society of Indian Music and Arts (SIMA), an organisation dedicated to preserving and propagating traditional Indian performing arts. The construction of this tanpura breaks ‘sacrosanct’ beliefs on the making of Indian musical instruments, including particular geographical antecedents, very specific material, and inviolable modus operandi. According to Arijit Mahalanabis, founder of SIMA and a recognised dhrupad and khayal artiste, “This tanpura was an attempt to wean away from dependence on India for instruments. We find traditional Indian instrument-makers have a mental block in handling anything outside what they are used to — for example, male tanpuras outside the C# range.” Kishan Patel, director of SIMA’s Harrisburg chapter and himself a Hindustani vocalist and multi-instrumentalist, adds, “Another major issue is inconsistency. While well-known musicians receive instruments of high quality, we find ourselves frequently short-changed, particularly since we cannot test the instruments before purchase.” SIMA knew of Edward Powell, an European luthier, who makes intriguing fused instruments including a lute, guitar and sarod all-in-one. He has also made a sarod and a surshringar with the same technique used to make an oudh (a Middle Eastern lute). SIMA thus thought a tanpura was in the realms of local possibility. The process Dr. Bhushan, a Professor of Veterinary and Biomedical Sciences, regularly reviews histologic slides — images of thin cross-sections of organic tissue. “I felt constructing the tanpura similarly, as layers of sections composed into one whole entity, was a feasible approach.” He used several squares of plywood, individually cut and hollowed to shape, assembled and stacked with glue to shape the thumba ( kudam or bulbous bottom part of the instrument which is traditionally a gourd or solid piece of wood). The dand (or dandi aka long stem) of the tanpura was also created the same way, with a hollow tunnel in it. Where the kudam and the dandi intersected, Dr. Bhushan traced it out in longer planks of plywood and cut them out as contiguous pieces — unlike many traditional tanpuras where the kudam and dandi are separate pieces often joined with a connecting neck piece. The face plate was carved and added to the bottom and extensive hand and machine sanding followed. Kishan added the bridges, the tail piece, and the pegs. Dr. Bhushan’s wife, Dr. Latha Bhushan, a Professor at Lock Haven University, applied three coats of polyurethane to seal, then hand-painted it multiple times with oil paint before doing the artwork. While heavier than the female Miraj tanpura used for dimensions, “the sound is soft and well rounded, not lacking in any overtones, but not as robust as a conventional tanpura,” says Arijit. Materials, mainly plywood and glue, were purchased at the local home-improvement store. Dr. Bhushan estimates 400 hours from conceptualisation to finish went into the tanpura. “This was a prototype — it should take much less time going forward. We now know what is crucial, what works and what does not,” says Arijit, who hopes to continue SIMA’s efforts in instrument-making. Kishan adds, “We would like to hear from, and work with those who could share further expertise.” SIMA also ordered a male A# tanpura from Edward Powell. Using the provided dimensions of Kishan’s best tanpura and the pitch it played at, Powell provided clear schematics for what the requested tanpura would be like. “The dand was a full 7 inches longer, practically my height of 5’ 11,” says Kishan. New versions Pleased with Powell’s instrument, SIMA has remodelled other instruments too. When the goatskin faceplate of Kishan’s traditional Santiniketan esraj broke, experts in India said he had to get rid of the instrument. However, he experimented and made a faceplate from a Remo Ambassador model drumhead. “The sound is as good as it was originally,” says Arijit. These endeavours provided Arijit another important insight. “I understood why many music teachers in India tell some aspirants that music is not for them. It is often just an issue of pitches not aligning. Teachers and instrument-makers expect women and men to sing only in particular pitches. But that is a matter of physiology which, in the West, is recognised.” He continues, “The prototype tanpura, our efforts with other instruments, and what we learned from Edward Powell have proven to us that Indian musical instruments can be made in alternate ways. This could help alleviate supply issues — for example, the larger gourds required for some tanpura pitches are unavailable in India and are sourced from Madagascar. Other instruments can also be re-engineered. Almost all Indian drums are thought to be functional only if made from a single block of wood, but I have heard a tabla made from multiple pieces that sounded very good. Using multiple pieces makes it so much more environmentally sustainable too. Sound is just physics. Construction (the thickness of the wood, the depth of the hollow chambers etc.) rather than exact materials affects sound and tonal quality more.”  The author writes on classical music and musicians.   The creation of this tanpura was an attempt to wean ourselves from dependence on India for instrumentsArijit Mahalanabis||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/remaking-the-traditional-tanpura/article33816010.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||And a new journey begins||V. Rithanya Priyadharshini, a student of dancer-guru Urmila Sathyanarayanan, took her first steps as a solo dancer at Sir Mutha Venkatasubba Rao Hall last Saturday. After the invocation, Rithanya began her recital with a Pushpanjali in Nattai followed by Bharatiyar’s ‘Vellai thamarai’ in a Ragamalika. The song was an interesting choice, for in this piece Bharatiyar invokes Saraswati, the goddess of learning, including the arts. As she stood under the spotlight depicting a cuckoo, with J.B. Sruthisagar bringing the melody through his flute, the line ‘Geetam padum kuyilin kuralai’ came alive. This was followed by the fast-paced Ragamalika Jatiswaram composed by the Thanjavur Quartet. The centerpiece of the evening was Lalgudi Jayaraman’s varnam in Nilambari (‘Senthil mevum’). An ode to Lord Muruga, the varnam displayed Rithanya’s involvement in the narrative, interspersed with jatis. The story of Arunagirinathar was woven into the varnam as well as musically depicted with the Thiruppugazh verse ‘Agaramum aagi.’ Collaborative exercise The arangetram, while being a solo showcase of the young dancer, is also a collaborative exercise. A highlight of this collaboration were the jatis, particularly the one where the last set of ‘ thadinginatom s’ had the accompanying artistes joining in — first the violin, then the flute and finally, all together. The orchestra, comprising vocalist G. Srikanth, mridangist M. Dhananjayan, flautist Sruthisagar, and violinist B. Ananthakrishnan, along with Urmila’s nattuvangam, did a fantastic job. A change in costume and a change in emotion marked the next piece, Gopika Geetham (‘Mathura nagarilo’) in Anandabhairavi. This was followed by Bharatiyar’s ‘Dhikku theriyadha kaattil,’ wonderfully rendered by Srikanth and performed by Rithanya. This ragamalika piece was interspersed with fast beats and rendered in parts as storytelling. Ending the day on a high note, the performance concluded with Lalgudi G. Jayaraman’s Madhuvanthi thillana. This performance is an important milestone in Rithanya’s artistic journey. Special guest Chitra Visweswaran praised the dancer’s alertness to the moment and also spoke about how Bharatanatyam is as much a physical discipline as an artistic one. The writer is a Chennai-based freelance journalist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/and-a-new-journey-begins/article33816007.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Celebrating Tyagaraja||A colourful garland was strung together, emanating the fragrance of devotion to Saint Tyagaraja on Pushya Bahula Panchami day. It has been 25 years since Kala Pradarshini started its annual dedication to cherish the timeless classical compositions of Saint Tyagaraja. In this aradhana hosted by Parvathi Ravi Ghantasala, artistic director of Kala Pradarshini, 20 students presented Tyagaraja kritis through dance. The event began on a customary note with an invocation to Ganesha in ‘Sri Ganapatini’ in ragam Saurashtram by Manasa Vijay Chander and Gowthami Ashok, disciples of Radhika Shurajit. Simple, straightforward choreography with brisk footwork and detailing of puja rituals was reproduced by the dancers. This piece was unique as others focused on Rama and Vishnu. Flawless araimandi Smriti Krishnamurthy, Anjali Hariharan and Nutana Nair, disciples of Anitha Guha, danced to ‘Nagumomu’ in Abheri. Picturesque depiction of Gajendra moksham, Garuda vahana, Govardhana giridhari and the end pose of Rama and Sita with Tyagaraja at the feet was impressive. The faultless araimandi was noteworthy. Deepanjali Suresh, Janani and Malarvizhi, disciples of Binesh Mahadevan, performed ‘Ksheerasagara sayana’ in Devagandhari. The dancer who performed the ocean interestingly transformed into Vishnu for Gajendra moksham. Draupati vastraharan and the portrayal of Garudan and Vishnu reclining added to the visual dimension. ‘Brochevarevare’ was a solo presentation by Sneha, who executed the jatis and the swaras with trained ease. The end pose of Rama in his characteristic stature was appealing. It was an opportunity to choreograph many interesting kritis. On the music team were Nandini Anand (vocal), M. Dhananjayan (mridangam) and Vishvesh (violin). In the second segment of the aradhana, Parvathi’s disciples Gayatri, Vallabhi and Tejaswini presented ‘Srirama Srirama’ in Sahana. The piece was an interesting mix of brisk swaras and fast-forward flashes of Ramayana scenes like Sita Kalyanam, Bharata receiving paduka, etc., right up to Rama Pattabishekam — all in capsule form.  Saswati, disciple of Mahalakshmi Ashwin, presented ‘Sri Raghuvara.’ Her footwork was notable and she portrayed the scenes of Rama breaking the bow and Sitaharan effectively. A spirited duet by D. Dileep and Daphni Rajavel, disciples of Sailaja, came next, with mercurial movements marking ‘Balakanakamaya’. Contrasting in mood and content was ‘Nidhi Chala Sukhama’ by Rukmini Induri, disciple of Indu and Nidheesh. The spiritual stand of Tyagaraja was brought out in this solo abhinaya piece emotively sung by Nandini Anand. A melodic ‘Pavanaja Stutipatra’ in Kurinji was a solo presentation by Ritwika; depiction of the marriage complete with unjal, etc., was charming. The artistes of the second segment had music support from Kaushik on the vocal, Haribabu on the mridangam, and R. Kalaiarasan on the violin. Last but not the least came ‘Nanu Palimpa’ by Dr. Shahana Selvaganesh, disciple of Roja Kannan. Parur M. S. Anantashree was on vocal support.  The Mumbai-based author   writes on music and dance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/celebrating-tyagaraja/article33815995.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||A celebration of sadhana||The brochure of Kala Academy’s recently concluded 40th edition of Surashree Kesarbai Kerkar Sangeet Samaroh in Goa introduces the incomparable Kesarbai thus: ‘Surashree Kesarbai Kerkar’s life was the enactment of a noble soul’s yearning for achieving musical perfection with perseverance and tenacity. Kesarbai was God’s gift to Goa’. On the sprawling, beautiful premises of Kala Academy, large numbers of music lovers, critics, connoisseurs congregated as a testimony to the above statement. While it was true of Goans, it was true of classical music lovers across India and outside India as well. People had travelled from various parts of the country and abroad to pay their respects to this priceless gem of Indian music and also to listen to the fine music line-up for three days. Kesarbai Kerkar, the consummate queen of the Jaipur Atrauli gharana, did not hanker for name or fame. Relentless struggle for perfection in music was her singular goal. A festival in memory of her is a pilgrimage for most musicians. Every musician – upcoming to senior– who performed at this festival invariably acknowledged this. Flawlessly organised and superbly curated, the festival must definitely figure in the annual calendar of all musical lovers. Excerpts from an interview with the Programme and Development Officer, Dattaguru Amonkar, Kala Academy, Goa. So many musicians who hailed from Goa went on to become giants in the world of music. Why did the Kala Academy decide to host an annual festival in memory of Kesarbai Kerkar? There are many legendary musicians who hailed from Goa. I would like to remember the great Bablibai Salgaonkar, the disciple of Nathan Khan Agrewale. A six-footer with a strong physique, she looked like a wrestler. Ustad Alladiya Khan, her contemporary, considered her an extraordinary musician and Ustad Abdul Karim Khan apparently never sang after her at any music conference. She was also the court musician of the princely state of Bhavnagar. In her later years, she was attracted to spirituality and sang very less. She, however, was not as well-known as Kesarbai. Kala Academy started a Kesarbai Festival 40 years ago for more than one reason. Her music constituted the best of all aspects of music — intellectual and emotional. She was the disciple of the emperor of music, Sangeet Samrat Ustad Alladiya Khan, who considered her his true successor. Poet Rabindranath Tagore gave her the title, Surashree. Considering all this, the Kala Academy felt it was important to keep Kesarbai’s memory alive, someone who despite all odds became a leading musician. I don’t think there is any other festival in India that pays tribute to a woman musician.  There were several great women musicians from this region: Bhaskarbua Bakhale, Jitendra Abhisheki, Anjanibai Malpekar… but when you look at the life of Kesarbai, you realise what it means to become a star in a society dominated by men. She came from the Kalavanth community, where women were pressed into the service of the temple. They were phenomenally talented, but had no status in society. The mothers of all these great daughters strived to hone the talent of their daughters so that they were known to the world by the quality of their art. It was not easy; the travails of their lives is hard to explain. Kesarbai Kerkar, Mogubai Kurdikar, Saraswatibai Jambavalikar, Bablibai Salgaonkar, Dattibai Nageshkar… all these women became brilliant musicians. In remembering Kesarbai we are remembering all of them. Kesarbai was known for her sadhana, she practised music like penance. She was known for her unparalleled guru bhakti, her uncompromising nature, and her pursuit of perfection. What do you wish to uphold through your festival?   Her guru bhakti. As you know, Ustad Alladiya Khan was not willing initially to take her as his disciple. And when he did, he did not allow her to sing in public for 25 years. Not once did Kesarbai feel bitter about this. Trust in her guru was implicit. Now people just drop words like ‘guru seva’ without even understanding its meaning fully. Learning is now a commercial activity. In three months you want to master a raga, in two years you want to be on stage. During Kesarbai’s time, the gurus taught a raga for several years; it was not about learning a raga alone, they were grooming the voice, technique, and most importantly the ability to think. Kesarbai was an expert is ragas like Sawani Nat, Nat Behag, Nayaki Kanada and many others. Continued on page 4 Continued from page 1 It is like a gold standard. She and Mogubai were Alladiya Khan saab’s finest disciples. But do you know what he said to Kesarbai? “Music is like an ocean. What you have taken from me is just a few drops.” This he told her after 30 years of gurukul training! We want to pass on these values. Humility is a great virtue, without which art is shallow.  The festival just completed its 40th edition. What has been its journey?   There has always been a conscientious effort to bring the best musicians from across the country. Best is not popular, but scholarly. In the very first edition, we had Nisar Hussain Khan saab , so you can imagine! The festival has been strictly Hindustani, but in the last five years we have added a small component of Carnatic music. We are yet to bring in a vocal musician, but we have had Vikku Vinayakram, U. Shrinivas, Umayalapuram Sivaraman, Selvaganesh, Ganesh and Kumaresh, and Jayanti Kumaresh. Last year, we brought in the percussion ensemble led by ghatam artiste Sukanya Ramgopal. The curation of this festival is entirely on merit. There is a three-member team which included Prasad Sawkar, Ajay Naik and me for this edition. What is Kala Academy’s contribution is to the world of classical music?   It is immense. Every artiste feels their career has been elevated by performing at this festival. They hold it in high esteem. It is also an opportunity for youngsters to learn about Kesarbai Kerkar. If they are inspired enough to learn classical music and emulate her in small ways, it is a big step for us. Goa lost most of its musicians to Bombay but brings them all back through this festival.   Although Goa produced legendary musicians like Abhisheki, Karekar, Kishori Amonkar and several others, they had to leave Goa seeking a guru or an opportunity. They established themselves as top performers and brought name and fame to Goa. In fact, there is a popular saying, ‘Maharashtra sings in Goa’s voice’. If they had remained in Goa, they could not have achieved all this. You have also started a festival in Kishori Amonkar’s memory.    Yes, we had one edition; hopefully we will have the second one this year. Kala Academy’s general council decided to hold this festival as a mark of respect to Goa’s daughter Kishori Amonkar.  (A report on the 40tth Surashree Kesarbai Kerkar Sangeet Samaroh   will be published next week.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/a-celebration-of-sadhana/article33815991.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Framed by music||Real life is always much more inspiring and engaging than fiction. But to portray the life of a person in a movie or play is always more difficult. But Bombay Gnanam, actor and founder of Mahalakshmi Ladies Drama Group Trust, has quite successfully brought out the spirit and essence of Tyagaraja’s life in the film Endaro Mahanubhavulu . The powerful dramatisation of the significant events from the saint-poet’s life, the remarkable restraint exhibited by the actors, and the vibrant screenplay make the 100-minute film worth watching. The film premiered at the 174th Tyagaraja Aradhana organised by Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, Chennai, on Pushya Bahula Panchami day. The screening was followed by the rendering of the Pancharatna kritis. Written and directed by Bombay Gnanam, the biopic inspires faith and hope, highlighting the human values of resilience, compassion, and piety. A dream come true The movie, made to fulfil the dream of a devotee of the Paramacharya, begins with how the Shankaracharya expressed his desire to the devotee that a film be made on Saint Tyagaraja. The first scene depicts the saint-poet coming out of his samadhi and delivering a monologue in which he tells his father, “You had sought from god a son to continue your puja for Sri Rama. But now see, hundreds of songs on the deity are being sung across the world.” The film has 18 songs, including ‘Lavanya Rama,’ ‘Seethamma mayamma,’ ‘Balakanakamaya,’ ‘Nidhichala sukhama,’ ‘Kanukontini,’ ‘Rara mayinti’ and, of course, ‘Endaro mahanubhavulu.’ All these compositions (not all are rendered fully) are sung by the protagonist Ragavan Manian, a disciple of the legendary M. Balamuralikrishna. Besides conveying the spirit of the songs, Ragavan has proved his histrionic talent with his realistic portrayal. How the initially reluctant Sonti Venkataramanayya agrees to teach Tyagaraja after listening to the boy sing his own composition, ‘Namao namo raghavaya’, is depicted well. The other memorable scenes are: the unchavrithi of the saint-poet; the wife of Tyagaraja’s elder brother Japyesa trying to drive a wedge between the siblings, Tyagaraja refusing Japyesa’s advice to earn money by teaching music; his refusal to accept the gifts sent by the king, Tyagaraja’s emotional turmoil when he loses the idol of his favourite deity, and the joy when he gets it back. Realistic portrayals The expressions of Ashvin Krishna (Japyesa), when he steals Lord Rama’s idol from Tyagaraja’s house and asks the god to pardon him before doing so, were very realistic. The other actors such as Svetha Venkat (Tyagaraja’s wife), Padma Ganapathy (Japyesa’s wife), Arushi Vibhu (Tyagaraja’s daughter), Girish Ayyapat (Tyagaraja’s father) and R. Giridharan (Sonti Venkataramanayya) represent their characters well. Even though the movie was filmed in two short months and on the stage of Mylapore Fine Arts Club, Chennai, one gets the feel of the actual locations in every scene — thanks to Anand Babu (camera), N.R. Mohan Babu (art director) and Kannan (make-up). Lighting by Mano Lightings is spot-on. The music by Dakshin, grandson of veteran music director V. Dakshinamurthy is inspiring. While Krishnakumar, also a disciple of M. Balamuralikrishna, has sung the Ashtapadi that Govinda Marar renders, Shreya Vishnuram has rendered the song sung by Tyagaraja’s daughter.  The Chennai-based author writes on music and culture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/framed-by-music/article33815997.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Pt. Bhimsen Joshi Award to Rajam||Renowned violinist N. Rajam will be conferred the Pt. Bhimsen Joshi Lifetime Achievement Award. The annual award, instituted by Maharashtra, honours maestros in classical music. Though Rajam learnt to play the violin from her father Narayana Iyer in the Carnatic style, she mastered the Hindustani style and established herself as a front-ranking musician. At age 13, she began to travel across the country accompanying stalwarts. Impressed by Pt. Omkarnath Thakur's singing, she decided to get training under him at the Banaras Hindu University. She later began teaching at the university along with a successful performance career. The previous recipients of the Pt. Bhimsen Joshi Lifetime Achievement Award include Kishori Amonkar, Pt. Jasraj, Prabha Atre, Pt. Ram Narayan, Begum Parveen Sultana, Manik Bhide, Pt. Keshav Ginde and Arvind Parikh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/pt-bhimsen-joshi-award-to-rajam/article33815993.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Album on Nachiyar Thirumozhi||Yamini Ramesh has brought out an album, ‘Vrundaavana Maalikaa,’ containing the 143 pasurams of Nachiyar Thirumozhi , in 143 ragas. The album was recently released in the presence of the 46th Azhagiya Singar, Srimad Sadagopa Sri Ranganatha Yateendra Mahadesikan, at Ahobila Math, Chennai. The first copy was received by Mukundagiri Anantapadmanabhacharyar (APN Swami), editor, Sri Nrusimha Priya , veteran musician Madurai T.N. Seshagopalan, violin vidwan S. Varadarajan and Purisai Hema Sriranganathan. Violinist Arushi Ramesh and mridangist B. Ganapathyraman have accompanied Yamini in the album.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/album-on-nachiyar-thirumozhi/article33815999.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Celebrations back on stage||Sri Thyaga Brahma Gana Sabha has organised a slew of programmes in connection with Tyagaraja aradhana from February 12 to 17 and on Feb 28 at Vani Mahal. The celebrations, to begin at 6.30 p.m today, include music concerts by eminent artistes, musical talks, and lecdems. The details: Today’s inaugural concert is by Palghat Ramprasad. Tomorrow: K. Bharat Sundar. The group rendering of the Pancharatna kritis by eminent artistes will take place on February 14, 10 a.m. The evening concert will be by Brinda Manickavachagan. ‘Tyagaraja Vaibhavam,’ a musical discourse, will be presented by B. Suchitra from February 15 to 17. As part of the aradhana celebrations, senior musician R.K. Shriram Kumar’s lecdem will take place on February 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/celebrations-back-on-stage/article33816000.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Laya Madhuraa fest||‘Laya Madhuraa,’ a three-day music festival, will be held from February 12 to 14, at Ragasudha Hall, Luz, Mylapore. The series will be live-streamed on the Parivadini YouTube channel. The festival will begin with C.S. Sajeev’s concert today at 5.30 p.m., and will be followed by the violin duet of Nagai Muralidharan and Nagai Sriram (7.30 p.m.) Tomorrow’s concerts will be by Amritha Murali (10 a.m.) and Tiruvarur Girish (6.30 p.m.) The festival concludes on February 14 with the vocal concerts of Chaitra Sairam (10 a.m.) and Kunnakudi M. Balamurali Krishna (6.30 p.m.). Naada Inbam has organised the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/laya-madhuraa-fest/article33816002.ece
12 February 2021||February 12 2021 00:00 IST,||A celebration of sadhana||The brochure of Kala Academy’s recently concluded 40th edition of Surashree Kesarbai Kerkar Sangeet Samaroh in Goa introduces the incomparable Kesarbai thus: ‘Surashree Kesarbai Kerkar’s life was the enactment of a noble soul’s yearning for achieving musical perfection with perseverance and tenacity. Kesarbai was God’s gift to Goa’. On the sprawling, beautiful premises of Kala Academy, large numbers of music lovers, critics, connoisseurs congregated as a testimony to the above statement. While it was true of Goans, it was true of classical music lovers across India and outside India as well. People had travelled from various parts of the country and abroad to pay their respects to this priceless gem of Indian music and also to listen to the fine music line-up for three days. Kesarbai Kerkar, the consummate queen of the Jaipur Atrauli gharana, did not hanker for name or fame. Relentless struggle for perfection in music was her singular goal. A festival in memory of her is a pilgrimage for most musicians. Every musician – upcoming to senior– who performed at this festival invariably acknowledged this. Flawlessly organised and superbly curated, the festival must definitely figure in the annual calendar of all musical lovers. Excerpts from an interview with the Programme and Development Officer, Dattaguru Amonkar, Kala Academy, Goa. So many musicians who hailed from Goa went on to become giants in the world of music. Why did the Kala Academy decide to host an annual festival in memory of Kesarbai Kerkar? There are many legendary musicians who hailed from Goa. I would like to remember the great Bablibai Salgaonkar, the disciple of Nathan Khan Agrewale. A six-footer with a strong physique, she looked like a wrestler. Ustad Alladiya Khan, her contemporary, considered her an extraordinary musician and Ustad Abdul Karim Khan apparently never sang after her at any music conference. She was also the court musician of the princely state of Bhavnagar. In her later years, she was attracted to spirituality and sang very less. She, however, was not as well-known as Kesarbai. Kala Academy started a Kesarbai Festival 40 years ago for more than one reason. Her music constituted the best of all aspects of music — intellectual and emotional. She was the disciple of the emperor of music, Sangeet Samrat Ustad Alladiya Khan, who considered her his true successor. Poet Rabindranath Tagore gave her the title, Surashree. Considering all this, the Kala Academy felt it was important to keep Kesarbai’s memory alive, someone who despite all odds became a leading musician. I don’t think there is any other festival in India that pays tribute to a woman musician.  There were several great women musicians from this region: Bhaskarbua Bakhale, Jitendra Abhisheki, Anjanibai Malpekar… but when you look at the life of Kesarbai, you realise what it means to become a star in a society dominated by men. She came from the Kalavanth community, where women were pressed into the service of the temple. They were phenomenally talented, but had no status in society. The mothers of all these great daughters strived to hone the talent of their daughters so that they were known to the world by the quality of their art. It was not easy; the travails of their lives is hard to explain. Kesarbai Kerkar, Mogubai Kurdikar, Saraswatibai Jambavalikar, Bablibai Salgaonkar, Dattibai Nageshkar… all these women became brilliant musicians. In remembering Kesarbai we are remembering all of them. Kesarbai was known for her sadhana, she practised music like penance. She was known for her unparalleled guru bhakti, her uncompromising nature, and her pursuit of perfection. What do you wish to uphold through your festival?   Her guru bhakti. As you know, Ustad Alladiya Khan was not willing initially to take her as his disciple. And when he did, he did not allow her to sing in public for 25 years. Not once did Kesarbai feel bitter about this. Trust in her guru was implicit. Now people just drop words like ‘guru seva’ without even understanding its meaning fully. Learning is now a commercial activity. In three months you want to master a raga, in two years you want to be on stage. During Kesarbai’s time, the gurus taught a raga for several years; it was not about learning a raga alone, they were grooming the voice, technique, and most importantly the ability to think. Kesarbai was an expert is ragas like Sawani Nat, Nat Behag, Nayaki Kanada and many others. Continued on page 4 Continued from page 1 It is like a gold standard. She and Mogubai were Alladiya Khan saab’s finest disciples. But do you know what he said to Kesarbai? “Music is like an ocean. What you have taken from me is just a few drops.” This he told her after 30 years of gurukul training! We want to pass on these values. Humility is a great virtue, without which art is shallow.  The festival just completed its 40th edition. What has been its journey?   There has always been a conscientious effort to bring the best musicians from across the country. Best is not popular, but scholarly. In the very first edition, we had Nisar Hussain Khan saab , so you can imagine! The festival has been strictly Hindustani, but in the last five years we have added a small component of Carnatic music. We are yet to bring in a vocal musician, but we have had Vikku Vinayakram, U. Shrinivas, Umayalapuram Sivaraman, Selvaganesh, Ganesh and Kumaresh, and Jayanti Kumaresh. Last year, we brought in the percussion ensemble led by ghatam artiste Sukanya Ramgopal. The curation of this festival is entirely on merit. There is a three-member team which included Prasad Sawkar, Ajay Naik and me for this edition. What is Kala Academy’s contribution is to the world of classical music?   It is immense. Every artiste feels their career has been elevated by performing at this festival. They hold it in high esteem. It is also an opportunity for youngsters to learn about Kesarbai Kerkar. If they are inspired enough to learn classical music and emulate her in small ways, it is a big step for us. Goa lost most of its musicians to Bombay but brings them all back through this festival.   Although Goa produced legendary musicians like Abhisheki, Karekar, Kishori Amonkar and several others, they had to leave Goa seeking a guru or an opportunity. They established themselves as top performers and brought name and fame to Goa. In fact, there is a popular saying, ‘Maharashtra sings in Goa’s voice’. If they had remained in Goa, they could not have achieved all this. You have also started a festival in Kishori Amonkar’s memory.    Yes, we had one edition; hopefully we will have the second one this year. Kala Academy’s general council decided to hold this festival as a mark of respect to Goa’s daughter Kishori Amonkar.  (A report on the 40tth Surashree Kesarbai Kerkar Sangeet Samaroh   will be published next week.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/a-celebration-of-sadhana/article33815981.ece
12 February 2021||New Delhi,||‘Frontline staffers keener than healthcare workers to get jab’||A total of 15,807 beneficiaries, healthcare and front-line workers took the COVID-19 vaccination in the city on Thursday, the highest so far, and there were 12 Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI), said a Delhi government spokesperson. The number of people vaccinated on Thursday was 62.4% of the daily target of 25,300. 81% beneficiaries  Of the total beneficiaries, 12,933 (81.8%) were front-line workers and 2,874 were healthcare workers, according to officials. “Front-line workers are showing more enthusiasm to get vaccinated compared to healthcare workers. Yesterday also, of the total beneficiaries, about 10,000 were front-line workers,” a Delhi government official told The Hindu.  Healthcare workers include, doctors, nurses, sanitation staff at healthcare facilities and others. While front-line workers include government employees, police, teachers and others. The vaccination of healthcare workers started in the city on January 16 and front-line workers from the first week of February. Though there is a daily list of front-line and healthcare workers to be vaccinated, people whose names are already registered, but not part of the daily list, can also get vaccinated. Second dose Though the Central government had said that the second dose of the vaccine will be administered from February 13, changes in the CoWIN platform is yet to be made for this, according to officials. 142 new cases Meanwhile, the Capital witnessed 142 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 6,36,529, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Thursday. Also, two deaths were reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 10,886. A total of 64,328 tests were done in the past 24 hours. Of the total cases, 6,24,592 people have recovered and there are 1,051 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/front-line-staffers-keener-than-healthcare-workers-to-get-jab/article33815714.ece
12 February 2021||Ghaziabad,||Aligarh police book RLD V-P Jayant Chaudhary||The Aligarh police have registered an FIR against Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) vice-president Jayant Chaudhary for violating Section 144 of the CrPc and sections of the Epidemic Act by holding a panchayat in the Iglas area of the district on Tuesday. Apart from Mr. Chaudhary, 21 others have been named, and 5,000-6,000 unnamed people mentioned in the FIR. The RLD has been holding massive panchayats in western Uttar Pradesh against the Central farm laws. In Shamli too, Section 144 was in place but the party went ahead with the gathering. It was followed by panchayats in Amroha and Aligarh. On Tuesday, Mr. Chaudhary addressed a panchayat in the Khurja area of Bulandshahr, where the turnout was huge. “Everybody knows that Section 144 of the CrPC has been imposed in the district which entails that permission needs to be taken for any public meeting. No such permission was taken for the programme. That is why a case has been registered in the Gonda police station for violating prohibitory orders and sections of the Epidemic Act,” said Shubham Patel, Superintendent of Police (Rural), Aligarh. Sections 147, 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC and Section 3 of the Epidemic Act 1897 have been invoked against the accused. Responding to the action, Mr. Chaudhary tweeted that he was ready to be arrested. Addressing Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, he tweeted, “ Baba bata dein kab aur kahan giraftari deni hain [Tell me, when and where should I present myself for arrest].” The RLD has a panchayat scheduled at Baldev in Mathura on Friday. Mr. Chaudhary said, “All programmes will go on as scheduled.” ‘Bid to put pressure’ Sunil Rohta, media in chage of the party, said the action seemed to be an “after thought” to put “pressure on political parties as after we successfully organised a series of panchayats, other political parties have also jumped into the fray,” he said, referring to the Congress panchyat in Saharanpur on Wednesday. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is expected to hold kisan sabhas in Meerut and Binor on February 13. Interestingly, the party had postponed its Saharanpur panchayat after the administration denied permission. However, local sources said, after the RLD successfully organised its panchayats despite prohibitory orders, Congress heavyweights like Imran Masood also seemed to have felt emboldened. Appeal to farmers In a related development, RLD president Ajit Singh has written an open letter to farmers ahead of his birthday on February 12. Making an appeal for “Chalo Gaon Ki Or”, Mr. Singh reminded farmers how the Congress government was forced to withdraw The Sugarcane Control (Amendment) Order, 2009, after massive protests from farmer bodies and parties like the RLD. “The present government is making fun of the farmers’ pain. In the coming days, attempts would be made to break your unity,” he cautioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aligarh-police-book-rld-v-p-jayant-chaudhary/article33815703.ece
12 February 2021||New Delhi,||HC refuses to interfere in East Kidwai Nagar revamp project||The Delhi High Court on Thursday declined to interfere with the East Kidwai Nagar redevelopment project noting that the project has been accorded the sanction by the authorities concerned. “The project has been considered by various authorities like the State Level Environment Impact Assessment Authority, National Monuments Authority, Delhi Pollution Control Committee, Unified Traffic & Transportation Infrastructure [Planning and Engineering] Centre [UTTIPEC], New Delhi Municipal Council, Delhi Urban Arts Commission, etc,” Justice Navin Chawla said. “It would not be for this court to find deficiencies in such sanction applying different yardstick,” Justice Chawla said. The High Court’s judgment came on a petition claiming that the project was in gross violation of the Master Plan for Delhi-2021. The plea submitted that Kidwai Nagar (East) being a government residential colony, the basic character of the same cannot be changed. Re-densification norm The plea argued that the project was in complete contravention of the norm of redensification of housing areas developed at lower densities and along selected section of metro corridor. It said that the area around the project is already cluttered, and hence, the redevelopment will create an unplanned load on neighbouring facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-refuses-to-interfere-in-east-kidwai-nagar-revamp-project/article33815705.ece
12 February 2021||New Delhi,||‘Consider as representation plea against tree felling for metro work’||The Delhi High Court on Thursday asked a Central Empowered Committee (CEC), set up by the Supreme Court, to look into environment issues to consider as representation a petition to change from overground to underground the nature of Phase-IV of metro expansion to prevent cutting of over 11,000 trees. Justice Prathiba M. Singh said the issue raised in the petition was in the domain of the CEC and therefore, the petitioners have to first approach the committee. Adverse effect The petitioners — P.C. Prasad and advocate Aditya N. Prasad, had contended that felling over 11,000 trees for the project would have an adverse effect on the ambient air quality of the Capital where pollution is at “critical” levels. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation’s (DMRC) counsel said the top court on February 2 had directed the CEC to look into the issue and file a report within four weeks. The counsel further said the CEC has fixed a meeting on Thursday at 3 p.m. and the petitioners can join the same. Metro phase-IV The petition had claimed that the Phase-IV expansion of the metro which involves three corridors — Delhi Aerocity to Tughlakabad, RK Ashram to Janakpuri West and Maujpur to Mukundpur — was being constructed on “deemed forest land” for which no forest clearance has been obtained. The plea had also claimed that cutting trees in such huge numbers “will cause irreparable damage and harm to the environment as well as health of the residents of New Delhi”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/consider-as-representation-plea-against-tree-felling-for-metro-work/article33815707.ece
12 February 2021||New Delhi,||‘Centre sanctioned 2-acre land at Rs. 2 crore to build Delhi BJP office’||The AAP on Thursday alleged that the BJP government has sanctioned more than 2 acres of land at Deen Dayal Upadhyay Marg at just Rs. 2 crore to Delhi BJP to build their office. ‘Was allotted for school’ “This land was not for building any political party office but this land was to build a school. We all know that the BJP has a big headquarters in this area already, and now the BJP-ruled Central government has given another spot to build their party office just opposite to the headquarters,” said AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj. He said that the BJP-ruled Central government has asked the AAP to pay crores of rupees as rent for their party headquarters and the BJP government had also tried to evict them from the office repeatedly. “The BJP should come clean and tell us whether they have any shame or not to own such a party office despite having such a negligible number of seats in the State or not,” the AAP leader said. In retaliation, the BJP sought to assert with documents that it was allotted 809 sq metres of land at DDU Marg for its office. BJP Delhi general secretary Kuljeet Singh Chahal termed it a “false propaganda by the AAP”. “The government policy is that all political parties should be allotted land in Delhi,” Mr. Chahal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/centre-sanctioned-2-acre-land-at-rs-2-crore-to-build-delhi-bjp-office/article33815709.ece
12 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Furnish report on forest land, NGT tells Haryana||Following a plea alleging diversion of forest land in Gurugram for non-forest purposes to the Indian Oil Corporation, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed State government authorities to furnish a report on the same. A Bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel directed the Deputy Commissioner Gurugram and the Divisional Forest Officer to ensure compliance. “An action-taken report may be filed jointly by the Deputy Commissioner, Gurugram and the Divisional Forest Officer, within two months. We do not find it necessary to seek response from any other party though several other entities have been impleaded in the application,” the Bench said. The directions came when the green panel was hearing a plea moved by the Manav Awaaj Trust against diversion of forest land for non-forest purposes in violation of law. The plea alleged that the site allotted to the IOCL by the Haryana government was a part of forest land and could not be used for non-forest purposes. “In spite of the said stand of the Forest Department, the Municipal Corporation Gurugram has failed to take remedial action to enforce the law. Use of forest land for non-forest purposes is also in violation of MoEF notification with regard to the Aravalli Range,” the plea said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/furnish-report-on-forest-land-ngt-tells-haryana/article33815716.ece
12 February 2021||Chandigarh,||Farmers’ outfit flays Centre’s ‘stubborn’ attitude||At a ‘Kisan Mahapanchayat’ in Punjab’s Jagraon, Joginder Singh, president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan), one of the largest outfit in Punjab, hit out at the Union government, accusing it of adopting a stubborn attitude on revoking the three farm laws and announced that farmers would not allow the implementation of these laws. ‘Stir to continue’ Mr. Singh asked farmers to be prepared for a long struggle. “We want them [Union government] to clearly understand one thing that if our demands are not fulfilled we will continue with our agitation indefinitely,” he added. The prevailing ‘mandi’ system under the APMC Act (Agricultural Produce Market Committee Act) in Punjab and Haryana had been working well and it should continue. ‘Govt. adamant’ “When farmers don’t want private players, then why is the government adamant. Private markets will fail the ‘mandi’ system. Same is true with contract farming. We are not in favour of it, let it be the way it was,” Mr. Singh said. The government was attempting to impose an agricultural model through these laws, which had failed at the global level, he alleged. ‘National movement’ Farmer leader Balbir Singh of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) said the agitation, which started from Punjab, has now become a movement across the country. “Even people from across the world are praising our peaceful agitation. Everyone is also watching the way the government is adopting repressive methods to dislodge our movement.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/farmers-outfit-flays-centres-stubborn-attitude/article33815704.ece
12 February 2021||New Delhi,||DTC employees gherao head office over salaries||Delhi Transport Corporation employees on Thursday gheraoed the headquarters of the public transporter over delayed disbursal of salaries and pension. Delhi Parivahan Mazdoor Sangh general secretary Kailash Malik said over 500 staffers participated in the demonstration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dtc-employees-gherao-head-office-over-salaries/article33815711.ece
