14 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||FinMin backs outlays for health, defence||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday tore into the Opposition’s charges that Budget 2021-22 paid inadequate attention to health, defence, and rural employment distress, by stressing that allocations for these sectors were more abundant than they were under the UPA. Presenting her defence of the Budget’s proposals in the Lok Sabha, Ms. Sitharaman labelled former Congress president Rahul Gandhi “India’s doomsday man” for stoking fears about issues such as the country’s handling of the pandemic and the economy. Taking on the Opposition’s suggestions of crony capitalism driving the Budget’s proposals, the Finance Minister said the only cronies that the government works for were the people of India, and questioned a former Congress-led State government’s decision to invite a ‘crony’ to set up a port. “Crony capitalism is a tendency they have. They [the Congress] say they nationalised banks, but by using phone-banking at those banks, non-performing assets were left behind. This is their tendency — create institutions and misuse them for their own — ‘ Hum Do Hamaare Do’ is useful for that — and keep accusing others at the end of the day,” she said. “Their second tendency is to say what they feel like in the Parliament, make allegations, use abusive language, but when as per the system, someone rises to respond point by point, they are not ready to listen. They will disturb, shout or walk out. This is what happened in the Budget debate,” the Minister said. Minister slams Congress “We should recognise these two tendencies of the Congress and this makes it clear that their belief in democratically elected Parliamentary system is completely finished,” Ms. Sitharaman said, concluding her feisty response to the Budget debate. She also accused Mr. Gandhi of persistently insulting constitutional authorities, be it former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh (by tearing an ordinance in public during the UPA regime), President Ram Nath Kovind (by discussing his address to the Parliament during the Budget debate) and, recently, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla as well. On criticism about allocations for the PM Kisan Yojana falling as per revised estimates for 2020-21, the Finance Minister said this was necessitated due to the West Bengal government’s stance on the scheme and refusal to share details of an estimated 65 lakh farmers in the State. The Centre was unable to pay farmers for whom provisions were made because of lack of details from the State, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/finmin-backs-outlays-for-health-defence/article33833560.ece
14 February 2021||HUBBALLI,||State first in attracting investment post lockdown, says Shettar||Minister for Large and Medium Industries Jagadish Shettar has said that with 95 proposals to the tune of Rs. 1.54 lakh crore investment, the State has topped the country in attracting investments in the post-COVID-19-induced lockdown period. Speaking at an awareness programme on “Industrial Policy 2020-25 and Investment Opportunities” in Hubballi on Saturday, Mr. Shettar said that after the withdrawal of lockdown, the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade of the Union government received 1,088 proposals with investments worth Rs. 3.76 lakh crore and of these, proposals worth Rs. 1.54 lakh crore were for the State. Mr. Shettar said that although the Investors Meet in Hubballi had evoked good response, the coronavirus-induced lockdown had resulted in a temporary debacle. After the withdrawal of lockdown, the State saw better revival in the industrial sector when compared to other States, he said. He said that the State government was ready to give 1,000 acres of land in Yadgir for the establishment of a medicine park and an appeal in this regard has been made to Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilizers D.V. Sadananda Gowda. As many as 70 pharmaceutical companies have already come forward to establish their industries in Yadgir. Meanwhile, the toy cluster has taken shape in Koppal. Mr. Shettar said that the State government has plans to set up five or six industrial townships in the State and already, permission has been sought from the Urban Development Ministry. Earlier, Additional Director of Department of Commerce and Industries and Commerce H.M. Srinivas made a presentation on the new industrial policy. President of KASSIA K.B. Arasappa, Joint Director of Industries and Commerce Dodda Basavaraju, President of NKSSIA Ninganna Biradar and President of KCCI Mahendra Ladhad and others were present. Later, addressing a press conference, Mr. Shettar said that the Finance Department is examining requests for concessions and incentives sought by industries for establishment of their units at the FMCG (Fast Moving Consumer Goods) Cluster proposed in Hubballi-Dharwad. Ullas Kamat, who is heading the vision group on the cluster, has made a submission in this regard and this is being examined, he said and added that several FMCG companies have evinced interest in the project. Regarding the contentious issues pertaining to taxation on industrial estates, he said that these were in the final stage of getting resolved and a decision has already been taken during a joint meeting chaired by him recently. On the Aryabhata Tech Park in Hubballi, he said that after much delay, land rate has been fixed at Rs. 58 lakh per acre and shortly, land will be allotted to the short-listed entrepreneurs. Regarding the widening of Hubballi Dharwad Bypass Road, Mr. Shettar said that the existing lease holder Nandi Highway Developers Limited has given a consent letter for carrying out work without affecting traffic and soon, tenders will be floated. Chairman of HDUDA Nagesh Kalburgi, KSDL member Mallikarjun Savakar, BJP State General Secretary Mahesh Tenginakai and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-first-in-attracting-investment-post-lockdown-says-shettar/article33833826.ece
14 February 2021||Srinagar,||YouTubers back to tickle Valley’s funny bone||Kashmir’s comic YouTubers, who were rendered jobless and lost lakhs of followers after the August 5, 2019, decision to snap high-speed Internet in the Valley, are back with their humour and sense of fun. It has been a week since the J&K administration restored 4G mobile Internet after 18 months, and the buzz is back on Valley-based YouTube channels, including the popular ‘Kashmiri Kalkharabs’ (Kashmiri quirks) with 7.2 lakh subscribers. First video on 4G In fact, the first funny video in many months was titled ‘4G Aaa Waapas ’, where a son is convincing his father to propitiate God by offering elaborate feasts to friends and relatives on the restoration of the 4G Internet services. “The snapping of 4G Internet dashed our dreams, and the investments we had made on cameras and laptops in 2019. We were left home-bound. I developed depression for three months. It was tedious to upload a 2 GB file on a 2G Internet connection when it was restored last year. Uploading videos would take days,” Yawar Ahmad, 20, whose five-member team started the ‘Kashmiri Kalkharabs’ channel in 2017, told The Hindu . Mr. Ahmad, a student from Sumbal’s Maloora area, saw the number of subscribers to the channel falling with each passing day, and with it his dream to become an actor. “In just eight months, we lost over 1 lakh subscribers and the once growing number of views came to naught,” he said. “My cousin, who is married with kids, was dependent on the channel to feed his family. We failed to switch to any other profession. We were living in utter frustration,” Mr. Ahmad, who organised several street protests against the Internet ban last year, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/youtubers-back-to-tickle-valleys-funny-bone/article33833554.ece
14 February 2021||MANGALURU,||State govt. won’t take over private temples: Minister||Minister for Muzrai and Backward Classes Welfare Kota Srinivas Poojary said here on Saturday that the State government will not take over private temples. Talking to reporters, Mr. Poojary said that Section 53 of the Karnataka Hindu Religious Institutions and Charitable Endowments (Amendment) Act of 2011 mandated registration of all private religious institutions. The recent notices issued to the private religious institutions were based on the circular issued by the Congress government in August 2015 which had quoted Section 53 of the Act. The government’s letter to Deputy Commissioners in November 2020 asked the Deputy Commissioners to file a compliance report on the basis of the circular issued in 2015. “Now, we are not pressing for filing the compliance report and we have withdrawn the circular,” Mr. Poojary said. The Vishwa Hindu Parishad had a few days ago objected to the government issuing notices to private temples based on the circular. Zonal executive president, VHP, South Karnataka, M.B. Puranik, had said that private temples had been asked to submit details, including their immovable and movable assets, under Section 53 of the Act. The notices had warned that legal action will be taken against them if details are not furnished. Mr. Puranik said that this was nothing but a move to take control over private temples. On the delay in appointing members to the administrative committees of various temples under the Muzrai Department, Mr. Poojary said that Deputy Commissioners/Additional Deputy Commissioners have been authorised to hold meetings and complete the process. The Minister said that steps are being taken to implement the Saptapadi scheme effectively in all the temples coming under the department. There will be no stoppage of funds from the government for this flagship scheme, he said. Lauding Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman for presenting what he said a progressive budget, Mr. Poojary said that the Union government has proposed to spend Rs. 34.83 lakh crore in various sectors. With more funds granted for improvement of basic facilities, employment will be generated in health, transport and other sectors. The Union Budget is progressive and aids the country's development, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/karnataka-govt-will-not-take-over-private-temples-kota/article33833591.ece
14 February 2021||MYSURU,||CM: We’re committed to promoting tourism in State||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Saturday said his government was spending nearly Rs. 5,000 crore on developing the State tourism sector and added that the investment was expected to help generate around 30 lakh jobs. Speaking after releasing the books of senior journalist Amshi Prasanna Kumar – “Mysuru Sutta Mutta Noorondu Pravasi Thanagalu and Mysuru The Tourist Paradise (translated to English by Dr. R Nagabhushan), at a programme here, he said the government was committed to developing and promoting tourism in the State. Karnataka was being promoted as a preferred tourist destination with the tagline as ‘One State, Many Worlds’, he added. Mr. Yediyurappa said that the Karnataka Tourism website had received over 10.5 crore hits, describing the potential of the State’s tourism attractions and the interest shown in those sites by the domestic and international tourists. Addressing the gathering, Mr. Yediyurappa said nearly 160 works had been completed across various tourist destinations and added that the State tourism sector had won international awards, including an award from Denmark for Padubidri beach. Disclosing that the State’s top tourist sites such as Hampi, Belur, Halebid, Badami, Pattadakal and others were being promoted as international tourist destinations, the Chief Minister said Mr. Prasanna Kumar’s works on tourist sites of Mysuru would support the ongoing initiatives for promoting tourism in the region. Earlier, Kannada Book Authority Chairman Nandish Anche, who spoke about the works, said many tourist sites that had gone unnoticed needed development and promotion. Several such sites had the potential to emerge as new attractions, attracting footfall, if efforts were made to bring them on the State tourism map. He urged the government to consider developing a mobile application on the lines of the one developed for knowing the survey number details of the land by the person operating the app standing on the particular land, so that tourists get all details when they were on a tour of those attractions. “Even if brief details are available, it will go a long way in developing tourism if accurate information is easily accessible,” he felt. Minister in charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar, who presided, spoke on the steps taken by the government for promoting tourism and congratulated Mr. Prasanna Kumar for bringing out the books in the interest of tourism in Mysuru region. S.A. Ramdas, Tanveer Sait, and L Nagendra, MLAs, former MLA and MIA president Vasu, Mysuru Kannada Sahitya Parishat president Y.D. Rajanna, and Ningaraj Chitttanavar of Chintana Chittara were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/were-committed-to-promoting-tourism-in-state-yediyurappa/article33833828.ece
14 February 2021||Hassan,||Four, including Excise official, killed in accident in Hassan||Four residents of Bengaluru, including an official of the Excise Department, died on the spot after their car hit a truck on National Highway 75 near Channarayapatna on Saturday morning. All four friends were on the way to Mangaluru to attend a marriage. The driver lost control over his vehicle and hit the container truck from behind. The police have identified the deceased as S. Chetan, 28, sub-inspector of Excise, B.M. Vikram, 29, Abhishek, 29, and Manjunath, 30. Mr. Chetan, who had recently completed his training as Excise SI, was scheduled to join duty in Mysuru next week. The four had left Bengaluru early in the morning and met with the accident around 6 a.m. Some of their friends, who were also on the way to Mangaluru in another car, stopped after noticing the accident. The bodies were shifted to the government hospital in Channarayapatna. Channarayapatna Traffic Police have registered a case. Minister for Excise K. Gopalaiah, who is also in charge of Hassan, visited the hospital and paid his last respects to the deceased. Speaking to media, the Minister said that his department had lost a young officer. The Minister was on a visit to Hassan to hold a meeting with Excise Department officials on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/four-including-excise-official-killed-in-accident-in-hassan/article33833588.ece
14 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||LDF, UDF want Assembly polls in April, BJP for May||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the United Democratic Front (UDF) on Saturday urged the Election Commission of India (ECI) to conduct the Assembly polls in the State before mid-April, while the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) suggested that the elections be held in May. All three fronts have recommended a single-phase election. Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora and Election Commissioners Sushil Chandra and Rajiv Kumar met representatives of political parties here on Saturday as part of assessing the poll preparedness of the State. The CPI(M) and CPI wanted the elections before Vishu and the start of the Ramzan fast, which fall on April 14. The Congress and Indian Union Muslim League, partners in the UDF, requested the commission to hold the elections between April 8 and April 12 in a single phase. The BJP, meanwhile, sought a convenient date in May. The UDF and the BJP wanted the commission to ensure transparency in the issuing of postal ballots. The Congress sought steps to prevent manipulation of electoral rolls and wanted postal ballots to be optional for special categories such as people with disabilities and voters above 80 years. The Congress also requested the commission not to extend the polling time as the number of voters per booth has been capped at 1,000. The BJP asked the commission to provide maximum number of voters the opportunity to cast their votes directly at the polling booths. Maximum enrolment The LDF urged the commission to ensure maximum enrolment of voters. They also wanted postal ballots to be issued well in advance so that electors are not left out. The UDF urged the commission to facilitate live webcast from polling booths recommended as sensitive by political parties as well. The BJP sought the deployment of Central forces in at least 15 days in advance in sensitive areas. Security should be shored up with live webcast from polling booths in sensitive areas, the BJP said. The political parties also sought permission to hold campaigns and public meetings by adhering to the COVID-19 protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ldf-udf-want-assembly-polls-in-april-bjp-for-may/article33833905.ece
14 February 2021||Kochi,||New BPCL facility to help save foreign exchange||The propylene derivative petrochemical project being inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi here on Sunday will help the country save between Rs. 3,700 crore and Rs. 4,000 crore annually in foreign exchange as the facility will produce acrylates, acrylic acid, and oxo alcohol. The petrochemical complex is being commissioned at an investment of around Rs. 6,000 crore and is part of the expansion of the BPCL’s Kochi refinery. The capacity of the refinery has been raised to 15.5 million tonnes a year. The new facility opens up opportunities for new enterprises ranging from units producing detergents and paints to coatings, solvents, glues, water purifying agents, and plasticisers. The expansion of the refinery capacity includes facilities for Euro-IV/VI compliant auto-fuel, which is meeting the increased demand for cleaner fuel in the country. Value-added products The investment also upgraded the refinery residue stream to value-added distillates and create synergy for future diversification into value-added petrochemical products. The petrochemical unit in Kochi will stand out as a major facility as the State government has also laid the foundation for a petrochemical complex that will be home to units to use raw materials from the Kochi refinery. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had laid the foundation for the petrochemical park on Tuesday. He also gave away allocation letters to 17 units that will be part of the petrochemical complex. Coming up on 229 acres at Ambalamugal, close to Fertilisers and Chemicals Travancore and the BPCL refinery, the petrochemical complex will be a plug and play facility being prepared by the State for investors utilising raw materials from the Kochi refinery. The petrochemical park will come up on land acquired by the State from FACT. Out of the 482 acres taken over from the company, 171 acres has been leased to the BPCL for its petrochemical project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-bpcl-facility-to-help-save-foreign-exchange/article33833906.ece
14 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||SEC directs action against Kodali Nani||State Election Commissioner (SEC) N. Ramesh Kumar has directed the Krishna District Collector to book a case of violation of the Model Code of Conduct, which is in force for the gram panchayat elections, and the Superintendent of Police to initiate criminal proceedings against Civil Supplies Minister Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao (Nani) for “making vitriolic attacks on him,” as a follow up to Friday’s restraint order. In his proceedings, Mr. Ramesh Kumar questioned whether the Minister, who had solemnly pledged to uphold the Constitution through an oath of office, has the legitimacy to attack the State Election Commission in the midst of the electoral process. The Commission maintained great self-restraint even in the face of abusive attacks on the Commissioner by the Minister in the past, Mr. Ramesh Kumar stated. The SEC further said that Mr. Rao had submitted his reply on Friday evening through his advocate in an attempt to justify his attacks, and he showed no remorse for his utterances. Mr. Rao had the gumption to advise the Commission to see the video (in which he made the comments at a press conference) in its true spirit, the SEC observed. The Minister’s remarks reflected his past history of vituperative discourse and attacks that were intended to malign the Commission, he said. “The tone, tenor and language of the Minister can be categorised as hate speech,” he asserted. Plea in HC Meanwhile, the Minister filed a house motion petition in the High Court seeking dismissal of the SEC order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ap-sec-orders-action-against-minister-for-poll-code-violation/article33833469.ece
14 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Bus accident: panel to ascertain causes||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao on Saturday said that a committee headed by the Joint Collector would be constituted to ascertain reasons for the bus accident at Damuku under Ananthagiri police station limits in which four persons were killed and 23 others were injured. The Minister, along with Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas, visited the King George Hospital, where the injured were being treated, here on Saturday. The Ministers interacted with victims, and expressed grief over the death of four persons. Speaking to the media, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that the driver of the vehicle claimed that brake failure was the reason for the accident. The government would send all the patients back to Hyderabad after their discharge, he said. The Health Minister said that three teams of doctors — Neurosurgery, Orthopaedic and Plastic Surgery — were formed for treating the injured. Brain surgery would be performed on one patient, Chandrakala, he said. Meanwhile, arrangements were being made to send the bodies to Hyderabad, said Superintendent P. Mythili.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bus-accident-panel-to-ascertain-causes/article33833568.ece
14 February 2021||Mumbai,||Uddhav orders probe into allegations against minister||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday said that an investigation would be carried out into the allegations against Forest Minister and Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Rathod with respect to the death of a woman in Pune, and no guilty would be spared. “We have been hearing about allegations from different quarters. We have taken note of everything and given directions for an investigation into the matter. However, attempts to destroy careers of individuals, which had been made in some past cases, will not be allowed in this case,” Mr. Thackeray said, adding that action would be taken as per the law. Mr. Thackeray’s statement comes in the background of the National Commission for Women (NCW) seeking a report on the death of the 23-year-old woman from the Maharashtra Director General of Police (DGP). The NCW swung into action a day after former CM and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis wrote to the DGP questioning the delay in filing an FIR in the alleged suicide of the woman. The woman, who hailed from Parli in Marathwada region’s Beed district, died after falling from the balcony of an apartment in the Hadapsar area of Pune. Meanwhile, Mr. Rathod has been incommunicado for the last one week, and he could not be reached for comment despite several attempts. According to sources within the Sena, the party has asked him to not make any statement as of now. The BJP has linked the woman’s death to Mr. Rathod and demanded his arrest. BJP’s State women’s wing office-bearer Chitra Wagh has sought an FIR against the minister while former party MP Kirit Somaiya has demanded his immediate arrest. Mr. Fadnavis in his letter to the DGP had mentioned about audio clips in circulation on social media where the minister is allegedly mentioned along with the woman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/uddhav-orders-probe-into-allegations-against-minister/article33834003.ece
14 February 2021||New Delhi,||Police perform the last rites of unidentified bodies in Chamoli||The Uttarakhand police have performed the last rites of over a dozen unidentified bodies and 10 body parts a week after an avalanche hit Chamoli district and triggered a flash flood, which left 204 persons missing. Director General of Police, Uttarakhand, Ashok Kumar said 38 bodies and 19 body parts had been recovered so far. “The bodies and body parts had started deteriorating. After waiting for 72 hours (for a family member to claim the body), the police performed the last rites after preserving the DNA samples. As and when family members arrive, it will be matched and the persons identified,” Mr. Kumar told The Hindu .  Trishul peak The DGP said that so far all reports have suggested that a big piece of Trishul peak at an altitude of 19,000 feet broke away and the ensuing avalanche caused a flash flood in the downstream Rishiganga river.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-perform-the-last-rites-of-unidentified-bodies-in-chamoli/article33833556.ece
14 February 2021||KOCHI,||Six Kochi canals to be made navigable||The inauguration of work on the Rs. 1,528-crore Integrated Urban Regeneration and Water Transport System (IURWTS) Project in the city that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will do on Monday, will kickstart what is perhaps one of the largest brownfield projects undertaken by any State government to restore inland canals for water transport, tourism, and recreational purposes. The Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) has been entrusted with the responsibility of executing the project wherein a network of six canals spread over 34.75 km will be made navigable. They are Edappally canal (11.15 km), Chilavannoor canal (11.23 km), Thevara–Perandoor canal (9.84 km), and Thevara canal (1.41 km), Market canal (0.66 km) and Konthuruthy canal (0.67 km). The main components of the project include restoration of passenger transport by widening them to 16.50 metres and ensuring 4 metre vertical clearance. Connectivity The project will also have inter-modal connectivity with Kochi metro and Water Metro and will also serve to enhance last mile connectivity. A total of 56 road overbridges (ROBs) and 31 foot overbridges (FOBs) will be reconstructed to make these canals navigable. In addition, sewerage treatment plants (STPs) and a sewer network will be developed, covering over 40% of Kochi Corporation area. Environmentally sustainable development initiatives like electric boats for passenger transport and land-based solar panels to recharge them will reduce the total carbon footprint. Afforestation and sustainable shore-protection measures too will be adopted, KMRL sources said. Rehabilitation The first of the activities envisaged is to provide proper rehabilitation to the project affected people who have been living in dilapidated conditions adjacent to these canals. Construction of the first complex of 280 dwelling units will start shortly at Adarsh Nagar Road, Thuthiyoor, and Kakkanad for which contract has already been awarded.  New lease of life Edappally canal, Chilavannoor canal, Thevara–Perandoor canal, Thevara canal, Market canal and Konthuruthy canal to be restored 56 road overbridges, 31 foot overbridges to be reconstructed to make canals navigable||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/six-kochi-canals-to-be-made-navigable/article33833916.ece
14 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||‘Affiliate Venkateswara college in Delhi to AU’||The State government has sought the Centre’s permission to affiliate Sri Venkateswara College in Delhi to Andhra University. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, in a letter to the Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal, said the purpose of establishing the college in Delhi in 1961 under the leadership of Durgabhai Deshmukh along with the late K.L. Rao and late C. Anna, was to provide Telugu-speaking students access to quality higher education. Mr. Jagan also tried to draw the Minister’s attention to the fact that the college was managed by the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) through the Governing Council headed by the Trust Board Chairman and that 10 out of the 15 council members were nominated by the TTD, which had been playing an active role in the management and growth of the college. The college also received financial grants from the TTD, he said, and went on to add that it was a felt need of the people of Andhra Pradesh that seats in the college be made available to students belonging to the State. Mr. Jagan said to facilitate the affiliation his government would amend the A.P. Universities Act of 1991 to expand the power of affiliation of AU. He, however, conceded that there were obstacles. He referred to a letter issued by the University Grants Commission (UGC) on April 16, 2009, stating that the State governments were not permitted to establish off-campus of a State university beyond the geographical boundaries of the State and a public notice issued on June 27, 2013, again reiterated that “a university established or incorporated by or under a State Act shall operate only within the territorial jurisdiction allotted to it under its Act.” In view of it, Mr. Jagan requested the Centre to direct the UGC to exempt AU from the clauses and allow it to affiliate Sri Venkateswara College.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/affiliate-venkateswara-college-in-delhi-to-au/article33833564.ece
14 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Lockdown: SC allows 100% fee collection by Rajasthan schools||The Supreme Court has stayed a Rajasthan High Court order to schools affiliated to Central and State secondary education boards to collect only 60% of the tuition fee for the lockdown period. A Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar allowed schools to collect the entire arrears in six monthly instalments from March to August 2021. “The management/school may collect fees for the academic year 2019-2020 as well as 2020-2021 from the students, equivalent to fees amount notified for the academic year 2019-2020, in six monthly instalments commencing from March 5, 2021 and ending on August 5, 2021,” the court directed in the interim order, which may cause ripples across the country. It said students should not be debarred from attending classes on account of non-payment. ‘Don’t debar students’ “The management shall not debar any student from attending either online or physical classes on account of non-payment of arrears/fees,” the court said on an appeal filed by parties, including some Catholic educational institutions, represented by advocate Romy Chacko. In case parents have difficulty in paying the arrears, they should be allowed to approach the school authorities through individual representations. The managements would consider them on a “case-to-case basis sympathetically”, the apex court said. The managements were also directed not to withhold the name of any student for Class 10 and 12 board exams because of non-payment of arrears. They should allow students to take the exams after obtaining an undertaking from the parents to pay up. “The arrangement will not affect collection of fees for the academic year 2021-2022.” The court said the interim order would be subject to the final direction. It fixed the next hearing for February 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lockdown-sc-allows-100-fee-collection-by-rajasthan-schools/article33833748.ece
14 February 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Filing of annual property returns by govt. staff a must||The Odisha government has made the submission of an annual property statement mandatory for public representatives and government servants of all ranks. The move is to ensure a transparent and corruption-free administration. According to a resolution passed by the General Administration and Public Grievance Department, at present, the submission of the annual property statement by government servants is being regulated in accordance with the provisions of Rule 21 of the Odisha Government Servants’ Conduct Rules, 1959. The government, which has come up with a set of modalities to be followed by public servants, will now amend it to implement the latest decision.From now on, government servants will submit annual property returns as on January 1 of each year by January 31 of the year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/filing-of-annual-property-returns-by-govt-staff-a-must/article33833936.ece
14 February 2021||MYSURU,||Taxing fuel necessary for govt. to raise revenue: Somashekar||Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekar, who is also the Minister in charge of Mysuru district, said taxing fuel was necessary for the government to raise revenue, particularly when COVID-19 had impacted its other sources of income. When he was addressing a press conference in Mysuru on Saturday to discuss the contributions of the Union Budget 2021-22 to various sectors, Mr. Somashekar’s attention was drawn to the increasing price of petrol and diesel, besides other essential commodities. Though he initially tried to duck the question by claiming that it was due to fluctuation in prices, which not only go up, but also come down and that oil was not produced in India, but imported, Mr. Somashekar was asked why the government could not reduce the rate of tax on petrol and diesel so that fuel became more affordable to the common man. He said the rate of tax may have been increased during COVID-19 when there was little or no economic activity owing to lockdown. Since the last one year, the economic condition of the country was in a bad shape. Even now, the economy was not picking up, he lamented and added that there was a huge difference between the economic conditions that were prevailing before COVID-19 and now. However, he said the government move to tax fuel was not to inconvenience the public, but to raise revenue. He said the Centre had set aside a large sum of money for India to emerge as a healthcare hub in the world. As against the Rs. 94,000 crore earmarked for providing basic facilities in healthcare, the country had set aside Rs. 2.23 lakh crore this year. Also, the amount of funds earmarked for creating basic facilities in the agricultural sector this year would be Rs. 1 lakh crore, he said. For Karnataka, a sum of Rs. 10,904 crore would be released for 1,197 km of National Highway, Rs. 14,788 crore for second phase of Namma Metro project, and Rs. 4,870 crore for different railway projects among other proposals in the Union Budget 2021-22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/taxing-fuel-necessary-for-govt-to-raise-revenue-somashekar/article33834010.ece
14 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Incentivise States for disinvestment in PSEs’||The Centre should incentivise States to come clean on their fiscal deficit positions, bring off-Budget liabilities above board and take up their own strategic disinvestment programmes for State-owned public sector enterprises, Fifteenth Finance Commission Chairperson N.K. Singh mooted in an interview. Terming the Centre’s decision to “transparently” acknowledge a fiscal deficit of 9.5% of GDP this year as “a very positive development”, Mr. Singh said that the Centre could incentivise the States to adopt a similar practice to enhance the confidence of investors in India’s overall debt and fiscal deficit trajectory. “There is a decisive case for State governments to take a leaf out of the Central government’s book and drop opaque practices and off-Budget borrowings,” Mr. Singh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/incentivise-states-for-disinvestment-in-pses/article33833558.ece
14 February 2021||Harish Gilai,||Helping hands in the hour of need||It was around 7.30 p.m. on Friday when mobile phone of Ananthagiri Sub-Inspector K. Sudhakar rang and he was informed that a private bus fell into the valley at hairpin bend – 5 near Damuku. He along with the staff left for the accident spot, which is about 10 km from the police station. He also alerted the higher-ups and 108 personnel for rescue operations. The police personnel faced difficult forest terrain and thick fog. “It was completely dark and the area was engulfed in thick fog. The valley was about 400 feet depth. All we had was two dragon lights. Since we are trained in trekking, we climbed down the slope, wasting no time,” Mr. Sudhakar recalled. The police were supported by a number of local transport drivers, who generally work near Katiki waterfalls in Ananthagiri mandal and villagers of Damuku. Police said that all the locals played a key role in the rescue operations. Many local women from Damuku had taken care of the children whose parents were injured in the road accident. Bujji, a member of Borra Motor Drivers Welfare Society, said that two union members who were coming in that route, saw the accident and immediately shared in the WhatsApp group, asking support from the members and around 40 of us immediately rushed to the spot to lend a hand. Mr. Sudhakar said that five persons were required to carry one injured person to the road point, since we had to trek uphill. “We carried them on our shoulders,” he said. Many locals used mobile phone lights to carry out the rescue operations. “Our only plan was to waste no time and shift as many as possible to hospital to save lives. The locals really came forward and helped us. We used 108 ambulances, our station vehicles and the local transport to shift the injured,” the SI added.  Heart-rending scenes Meanwhile the King George Hospital (KGH) witnessed heart-rending scenes on Saturday morning. Among the 23 injured who were shifted to the hospital for treatment, seven were minors. Among the seven, five were below 10 years of age. As parents of many of these children were undergoing treatment and a few among them were unconscious, it was the hospital staff including nurses, helpers and doctors, took care of the children, while they were crying for their parents. The tourists were seen in deep shock and grief after the accident. “Everything was going well since the last three days. But seems like all of a sudden our lives are changed now. We were about to reach plain area in half an hour. That was when everyone shouted that brakes are not working properly. Everyone screamed and then we met with the accident,” recalls a passenger at King George Hospital. All the tourists were from one joint family from Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/helping-hands-in-the-hour-of-need/article33833569.ece
14 February 2021||Mumbai,||‘Modi govt. supporters behind R-Day violence’||Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar on Saturday said supporters of the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre were responsible for the violence at Red Fort amid the farmers’ rally in Delhi on Republic Day. This is the first time a major Opposition leader has directly attacked the Centre over the violence that erupted on January 26. “The main feature of the agitation against the new farm laws has been its peaceful conduct from day one,” said Mr. Pawar, addressing a public meeting in Solapur district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/modi-govt-supporters-behind-r-day-violence/article33834005.ece
14 February 2021||Bengaluru,||BBMP move on vaccination||Though COVID-19 vaccines are being administered for free to healthcare and frontline workers, many people are still hesitating to take the shot. To address this, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike has proposed to not reimburse the medical expenses of those who contracted the infection after refusing to take the vaccine. BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad told reporters here on Saturday that a proposal will be sent to the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bbmp-move-on-vaccination/article33833589.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Waiting for visitors||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/waiting-for-visitors/article33833657.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Back again||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/back-again/article33833586.ece
14 February 2021||MANGALURU,||Extra vigil in city today||The police have taken precautionary measures to prevent any incidents of vigilantism in view of the Valentine’s Day on Sunday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Hariram Shankar said that the police, including members of all-women Rani Abbakka unit, will patrol in uniform and in civil dress in the city. As many any 160 picketing points have been arranged where the police teams will keep a constant vigil. These points include public places,he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/extra-vigil-in-city-today/article33833983.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Showtime soon||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/showtime-soon/article33834030.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Stress soothers||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stress-soothers/article33834002.ece
14 February 2021||HYDERBAD,||Farmer ends life at his field in Vikarabad||A 49-year-old farmer was found dead at his agricultural field in Hankya Naik tanda in Basheerabad mandal of Vikarabad district on Saturday. Basheerabad police said Rathod Gopal died after consuming pesticide as his crops got damaged due to excess rainfall this year. He is survived by wife Shanti Bai and three sons. In his 12-acre agricultural field, Gopal cultivated cotton in five acres, paddy in four acres and pulses in three acres. He also borrowed Rs. 3 lakh loan from State Bank of India Basheerabad for investment on the crop in mid 2020. In another case, a man was found dead near LB Nagar traffic police station here on Saturday. Police said that the victim, Nirmal from Srikalahasti in Chittoor of Andhra Pradesh, committed suicide by hanging from a signage board. He was under the influence of alcohol, LB Nagar inspector V Ashok Reddy said. In 2019 Nirmal was arrested by Tirumala police in connection with a case.    Roshni - suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmer-ends-life-at-his-field-in-vikarabad/article33833871.ece
14 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||81.61% polling in 2nd phase||The second phase of gram panchayat elections in the State on Saturday registered 81.61% polling on an average, an official release said. Prakasam district recorded the highest polling percentage of 86.60, while Srikakulam clocked the lowest of 72.87. However, no district witnessed less than 70% polling during the phase amidst claims by the YSRCP that it was continuing its winning streak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/8161-polling-in-2nd-phase/article33833565.ece
14 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC refuses to review verdict on protesters||The Supreme Court has refused to reconsider its judgement that the Shaheen Bagh protests against the CAA were inconvenient for commuters. “The right to protest cannot be any time and everywhere. There may be some spontaneous protests but in case of prolonged dissent or protest, there cannot be continued occupation of public place affecting the rights of others,” a three-judge Bench, led by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul said, while declining the review petitions. The review hearing held in the judges’ chambers by circulation was published on Saturday. The original judgment of October 7 last year declared the demonstrations and road blockades in the Shaheen Bagh area of the national capital as “unacceptable”. ‘No error’ The Review Bench, which comprised the same judges who delivered the original judgment, said it did not find any “error apparent warranting reconsideration” in the verdict. “We have considered the earlier judicial pronouncements and recorded our opinion that the constitutional scheme comes with a right to protest and express dissent but with an obligation to have certain duties,” the review order reasoned. On October 7, the court had concluded that protesters should express their dissent only in designated areas chosen by the administration. Right to dissent should not hamper right of movement of the public. Protests should not become a nuisance. Though the judgment had upheld the right to peaceful protest against a law, it unequivocally made it clear that public ways and public spaces cannot be occupied, and that too indefinitely. Fundamental rights do not live in isolation. The right of the protester has to be balanced with the right of the commuter. They have to co-exist in mutual respect, the court had explained in its judgment. In the review petition, Kazi Fatima and 11 others said the protesters were not even heard by the court. The petitioners asked how the court could restrict expressions of dissent to certain designated areas. “Restricting protests to designated areas upsets the very concept of dissent and protests... Protests are the only way for citizens in a democracy to show their dissent. Curb on this freedom leaves citizens with no report to voice their concerns,” the review petition had said. The review petitioners had referred to how the “police have in the recent past acted arbitrarily by beating students and protesters”.The observation made by the court in the judgment “clothes the police with an arbitrary discretion to attack any peaceful protesters”. “This would lead to a situation wherein the administration would never engage in dialogue with protesters, but instead take action against them, including their prosecution,” the review petition had argued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-refuses-to-review-verdict-on-protesters/article33833570.ece
14 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||UT status for J&K temporary, says Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah told the Lok Sabha on Saturday that the government would restore full statehood to Jammu and Kashmir at an appropriate time, and claimed that the Narendra Modi government has done more for the Union Territory since Article 370 was read down in August 2019 than those who ruled it for generations. Mr. Shah was replying to a discussion on the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation (Amendment) Bill, 2021 in Lok Sabha. The Home Minister criticised some Opposition members for their claim that the proposed law negated the hopes of the region of getting back its statehood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ut-status-for-jk-is-temporary-says-shah/article33833749.ece
14 February 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Sewage pits’ appearing in Puttenahalli lake||Often touted as a success story of lake rejuvenation in the city, Puttenahalli Lake at J.P. Nagar has been in the news in the recent past more owing to threats to its existence. The latest in the list is of alarmed residents and caretakers noticing the formation of “pits” in the lake filled with dark coloured water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sewage-pits-appearing-in-puttenahalli-lake/article33833584.ece
14 February 2021||New Delhi,||Kolkata nearby||The Union Culture Ministry’s flagship festival, the Rashtriya Sanskriti Mahotsav (RSM), will be held in West Bengal this time, with the inauguration at Cooch Behar Palace on Sunday, the ministry said in a statement on Saturday. “This RSM, which is being organised in West Bengal, will enhance mutual understanding and bonding between people of diverse cultures, thereby securing stronger unity and integrity of India,” the ministry said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kolkata-nearby/article33833937.ece
14 February 2021||New Delhi,||Farmer unions for judicial probe into ‘false’ cases||Protesting farmer unions on Saturday demanded a high-level judicial inquiry into the violence during the tractor rally on January 26 and the alleged ‘false’ cases slapped on the protesters. They asked farmers who are getting police notices to approach the legal cell constituted by the unions for assistance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmer-unions-for-judicial-probe-into-false-cases/article33833751.ece
14 February 2021||Mumbai,||Mumbai nearby||The Shiv Sena on Saturday accused Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari of toeing the Bharatiya Janata Party’s line, and said that if the Centre wants the Constitution to be upheld, it should recall him. The party also asserted that the Maha Vikas Aghadi government is stable and strong, and added that the Centre cannot use the Governor’s shoulders to take aim at the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mumbai-nearby/article33834004.ece
14 February 2021||KALABURAGI,||‘Left, progressive forces divided over ideology’||Recalling the contribution made by senior Communist leader Maruti Manpade, who recently passed away, Shivaganga Rumma, professor, Central University of Karnataka, has said that Mr. Manpade had a great quality of uniting people with diverse political and ideological affiliations under a common banner to create a strong force against injustice. “Left and progressive forces are divided in the name of ideological differences. Ide- ologies should form a basis to unite people and not divide them,” Ms. Rumma said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/left-progressive-forces-divided-over-ideology/article33833830.ece
14 February 2021||Mysuru,||More lakes to be restored from CSR funds||Minister in charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar on Saturday said a meeting will be convened soon to discuss restoration of more lakes in Mysuru using CSR funds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/more-lakes-to-be-restored-from-csr-funds/article33834012.ece
14 February 2021||Hubballi/Bengaluru/mysuru,||Seers seek OBC tag for Lingayats in Central list||A convention of Lingayat seers was held in Bengaluru on Saturday with a demand for inclusion of all sects of into the Central Other Backward Classes list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/seers-seek-obc-tag-for-lingayats-in-central-list/article33834013.ece
14 February 2021||Chennai,||State to have budget with populist measures||The AIADMK government has decided to present a full-fledged budget with several populist measures, in view of the coming Assembly election, it is reliably learnt. A Cabinet meeting, chaired by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami at the Secretariat on Saturday, approved the full budget, expected to be presented in the Assembly by February 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-to-have-budget-with-populist-measures/article33833655.ece
14 February 2021||Chennai,||Administration of second dose of vaccines begins||A total of 20,032 persons received the vaccines on Saturday, when the administration of the second dose of vaccines took off in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/administration-of-second-dose-of-vaccines-begins/article33833775.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||A shadow in search of eminence||There was a time when no one bothered to find out who V.K. Sasikala exactly was. There was enough information for the public to know that she lived in a penumbra of secrecy in the Poes Garden residence of the late Jayalalithaa, her friend and associate. Not yet considered a public figure, Ms. Sasikala was known vaguely by the growing body of anecdotal evidence about her land-buying spree, her unwholesome influence over the life and fortunes of Jayalalithaa, and the unexplained power and control she wielded in the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK). Now, fresh from a four-year term in prison, following her conviction for her role in the amassing of unexplained wealth during Jayalalithaa’s first term as Tamil Nadu Chief Minister between 1991 and 1996, Ms. Sasikala’s personality, her motivations and aspirations draw attention and analysis. Besides her proximity to Jayalalithaa, she may have owed her political clout to her husband, M. Natarajan, a former government public relations officer who fancied himself to be a political king-maker and was even seen by many as the handler of a large body of party legislators. Outside party affairs, especially whenever Jayalalithaa was Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, she is believed to have exercised effective control over the bureaucracy and the police force. Many members of her Thevar community were appointed to key positions. Over the years, she was selecting party candidates in elections and making key party appointments. Turning point Ms. Sasikala is one of the daughters of C. Vivekanandan, a medical compounder at Thiruthuraipoondi, an agrarian town in central Tamil Nadu. Her marriage to Natarajan in 1973 was a turning point. A video rental agency that she ran in the 1980s also got some assignments for video-graphing public events. She was introduced to Jayalalithaa, then an emerging leader in the AIADMK after party founder M.G. Ramachandran inducted her into politics. Ms. Sasikala’s firm was engaged to record Jayalalithaa’s political meetings, and this relationship turned into a lasting bond. Over the next 30 years, Ms. Sasikala was to emerge the country’s best known extra-constitutional authority in any regime. Natarajan and Ms. Sasikala were Jayalalithaa’s close confidants after MGR’s death in 1987. However, when Natarajan was cast away by Jayalalithaa and asked never to enter her household, Sasikala chose to stay back with her friend rather than go with her husband. It was her relationship with Jayalalithaa that has kept Tamil Nadu politics in a welter of curiosity for decades. It was an unbreakable, yet, turbulent bond. In 1995, Jayalalithaa declared that V.N. Sudhakaran, a nephew of Ms. Sasikala, was her ‘foster-son’. She arranged a wedding for him with a bride drawn from the family of legendary actor Sivaji Ganesan, an event that was possibly the single biggest reason for her party’s cataclysmic defeat in 1996. The ostentatious wedding took place in Chennai roads with a massive and opulent display of jewellery, and drew thousands of people to a feast that took place on several acres of land. The expenditure on the occasion was part of the evidence in the ‘wealth’ case against the duo. Arrests of nephews Soon after the 1996 electoral debacle, when even Jayalalithaa could not win her own seat, there was a clamour from party cadre for the leader to distance herself from Ms. Sasikala. Jayalalithaa obliged them by publicly disowning her, as well as Mr. Sudhakaran. The disowned foster son was later to go to jail as an abettor in the ‘disproportionate assets’ case. Meanwhile, the family’s fortunes plummeted. V. Bhaskaran and T.T.V. Dhinakaran, other nephews of Ms. Sasikala, were arrested by the Enforcement Directorate in different cases of foreign exchange violations. The 1996 disassociation did not last long, and Ms. Sasikala was reinstated in the Poes Garden residence soon. There came a more serious and potentially long-lasting break in their ties. In December 2011, Jayalalithaa got wind of what she believed was an act of betrayal by the Sasikala family, possibly an attempt to gain direct control of the party. Jayalalithaa gave the marching orders to many members of the Sasikala family from the party, save one. The list included Sasikala and Natarajan, the former’s sister, brothers and nephews, and the latter’s brothers and several other relatives of the couple. This time, party leaders were certain that the disassociation with Ms. Sasikala was permanent, and there was no chance of a rapprochement. However, this too turned out to be a sham, as Ms. Sasikala was rehabilitated after a little over three months. It was no surprise then that much of the party turned to Ms. Sasikala for leadership not long after Jayalalithaa’s demise in December 2016. Whether it was orchestrated by her family is unclear. However, several leaders, including Ministers, pleaded with her to take over the reins. She was declared party general secretary, until a formal election was held as per the party’s constitution. She was also elected leader of the AIADMK legislature party, a move that would displace stand-in Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, who was sworn in at midnight hours after the party’s leaders death. Events after Jayalalithaa’s death pitchforked Ms. Sasikala into the limelight. The public had not even heard her voice before, even though she was known to hold alliance and seat-sharing talks on behalf of the AIADMK for long. An emotional speech and followed by television interviews gave the first clue to her aspirations. It was clear that she wanted to step into Jayalalithaa’s shoes both in the party and the government. She had claimed that as Chief Minister, she would act exactly as Jayalalithaa did. She never got a shot at the post, as the then Governor did not invite her to form the government until the court verdict was out. She got Edappadi K. Palaniswami to lead the legislature party, and he was sworn in CM days after she went to prison. Power and influence Now that she has served out her term, Ms. Sasikala is expected to seek to re-establish her power and influence over the AIADMK. Some analysts have begun to speculate that she returns as a redemptive figure to change the AIADMK’s fortunes, now labouring under the anti-incumbency built over two successive terms. But of equal importance in the ultimate reckoning would be the undisclosed opinions of many party leaders. Whether they would give up the considerable freedom they had enjoyed over the last few years in the absence of any overbearing leader or firm up their political careers by paying obeisance to Ms. Sasikala is a key question. While only an election can determine how far her presence will make a difference — she is disqualified from contest for six years — few will forget that she was widely seen as a negative force that cast a shadow on the Jayalalithaa governments. Not all those who crave recognition as a leader’s legatees achieve it. Would one so closely associated in the public imagination with amassing wealth and power make the cut?  In Focus  Sasikala is one of the daughters of C. Viveka- nandan, who was a medical compounder at a town in central Tamil Nadu  She was introduced to Jayalalithaa in the 1980s when she was running a video rental agency. The relationship turned into a lasting bond  Much of the AIADMK turned to Sasikala for leadership after Jayalalithaa’s demise in 2016. But her claim to the CM's post did not come true as the then Governor refused to invite her to form the government   Sasikala was convicted for her role in the amassing of unexplained wealth during Jayalalithaa’s first term as the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister between 1991 and 1996||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-shadow-in-search-of-eminence/article33833513.ece
14 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||UT status for J&K is temporary: Amit Shah||Home Minister Amit Shah told the Lok Sabha on Saturday that the government would restore full statehood to Jammu and Kashmir at an appropriate time, and claimed that the Modi government has done more for the Union Territory since Article 370 was read down in August 2019 than those who ruled it for generations. Mr. Shah was replying to a discussion on the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation (Amendment) Bill, 2021 in Lok Sabha. He also criticised some Opposition members for their claim that the proposed law negated the hopes of the region of getting back its statehood. “This legislation has nothing to do with statehood, and Jammu and Kashmir will be accorded the status at an appropriate time,“ Mr. Shah said. The J&K Reorganisation (Amendment) Bill seeks to merge the all India services J&K cadre with the Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Mizoram Union Territory (AGMUT) cadre. He said the region’s Union Territory status is temporary just like Article 370 itself granting special status to Jammu and Kashmir was supposed to be. Decentralisation and devolution of power have taken place in the UT following the revocation of Article 370, Mr. Shah said, noting that panchayat elections saw over 51% voting. “Panchayats have been given administrative and financial powers for local development, something they lacked earlier,” he added. Now people chosen by the masses will rule Jammu and Kashmir, not those born to “kings and queens”, he said, attacking dynastic parties in the region. “Even our rivals could not allege any wrongdoing in these polls which were conducted fairly and peacefully,” he added. Work on two AIIMS in the region has begun, and the Kashmir Valley will be connected to the railways by 2022, the Minister said. He assured the people of Jammu and Kashmir that “no one will lose their land”, adding that the government has sufficient land for development. Mr. Shah said the government expects that around 25,000 government jobs will be created by 2022. National Conference MP Hasnain Masoodi had, during the debate, advocated the restoration of statehood and advised the Centre to wait for the Supreme Court to deliver its verdict on the legal validity of the removal of special status from J&K before making massive administrative changes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ut-status-for-jk-is-temporary-amit-shah/article33833481.ece
14 February 2021||Joshimath,||Tunnel rescue effort stepped up||Rescue teams on Saturday began widening a hole drilled into an approach tunnel on the way to the possible location of over 30 people trapped inside a sludge-choked tunnel of the NTPC’s Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project after a flash flood ravaged the area on Sunday. “We are working under a three-pronged strategy to reach to those trapped. The hole we drilled on Friday is being widened to one feet to reach a camera and a pipe inside the silt flushing tunnel where the trapped are said to be located, General Manager of the NTPC project, R.P. Ahirwal, said. The camera will ascertain their location and the pipe flushout accumulated water, he said. The other two parts of the strategy are clearing the desilting basin of the NTPC barrage through which muck is constantly flowing into the tunnels, and restoring the flow of the Dhauliganga to the right, which has tilted to the left after the flash flood hampering the sludge clearing operation, he said. Describing the rescue of people as a priority, he said the NTPC has put more than 100 of its scientists on the job. Asked whether an attempt could also be made to send rescue personnel through the hole, the GM said it would need to be widened further for that and would be done if the need arises. He said all resources and mechanical equipment required are available at the project site. However, citing the conditions inside the tunnel, he said, “We can operate only with a few machines at a time. Rest of them have to be kept on standby because our strategy is to keep the operations under way round the clock.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tunnel-rescue-effort-stepped-up/article33833491.ece
14 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Protest sites gear up for change in seasons||With the stalemate over farm laws continuing some of the protesting farmers at the Singhu border outside Delhi are preparing for a long haul, installing semi-permanent structures at the protest site. Farmers have been protesting at the borders of the national capital for nearly three months now demanding a repeal of the three agriculture laws brought in by the Centre. With the agitation set to continue for an indefinite period, a group of farmers from Patiala have procured bio-toilets, installed tin sheds and will be repairing the pavements along the highway as the protest continues, the group said. Satnam Singh, one of the group, who has been at the Singhu Border for over two months now, said, “We are around 100 people from different villages. While we first made the tin structure when it rained last month, we are preparing to install other amenities as well and will also cover the other side. We have already procured two bio-toilets for ourselves and will be installing two more so that it is easier for women as well.” Tucked behind a parked container with stored rations, the group of farmers said preparations were on in full swing to improve the living conditions at the protest site. Jagdeep Singh, also a part of the same group said, “All these months we would have to use the shared facilities. So now we got the bio-toilets for ourselves. We will also repair the sidewalks near our trolleys to ensure that the area does not get too dirty if it rains again.” “It does not look like the protest will end any time soon. We have enough raw materials and ration to help us survive for as long as required. The weather has already started changing. We will soon get coolers and even air-conditioners if required. We are also regularly getting reinforcements from our villages as well. The government should realise that we are not returning till the laws are repealed,” said Mr. Singh. Several others said that with the weather beginning to change, refrigerators and coolers are also set to reach the protest site soon. Sarvan Singh, a farmer from Amritsar, who is also a part of a group providing langar services said, “No matter which big movement one looks at from the past, one will see that it has been a long drawn one. Even our agitation will be one such movement. With the change in the season, we will adapt ourselves accordingly at the border itself. We are in the process of procuring refrigerators to ensure that food items, especially milk doesn’t get spoilt.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/protest-sites-gear-up-for-change-in-seasons/article33833486.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The new network on the block||It is being touted as the next big thing in social media. It is yet to turn one, having launched last March just as the world was going into a pandemic-induced lockdown, but already has 2 million users and is reportedly worth $1 billion. It is funded by one of the most prominent venture capital firms in the world, Andreessen Horowitz. And, it is being promoted by the biggies of Silicon Valley. Clubhouse, the app that describes itself as “a new type of network based on voice”, has generated a lot of buzz in recent weeks. Earlier this month, Tesla founder Elon Musk made his début on the platform. And this week, China blocked Clubhouse but not before a rare few days of uncensored conversations on topics it considers touchy. At a time when much of the social media conversation is driven by pithy text updates, filtered photos, snappy videos, and memes, the San Francisco-based Clubhouse app is centred around people talking real-time, no cameras on. “Voice is so universal but in the world of social networking, it’s relatively new,” Paul Davison, Clubhouse’s co-founder, told CNBC recently. Giants Facebook and Twitter are reportedly coming up with their own products to take on Clubhouse. You can access Clubhouse only on an Apple mobile device, as of now, and you can sign in only if you have been invited by an existing user. Once inside the app, what you see are ‘rooms’, lots and lots of them. Each ‘room’ is a space where a conversation is happening. You can enter one, listen in, even participate if allowed. It is much like having a wide choice of radio channels but here you can take part too. Also, you can even start a ‘room’ of your own. Previous ventures Mr. Davison and co-founder Rohan Seth, who had known each other since 2011, have independently worked on other ventures previously. Mr. Davison built a location-based app called Highlight, using which users could connect over common interests. He sold it to Pinterest eventually. Mr. Seth, a former Google engineer, co-founded a company called Memry Labs, which was into building social applications. He sold Memry to Opendoor. Then, in 2019, they say in the Clubhouse blog, “we decided to give social apps one last try”. Coming into the scene much after the disruptive new conversational spaces brought forth by the first generation of social media networks such as Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, Clubhouse may not operate by the playbook of its predecessors. Mr. Davison said in the CNBC interview that “the focus is on authentic human connection and dialogue rather than likes or followers”. There is also no record of Clubhouse conversations to come back to. If you miss them once, you miss them forever. Mr. Davison likens the experience on the app to the experience of going to a conference, where the keynote sessions are big and reach a lot of people but there are also smaller break-out sessions and hallway conversations that are private. The choice of what it should be rests with the person who starts these conversations. Not everything is for everyone. It can be a private conversation that one has with one more person, much like a phone conversation, or something that reaches many, many people, as Mr. Musk’s conversation with the CEO of online brokerage Robinhood did. The 5,000-limit per ‘room’ was hit pretty soon, but this conversation was allowed to overflow into other ‘rooms’. The decision about who should be let in to a conversation rests with those who initiate the conversation, and this is already proving to be controversial. Reuters reported Jessica Lessin, editor-in-chief of The Information, as tweeting that the founding partner of the venture capital firm that backs Clubhouse blocked many reporters from listening in to the Musk talk. Clubhouse also can’t be immune to the issues of hate speech and disinformation faced by other platforms, and it insists systems to deal with them are in place. Where Clubhouse seems to make a radical departure from its predecessors is in the business model. It wants to build monetisation strategies for its creators, so that they can make money from listeners via subscription and tickets. Clubhouse’s big scale-up can happen only when it makes itself accessible to Android users, who form the largest chunk of mobile users in the world. And that may just be a matter of time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-new-network-on-the-block/article33833511.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The heights of constant friction||I am happy to inform the House today that as a result of our well-thought-out approach and sustained talks with the Chinese side, we have now been able to reach an agreement on disengagement on the north and south banks of Pangong Tso, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday, announcing the disengagement of Indian and Chinese troops to end the nine-month-long stand-off in eastern Ladakh. Pangong Tso, which caught the fascination of the country with the Aamir Khan starrer 3 idiots, has been an area of constant friction between India and China. The name is of mixed heritage, Pangong in Ladakhi language means extensive concavity and Tso means lake in Tibetan. India holds one third of the 135-km-long boomerang-shaped lake located at an altitude of more than 14,000 feet. The lake, a glacial melt, has mountain spurs of the Chang Chenmo range jutting out, referred to as “Fingers”, and the brackish water freezes in winter. India has always held till Finger 4, while it claims till Finger 8, which is where the Indian perception of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) lies, as reiterated by a Defence Ministry statement on Friday. The north bank, which has much higher differences in perception of the LAC than the south bank, had been the initial site of clashes in early May last year. The Indian Army has a permanent position near Finger 3, the Dhan Singh Thapa post, named after Major Dhan Singh Thapa who was awarded the Param Vir Chakra, the highest gallantry award in the country. The Chinese have a base east of Finger 8. Face-offs in lake The Indian Army sends patrols from Finger 3 to Finger 8 on foot, while the Chinese have built a road for their vehicular movement. Both sides also patrol the water on speed boats which also results in face-offs. However, the face-offs are usually resolved as per the protocols agreed to for maintaining peace and tranquillity on the border. The south bank of Pangong leads to the Kailash range and to the Chushul sector. The Chushul sector is critical as it lends room for tank manoeuvres owing to its flat terrain. This was the site of pitched battles during the 1962 war and the heroic battle by 13 Kumaon, led by Major Shaitan Singh at Rezang La, the mountain pass on the southeastern approach to the Chushul Valley. Over the years, India has strengthened its defences on the south bank in addition to deployment of tanks. For India, Pangong is critical to maintain hold on the Chushul Valley. As per the current agreement, both sides will cease their forward deployments in a “phased, coordinated and verified manner” and will move back to their permanent bases. “A similar action would be taken in the south bank area by both sides,” the Indian Defence Minister said. “These are mutual and reciprocal steps and any structures that had been built by both sides since April 2020 in both north and south bank area will be removed and the landforms will be restored.” The PLA has built extensive defences between Finger 8 and Finger 4 and also mounted gun positions on the ridgelines of Finger 4, overlooking Indian positions. The Army gained tactical advantage over the PLA on the south bank in August by occupying several peaks lying vacant since 1962, gaining a dominating view of the Moldo area. On the north bank too, Indian troops set up posts facing PLA positions on the ridgelines of Finger 4. Both sides are now in the process of clearing these positions, and the process is being jointly monitored. Last September, shots were fired in the air on the south bank, the first time since 1975 on the LAC. Both sides have also been agreed to a “temporary moratorium” on military activities on the north bank, including patrolling to the traditional areas, which will be resumed only when an agreement is reached in diplomatic and military talks between the two countries. While Pangong has emerged as the focal point of the stand-off, the disengagement here is the first step in a long process. The Defence Ministry said that Mr. Singh’s statement had also made it clear that there are outstanding problems to be addressed, including at “Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang”. The outstanding issues are to be taken up within 48 hours of the completion of the Pangong Tso disengagement, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-heights-of-constant-friction/article33833515.ece
14 February 2021||ALAPPUZHA,||Steps to demolish resort begins||Authorities have initiated preliminary steps to demolish the illegally constructed villas of Kapico Kerala Resorts Private Limited on Nediyathuruthu island in Vembanad Lake here. The Supreme Court on January 10, 2020 dismissed appeals by Kapico Resorts against a Kerala High Court order banning the construction of resorts, and removal of structures on the backwater island. The court observed that the constructions violated coastal and environmental regulations. Last week, Sub-collector Ilakkiya, Cherthala tahsildar P.G. Rajendra Babu and other officials visited the resort. The officials said they were in the process of valuing various items at the resort. “The resort has electrical and mechanical equipment, among other items. Its valuation should be carried out. We have conducted a preliminary inspection and experts will now conduct a detailed examination. Once the valuation is completed, a detailed action plan will be prepared for demolishing the structures in due time,” said an official. It would be a challenge to prevent debris, including hazardous waste, from falling into the lake during the demolition and transportation. Kapico Resorts constructed 54 villas, a main block, among other facilities, over a period of six years from 2007. In March 2013, the Kerala High Court ordered the demolition of the resort along with illegal structures constructed by Vaamika Island (Green Lagoon Resort) on Vettila Thuruthu, also on Vembanad Lake. The High Court ordered the removal of the unauthorised structures within three months. Following this, Vaamika moved the Supreme Court. Their petitions were dismissed by the court stating that Vembanad Lake was an ecologically sensitive area. While dismissing the appeals by Kapico Resorts, the court noted, “We do not know how this finding can be held to be applicable only to Vettila Thuruthu island.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/steps-to-demolish-resorts-begin/article33833457.ece
14 February 2021||Hyderabad,||‘Student had spun rape story’||Two days after Rachkonda police added gangrape charge in the sensational 19-year-old B. Pharma student’s alleged kidnap case at Ghatkesar, Commissioner of Police Mahesh M Bhagwat on Saturday declared that the victim had misguided them, as it turned out to be a false complaint. He said that the victim, in order to escape from her parents’ house, created a drama by claiming to have been kidnapped. On the day of the alleged incident, the girl didn’t board the auto of the picked up suspect, who she claimed kidnapped and raped her along with his friends. Mr Bhagwat said that she reportedly removed clothes on her own and when the police found her, she was half-naked and created a rape scene. While trying to rush to the spot before police arrived there, she tripped and fell down in the bushes, injuring her leg. Due to the inconsistency in her statement, police doubted the claims of the victim. Later when CCTV cameras and cell phone tower locations of the suspects she named were analysed, they were in contradiction to her claims in the police statement, the Commissioner of Police said during a media conference in Hyderabad. He apologised to all the suspects who were questioned and the inconvenience and humiliation caused to them after they were taken into custody. Considering the grave allegations by the girl, police took the case seriously and a large number of personnel were assigned multiple tasks. They analysed more than 100 CCTV footages, starting from where she boarded the seven-seater auto rickshaw till 150 metres from the alleged scene of offence, where the girl was seen travelling and walking alone. “After getting down from the auto, she walked for more than 4 km. Later, whe took another auto and then walked alone near the bushes at Ghatkesar and kept answering the calls from police and her parents and also sent her live location on WhatsApp,” he said. “After thorough investigation and gathering technical evidence we found that the offence has not taken place and she weaved a false story. Hence the case proved false,” he said. Narrating how police came to a conclusion that it was a false case, he said that with the help of auto unions, they launched a manhunt and the ‘suspect’ autorickshaw driver and his friends were taken into custody. The police also collected call detail records of the victim as well as suspect persons, took their cell phone tower dumps. “With evidence collected, a lot of discrepancies were observed in the victim’s statement. Later when we presented all the facts before her, the girl confessed that due to family issues she wanted to leave her house, so she informed her mother that she was kidnapped. Later on, due to police involvement she panicked and out of fear weaved a false story,” Mr. Bhagwat said. When asked why she identified that particular auto driver as the suspect, the officer said that the victim had tried to fix him as she had a previous dispute with him. Speaking on the sidelines of the press conference, Mr. Bhagwat said that six months ago she created a similar drama to know one of her friends’ reaction and on the day of alleged offence she told her senior that her cousin was kidnapped and was released only after some ransom was paid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pharmacy-student-had-concocted-the-rape-story/article33833855.ece
14 February 2021||Kochi,||Keep fighting CAA, NPR, NRC: N. Ram||The struggle against the Citizenship (Amendment Act), the National Register of Citizens and the National Population Register should continue as it is unacceptable to a secular, sovereign and democratic republic, said N. Ram, Director, The Hindu Group of Publications, and former Editor-in-Chief of The Hindu on Saturday. “This will have consequences, implications not just for Muslims but for India’s political system and Constitution. It’s the Constitution that has been undermined. It’s the right to equality, the rights to freedom that are being snatched away,” Mr. Ram pointed out while speaking on ‘Rights-bearing Citizenship in the time of Hindutva’ as part of the K.R. Narayanan Birth Centenary lecture series, organised jointly by the Institute of Parliamentary Affairs and Kerala Institute of Local Administration, online. ‘Rights being subverted’ Explaining that the freedom of speech and expression and equal protection to all guaranteed in the Constitution are being subverted, Mr. Ram stressed that there is still no room for complacency even if the Supreme Court strikes down the CAA as unconstitutional. “We will have to continue the struggle against NPR and NRC. Even if the Supreme Court finds CAA of 2019 to be constitutional, it does not make it right. These struggles should continue.” Stating that it would not be easy for the BJP-led Union government to implement the CAA-NRC-NPR on the ground, Mr. Ram said there was plenty of resistance even from the State governments. “There is no need to get demoralised on this. Because this is an important struggle, which has to be constitutionally, politically and peacefully continued.” Pointing out that it’s not just the BJP and its allies which have developed this authoritarian way of looking at citizenship, Mr. Ram said the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance and the Congress, in particular, has to bear a lot of responsibility for going along with this surveillance-oriented citizenship regime. “This is a point that is not often highlighted in public discourse. But it’s clear that the Congress in power, not just in Opposition, was also party to enacting some of these changes.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/keep-fighting-caa-npr-nrc-n-ram/article33833546.ece
14 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Bengaluru college turns virus hotspot||The Bengaluru civic body has decided to test all nursing students for COVID-19 after 40 students at the Manjushree College of Nursing in Kaval Byrasandra contracted the virus just days after the college reopened. Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Commissioner, N. Manjunath Prasad said most of the students enrolled in nursing colleges across the city hailed from Kerala, where nearly 6,000 positive cases are being reported every day. “Many students are returning to their hometowns during the weekend. Given the situation, officials have been directed to test all nursing students in the city,” said the civic chief, who visited Manjushree College on Saturday. The nursing college, which has 210 students, reopened on January 25. Initially, only two students were tested. However, when the results showed that they had contracted the virus, other students were tested, too. All 40 students are asymptomatic. Students are now under quarantine in paying guest accommodations near the college. “The remaining 170 students have also been quarantined in the college hostel for 14 days. I have directed college managements to ensure that all their needs are met,” said Mr. Prasad. The State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) has recommended that surveillance should be stepped up in all colleges. “We have said that all the students in the college who have tested negative now should be compulsorily tested on the seventh day,” a TAC member said. Mr. Prasad pointed out that per directions from the Centre, there are no restrictions from people coming to the State from Kerala. “In light of the recent spike in cases, those from Kerala can join organisations/ colleges only if they possess a negative RT-PCR report not older than 72 hours. If they have not been tested, they will have to be under mandatory quarantine for 14 days and later undergo RT-PCR test. Stringent action will be initiated against institutions violating this,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengaluru-college-turns-virus-hotspot/article33833459.ece
14 February 2021||Jaipur,||Rahul terms farm laws ploy to break India’s backbone||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday said the enactment of the agriculture sector laws by the Centre amounted to a ploy to break the country’s backbone and give the control over farming to corporates. The process began with demonetisation, after which the Goods and Services Tax was brought in an arbitrary manner, he said. Mr. Gandhi continued with his offensive against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government at the Centre on the last day of his two-day visit to Rajasthan. He addressed a “tractor sabha” in Ajmer district’s Roopangarh village and a Kisan Mahapanchayat at Makrana in the Jat-dominated Nagaur district. While accusing Prime Minister Narendra Modi of trying to hand over the entire agriculture business to his “two friends”, Mr. Gandhi said 40% of the country’s population had a stake in farming, which generated employment for farmers, labourers, traders, street vendors and small businessmen and shopkeepers. “Modi- ji said in the Parliament that he was giving options to farmers through new laws. In reality, these options are hunger, unemployment and suicide,” Mr. Gandhi said. A few big enterprises would hoard food grains, fruits and vegetables to expand their business and control 80% to 90% of the agriculture business, he said. ‘Youth will be affected’ The former Congress president said the future of youth would be finished with the implementation of farm statutes, and the path to monopolistic practices would be cleared for a select group of businessmen. “It is not just the issue of agriculturists... the entire middle class will be affected and its livelihood snatched away,” he said. Mr. Gandhi, wearing a colourful Rajasthani turban, reached the venue at Roopangarh by driving a tractor. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and Pradesh Congress chief Govind Singh Dotasra were sitting on either side. As he addressed the sabha from a platform made of tractor trolleys, farmers sitting on tractors around him listened with rapt attention. Mr. Gandhi rode on a camel cart before leaving for “Kisan Mahapanchayat” organised by the ruling Congress in Makrana. He also offered supplications at a temple dedicated to folk deity Veer Tejaji in Ajmer’s Sursura village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahul-terms-farm-laws-ploy-to-break-indias-backbone/article33833476.ece
14 February 2021||CHENNAI,||IIT-M Ph.D. entry tough for students from marginalised communities||Students from the Scheduled Caste (SC) and Scheduled Tribe (ST) communities have significantly poor representation and acceptance rate in Ph.D programmes at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Madras, analysis of data obtained through the Right to Information (RTI) Act revealed. The analysis was based on data provided by IIT Madras regarding 2,195 admissions made from 54,462 applicants in the five-year period from 2015 to 2019. The data showed that SC students constituted only 7.6% and STs were just 1.2%. The reservation policy requires that 15% of seats be allocated to SCs and 7.5% to STs. Moreover, the data showed a significant difference in the acceptance rate, which refers to the number of students admitted for every 100 applicants. While General Category (GC) students, which in the case of the IITs predominantly refers to those from privileged communities, had an acceptance rate of 4.4%, it was 2.9% for SCs and 2.7% for STs. Only 167 of the 5,855 SC applicants and 27 of the 991 ST applicants were selected. Interestingly, the institution had filled the reservation-mandated seats for Other Backward Classes (OBCs), thanks to nine of the 16 departments that managed to fill the seats. As much as 29.8% of the seats went to OBC candidates against the 27% of minimum allocation to be done as per reservation norms. The remaining 61.6% seats went to the GC category. Though IIT Madras had admitted 3,874 Ph.D. scholars from 2015 to 2019 according to the data submitted by the Ministry of Education in the Parliament last year, it provided community-wise data on applications and enrolments for only 2,195 admissions (57% of the total). Despite appeals through RTI, a few of the 16 research departments in IIT Madras did not give data for some semesters. For the Mathematics Department, the administration said it had data for only one semester. It can be noted, however, that the RTI data followed a fairly similar pattern to that of the data submitted to the Parliament in terms of seat allocation. Of the 3,874 admissions, 64.4% went to the GCs, 27.9% to OBCs, and only 6.4% to SCs and 1.3% to STs. The RTI data threw light on how the difference in acceptance rate was more pronounced in some departments. For instance, in Aerospace Engineering (AE), the acceptance rate was 6.6% for GCs and only 1.7% for SCs. In absolute numbers, only five of the 292 SC applicants were selected. In contrast, 100 applicants were selected from the 1,520 GC candidates. A stark difference in acceptance rate was also observed in Applied Mechanics, Electrical Engineering, Humanities and Social Sciences, and Management Studies, between GC and SC applicants. The Department of Computer Science and Engineering had one of the highest number of applicants from SC and ST categories. From the 755 SC applicants, only four were selected and from 136 ST applicants, none were selected. While the overall acceptance rate was lower in the department, it was lower still for SC and ST applicants. Engineering Design and Mechanical Engineering were among the exceptions, with similar acceptance rates for all categories. While most departments had poor acceptance rates for STs, departments like Physics, Metallurgical and Materials Engineering, and Ocean Engineering, had better acceptance rates for SCs. They came closer to filling seats as per the reservation rules. Ruling out the possibility that the difference in acceptance rate was due to selection bias, Bhaskar Ramamurthi, Director, IIT Madras, said that the institution in fact adopted a strategy of calling a high percentage of SC and ST applicants for interview. He said that an analysis of the past three years of data showed that SC and ST candidates were roughly 10% and 1.7% of the total applicants to the institution. He said that while 32% of applicants were called for an interview overall, the rate was 65% for SC and ST candidates. “Only 25 to 30% of those from SC/ST categories who are called attended the interview,” he said. While the percentage selected among those interviewed was 24% overall, it was 16% for the reserved categories. “The acceptance rate for SC/ST is therefore not lower given that the calling rate is double,” he said. On how the institution filled the seats reserved for OBC with the acceptance rate being better, he said, “We do not know why, but are happy that this is so.” ( This is the second of a 3-part series )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/iit-m-phd-entry-tough-for-students-from-marginalised-communities/article33833503.ece
14 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘More fatalities likely among poor victims of road crashes’||There are more fatalities from road crashes among poor families rather than the rich, shows a new World Bank study that highlights the socio-economic impact of road accidents — from access to post-accident medical care to coping with the financial distress caused by a mishap. In the study, low income households reported twice the numbers of deaths post-crash vis-à-vis high income households. The risk of a victim undergoing disability after a crash was also two times more likely among poor families. Road accidents also led to a sharper decline in total household income among low-income households, where it was as high as 75%, as compared to high income households, where the decrease was by 54%, underlining poor access to insurance schemes among the less privileged. However, on comparison of the monthly household income and financial losses due to road crashes, it was found that the loss among poor victims was equivalent to about 7.6 months’ household income while among the richer survivors it was equivalent to less than one month’s household income. The report titled “Traffic Crash Injuries and Disabilities: The Burden on Indian Society,” is brought out by the World Bank in collaboration with SaveLIFE Foundation. The data was collected from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra — a State each from northern, southern, western and eastern regions. While Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu represent higher economic growth and better performance in Human Development indicators, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar represent higher poverty rates and low levels of social and administrative progress. A total number of 2,499 interviews were conducted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/more-fatalities-likely-among-poor-victims-of-road-crashes/article33833497.ece
14 February 2021||Bhubaneswar,||A.P. holds elections in disputed villages||The Andhra Pradesh government on Saturday held panchayat elections in the Kotia gram panchayat of Odisha despite Koraput Collector urging his Vizianagaram counterpart not to go ahead. Voting began at 7 a.m. despite the Odisha government taking exception to the process. Police and revenue department officials from Andhra Pradesh were deployed in the gram panchayat as villagers stepped out to vote. On Friday, the Supreme Court issued notice to the A.P. government on a contempt petition filed by Odisha for notifying panchayat polls in disputed inter-State border villages despite a status quo order from the top court. A Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar gave A.P. a week to file its response to the contempt plea but did not stay the polls. A.P. is holding panchayat elections in three villages — Talaganjeipadar, Patusineri and Phagunseneri in Kotia gram panchayat — by changing their names to Ganjeibadara, Pattuchennuru and Pagluchennuru, Odisha government officials said. According to the Odisha government, the villages are part of Pottangi taluk of Koraput district. There are about 21 villages known as Kotia group of villages mired in dispute. A case is pending in the Supreme Court over the issue and the court had directed the two States to maintain status quo. Earlier, Odisha Revenue and Disaster Management Secretary Bishnupada Sethi told The Hindu , “The election being held by Andhra Pradesh is illegal. Odisha government had already conducted last Assembly and general elections in Kotia.”  This is illegal. Odisha government conducted last Assembly elections in Kotia panchayat Bishnupada Sethi Odisha Revenue & Disaster Management Secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ap-holds-polls-in-disputed-villages/article33833473.ece
14 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Almost 100% productivity in two weeks of Budget session||Overcoming a sluggish start due to protests by Opposition and frequent adjournments over the three contentious farm laws, the Lok Sabha managed to hit almost 100% in its productivity by working extra in the second week of the Budget session. The first part of the Budget session ended on Saturday, with the second part scheduled to start on March 8. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla’s office said that while productivity between February 2 and 5 was only around 10%, it shot up to 164% between February 8 and 11. On an average, the business productivity was 99.5%. Mr. Birla said the Lok Sabha sat for 49 hours and 17 minutes against the stipulated time of 50 hours, adding that the first part of the Budget session was productive with business being transacted even beyond midnight. “As part of the Motion of Thanks to the President, 130 MPs participated in the discussion which went on for 16 hours and 39 minutes,” he said. The discussion had been allotted 10 hours by the business advisory committee of the Lok Sabha but time was extended for MPs to speak. The Budget saw a discussion that went on for 14 hours and 40 minutes, with 117 MPs participating. The Speaker expressed particular satisfaction over the fact that 26 women members participated in the Motion of Thanks to the President and 23 during the discussion over the Union Budget.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/almost-100-productivity-in-2-weeks-of-ls-budget-session/article33833484.ece
14 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC to examine plea against CEC, parties||The Supreme Court has decided to examine a contempt petition filed by a lawyer against Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora and leaders of prominent political parties for not fully adhering to the Supreme court order against allowing “dreaded criminals” contest in the Bihar Assembly polls. A Bench led by Justice Rohinton F. Nariman issued notice in the contempt case to Mr. Arora, Chief Electoral Officer for Bihar H.R. Srinivas, JDU general secretary K.C. Tyagi, Rashtriya Janata Dal’s Bihar president Jagdanand Singh, Lok Jan Shakti Party leader Abdul Khalik, Congress party leader R.S. Surjewala and B.L. Santosh of the BJP. On February 11, the Bench allowed petitioner-advocate Brajesh Singh to argue his case in person. It scheduled the next hearing for March 9. The court said Mr. Arora and other political leaders, arraigned as respondents, need not be present during the hearing. Mr. Singh said the Supreme Court on February 13, 2020 directed political parties to publish the criminal antecedents of their candidates in “widely circulated newspapers,” which was wilfully disobeyed by political parties in the elections. The lawyer said the court had ordered parties to publish on their websites the reasons for selecting such candidates and why those without a criminal record were not found better-suited to contest the elections. Mr. Singh said the parties published the details of their candidates in only one Hindi newspaper and gave similar reasons for their choice of candidates. These reasons, the lawyer pointed out, invariably were “popularity of the person, social work, educational background, that cases were filed against them out of political vendetta by rival political parties, having shown a good effort in handling the COVID-19 crisis”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-to-examine-plea-against-cec-parties/article33833500.ece
14 February 2021||KOLLAM,||The sweet taste of success with jackfruit||A handful of years back, at a time when it hadn’t been declared the official fruit of Kerala, jackfruit used to be a humble crop without any commercial status. Every rural homestead with the tree had rotten yellow puddles under it as the fruit had nearly zero market value. And when Veliyam Rajeev, an advocate by profession, axed hundreds of rubber trees to plant jackfruit saplings, his neighbours were surprised. It took Mr. Rajeev more than three years to convert the entire rubber plantation into a jackfruit farm, but the lawyer-turned-farmer had the last laugh when his trees started yielding as, currently, he is unable to meet the demand for his produce. “The expanding rubber plantations had been corrupting the natural properties of our soil and I planted jackfruit saplings for a more sustainable land use. Rubber trees were leaving our lands sterile, wrecking the balance of our ecosystem,” says Mr. Rajeev. At present Tapovan Jacks, the 4-acre farm at Veliyam, has 10 different indigenous varikka varieties along with hybrids. With long rows of small trees, many of them bearing fruits, the farm is expected to produce huge volumes of the crop in two years. “Right now we have over 400 trees. During the last two years, jackfruit has emerged as a super food for its multiple health benefits,” he says. He adds that the biggest challenge in tapping the marketing potential of the fruit is ensuring its texture and taste. “The crispiness and sugar content cannot be predicted, so branding becomes very important.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-sweet-taste-of-success-with-jackfruit/article33833463.ece
14 February 2021||Chandigarh,||Punjab all set for civic body elections today||All arrangements are in place for the civic body elections in Punjab on Sunday, an official spokesperson of the State Election Commission said. The voting for eight municipal corporations of Abohar, Bathinda, Batala, Kapurthala, Mohali, Hoshiarpur, Pathankot and Moga and 109 municipal councils and nagar panchayats in the State will be held on February 14 from 8 a.m. till 4 p.m. As many as 9,222 candidates are in the fray for 2,302 wards. Of the total candidates, 2,832 are contesting as Independents, 2,037 are of the ruling Congress and 1,569 of the Shiromani Akali Dal. The number of candidates of the BJP, the AAP and the BSP are 1,003, 1,606 and 160 respectively. The official spokesperson of the State Election Commission said it has set up 4,102 polling stations out of which, 1,708 have been declared sensitive and 861 as hypersensitive.  Dry days The counting of votes will take place on February 17. The State Election Commission has announced February 14 and 17 as dry days. Around 7,000 EVMs have been deployed for voting. A total of 25,010 employees have also been deputed. About 19,000 police personnel have been deputed to conduct free and fair elections, said the spokesperson. There are 20,49,777 male, 18,65,354 female and 149 transgender voters, totalling 39,15,280 registered voters in Punjab. A total of 30 IAS or PCS officers have been deputed as observers to conduct free and fair elections. In these elections, 50 per cent of seats have been reserved for women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-all-set-for-civic-body-elections-today/article33833752.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||YouTubers back to tickle Valley’s funny bone||Mr. Ahmad, a student from Sumbal’s Maloora area, saw the number of subscribers to the channel falling with each passing day, and with it his dream to become an actor.  “In just eight months, we lost over 1 lakh subscribers and the once growing number of views came to naught,” he said    “My cousin, who is married with kids, was dependent on the channel to feed his family. We failed to switch to any other profession. We were living in utter frustration,” Mr. Ahmad, who organised several street protests against the Internet ban last year, said. Mr. Ahmad and his five YouTube channel partners, who come from humble backgrounds, were earning between Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 15,000 each prior to the Internet ban. “We used to upload five to six videos per month before August 5, but that came down to zero. It was like living in a bad dream. We pray it does not happen again. We have our fingers crossed though,” said Mr. Ahmad, whose ‘4G Aaa Waapas ’ video has already attracted 1.71 lakh views. There are over 100 YouTubers in Kashmir, mainly from modest backgrounds, who earn a living by uploading comedic content. Mr. Ahmad said the idea to start a YouTube channel in 2018 was to spread laughter in Kashmir. Mudasir Farooq runs another YouTube channel ‘Koshur Kalakar’ from Baramulla’s volatile Sopore. “Our videos attracted 60,000 subscribers in just two months in 2018. There was a huge potential to tap. We planned to get 5 lakh subscribers by 2021. But we lost 40% of our subscribers, and the revenue too, due to the ban,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/youtubers-back-to-tickle-valleys-funny-bone/article33833452.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Police perform last rites of unidentified bodies||The DGP said that so far all reports have suggested that a big piece of Trishul peak at an altitude of 19,000 feet broke away and the ensuing avalanche caused a flash flood in the downstream Rishiganga river. “Not only the glacier, but a portion of the Trishul peak also broke with it and came down with mud, debris, stones and slush. Several studies by different government bodies have come to the same conclusion,” Mr. Kumar said. Chamoli police said in a tweet that 12 bodies have been identified so far. In all, 204 persons are missing after the February 7 incident when two hydel power projects on the Rishiganga and Dhauliganga rivers were washed away. Around 35 workers are said to be trapped in the Tapovan hydel project tunnel on the Dhauliganga river where rescue work is still on. “The rescue teams are trying to drill a larger area, around 1 feet in width at the Tapovan tunnel. The drilling is to be done in a tunnel up to 12 feet lower that connects to another small tunnel. We plan to drop down a camera in the smaller tunnel to find about the status here,” Mr. Kumar. A team of Indo-Tibetan Border Police force and the National Disaster Response Force have been extracting mud, slush and debris at the other end of the small tunnel where workers are said to be trapped. So far, 136 metres of the 180-200 metre approach that has been blocked has been cleared.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-perform-last-rites-of-unidentified-bodies/article33833453.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||FinMin defends outlays for health and defence||On criticism about allocations for the PM Kisan Yojana falling as per revised estimates for 2020-21, the Finance Minister said this was necessitated due to the West Bengal government’s stance on the scheme and refusal to share details of an estimated 65 lakh farmers in the State. The Centre was unable to pay farmers for whom provisions were made because of lack of details from the State, the Minister said. “That is not cutting down of allocation. It is merely that the State for whom allocation was made, did not use it. It is important to highlight that a State should decide that its farmers should not be given the money, which the Prime Minister is giving all over the country. So shedding crocodile tears for farmers doesn’t help; the money is lying there,” the Finance Minister said. On members’ concerns about the healthcare Budget and the inclusion of water and sanitation under the same aegis, Ms. Sitharaman reiterated that including water and sanitation in health was not a ‘figment of the government’s imagination’ and allocations to ‘core health’ spending have been raised. “Even the WHO has said water and sanitation contribute to health,” Ms. Sitharaman asserted, adding that the Budget is focused on preventive as well as curative health. “Some members said Defence is getting no mention in the Speech, it has low allocations… why are we hiding details about Defence? Not at all,” she said, before highlighting the increase in Defence Budget allocations compared to the last Budget of the UPA government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/finmin-defends-outlays-for-health-and-defence/article33833455.ece
14 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||2 doctors test COVID-19 positive after vaccine jab||Two resident doctors who took first dose of COVID-19 vaccine were detected with the mild form of the infectious disease. A senior resident doctor from Government General and Chest Hospital, Erragadda, took the first dose on January 19 and was detected with COVID-19 on February 12, which is 24 days after taking the first shot. The second case is of a resident doctor from Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS), Panjagutta, took the jab on January 22 and was detected with the infectious disease on February 11, which is 20 days after the first dose. Both, from Pulmonology specialization, were administered Covishield. Two doses COVID-19 vaccine is given in two doses with a gap of 28-days and both the doctors were scheduled to receive second dose in a few days. The senior resident doctor worked in COVID-19 ward at the Chest Hospital and attended patients in his clinic too. The NIMS resident doctor attended non-COVID patients. Senior officials from the State Health department urged vaccine beneficiaries on multiple occasions to continue maintaining COVID appropriate behaviour even after taking the first dose. The two doctors said that they maintained all precautions such as wearing N-95 mask, maintaining social distancing, sanitizing hands regularly, and managed to keep the infectious disease at bay for over 11 months. “I have been working in the COVID-19 ward from past many months and contracted COVID-19 for the first time on Friday. I don’t understand how I got it despite taking precautions,” said senior resident doctor from Chest Hospital who wished not to be identified. He added that tests revealed that he did not have any antibodies. He recalled that a patient he checked at his clinic a few days ago has tested positive for coronavirus. “I checked his blood pressure. But I took all the precautions, wore face shield too. And we gave a mask to the patient,” he said. The resident doctor from NIMS was detected with COVID-19 on January 11. Faith in vaccine “I have fever, loss of taste, general weakness. This is the first time I am detected with COVID-19,” he said stressing that he has faith in vaccines. He hoped that people will not keep away from taking the vaccine because of his case. The officials concerned in the State Health department could not be reached over phone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2-doctors-test-covid-19-positive-after-vaccine-jab/article33833548.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||SC refuses to review verdict on protesters||The review hearing held in the judges’ chambers by circulation was published on Saturday. The original judgment of October 7 last year declared the demonstrations and road blockades in the Shaheen Bagh area of the national capital as “unacceptable”. The Review Bench, which comprised the same judges who delivered the original judgment, said it did not find any “error apparent warranting reconsideration” in the verdict. “We have considered the earlier judicial pronouncements and recorded our opinion that the constitutional scheme comes with a right to protest and express dissent but with an obligation to have certain duties,” the review order reasoned. On October 7, the court had concluded that protesters should express their dissent only in designated areas chosen by the administration. Right to dissent should not hamper right of movement of the public. Protests should not become a nuisance. Though the judgment had upheld the right to peaceful protest against a law, it unequivocally made it clear that public ways and public spaces cannot be occupied, and that too indefinitely. Fundamental rights do not live in isolation. The right of the protester has to be balanced with the right of the commuter. They have to co-exist in mutual respect, the court had explained in its judgment. In the review petition, Kazi Fatima and 11 others said the protesters were not even heard by the court. The petitioners asked how the court could restrict expressions of dissent to certain designated areas. “Restricting protests to designated areas upsets the very concept of dissent and protests... Protests are the only way for citizens to show their dissent.,” the review petition had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-refuses-to-review-verdict-on-protesters/article33833472.ece
14 February 2021||Srinagar,||Not allowed to meet kin of slain youth: Mehbooba||Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti on Saturday said she was not allowed to visit south Kashmir’s Pulwama to meet the father of Athar Wani, a youth who was killed in the controversial Lawaypora encounter in Srinagar in December last year. A party spokesman said Ms. Mufti had sought permission from the police to visit Mushtaq Ahmad Wani in Pulwama’s Bellow area. “However, a police vehicle was parked before the gate and the main road is also blocked by the security forces,” a party spokesman said. Taking to Twitter, Ms. Mufti wrote, “Placed under house arrest as usual for trying to visit the family of Athar Mushtaq killed allegedly in a fake encounter. His father was booked under UAPA for demanding his dead body. This is the normalcy the GOI wants to showcase to the EU delegation visiting Kashmir.” She said there was a reign of suppression and terror in Kashmir. “It’s the unvarnished and unpalatable truth that the GOI wants to hide from the rest of the country. A 16-year-old is killed and then hurriedly buried, denying his family the right and chance to perform his last rites,” Ms. Mufti alleged. The police have, however, not issued any statement on the detention of Ms. Mufti yet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/not-allowed-to-meet-kin-of-slain-youth-mehbooba/article33833489.ece
14 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Collect 100% school fee in six instalments: SC||The Supreme Court has stayed a Rajasthan High Court order to schools affiliated to Central and State secondary education boards to collect only 60% of the tuition fee for the lockdown period. A Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar instead allowed schools to collect the entire arrears in six monthly instalments from March to August 2021. “The management/school may collect fees for the academic year 2019-2020 as well as 2020-2021 from the students, equivalent to fees amount notified for the academic year 2019-2020, in six monthly instalments commencing from March 5, 2021 and ending on August 5, 2021,” the court directed in the interim order, which may cause ripples across the country. It said students should not be debarred from attending classes on account of non-payment. “The management shall not debar any student from attending either online or physical classes on account of non-payment of fees, arrears/outstanding fees...” the court said on an appeal filed by parties, including some Catholic educational institutions, represented by advocate Romy Chacko. In case parents have difficulty in paying the arrears, they should be allowed to approach the school authorities through individual representations. The managements would consider them on a “case-to-case basis sympathetically,” the Supreme Court said. The managements were also directed not to withhold the name of any student for Class 10 and 12 Board exams in 2021 because of non-payment of arrears.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/collect-100-school-fee-in-six-instalments-sc/article33833501.ece
14 February 2021||LUCKNOW,||64 from Uttar Pradesh are still missing||Sixty-four persons belonging to Uttar Pradesh are still missing almost a week after the floods in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district, a government official said on Saturday. So far, five persons from the State have been declared dead, while 23 others were traced, said Sanjay Goyal, Uttar Pradesh Relief Commissioner. The majority of the missing people belong to Lakhimpur Kheri district (30), located on the India-Nepal border in the Terai region, followed by Saharanpur (10), Shravasti (5) and Gorakhpur (4). The dead were identified as Awadesh, 19; Vimlesh, 22; and Suraj, 20, of Lakhimpur Kheri; Ajay Sharma, 32, of Aligarh and Vicky Kumar of Saharanpur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/64-from-uttar-pradesh-are-still-missing/article33833508.ece
14 February 2021||Mumbai,||Offshore vessel catches fire; 3 stuck||A supply vessel caught fire near the offshore oilfield Mumbai High on Saturday, leaving one crew member injured while three others remained trapped in the engine room, the Indian Coast Guard (ICG) said. The fire was reported onboard the ship Rohini at 1 p.m. when it was 92 nautical miles from the Mumbai shores and was near NQO platform of Mumbai High. One injured crew member has been rescued from the fire and flown in with the help of an Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) helicopter, the ICG said. The injured person is being treated in Mumbai, while the search for three of his colleagues is on. “The three crew members are trapped in the engine room, which could not be accessed because of the intensity of the fire. The injured person has been flown in with the help of an ONGC helicopter,” the ICG said.  MV Albatross-5, a ship operating in the vicinity of the oilfield, pulled the affected vessel away from the Mumbai High rigs, followed by the ICG deploying offshore patrol vessel Samarth to douse the fire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/offshore-vessel-catches-fire-3-stuck/article33833939.ece
14 February 2021||Mumbai,||Over 150 birds found dead in Maharashtra||A total of 151 birds were found dead in Maharashtra on Friday amid the avian influenza scare and samples have been sent for tests, a State Animal Husbandry Department official said on Saturday. These include 134 poultry birds from Buldana, Amravati and Jalgaon, he said. Bird flu tests are being run on the samples in the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases in Bhopal, as well as Pune based Disease Investigation Section, he added. He said 7,12,172 poultry birds and 19.68 lakh eggs have been destroyed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/over-150-birds-found-dead-in-maharashtra/article33833940.ece
14 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Budget: Asad flays Centre||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) president Asaduddin Owaisi on Saturday criticised the Centre for reducing the budgetary allocation for the Ministry of Minority Affairs, including funds earmarked for educational schemes. In a Twitter thread, Mr. Owaisi said that the Centre had slashed the budget, compared to last year, by Rs. 1,024 crore, and pointed out that allocations were cut in educational schemes like the Maulana Azad National Fellowship for minority students. “As per revised estimate, the allocations have been reduced by Rs. 75 crore for the Maulana Azad National Fellowship for minority students, Rs. 25 crore for free coaching scheme, and Rs. 8 crore for interest subsidy on educational loans for overseas studies,” Mr. Owaisi tweeted, even as he underscored that Rs. 2 crore was reduced for students clearing Civil Service exams. “The cut for the educational schemes comes to Rs. 110 cr. For skill development & livelihood schemes, allocations have been cut by Rs. 175 cr., including Rs. 60 crore for skill development initiatives.”(sic) The Hyderabad parliamentarian said that the allocation for Nai Manzil scheme, which seeks to bring school drop-outs into the ambit of formal education, has been reduced by Rs. 60 crore. He also tweeted that there has been a reduction in allocation for National Minorities Development and Finance Corporation. Reiterating his demand for making scholarships demand driven, he tweeted that the government has cut allocations for merit-cum-means, pre-matric and post- matric scholarships. “For these 3 schemes, Budget Estimate for 2020-21 was 2265 cr. As of 31 Dec only 436 crores have been spent. From 1330 cr for Pre-Matric only 204 cr have been spent. For 535 crore for Post-Matric only 127 have been spent & as against 400 cr for MCM only 105 have been spent, ” (sic) he tweeted. “The revised allocation of Rs. 4,005 crore constitutes a measly 0.12% of the revised budget estimate of Union government’s total expenditure. This is 1/8th of 1% of total govt. expenditure.”  Allocations have been reduced by Rs. 75 crore for the Maulana Azad National Fellowship for minority students, Rs. 25 crore for free coaching scheme, and Rs. 8 crore for interest subsidy on educational loans for overseas studies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/asad-flays-centre-for-slashing-budget-for-minorities/article33833894.ece
14 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Deep Sidhu taken to Red Fort for probe||The Delhi police crime branch on Saturday took actor Deep Sidhu and Iqbal Singh, accused in the Red Fort violence case, to the spot to recreate the sequence of events on the Republic Day during the farmers’ tractor parade. The police said Mr. Sidhu was a “prominent player” behind the January 26 violence and vandalism at the monument. He was arrested from Karnal bypass by the Special Cell unit of the Delhi police in Haryana on Monday night. He was subsequently sent to seven-day police custody. Mr. Singh was arrested from Hoshiarpur in Punjab on Tuesday night. The police team inspected the spot to ascertain and corroborate the route taken by the accused and their activities at the Red Fort which are suspected to have led to the violence. Mr. Sidhu was carrying a reward of Rs. 1 lakh and Mr. Singh Rs. 50,000. So far, the two along with Sukhdev Singh have been arrested and raids are being conducted to arrest the other accused as well. Hundreds were injured in the clashes between the farmers and the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/deep-sidhu-taken-to-red-fort-for-probe/article33833474.ece
14 February 2021||Mumbai,||BJP is behind the violence, says Pawar||Former Union agriculture minister Sharad Pawar on Saturday said that supporters of the ruling party at the Centre were behind the violence at Red Fort in Delhi on January 26. “The main feature of the farmers’ agitation against these three farm laws is that it has been peaceful right from day one,” said Mr. Pawar, addressing a public meeting at Solapur district in western Maharashtra. The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief said that not even a lathi charge had to be ordered on the peaceful agitation. “It [violence] happened once. But when we went in to detail, we were told that no farmer was involved in that [violence]. Those who were involved in that was a group of people who wanted to defame the farmers’ agitation and the ruling party was behind this,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-is-behind-the-violence-says-pawar/article33833478.ece
14 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Diaspora group shows solidarity||A leading group of the Indian community, The Global Indian Progressive Diaspora (GIPD), has come out with “unwavering solidarity” with the farmers’ protest. “The international community of progressive Indians, from more than 12 diaspora organisations spread across the globe, extends their support to the farmers and their rightful demand to be heard, calls for the repeal of the farm laws and asks for shared governance in reformulating such laws,” it has said in a statement. The statement has called upon its supporters to send a social media message to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking for the repeal. The groups said they are following the “foundational values” of India and are committed to “bringing together the people of Indian origin from across the world to contribute as a progressive alliance toward building progressive communities”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/diaspora-group-shows-solidarity/article33833479.ece
14 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||BSP praises Centre on J&K policy||In a significant development with regard to politics in Uttar Pradesh, set to go to polls next year, the Bahujan Samaj Party on Saturday heaped praise on the Union government on its Jammu and Kashmir policy while lashing out at the Congress. BSP MP Malook Nagar, speaking during the debate on the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation (Amendment) Bill, 2021, said backward communities like Gujjar and Backarwal had been deprived of their rights in Jammu and Kashmir for long and were only now getting their due, after the erstwhile State’s special status was revoked. What is the harm if good officers from other parts of the country serve Jammu and Kashmir, he asked.  Mr. Nagar also criticised Congress leaders Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi, saying that they were not opposing the government but the poor. He also mocked Mr. Rahul Gandhi for his speech during a discussion on the Union Budget, saying he delivered his address and then left as a professor does after giving a lecture to students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bsp-praises-centre-on-jk-policy/article33833482.ece
14 February 2021||New Delhi,||House panel on defence to visit LAC||The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Defence plans to visit the Galwan Valley and the Pangong lake in the eastern Ladakh which has witnessed a violent stand-off between the troops of India and China, sources said. However, it may seek the permission of the government before visiting the strategically-located areas, they said. The 30-member committee, chaired by senior BJP leader and former Union Minister Jual Oram and including Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, intends to visit the region in the last week of May or June, sources said. The decision was taken at the panel’s latest meeting. The visit to the Line of Actual Control depends on the approval from the government, a source added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/house-panel-on-defence-to-visit-lac/article33833487.ece
14 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Over 80 lakh frontline workers vaccinated||India on Saturday had provided COVID-19 vaccination to over 80 lakh beneficiaries (80,52,454) till 6 p.m. and also started the second dose of vaccination drive. The country has reported 103 deaths in the last 24 hours with six States accounting for 80.58% of the new deaths. Maharashtra registered the maximum number of casualties (36). Kerala came next with 18 daily deaths, while Karnataka and Punjab reported eights deaths each, as per information released by the Health Ministry. No new deaths It added that in the last 24 hours, 17 States/UTs including Telangana, Odisha, Jharkhand, Puducherry, Chandigarh, Nagaland, Assam, Manipur, Sikkim, Meghalaya, Ladakh and Mizoram have not reported any new deaths. India’s total active caseload currently stands at 1.36 lakh. A total of 1.06 crore (1,06,00,625) people have recovered so far. In the last 24 hours, 11,395 patients have recovered and got discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/over-80-lakh-frontline-workers-vaccinated/article33833492.ece
14 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||West Bengal to host Sanskriti Mahotsav||The Union Culture Ministry’s flagship festival, the Rashtriya Sanskriti Mahotsav (RSM), will be held in West Bengal this time, with the inauguration at Cooch Behar Palace on Sunday, the Ministry said in a statement on Saturday. “This RSM, which is being organised in West Bengal, will enhance mutual understanding and bonding between people of diverse cultures, thereby securing stronger unity and integrity of India,” the Ministry said. Renowned artistes, including local artistes, would participate in the festival of folk art forms, it said. The festival would give visitors a chance to reconnect with indigenous culture, it said.  The 10th edition of the festival was held in Madhya Pradesh in October 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/west-bengal-to-host-sanskriti-mahotsav/article33833493.ece
14 February 2021||Indore,||Case against comedian: Two co-accused released from jail||Following the M.P. High Court’s order, the two men accused of organising a show of stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui were released from jail on Saturday evening. The Indore Bench of the HC had on Friday granted interim bail to Prakhar Vyas and Adwin Anthony.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/case-against-comedian-two-co-accused-released-from-jail/article33833753.ece
14 February 2021||Lucknow,||Lockdown violations: UP to withdraw cases, but with rider||The U.P. government has decided to withdraw cases registered against people for violation of the COVID-19 lockdown guidelines, provided the complaints are not of ‘serious’ nature. The State has become the first in the country to do so, said an official spokesman on Saturday.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lockdown-violations-up-to-withdraw-cases-but-with-rider/article33833754.ece
14 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Bengaluru college turns virus hotspot||The Bengaluru civic body has decided to test all nursing students for COVID-19 after 40 students at the Manjushree College of Nursing in Kaval Byrasandra contracted the virus just days after the college reopened. Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad said most of the students enrolled in nursing colleges across the city hailed from Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengaluru-college-turns-virus-hotspot/article33833920.ece
14 February 2021||MALAPPURAM,||Two held for blocking Customs chief’s car||The police on Saturday arrested two youngsters in connection with a complaint by Customs Commissioner (Preventive) Sumit Kumar on blocking his car while coming to the Karipur airport. The police booked Jasim and his relative Naseem, two businessmen from Mukkam, for negligent driving. Naseem has been physically challenged following an accident a few years ago. Mr. Sumit Kumar alleged that a car and a motorcycle chased his vehicle during his trip from Kalpetta to Karipur on Friday. For quite some time, the car did not give way to Mr. Kumar’s vehicle between Edavannappara and Kondotty. However, the youngsters denied the allegation. They said they did not hear the car honking from behind as they were listening to music. “We realised it was the Customs Commissioner only when his car blocked our car. The driver told us that we were blocking them,” said Mr. Jasim. The police seized the car driven by Mr. Jasim. The duo were released on bail. The police said their preliminary investigation revealed that the duo had no criminal background. However, as the Customs Commissioner had an alleged threat to his life, the police will not treat the case merely as a negligent driving incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-held-for-blocking-customs-chiefs-car/article33833471.ece
14 February 2021||Bengaluru,||State government transfers 42 IAS officers in major reshuffle||The State government on Saturday effected a major reshuffle in the postings of as many as 42 IAS officers. Many officers who have been waiting for postings have been given the posts now. Moreover, many officers who have been holding charge of two or more offices, have been relieved from their responsibilities now. Tushar Giri Nath has been appointed Principal Secretary, Urban Development, while V. Rashmi Mahesh has been appointed Principal Secretary, Backward Classes Welfare Development, said a notification of the government. J. Ravishankar has been appointed Secretary of the Kannada and Culture Department. J. Manjunath, Special Commissioner, BBMP, has been transferred and appointed as Deputy Commissioner of Bengaluru Urban. The government has reshuffled the postings of deputy commissioners of many districts and heads of government-owned corporations.  Many officers who have been holding charge of two or more offices have been relieved of such responsibilities now||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/state-government-transfers-42-ias-officers-in-major-reshuffle/article33833550.ece
14 February 2021||KOTTAYAM,||NCP faction quits LDF, to join Cong.-led front||Pala, the Assembly constituency that has been the eye of a storm in the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF), witnessed hectic political activities on Saturday as Mani C. Kappan, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader who currently represents the segment, formally announced his plan to switch sides to the United Democratic Front (UDF). Soon after Mr. Kappan returned to Pala after discussions with NCP president Sharad Pawar, some NCP workers erupted in protest against the legislator and staged a demonstration in the town. In the evening, LDF workers too staged a protest, accusing Mr. Kappan of cheating the voters of Pala. Faction unfazed The faction that supports Mr. Kappan, however, remained unfazed and went ahead with the preparations for making the leader’s entry into the UDF a grand affair. As many as 250 two-wheelers and a brigade of 1,000 supporters are expected to follow Mr. Kappan when he reaches the venue of the Aishwarya Kerala Yatra led by Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala at Pala on Sunday morning. The breakaway faction of the NCP, which has already been assured of the Pala seat, may also seek validation from the Central Election Commission (CEC) as an unregistered outfit. Besides Pala, the faction may contest from a couple of more seats. The hype over the event on Sunday notwithstanding, Mr. Kappan, however, appears to have suffered a setback in his plans to split the party with several of the NCP workers, previously close to him, appear reluctant to move against the party’s national leadership. The softening of stance by NCP State president T.P. Peethambaran, who initially appeared favourable towards the demand for a coalition change, is cited as a case in point. “Only a handful of party workers will go with him and this is not going to make any differences as far as the NCP or the LDF is concerned,” said Subash Punchakottil, NCP State general secretary. The Kappan faction, on the other hand, claimed that the entire district unit of the NCP in Kottayam would line up behind the MLA on Sunday. “We have assured the support of all nine block committees in Kottayam, besides the seven district presidents and nine State committee members as declared earlier,” said Saju M. Philip, NCP district secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ncp-faction-quits-ldf-to-join-cong-led-front/article33833465.ece
14 February 2021||Mumbai,||Jailed ex-professor Saibaba tests positive for COVID-19||Former Delhi University professor G.N. Saibaba on Saturday tested positive for COVID-19. Confirming the development, DIG Ramesh Kamble told The Hindu , “Saibaba along two other convicts tested positive for the virus this morning. The three have been sent to the Government Medical College in Nagpur for further tests. Though Saibaba does not have any symptoms we will be carrying out all tests to decide if he needs to be admitted to the hospital.” Advocate Aakash Sarode, who represents Saibaba in courts, said, “I will be going to the hospital to see if I am allowed to meet Sai. I am told doctors will be doing a CT scan on him.” Saibaba’s wife Vasantha Kumari and his brother G. Ramadevadu have written a letter to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray requesting him to shift the former professor to a private hospital for necessary medical treatment. Saibaba (53), who is 90% physically disabled and wheelchair-bound, is lodged at the anda cell (solitary confinement) of Nagpur Central Prison after being convicted for having links with Maoists in 2014. Ms. Kumari has been anxious about her husband contracting the virus since the lockdown in March, last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jailed-ex-professor-saibaba-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article33833507.ece
14 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||More check dams planned to augment city’s water supply||More storage structures will come up across rivers both upstream and downstream of Poondi reservoir as the Water Resources Department embarks on an ambitious programme to augment the city’s drinking water supply. Shutters of the Poondi reservoir were opened for nearly a month since November 27 last year due to heavy inflow from and also because of steady supply of Krishna water from Andhra Pradesh. Officials said nearly 6.6 tmcft of water was discharged through the floodgates then. While 2 tmcft was saved through diversion to the Cholavaram lake and check dams, the remaining was drained into the sea. Storage structures are being planned to retain flow in the rivers and to save resources. Work to build a check dam at Illupur, about 10 km upstream of Poondi reservoir, was started on Saturday at a cost of Rs. 17.6 crore. The 230-m-long check dam would come up across Nagari river, near Tiruttani, in about a year. Nagari river, which originates in Andhra Pradesh, traverses 69 km in Tiruvallur district before entering Poondi reservoir. From there, it then flows as the Kosasthalaiyar. Officials said the 2-m-tall check dam would help store about 70 mcft of water and recharge groundwater in a 3-km-radius, besides irrigating 296 hectares of land in the region. A proposal to build two more check dams at Sangeethakuppam and Kumarajapet across Kusa river in Pallipattu taluk is awaiting permission. Once the three check dams are built upstream of Poondi reservoir, a minimum of 200 mcft of water can be saved, besides recharging the water table. The Lava and Kusa rivers are tributaries of the Nagari, which originates in Andhra Pradesh. Of the 17-km-long Kusa, about 4 km flows within Tamil Nadu limits. Both rivers join near Pallipet to become the Nagari. Similarly, proposals are being chalked out to build barrages upstream and downstream of the Poondi reservoir. Barrages with shutter arrangements and more depth would be act as reservoirs across the rivers and help store additional water. “If a barrage in Ramancheri across the Nagari is built 4 km above Poondi reservoir, we may be able to save up to 1,000 mcft of water and feed the city’s water supply,” said an official. The department plans to build a barrage near Karanodai bridge as there is no other storage structure for nearly 15 km after Thiruka- ndalam across the Kosasthalaiyar. It would help store an additional 600 mcft of water that otherwise flows into the sea, the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-check-dams-planned-to-augment-citys-water-supply/article33833674.ece
14 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK government decides to present a full budget||The AIADMK government has decided to present a full budget with several populist measures in view of the Assembly election. According to sources, a meeting of the Cabinet, chaired by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami at the Secretariat on Saturday, approved a full budget, which is expected to be presented by February 22. Normally, an interim budget is presented in an election year. “But we are in a position to present a full budget and the people can expect a lot of announcements to their liking. The session will be held for five days as the Assembly has to approve the budget,” a source said. Government sources said the Union government’s decision to enhance the States’ borrowing limit by 2% of their Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) in view of multiple challenges forced by COVID-19 had come in handy for Tamil Nadu. The Union Finance Ministry said half of the special dispensation — 1% of the GSDP — was linked to undertaking various citizen-centric reforms by the State. Tamil Nadu’s GSDP for 2020-21 (at the current prices) is projected to be Rs. 20,91,927 crore. This is 13% higher than the revised estimate for 2019-20. “The 2% loan on the GSDP is expected to give a greater leeway for the introduction of populist schemes. Tamil Nadu has also fulfilled the four citizen-centric areas for reforms identified by the Department of Expenditure: implementation of the One Nation One Ration card system; ease of doing business; urban local body/utility reforms; and power sector reforms,” a source explained. The implementation of the One Nation One Ration card system had enabled Tamil Nadu to borrow an additional Rs. 4,813 crore.  Tamil Nadu will immediately start issuing ‘pattas’ for those who have been living on government land for years. “We will also revive the ‘thalikku thangam’ (gold for mangalsutra) scheme, which was stalled a year ago,” the sources said. “Tamil Nadu handled the COVID-19 lockdown well and industries functioned without any hitch, and our balance-sheets are strong. We have achieved 5.8% growth. We can borrow from multi-national organisations,” the sources added.  The Union government’s decision to enhance the States’ borrowing limit by 2% of their GSDP in view of multiple challenges forced by COVID-19 has come in handy for Tamil Nadu||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-government-decides-to-present-a-full-budget/article33833705.ece
14 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rising diesel prices worry fishers||Fishermen, reeling under the impact of spiralling prices of fuel, have urged the government to increase their monthly quota of subsidised diesel. Fishermen said mechanised boats use up to 8,000 litres of diesel per deep sea voyage and in many cases, boat owners are lamenting that they were incurring losses. “My boat is back from a trip and I have to pay Rs. 2 lakh but I have only Rs. 1 lakh in hand. I am unable to repay my loan amount of Rs. 50,000 a month taken towards buying nets,” said M.E. Raghupati, a boat owner and a fishing community leader in Kasimedu. He said Karnataka had increased the subsidy cap on the number of litres according to the engine capacity. “This could be easily emulated here. We need to check how much is allocated as subsidy each year and how much is left unspent and that amount could be given to fishermen who depend on diesel to run their boats,” he added. Long dry period K. Bharathi, of the South Indian Fishermen Welfare Association, said the associations were in discussion as to what to ask of the government. “Many of the fibre reinforced plastic boats have not gone for fishing since men don’t have money for diesel at the present rate. The government should consider a cap on diesel prices for fishermen. That would help and be easy since we tank up at designated bunks inside fishing harbours,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rising-diesel-prices-worry-fishers/article33833665.ece
14 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Music helps woman fight depression, return home||It was a dream-come-true for 38-year-old Kavitha, an inmate of the Shelter For Women With Psycho Social Needs, run by Hope Public Charitable Trust under the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC). She was able to sing on the Mouna Raagam stage on January 17 in front of S.P. Charan. Subsequently, based on her condition and with the information provided by her, she was reintegrated with her family recently. “Ms. Kavitha was rescued by the GCC's Shelter for Urban Homeless Cell team members in September 2020. She was disturbed following the death of her husband,” said M. Nandini, project co-ordinator at the NGO. She was displaying aggressive behaviour initially and she improved a lot with medication and counselling. “We found that she was good at singing and made her sing in our home. Later, she was given an opportunity to sing at the S.P. Charan Live in Concert programme organised in the city on January 17,” she added. Memorable rendition Mouna Ragam Murali, who runs the music troupe, said that she sang Edhedho Ennam Valarthen from the Tamil film Punnagai Mannan . “She forgot her problems and sang in front of Mr. Charan. She did not even rehearse. We have been giving opportunity to talented persons from the differently abled community regularly,” he said. Asha Parekh Nandini, city-level coordinator, SUHC, said that they had been identifying talent among their inmates. “We noticed that her condition had improved and after getting details from her about her family in Puducherry, we reintegrated her,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/music-helps-woman-fight-depression-return-home/article33833681.ece
14 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||His devotion to religion is stamped on a huge collection||N. Ragupathy, an 80-year-old philatelist from Thanjavur, started his hobby 30 years ago, before narrowing his focus to Hinduism and Hindu culture. He now has over 1,500 stamps and covers on Hinduism released in over 125 countries. “Stamps on ‘Aum’ have been released in Trinidad and Kenya, but not in India so far,” said Mr. Ragupathy, who has won the silver medal at the Sydney Stamp and Coin Expo. He has participated in exhibitions in other parts of India and won awards. His collection includes a few stamps that are over 100 years old. A stamp released in 1877 was on Dhanurveda, a Sanskrit treatise on warfare and archery. A lesson in Delhi A “bitter experience” at a philatelic exhibition in Delhi forced him to concentrate on stamps on Hinduism and Hindu Culture. “There were stamps on Buddhism, Jainism and Sikhism. When asked about the missing of the collection on Hinduism, the philatelist behind the Sikhism section made some derogatory remarks. That day, I decided to collect stamps on Hinduism,” said Mr. Raghupathy, who retired as a personal assistant to the Thanjavur Collector. He acknowledged the help rendered by G. Balakrishna Das, the former president of the South India Philatelists’ Association, and Abdul Aziz, a philatelist from Varanasi, in collecting stamps. “Mr. Aziz helped me a lot in collecting stamps released in foreign countries,” said Mr. Raghupathy, who had a stamp depicting Lord Siva and Parvati released by Czechoslovakia. There are stamps on Vinayaka Chaturthi, Deepavali and Maha Shivaratri released in various countries. He has listed the stamps under ‘Hinduism, an analytical study’, which runs up to 257 pages. “I have approached various organisations to prevail upon the Indian government to release a stamp on ‘Aum’. But I am not able to succeed... Let the government do it by taking inspiration from Kenya and Trinidad,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/his-devotion-to-religion-is-stamped-on-a-huge-collection/article33833716.ece
14 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||British envoy takes guard against little stars of Karunalaya||As a part of his two-day visit to Chennai, British High Commissioner to India Alex Ellis played cricket with children from Karunalaya, an NGO working with street children, which included members of the team that won the Street Child Cricket World Cup in 2019, on Saturday morning. Mr. Ellis handed over a jersey signed by the England cricket team, batting pads and gloves donated by skipper Joe Root to the children. “The children were thrilled to have Mr. Ellis interact with them, and play cricket on Saturday. He played like one of their team members and they were happy,” said Paul Sunder Singh, founder and director, Karunalaya. “This is a significant gesture by the British High Commission to encourage the children here to play the sport and motivate them,” he said. A press release said the visit of the High Commissioner to Chennai marked the U.K.’s commitment to strengthen cooperation with Tamil Nadu, particularly on trade and climate. He was shown the region’s many strengths across healthcare, auto, manufacturing, renewable energy and coastal and water management. Mr. Ellis said he was happy to begin his regional tour with a visit to Chennai. He visited Chepauk stadium to witness the second Test match between India and England. “This is a significant year for the U.K.-India partnership, both bilaterally and on the global stage. My immediate priorities include preparing for the U.K. Prime Minister’s upcoming visit to India and, I hope, welcoming India to the G7 and COP26 summits in the U.K. later this year,” he said. Earlier this month, B. Monisha and V. Paulraj from the team that won the Street Children Cricket world cup in 2019 had the opportunity to interact virtually with Joe Root and Sam Curran, one of the star players of Chennai Super Kings, thanks to the British Deputy High Commission in Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/british-envoy-takes-guard-against-little-stars-of-karunalaya/article33833677.ece
14 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ten new drug control zonal offices to be established||The Drugs Control Department is getting 10 zonal offices in addition to the existing 14 zonal offices for better enforcement of laws. An equal number of posts of assistant director of drugs control will also be created. The additional zones will help in better enforcement of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act 1940, Drugs and Cosmetics Rules 1945, Medical Devices Rules 2017 and other drugs related legislations towards public safety, officials said. The Director of Drugs Control had submitted a proposal to the government for creation of the 10 zonal offices by bifurcating the existing 14 zonal offices, taking the total number of zones to 24. “The creation of 10 more offices will help in improving supervision and close monitoring. We will be able to take speedy action. This in the long run will pave the way to reduction in offences,” K. Sivabalan, Director of Drugs Control, said. Currently, the zonal offices under the Drugs Control Department were : four zonal offices in Chennai, Kancheepuram zone (covering Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu districts), Tiruvallur zone (Tiruvallur district), Vellore zone (Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, Tirupattur and Ranipet), Salem zone (Salem, Krishnagiri, Dharmapuri and Namakkal), Coimbatore zone (Coimbatore, Erode, Tiruppur and Nilgiris), Tiruchi zone (Tiruchi, Villupuram Cuddalore, Perambalur, Ariyalur, Kallakurichi and Karur), Thanjavur zone (Thanjavur, Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur and Pudukottai), Madurai zone (Madurai, Dindigul and Theni), Virudhunagar zone (Virudhunagar, Sivagangai and Ramanathapuram), Tirunelveli zone (Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Kanyakumari and Tenkasi) and a mobile squad, Madurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10-drug-control-offices-to-be-set-up/article33833789.ece
14 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Palaniswami launches loan waiver scheme; certificates given to farmers||Launching the crop loan waiver scheme, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday presented the waiver certificates to nine farmers at the Secretariat in Chennai. On February 5, he had announced that farm loans, to the tune of Rs. 12,110.74 crore, availed from cooperative institutions by 16,43,347 farmers in Tamil Nadu would be waived. He made the suo motu announcement in the Assembly under Rule 110 of the House. An official release cited that a government order was issued by the Food, Co-operation and Consumer Protection Department on February 8, stating that short-term crop loans of 16.43 lakh farmers would be waived and funds would be transferred to the co-operative banks. While the pandemic affected the economy, the farmers also suffered heavy losses due to the two cyclones — Nivar and Burevi — in Tamil Nadu, resulting in farmers’ associations demanding loan waiver. The guidelines released said that the loans, interest and any penalty pending until January 31 would be waived along with collaterals, and no action should be taken to retrieve the loans. Farmers who receive the waivers would be eligible to apply for new loans. Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, Minister for Co-operation Sellur K. Raju, Higher Education and Agriculture Minister K.P. Anbalagan and other officials were present. Helpline launched Mr. Palaniswami also launched an ‘Integrated and inclusive public grievance CM helpline management system’, at the Secretariat in Chennai. People can either use the toll free number, 1100, to register grievances round-the-clock or the websitesCMHelpline.tnega.organdcmhelpline@tn.gov.in, an official release said. An app, CMhelpline Citizen, can also be used for the purpose. Besides, people can reach out to the government via @cmhelpine_tn on Twitter and CM-Helpline TN on Facebook. The release added that Aadhaar cards and ration cards were essential to get the grievances addressed. The introduction of the system was first announced by Mr. Palaniswami in a suo motu statement in the Assembly on September 15 last year. “Each department has separate grievance addressal centres and websites. At the district level, people’s grievances are being heard on Mondays every week, on Manu Needhi day every month, farmers’ and fishermen’s grievance addressal days, Amma Scheme grievance addressal days and the pensioners grievance addressal days. At the State level, the CM’s separate division and Amma Centres are being run for the purpose. A person is forced to go to various departments to get issues addressed. Identical requests are being received at the district and the State level. Therefore, all grievance addressal centres have been brought under one single set up,” the release said. The State government will spend Rs. 69.21 crore to implement the system. Mr. Palaniswami inaugurated the CM Helpline Call Center, built at a cost of Rs. 12.78 crore, on Rajiv Gandhi Salai in Sholinganallur, Chennai. It can house 100 people. “The decision taken on petitions received from the people will be notified via SMS. The Chief Minister will look into the petitions, along with the Chief Secretary, Secretaries of various departments, department heads and Collectors, within a given time frame,” the official release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/palaniswami-launches-loan-waiver-scheme-certificates-given-to-farmers/article33833701.ece
14 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Administration of second dose of vaccines begins||The number of persons vaccinated in a day crossed 20,000 on Saturday — the first time since inoculation against COVID-19 began in the State. A total of 20,032 persons — 12,284 healthcare workers, 3,351 frontline staff and 4,397 police personnel — received the vaccines on a day when the administration of the second dose of the vaccines took off. So far, 2,47,372 persons have been vaccinated. The number of health workers who have received the vaccines so far has crossed two lakh. A total of 2,10,430 health workers, 22,756 frontline staff and 14,186 police personnel have been vaccinated. Of the 12,284 healthcare workers immunised on Saturday, 11,130 received the first dose and 1,154 the second. The second dose is administered 28 days after the first. Accordingly, health staff who took the jab on the day of the launch on January 16 received the second dose. However, only less than half of those who received the first dose on the day of the launch have taken the second one. As per a daily report issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, 3,126 health staff received the vaccines on the day of launch. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, in a communication to department officials, appreciated the vaccination performance and said it was improving every day but there was much to catch up with. “While many districts have come up with action plans, the worry is that some health unit districts such as Pudukottai, Aranthangi, Ranipet, Tirupattur and Ramanathapuram, among others, are yet to pick up momentum,” he said. At the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, dean E. Theranirajan, along with senior doctors who took Covaxin on January 16, received the second dose. At the Government Omandurar Medical College Hospital, dean R. Jayanthi, who was among those vaccinated on the day of the launch, took the second dose of Covishield.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/administration-of-second-dose-of-vaccines-begins/article33833707.ece
14 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||477 more persons contract infection||A total of 477 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Saturday, taking its tally to 8,44,650. While 482 persons were discharged after treatment, five more succumbed to the infection. Chennai recorded 149 cases, while Chengalpattu and Coimbatore saw 47 and 43 infections respectively. There were 21 cases in Madurai and 19 in Tiruvallur. A total of 25 districts saw fewer than 10 cases each, of which Ariyalur, Perambalur and Tirupattur reported one each. Chennai, Dharmapuri, the Nilgiris, Tiruvallur and Thoothukudi recorded one death each. The deceased included a 38-year-old man from Chennai who had coronary artery disease and chronic kidney disease. He was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on January 22 and died on February 11 due to COVID-19 pneumonia, respiratory failure and aortic aneurysm with dissection. An 80-year-old man from Dharmapuri, who had no co-morbidities, died at the Dharmapuri Medical College Hospital on February 11 due to COVID-19 pneumonia, respiratory failure and cardiorespiratory arrest. Till date, 12,413 persons have died in the State. While a total of 8,27,962 persons have been discharged so far, 4,275 persons are presently under treatment. Chennai accounts for 1,580 active cases, followed by Coimbatore with 453. In the last 24 hours, 54,034 samples were tested, taking the total figure to 1,67,09,185.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/477-more-persons-contract-infection/article33833711.ece
14 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Follow T.N. model of road safety: Gadkari||Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari asked the States to follow the Tamil Nadu model of road safety. He was speaking after releasing a report, ‘Traffic Crash Injuries and Disabilities: The Burden on Indian Society’. The report was the result of a study done by the World Bank and SaveLIFE Foundation, an NGO that works for road safety. Data for the study was collected from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra, which account for 35% of the total fatalities in India. Hartwig Schafer, World Bank vice-president for the South Asia region, and Piyush Tewari, CEO and founder of SaveLIFE Foundation, were present. “Tamil Nadu, with the support of the World Bank, has reduced accidents by 54% over the last five years. It is an inspirational and motivational model that should be emulated by all the States,” he said. According to the study, more than 59% of low-income households and 47.6% of high-income households faced a decline in the total household income following road accidents. Tamil Nadu registered 57,228 road crashes and 1,05,252 road crash deaths in 2019 alone, making it the State with the sixth highest road crash deaths that year. “In 2018, it was number one, and there was a dramatic drop due to the efforts of the State,” Mr. Tewari said. A total of 510 respondents (victims and household members) participated in the study. Among them, 103 belonged to high-income households and 407 were from low-income households. Around 77.8% of the respondents were male road crash victims, and 22.7% were women, and 179 of the victims were breadwinners. “As many male members died in accidents, the burden fell on women and many experienced a change in work patterns and some extended work hours,” Mr. Tewari said. The study also covered 100 truck drivers in Tamil Nadu, and half of them were unaware that the attendant is also covered under the motor third party liability insurance under the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 2019. More than half were also unaware of the time limit for filing of cases for compensation, which is six months from the occurrence of crash, and they did not know that motor third party liability insurance is mandatory.  With the support of the World Bank, the State has reduced accidents by 54% over the last five years||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/follow-tamil-nadus-model-of-road-safety-says-nitin-gadkari/article33833695.ece
14 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man ends life after killing two children||A 32-year-old man allegedly strangled his two children to death before ending his life at his house in Korukkupet. The police said the crime was committed on Friday night. The victims have been identified as Vinodh of Jeeva Nagar, and his sons, aged three and one. He was working as an air-conditioner mechanic. The police said following a domestic quarrel, his wife Kavitha had left him for her maternal home. She allegedly died by suicide a month ago. Vinodh was in depression following this, said the police. They recovered the bodies and sent them for post-mortem examination to the Government Stanley Hospital.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044- 24640050.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-ends-life-after-killing-two-children/article33833663.ece
14 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cases booked against DMDK cadre||Cases have been booked against Desiya Murpokku Dravidar Kazhagam (DMDK) cadre for taking out a procession to mark the 21st anniversary of the party on Friday in the Virugambakkam police station limits. Party leader Vijayakant and his wife hoisted the party flag and went in a procession from his residence in Saligramam to Koyambedu. The police have booked party functionary Lakshmanan and 100 others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cases-booked-against-dmdk-cadre/article33833666.ece
14 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Conservancy workers petition PM on losing jobs to privatisation||Greater Chennai Corporation conservancy workers have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to intervene and protect the livelihood of 2,000 of their colleagues who lost their jobs in the city. Pointing to the condition of the 1,000 women conservancy workers who were working under the NULM (National Urban Livelihoods Mission) and were rendered jobless now, the representatives said many of the women workers had to support persons with disability at home. Most belonged to the Scheduled Castes. The workers said they were writing to the Prime Minister as the State government, which outsourced solid waste management in 11 zones in the city, had not responded to their plea. The areas under the Corporation jurisdiction generate 5,000 tonnes of solid waste every day. Over 19,000 conservancy workers have been deployed for cleaning the streets in the 15 zones of the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/conservancy-workers-petition-pm-on-losing-jobs-to-privatisation/article33833672.ece
14 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for blackmailing wife||A 24-year-old man, who allegedly threatened to upload intimate moments with his wife on the internet if she did not get 50 sovereigns of gold and Rs. 10 lakh as dowry, was arrested in the limits of the All Women Police Station, Thirumangalam, on Saturday. The name of the accused was given as Gowtham, 24, from Namakkal. He and his 24-year-old wife fell in love two years ago. Both were working in private companies in Chennai and living in a rented flat in Anna Nagar. Recently, Gowtham collected five sovereigns of gold and Rs. 75,000 from her, stating that he had to meet a medical emergency of his family member and had gone to Namakkal. After reaching Namakkal, Gowtham did not return her calls for over a week. One day, his mother scolded Gowtham’s wife for making frequent phone calls. Later, Gowtham demanded Rs. 10 lakh and 50 sovereigns of gold from the victim, failing which he threatened to post their intimate photos online. Gowtham’s wife lodged a complaint with the All Women Police Station, Thirumangalam. He was arrested in Namakkal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-blackmailing-wife/article33833679.ece
14 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Appellate Tribunal for Electricity upset at lack of cooperation from Tangedco||The Appellate Tribunal for Electricity (Aptel) has expressed concern over the lack of co-operation from Tangedco in a case relating to payment of dues to a private power producer. It also recorded its displeasure over the conduct of a Tangedco official who appeared in the case. Justice R.K. Gauba, judicial member, and Ravindra Kumar Verma, technical member, Aptel, noted that Balaji Srinivasan, Additional Advocate-General for Tamil Nadu, had informed Aptel that suitable administrative action had been taken and assured it of co-operation and decorum. “Expecting this assurance to be sincere, we drop the matter to that extent,” they said. The case pertains to a plea by D.B. Power Ltd., which had a power purchase agreement with Tangedco. Tangedco allegedly failed to make timely payments, forcing the company to claim a late payment surcharge. Tangedco allegedly failed to pay the late payment surcharge, and D.B. Power initially moved the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (CERC). The CERC granted three months to Tangedco to pay up and made the payment conditional upon the reconciliation of the bills. Aggrieved by the order, D.B. Power filed an appeal before Aptel. After Aptel expressed displeasure, Tangedco submitted that the late payment surcharge, along with the interest for the period from December 1, 2015, to April 30, 2020, worked out to Rs. 158.78 crore, as against the company’s claim of Rs. 188.66 crore. It said it had so far paid Rs. 71 crore, and the balance was Rs. 87.78 crore. Tangedco noted that it was in a serious financial crisis and was clearing dues to various stakeholders in phases. The State utility noted that the balance amount to be paid to D.B. Power was proposed to be settled in seven equal instalments. The first would be paid within two weeks from February 3, 2021, and the rest in six instalments every month thereafter. Aptel made it binding on Tangedco to make the payments in seven instalments and in case of any default, the entire balance would become recoverable in accordance with law. It also pointed to the ambiguity in the CERC’s order and hoped the CERC would be mindful of the need for clear findings on issues of liabilities between parties.  Aptel made it binding on Tangedco to make the payments in seven instalments and in case of any default, the entire balance would become recoverable||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/appellate-tribunal-for-electricity-upset-at-lack-of-cooperation-from-tangedco/article33833702.ece
14 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Free bus pass for elders||The State government has permitted the Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC), Chennai, to issue free bus pass/travel tokens to senior citizens from February 1. This facility was suspended because of the COVID-19 pandemic. After the relaxation of COVID-19 restrictions, many senior citizens had requested the government to ask the MTC to open the counters to issue free bus passes. The senior citizens can use the free passes to travel on all buses, except air-conditioned buses in Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-bus-pass-for-elders/article33833664.ece
14 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ex-DGP’s son assaulted||Vijay, son of former Director General of Police V. Vaikunth, has lodged a police complaint alleging an assault by an autorickshaw driver in Abhiramapuram. Dr. Vijay, a resident of Bishop Garden Extension in Raja Annamalaipuram, hired an autorickshaw on Thursday night. After alighting at Bhagirathi Street, he had a quarrel with the driver, identified as Billa, over the fare. The driver called a friend and the two allegedly assaulted Dr. Vijay and fled. On Friday, Dr. Vijay lodged a complaint with the Abhiramapuram police station, based on which a case was registered against Billa and his associate under Sections 341 (Punishment for wrongful restraint) 294 b (Uttering vulgar words in public place), 323 (Punishment for causing hurt) and 506 (Criminal intimidation) of the IPC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ex-dgps-son-assaulted/article33833670.ece
14 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kanchi Acharya launches work on TTD’s temple||The bhoomi puja for the construction of the Padmavathi Ammavaru temple on the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam (TTD) centre premises in T. Nagar was launched by Sankara Vijayendra Saraswathi, Sankaracharya of the Kanchi Kamakoti Peetam, on Saturday. The acharya also unveiled a stone plaque on the occasion. As part of the bhoomi puja, the Sankaracharya handed over cows and calves to eight temples in the State under the Gudiko Gomaatha programme. Office-bearers of the TTD, including its chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy, executive officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy and local advisory committee president A.J. Sekar were present. A large number of devotees participated in the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kanchi-acharya-launches-work-on-ttds-temple/article33833669.ece
14 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||College chief, two others get RI for cheating AICTE||The XII special court for CBI cases on Friday convicted and sentenced three persons, including the chairman of an engineering college, his wife and a lecturer who was working with them, for cheating the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) by submitting forged land documents and fraudulent acts. According to the Central Bureau of Investigation, John Alfred and his wife Jayanthi John were the trustees of St. Alfred Educational Trust and they established J.A. Institute of Engineering and Technology (JAIET) at Koyambedu in Chennai. The CBI said they had conspired with then AICTE officials and had dishonestly submitted proposals for approval of the AICTE in establishing the JAIET and further extension of approvals for the respective years by endorsing / representing false documents / averments to the AICTE during the period 1996-2009. The CBI alleged that the accused had cheated the AICTE by submitting forged land documents, forged fixed deposit receipts, forged Ph. D. degree, forged CMDA approvals, forged affiliation letter, forged government approval letter for change of site and established a college in a residential apartment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/college-chief-two-others-get-ri-for-cheating-aicte/article33833693.ece
14 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||3 siblings held for grabbing property||The Anti-Land Grabbing Cell of the Central Crime Branch has arrested three brothers for allegedly grabbing property worth Rs. 10 crore belonging to a businessman in Thiruvanmiyur by allegedly creating forged documents. The police said the accused have been identified as U. Balasubramanian, 63, and his brothers — Chandrasekar, 61, and Yoganandham, 58, of Kancheepuram district. Complainant N. Venkatesh, 55, of Shastri Nagar, said that he bought a plot of land, measuring 8,138 sq ft, worth Rs. 10 crore. He got it registered in his name in 2015 after court intervention. He alleged that the three had conspired together and grabbed the property from him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-siblings-held-for-grabbing-property/article33833668.ece
14 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro offers free ride after 2 p.m. today||After the inauguration of the 9 km phase I extension project from Washermenpet to Wimco Nagar by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on February 14, commuters can take a free ride on Chennai Metro Rail trains from 2 p.m. to 11 p.m. On Saturday, Durga Shankar Mishra, Secretary, Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, visited the stations ahead of the opening of the line and reviewed various aspects, such as multi-modal integration and passenger safety, at the Wimco Nagar and New Washermenpet stations. The Rs. 3,770 crore project had been delayed because of various issues and the COVID-19 lockdown last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metro-offers-free-ride-after-2-pm-today/article33833675.ece
14 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PENN celebrates first anniversary||The first anniversary of PENN (Protection & Empowerment of Naree), a city based trust working to prevent sexual violence against women and children, was observed on Saturday. Seema Agarwal, ADGP, Prevention of Crime Against Women and Children, and carnatic vocalist and playback singer P. Unnikrishnan were the chief guests. Along with the special invitees, they spoke and shared insights on how to tackle concerns regarding women’s safety. A painting of S. Sreeram, one of the founders of the trust who passed away recently, was unveiled on the occasion. Public awareness videos were also screened. Speaking about PENN’s mission, V.S. Sridhar, one of the founders, said they believed in taking a 360 degree approach to address the issue of sexual violence against women and children. “Proactively taking measures to create an environment of safety, such as gender sensitisation at home, creating better infrastructure for the safety of women and children using culture, cinema and theatre as instruments of spreading our message and influencing policy to prevent sexual violence are among what we do,” he said. Rajesh Srinivasan, founder of Mindful Marketing and motivational speaker, and Colonel Vembu Shankar (retd.), founder of Sambandh, spoke. PENN has planned several events ahead of Women’s day on March 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/penn-celebrates-first-anniversary/article33833678.ece
14 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Demand became significant with Shah’s visit||The long-pending demand that seven Scheduled Caste communities be grouped into one, as Devendrakula Velalar, gained significance in August 2015 when the then BJP president, Amit Shah, attended a meeting organised by the Devendrar Thannarva Arakkatalai (a trust) in Madurai and formally passed a resolution supporting it. A month later, Prime Minister Narendra Modi met around 100 Devendrakula Velalar delegates from the trust that supports the demand and promised to look into the demand. Subsequently, Puthiya Tamilagam president K. Krishnasamy organised several public meetings and protests, demanding not just that the seven communities be renamed, but also that they be removed from the Scheduled Caste list altogether. On Saturday, Dr. Krishnasamy said while the development was a milestone, Devendrakula Velalars’ permanent demand was to be removed from the SC list. “The change in name of the community is related to identity, but the community will not feel that it has achieved freedom or that its identity has been recognised without it being removed from the SC list,” he said. ‘Permanent solution’ He added that though the State government and the Centre had taken efforts to effect a change in the name of the seven communities to Devendrakula Velalars, there was a need to find a permanent solution to the psychological and social discrimination and oppression faced by the community due to it being added to the SC list. Mr. Thangaraj of the Devendrar Thannarva Arakkatalai, who claims to be the first petitioner to the State government on the issue, said this was the first time an amendment to rename an SC community in Tamil Nadu was moved in Parliament. “This is the first time an amendment with respect to an SC community in Tamil Nadu [to group seven sub-castes as Devendrakula Velalar] is being made in independent India. Rest have all been government orders,” Mr. Thangaraj said. He felt the amendment would benefit the BJP and the AIADMK in the upcoming election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-demand-that-became-significant-with-shahs-visit/article33833708.ece
14 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM hands over free pattas to beneficiaries||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday presented free pattas to nine persons living on non-objectionable government porombokke lands for a long time. The ceremony was held via video conferencing as a part of co-ordinated special regularising scheme of the Revenue and Disaster Management department. An official release said that around 55,000 beneficiaries had been selected and they would be provided with free pattas for their land. “Following this, the Ministers will present free pattas in their respective districts. Before the end of the month, 45,000 beneficiaries will receive free pattas. In all, 1,00,000 eligible poor and needy people will receive their pattas,” said the release. The pattas will be provided after carrying out land classification, change in name and other changes. “Without causing any difficulties to the beneficiaries, pattas will be provided to them directly in their place of dwelling by downloading it,” the release said. Another release said Revenue Divisional Office buildings built in Aranthangi in Pudukottai district, Kadaiyanallur, and Senkottai in Tenkasi district at a cost of Rs. 7. 14 crore were inaugurated by the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-pattas-given-away-to-beneficiaries/article33833703.ece
14 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Governement doctors to wear demand badges||Doctors affiliated to the Federation of Government Doctors Association (FOGDA) have decided to wear “demand badges” to work starting February 17 and stage an agitation in Chennai on February 28 to urge the State government to fulfil their long-pending demands immediately. The association, at its State executive committee meeting held on Saturday, decided to write to the State government to hold talks with representatives of FOGDA on the demands raised by government doctors on the basis of a Madras High Court order last year. This will be followed by wearing of badges to work, sending their demands via email to the Chief Minister and an agitation, the association said in a press release. Main demands The doctors have been demanding implementation of pay band-4 at 12 years of service, passing of a Special Ordinance for 50% service quota in postgraduate medical education in the Assembly, conduct of transfer and promotion counselling in a transparent manner and rectifying the discrepancies in government order 4(D)2, including restoring 600 posts of doctors. FOGDA demanded that all announcements on grant of relief made during the pandemic should be implemented. Recruitment of doctors and medical staff to mini clinics should not be done on a contract basis but should be permanent posts through the Medical Services Recruitment Board by following reservation, the association said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-doctors-to-wear-demand-badges-to-work/article33833680.ece
14 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corpn.’s financial mismanagement hits retired conservancy workers||Conservancy workers, who thought they could rest on retirement after having swept city streets, collected garbage and cleaned drainage for good 25 – 30 years are not having a good time. Or the Coimbatore Corporation is not letting them have one. Or is delaying it, as its financial woes are preventing it from giving retirement benefits in full to the workers. There are around 150 conservancy workers who have not received their retirement benefits in full, says K. Rathinakumar, State deputy general secretary, Kovai Mavatta Oorga Valarchi Ullatchi Thurai Oozhiyar Sangam, a CITU-affiliated workers’ union. The Corporation that is supposed to pay gratuity, provident fund, special provident fund and earned leave to the workers is paying only 50% at retirement. It is paying the remaining half in instalments and delaying pension disbursement as well, complains E.R.A. Selvam, general secretary, Tamil Nadu Annal Ambedkar Sugadhara Thuppuravu Matrum Podhu Paniyalar Sangam. It has been so since June 2019, he points out. As a result several workers are at the mercy of their children or looking for other menial jobs, Mr. Rathinakumar adds. Though the associations have talked to the Corporation officials they are unable to help the workers because the officials cite poor financial position. Another impact of the poor financial health is that the Corporation is yet to clear contractors’ dues amounting to Rs. 80 crore to Rs. 90 crore, say sources in the know. The sources also reveal that even for paying salaries the Corporation stops other payments after the 15th of every month so that it accrues money in the next 15 day to pay salary by the month-end or the first of the subsequent month. Minister blamed Former Deputy Mayor and Singanallur MLA N. Karthik blames Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani for the mess. From around Rs. 250 crore deposit in banks until a few years ago the Corporation has become a financial weakling because of mismanagement and it is due to the Minister. It is because the Corporation is unable to pay contractors that works are progressing in a very slow pace, he says and points out that nowhere in the country is a city where the local body is executing underground drainage scheme for a good 10 years. Corporation officials, on condition of anonymity, say the delay in disbursing retirement benefits is because 150 workers retired at a time leaving a heavy burden. There is no delay is crediting salaries to the employees’ account and the Corporation will clear contractors’ dues once more property tax starts coming in. With another 45-odd days for the financial year end, the Corporation expects more money to come in under the ‘property tax’ head and, therefore, there is not going to be any problem, they add. But, the sources say the impact of tight or rather poor financial health is not limited to salary or retirement benefit payment; it also limits the civic body’s ability to have a development vision for the city or plan any big-ticket projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpns-financial-mismanagement-hits-retired-conservancy-workers/article33833729.ece
14 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Covaxin likely to be administered from Monday||With the arrival of the consignment of 25,600 vials of Covaxin vaccine here on Saturday, Health Department officials said that the vaccine is likely to be administered to beneficiaries from Monday. Since the inception of the COVID-19 vaccination drive on January 16, Coimbatore, Tiruppur, the Nilgiris and Erode districts were administering only Covishield vaccine doses for the beneficiaries. The consignment arrived on Saturday at the Regional Vaccine Store in the Deputy Director of Health Services’ office on Race Course Road, officials said. Out of the 25,600 Covaxin doses, 13,700 is allocated to Coimbatore district, 4,900 to Erode district, 4,600 to Tiruppur district, and 2,400 to the Nilgiris district. The administration of Covaxin doses will commence at Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. An official announcement is awaited on whether the beneficiaries could choose between Covishield and Covaxin prior to being vaccinated, according to the officials. Second dose As part of the COVID-19 vaccination drive, the second dose of Covishield vaccine was administered to 23 healthcare workers in Coimbatore district on Saturday. Officials said that 20 healthcare workers at CMCH received the second dose and three received at Government Hospital, Pollachi. The beneficiaries on Saturday also included 88 police personnel (88 from Coimbatore City Police and one from District Police), who received their first dose of the vaccine. The vaccination centres include CMCH, private hospitals and primary health centres, according to the officials. In Tiruppur, 128 healthcare workers received the second dose of Covishield vaccine on Saturday and 25 police personnel received their first dose. Deputy Director of Health Services (Tiruppur) K. Jegadeesh Kumar said that 21 vaccination centres have been set up across the district. He urged all the frontline workers to come forward and get vaccinated at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covaxin-likely-to-be-administered-from-monday/article33833740.ece
14 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 43 cases||Coimbatore district reported 43 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the overall tally to 55,107 cases. The Health Department did not report any deaths. The district's death toll remained at 677. The district saw 53,977 recoveries and 453 patients were active cases. A total of 52 patients were discharged from various treatment centres in the district on Saturday. Tiruppur district reported 14 fresh cases, taking the tally to 18,121 cases. No deaths were reported in the district. As many as 17,777 patients have recovered and 122 were active cases. Tiruppur district reported 222 deaths overall. On Saturday, 18 patients from the district were discharged from treatment centres. The Nilgiris district reported one death and two new cases, which led the overall case tally to stand at 8,273. The district saw 8,184 recoveries and 41 patients were active cases. The death toll in the district was 48 as on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-43-cases/article33833742.ece
14 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur exporters demand status quo on Customs Duty on accessories||The Tiruppur Exporters’ Association (TEA) has opposed certain amendments announced in the recent Union Budget, relating to import of items used by the garment industry. TEA president Raja M. Shanmugham said that the garment industry was importing items such as tags, labels, stickers, belts, buttons or hangers and printed bags without payment of Customs Duty. The only requirement was that the importer should produce the member certificate from the Apparel Export Promotion Council. Now, as per the amendments announced in the Budget, the importing units had to execute a bond with the Customs for import without payment of Customs Duty. These products would attract Customs Duty with effect from April 1. However, the Customs Department had not given any clarification on how to execute the bond, he said in a release. For immediate requirements, the units were paying Customs Duty and clearing the goods. It would be a cumbersome process to take bonds for the multiple accessories that every exporter was importing. It would erode the competitiveness of the garment exporters, he felt. Mr. Shanmugham said that items such as fasteners, buttons, zippers in roll, sliders / pullers, eyelets, rivets, laces, badges, stones, velcro tape, beads for embroidery, studs, etc., were imported without payment of duty using Export Performance Certificate (EPC) obtained from AEPC. This should be continued with. Further, the government should announce the rates for Remission of Duties and Taxes on Exported Products (RoDTEP) Scheme and extend the Interest Equalisation Scheme on Pre and Post Shipment Rupee Export Credit for another three years, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruppur-exporters-demand-status-quo-on-customs-duty-on-accessories/article33833722.ece
14 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Stray dogs trouble Coimbatore city residents||A few days ago, a two-wheeler rider in Sai Nagar, Podanur, fell off his vehicle while trying to escape a chasing street dog and is now recuperating at his house. In Ukkadam and its neighbourhood, residents found it difficult to reach mosques for the early morning prayer. And, in a few other pockets in the city like Ganapathy, residents said they found it difficult to even walk on the streets because of fear of dogs chasing them. These complaints have increased of late as the Coimbatore Corporation seemed to be doing very little to control stray dog population, complained N.I Jalaludeen, a Sai Nagar resident. Every residential colony in and around Podanur is populated with a pack of 10 – 15 dogs that endanger the safety of residents as well as visitors. V.P. Rayeez of Podanur Main Road said a month ago he fell off his motorcycle while being chased by dogs when he was on his way to work. C. Sadhik of Podanur said he escaped an accident while avoiding being bitten by dogs. Residents in Ganapathy, too, said they were being chased by dogs and that the Coimbatore Corporation seemed to be doing very little. Corporation officials said the delay in performing the animal birth control operations was because of the delay in throwing open the operation theatre and animal care centre in Ondipudur. Now that the Corporation had opened the centre a month ago, it expected the non-governmental organisation in-charge of the centre to resume performing the operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stray-dogs-trouble-coimbatore-city-residents/article33833734.ece
14 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Former student offers to build new classrooms for government school in Tiruppur||A nearly-60-year-old government school near Dharapuram in Tiruppur district will soon have four new classrooms, with an alumnus offering to bear the expenses. Government Higher Secondary School, Elugamvalasu, was established in 1963 and was upgraded as a higher secondary school in 2010, said its headmaster M. Kannan. With one building in the school remaining very dilapidated, the alumnus, A. Chandrasekaran, volunteered to build four new classrooms after demolishing the aged building, Mr. Kannan said. The ground breaking ceremony for the construction of new classrooms was held on February 3. “The alumni association has helped the school on many occasions, but this is the first time that a former student has done something like this,” Mr. Kannan said. The owner of a textile manufacturing company, the 48-year-old Mr. Chandrasekaran said he took this decision after a recent visit to the school. “Many of the buildings were in poor condition,” he said. The industrialist said he completed Class 10 from this institution in 1989, when it was still a Government High School. Mr. Chandrasekaran said that the project was estimated to cost around Rs. 50 lakhs and that the construction works will be completed in six months. Dharapuram Sub-Collector Pavankumar G. Giriyappanavar, who participated in the ground breaking ceremony, told The Hindu that Mr. Chandrasekaran submitted his proposal in December 2020 and that he received approval from the Public Works Department by January. Apart from the construction of the new classrooms, the existing buildings in the school would also be renovated, he said. “We hope we get such ideas and proposals from the alumni of other [government] schools also,” Mr. Giriyappanavar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-student-offers-to-build-new-classrooms-for-govt-school/article33833736.ece
14 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Madras Regimental Centre has not missed training despite pandemic’||The Madras Regimental Centre (MRC) at Wellington near Coonoor did not miss a single day of training despite the COVID-19 pandemic and has continued to despatch trained soldiers to all the Battalions of the Regiment, Commandant of MRC Brigadier Rajeshwar Singh said on Saturday. He reviewed the Attestation Parade held at Shrinagesh Barracks of the MRC, where 395 recruits were attested into the Madras Regiment of the Army after a year-long basic and advanced military training. A press release said that this was the highest number of recruits to be attested in the “entire training year and under the prevailing pandemic conditions”. The parade was held with personal distancing norms in place as part of the COVID-19 precautionary measures. Following the parade, Brigadier Singh awarded medals to outstanding recruits, the release said. Brigadier Singh congratulated the recruits and commended the efforts of the instructors and staff members at the MRC, the oldest infantry regiment of the Army. He also congratulated the parents of the recruits, who were not present in the audience due to the pandemic-related restrictions, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madras-regimental-centre-has-not-missed-training-despite-pandemic/article33833738.ece
14 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Full credit for farm loan waiver goes to Stalin: Raja||The full credit for the State Government’s farm loan waiver went to DMK president M.K. Stalin, said the party deputy general secretary and the Nilgiris MP A. Raja at a party event here on Saturday. “The Chief Minister who had categorically told the Madras High Court a few months ago that farm loan waiver was not feasible had now announced the waiver, which was after Mr. Stalin made the announcement that if the DMK were to return to power, it would waive of farm loans. Therefore, the full credit goes to the DMK president.” Mr. Raja also said that the timing of the waiver only went onto show that it was an election announcement and that the Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami acted only on Mr. Stalin’s advice and pointed out to the 7.5% reservation for government school students in medical seats to underscore his argument. Projects The Minister of Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari agreeing to the projects to improve the Sathyamangalam Road, Coimbatore eastern bypass road project, Coimbatore-Karur road project and a few more was based on his demand. On the 2021-22 Union Budget, Mr. Raja said though there was not much in it for the State the way the AIADMK government welcomed the budget and the Chief Minister spoke about it only demonstrated how enslaved the party was to the BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/full-credit-for-farm-loan-waiver-goes-to-stalin-raja/article33833730.ece
14 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Skeletal remains of man found||The Alandurai police along with the personnel from the Forest Department retrieved the skeletal remains of a man at Vellingiri Hills on Thursday. The police said on Saturday that the body was that of V. Tamilarasu (32), who went missing from his residence at Omalur in Salem district in June 2020. On Thursday evening, a forest guard from the Pooluvapatti forest range was patrolling the fifth hill when he found the skeletal remains. Based on the information provided by the guard, the Alandurai police retrieved the skeletal remains and conducted investigations on Friday. It is suspected that he died near the fifth hill about two months ago as his body was completely decomposed but his clothes remained intact, according to the police. Passport found A passport found in a bag next to the skeletal remains helped in confirming his identity, the police sources said. The Alandurai police registered a case and investigations are on to ascertain whether the accused committed suicide. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/skeletal-remains-of-man-found/article33833739.ece
14 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Virtual marathon to be held from March 19 to 31||Ant Runners, a group comprising running enthusiasts from Coimbatore and Erode districts, will organise a virtual marathon from March 19 to 31. A release said that the participants can choose the options for the ‘One Run’ marathon. Saplings equivalent to the total number of participants will be planted by the organisers, it said. The participants shall run or walk anywhere from their chosen location between March 19 and 31 and submit the data online, the release said. Those interested may visitwww.antrunners.comand contact 99447 27777 or 98428 74840 for further details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/virtual-marathon-to-be-held-from-march-19-to-31/article33833723.ece
14 February 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||‘AIADMK regime let the people down during the pandemic’||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Saturday said time was fast approaching for the AIADMK government to face a serious debacle in the coming Assembly election since the people were totally disenchanted with the present administration. Speaking at Ungal thogudhiyil Stalin (Stalin in your constituency), a poll outreach programme in the Virudhachalam Assembly constituency in Cuddalore district, he said the AIADMK regime had let down the people without taking care of them during the pandemic. Mr. Stalin said it was really amusing that the government was advertising claims that it was standing tall against the backdrop of the State having witnessed 8 lakh cases of COVID-19 and around 12,000 deaths due to the infection. According to him, in reality, only Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and his Cabinet colleagues were standing tall due to their questionable practices, and not the people. One cannot become a leader by just mere advertisements, he said. Referring to the Chief Minister’s criticism against him that he [Mr. Stalin] did not know about hard work, the DMK leader said: “Hard work does not mean crawling before a person and toppling them for political gains to enjoy the seat of power,” he said. “My father Kalaignar [M. Karunanidhi] has taught me that the virtue of hard work lies in extending help to people,” he said. Mr. Stalin said he always remained with the people, and personally went and met them during the Thoothukudi firing, anti-NEET protests and agitations against hike in power tariff and the farm laws. “I wanted Rs. 5,000 a month to be disbursed to those affected by the pandemic. The Chief Minister said money was a hurdle, but the government has been releasing hefty payments to contractors,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-regime-let-the-people-down-during-the-pandemic/article33833699.ece
14 February 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Newborn stolen at Cuddalore GH traced to Puducherry hospital||A two-day-old baby girl, who was stolen from the women’s post-operative ward at the Cuddalore Government General Hospital on Saturday, was traced to a government hospital in Puducherry within hours of the incident. Police sources said Bhagyalakshmi, 24, wife of Manikandan of Panruti, was admitted to the Cuddalore GH on Wednesday. She delivered a baby girl on Friday morning. Her mother-in-law Kasapayi was helping her in the hospital. On Saturday afternoon, Kasapayi went to a temple near the hospital, when one Lavanya of Panithittu in Puducherry, befriended Bhagyalakshmi. She apparently told Bhagyalakshmi that her mother-in-law had asked her to bring the baby. Believing her words, Bhagyalakshmi handed over the baby to her. Bhagyalakshmi and Kasapayi found the baby missing and alerted the Cuddalore New Town police. The police sifted through the images in the CCTV installed in the GH and found a woman going out with the baby from the hospital. An alert was issued and the police traced Lavanya with the baby at the Rajiv Gandhi Government Women and Children Hospital and arrested her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/newborn-stolen-at-cuddalore-gh-traced/article33834059.ece
14 February 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Community certificates given to 29 tribal applicants||The district administration handed over community certificates to 29 Kaatu Nayakan applicants here on Saturday. From the time the district was bifurcated from Madurai, people from Kaatu Nayakan and Malai Vedan community were struggling to get community certificates from the authorities concerned. Many students could not get benefits from the government with regard to education and other welfare assistance due to lack of the certificates. The CPI (M) and the Tribal People’s Welfare Association took sustained efforts for this. The association president Dillibabu even submitted complaints with the State Human Rights Commission against the Revenue Divisional Officers in Dindigul and Palani. The government ordered collection of applications after enumeration was completed but officials had dilly-dallied under some pretext or the other, the CPI (M) functionaries alleged and finally, the RDO gave away the certificates to 29 Kaatu Nayakan members today, though it was a government holiday. The CPI (M) thanked the administration and urged them to issue Kaatu Nayakan certificates to the remaining applicants without any delay. According to the officials, out of 100 applications from Kaatu Nayakan, 54 have got the certificates, while 108 Malai Vedan applications were still pending, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/community-certificates-given-to-29-tribal-applicants/article33833795.ece
14 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Four arrested in double murder case||The police on Saturday arrested four men on charges of murdering two persons here on last Wednesday. Drunken brawl Kalai alias Kalaiselvan (30) of Krishnampalayam and Guna alias Gunasekaran (38) of Karungalpalayam were murdered on Februray 10 during a drunken brawl at Chidambaranar Street in Veerappanchatiram. The two were involved in a murder that took place in 2018 and had appeared in the court on the day of the incident. Erode North Police station registered a double murder case and special teams were formed to nab the accused. The special teams identified the accused through CCTVs footages sourced from various parts of the city and arrested K. Vettaiyan Ravi (24), M. Madhan (26), S. Kavalan alias Karthic (27) and A. Alagiri (23). Search is on for seven others. The team also recovered weapons and vehicles from the accused. Inquiries revealed that the victims and the accused were friends. The two had murdered Ramesh alias Pragalathan, a friend of Vettaiyan Ravi, in 2018. Hence, Vettaiyan Ravi, along with 10 others murdered the two. They were produced in the court and lodged in Coimbatore Central Prison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-arrested-in-double-murder-case/article33833808.ece
14 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘Install traffic signal at Palayapalayam junction’||The Erode Tax Payers Peoples Welfare Trust has urged the district administration and the district police to install traffic signal at Palayapalayam Junction on Perundurai Road in the city to ensure smooth flow of vehicles. The members of the Trust said that commercial establishments, education institutions, and marriage halls have come up in large numbers on Perundurai Road, making it one of the busiest roads in the city. Residential colonies have also sprung up at Suthananthan Nagar and Odaimedu. Vehicles from these areas have to cross one side of the Perundurai Road and then proceed towards the Collectorate. In the absence of a traffic signal or personnel to regulate the traffic, motorists and pedestrians find it difficult to cross the road. “The junction has turned into a black spot with frequent accidents,” said the Trust secretary A.N. Bharathi. He wanted installation of a traffic signal and a policeman to regulate the vehicle flow. The members also wanted the traffic signal at Veerapampalayam Junction made operational and demanded steps to prevent unauthorised parking near the junction. Steps should also be taken to ensure buses proceeding towards Coimbatore and Tiruppur stopped at Palayapalayam, the members said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/install-traffic-signal-at-palayapalayam-junction/article33833813.ece
14 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Activists call for early release of Veerappan’s aides from prisons||Human rights activists and members of a tribal association have called for the early release of slain forest brigand Veerappan’s five aides who are lodged in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu prisons for the last 32 years. The Tamil Nadu Tribal People Association and People’s Union for Civil Liberties organised a seminar here on Friday, in which Human Rights activist and executive director of People’s Watch Henry Tiphagne, Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam president Kolathur Mani, Tamil Nadu Tribal People Association president V.P. Gunasekaran, and lawyers participated and passed various resolutions. Resolution A resolution said that Veerappan’s brother Madhaiyan, and two others -- Andiyappan and Perumal -- were arrested by the Karnataka forest department. When they were about to be released after four years of imprisonment, the Tamil Nadu government arrested them in a case related to murder of forest ranger Chidambaram in 1994 and lodged them in Coimbatore Central Prison. They were sentenced to life imprisonment and were in jail for the last 32 years. Pointing out Section 341 (2) of the Tamil Nadu Prison Rules, 1983, which says that life convicts who had completed 14 years of imprisonment can be considered for early release by the State government, the Supreme Court had in 2018 asked the State government to consider Madhaiyan’s petition for premature release. “The three, aged over 75 years, are suffering from various ailments and the State government is yet to consider the petition,” the resolution said. Another resolution said that ‘Meesaikara’ Madhaiyan, Gnanaprakasam, Bilavendran and Simon were awarded death sentence in the Palar bomb blast case in 1993. Their sentence was later commuted to life imprisonment. “Both Simon and Bilavendran died in prison, while the other two continue to be in solitary confinement for the last 27 years,” the resolution said. Since they were arrested under the Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, the State government, after getting nod from the Centre, should release them, the resolution urged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/activists-call-for-early-release-of-veerappans-aides-from-prisons/article33833810.ece
14 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Sensitisation programme on child trafficking held||A sensitisation programme on child trafficking and juvenile justice system was conducted for personnel from the Railway Protection Force, Government Railway Police and Railway ChildLine staff here on Friday. The programme was organised by the District Child Protection Office of the Department of Social Defence. District Child Protection Officer P. Priyadevi explained the role of the personnel in protecting the children while they were on platforms, trains and on railway station premises. She explained the guidelines and procedures to be followed while rescuing and adopting a child. The officer listed out the child welfare schemes implemented by the Central and State governments. Advocate P. Bagyalakshmi explained the various child protection laws in the country. Mugilan, founder, ART Art Academy, briefed on reducing stress at workplace and handling it effectively.  R. Karuppasamy, Director, Rights Education and Development Centre (READ), an NGO, spoke on human trafficking, persons involved in it and how children were affected by it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sensitisation-programme-on-child-trafficking-held/article33833807.ece
14 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||New principal takes charge||R. Sankarasubramanian took charge as the principal of Erode Arts and Science College (Autonomous) here. A press release from the college said that he had served as assistant professor of computer science and had a work experience of 30 years in the college. He replaces R. Venkatachalam who retired from service on February 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-principal-takes-charge/article33833809.ece
14 February 2021||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||Elephant found dead||A female elephant was found dead in Jawalagiri forest range here on Saturday. According to forest officials, the elephant aged around seven years was found dead in the Thali Reserve Forest in Jawalagiri range. District Forest Officer S. Prabhu said that patrolling personnel found the carcass during the early hours of the day. Preliminary investigation has revealed the cause of death as colic pain. A team led by wildlife veterinarian Prakash conducted an autopsy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephant-found-dead/article33833820.ece
14 February 2021||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Two held for murder||A 34-year-old man was murdered at Soplapatti near Kulithalai on Saturday allegedly by two of his brothers. P. Kandasamy, the deceased, had picked up a quarrel with his brothers Kathan, 45, and Subramani, 40, when they were harvesting paddy on their field. Kandasamy, who had been demanding a division of the family property, reportedly sought his share on the produce too. Irked over this, they slashed him on his neck with sickle. He died on the spot. On information, the police rushed to the spot and arrested Kathan and Subramani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-murder/article33833786.ece
14 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK is common enemy to all: Vaiko||The AIADMK and BJP were Tamil Nadu’s common enemies and everyone should come together to defeat the two parties, said MDMK general secretary here on Saturday. Addressing the party’s election fund raising meeting, he charged that the “corrupt” AIADMK and the “Hindutva” BJP had ruined the lives of the common man. The secular parties had the responsibility to save the State from these “evil forces.” Under the leadership of DMK president M K Stalin, allies would work hard for victory of the front in all seats. Instead of looking at the number of seats the DMK would allot to its allies, it was time to capture all seats. The task should be to defeat the AIADMK. “I appeal to all my cadre to work hard for the victory of the front. Forget how many seats the MDMK is going to get,” he said. Mr. Vaiko claimed that the AIADMK is going to spend nearly Rs. 20 crore for each Assembly seat, which was not the case with others. To a query, he said that his son attended only weddings of party functionaries, which he (Vaiko) couldn’t go to and clarified that his son would not contest in the Assembly election. The MDMK party cadre from the time of inception stood by him. “They never aspired to become an MLA or an MP or even a councillor. They are with me like a disciplined soldier. We are guiding the youngsters with our principles,” he said. The MDMK had fought for environmental issues, which had resulted in the closure of Sterlite’s copper smelter plant in Thoothukudi. Likewise, the party had fought tooth and nail by engaging late senior advocate Ram Jethmalani for the release of all the seven life convicts in the former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. The party will continue to be the voice of the deprived and the masses, he asserted. MDMK district secretaries from Madurai city, Dindigul, Theni, Sivaganga, Ramanathapuram, Madurai Rural (North) and Madurai Rural (South) contributed Rs. 1.01 crore to Mr. Vaiko for election fund. Mr Vaiko said farmers in New Delhi were protesting for about 80 days but Prime Minister Narendra Modi had only now mentioned in Parliament that he was prepared for dialogue. On former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s aide Sasikala, he said, “She is out of the prison...” and after a pause added: “There is nothing more to say on this.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-is-the-common-enemy-to-all-says-vaiko/article33833791.ece
14 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Collector inspects fireworks unit||Collector T. Anbalagan inspected a fireworks unit at Vadakkampatti in Chellampatti block on Saturday to check whether precautions are followed to ensure safety of workers. He said the unit was inspected based on a directive of the State government in the wake of an accident in Virudhunagar district. Thirteen licensed fireworks units were functioning in the district. A team of Revenue Divisional Officer, Deputy Superintendent of Police and State Fire and Rescue Services department personnel are conducting inspections at cracker units. “They will check whether the units had adequate infrastructure in place in compliance with workplace safety rules and whether finished goods were stored safely,” he said. The owners are sensitised to ensure good air circulation at the unit and that fire extinguishing equipment are at hand. “Accidents occur either due to lack of safety infrastructure or carelessness of workers. The workers are given separate training on complying with safety precautions and are repeatedly insisted to ensure that they work with caution. We want to avoid any further deaths caused in fireworks units because of carelessness of workers,” he added. All cracker units have facilities to provide first aid to injured workers, said the Collector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-inspects-fireworks-unit/article33833978.ece
14 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Corporation conservancy workers stage protest against police torture||A large number of corporation conservancy workers boycotted work on Saturday in protest against alleged police torture due to which a temporary conservancy worker of the Corporation was forced to take his life. K. Kannan, a 43-year-old temporary worker of the Corporation, who was interrogated in connection with a recent theft of gold jewellery, was found dead in his house on Friday. His family alleged police torture during the interrogation which forced him to take the extreme step. Conservancy workers affiliated to the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), Labour Progressive Federation and Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi submitted a petition to the Collector pressing for various demands. A group of conservancy workers also staged protests near the mortuary of Government Rajaji Hospital and on the Corporation premises on Saturday. M. Balasubramani, general secretary of CITU, said that a list of four demands were focussed by the protesters. The first demand was that the post-mortem of the deceased worker must be performed by three doctors and must be videographed. “This demand was met by the officials,” he said . The police personnel who were involved in the case must be booked under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. The case must be investigated by CB-CID officials to ensure objective investigation against police personnel. The family must be given a financial assistance of Rs. 50 lakh and one family member must be given a government job, they said. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s helpline 104 and 044 24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-conservancy-workers-stage-protest-against-police-torture/article33833979.ece
14 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Time to review mindset in fixing liability in accident cases: HC||It is high time for all stakeholders to review the mindset in fixing the driver of the big vehicle as a tortfeasor in cases of road accidents involving big and small vehicles. In majority of the cases, FIRs are registered against the driver of the big vehicle and investigations are being carried out in such a way to make the driver responsible for the accident, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has observed. The court was hearing the petition filed in 2016 by the Branch Manager of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation, Pudukkottai. The petition challenged the award passed by the Motor Accidents Claims Tribunal, Pudukkottai that had held the driver of a TNSTC bus responsible for an accident. The tribunal had directed TNSTC to pay a sum of Rs. 6.62 lakh with interest to the claimants. The case of the claimants was that in 2011, the deceased Govindaraju was on his way to the school on a motorcycle with his three friends, Venkateshwaran, Prasanth and Gowthamanraj. A lorry that was proceeding ahead of the motorcycle allowed the youth to overtake the lorry. As they were proceeding after overtaking the lorry, the two-wheeler was hit by a bus coming from the opposite direction. The four sustained serious injuries in the accident and Govindaraju riding pillion succumbed to his injuries. The claimants said the accident occurred due to the rash and negligent driving by the bus driver. The TNSTC said that it was the youth who overtook the lorry and in a rash and negligent manner to hit the bus. The trial court held that the bus driver was responsible for the accident. Justice K. Murali Shankar observed that generally, two-wheeler or motorcycle was designed and meant for travelling of two persons. If anyone takes more than two persons, he would be committing an offence that was punishable under Section 128 of the Motor Vehicles Act. The rider if he takes more than two persons on the vehicle, then he has to give more acceleration to increase the pulling capacity. This would divert the attention and concentration. Every road user owes a duty of care and caution and is duty bound to drive their vehicle in such a way not to endanger themselves and more importantly not to endanger pedestrians, cyclists, two wheelers and other vehicle users, the judge said. In the present case on hand, the judge said that the four students travelled on the motorcycle and there was no hesitation to hold that the rider and the pillion riders were guilty of negligent riding. It was also high time for those dealing with the motor accident claims to review the mentality in considering the plight of injured victims or legal heirs of the deceased sympathetically and awarding compensation in the accidents occurred by violating laws and rules. Despite penal laws and awareness programmes conducted by the government and various NGOs, people have not changed, the judge said. Partly allowing the petition, the judge directed the claimants to bear 50% of the amount awarded by the tribunal, for contributory negligence. In case the Corporation had already deposited the entire amount then they were at liberty to withdraw the 50% of the amount with proportioned interest and the claimants were permitted to withdraw the amount with interest and costs on due application before the Tribunal, the judge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/time-to-review-mindset-in-fixing-liability-in-accident-cases-hc/article33833801.ece
14 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK and BJP are the common enemies, says Vaiko||The AIADMK and the BJP are the common enemies for all in Tamil Nadu and everyone has to come together to defeat them, MDMK general secretary Vaiko said here on Saturday. He said there was no need to worry about the number of seats the DMK would allot to its allies. Addressing a meeting to raise election funds for the party, Mr. Vaiko said the “corrupt” AIADMK and the “Hindutva” BJP had ruined the lives of the people.  ‘Evil forces’ The “secular” parties had the responsibility to save the State from these “evil forces”. Hence, under the leadership of DMK president M.K. Stalin, the allies would work hard for the victory of the DMK-led front in all 234 constituencies. “I appeal to all my workers and functionaries to work hard for the victory of the front. Forget the number of seats the MDMK is going to get,” he said. To a question, Mr. Vaiko said his son attended the weddings of party functionaries that he could not take part in, and that he would not contest in the Assembly election. The MDMK, he said, had fought for environmental protection, leading to the closure of the Sterlite copper smelter in Thoothukudi. Likewise, the party had hired late lawyer Ram Jethmalani to fight for the release of all the seven life convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. Party’s election fund The district secretaries of Madurai City, Dindigul, Theni, Sivaganga, Ramanathapuram, Madurai Rural (North) and Madurai Rural (South) contributed Rs. 1.01 crore to the election fund. Mr. Vaiko told journalists that the farmers had been protesting in New Delhi for 80 days, but Prime Minister Narendra Modi said only now in Parliament that he was ready for talks. On Sasikala’s return to the State, he said, “She is out of prison...” After a pause, he added: “There is nothing more to say on this.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-and-bjp-are-the-common-enemies-vaiko/article33833712.ece
14 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Expedite construction of micro composting units’||Chairperson of State-level Monitoring Committee of National Green Tribunal for Solid Waste Management Justice P. Jothimani participated in a meeting with Madurai Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan here on Saturday to discuss solid waste management system practised by the civic body. Out of the 41 micro composting units (MCCs) proposed for the city, a total of 25 MCCs have been completed. Justice Jothimani instructed the Corporation officials to expedite the construction of the remaining MCCs. He instructed the Corporation officials to ensure that biomedical waste from hospitals in the city and COVID-19 waste from hospitals are collected separately and are discarded in compliance with the rules. It must be ensured that restaurants, apartments, hotels and other bulk waste generators are composting their waste on their premises. Students and volunteers from non-governmental organisations must be roped in to create awareness among the public about biodegradable and non-biodegradable waste, said Justice Jothimani. Earlier, he inspected the integrated complaint redressal cell functioning at the Corporation office premises. He also checked how garbage collection lorries were functioning with GPS devices, and how complaints received from the public through Whatsapp are redressed by the officials. City Engineer S. Arasu and City Health Officer P. Kumaraguruparan were present during the inspection.  Ensure that biomedical and COVID-19 waste from hospitals are discarded in compliance with rules Official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/expedite-construction-of-micro-composting-units/article33833981.ece
14 February 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||CPI meet on February 18||Communist Party of India (CPI) State secretary R. Mutharasan has expressed shock over the death of 15 workers in a fireworks unit in Vembakottai near Sattur in Virudhunagar district. Speaking to reporters here on Saturday, he said his party would conduct a conference in Madurai on February 18 in which key leaders from DMK and its allies would take part. The AIADMK government, in a bid to woo farmers, had waived the farm loan in cooperatives. “When the CPI and other secular parties demanded waiver and approached the court, it went on appeal opposing the case. With the sole objective of winning the hearts of farmers, the government did such a somersault, which the people were well aware of,” he said. The BJP and the AIADMK, knowing pretty well that they would face defeat, were giving sops but the people would not fall prey to their baits, he said. Many fireworks units violated norms leading to fatal accidents. The officials were also hand in glove with the employers. The government’s compensation was meagre he said and demanded Rs. 1 crore for the family members of each of the deceased. The fire accidents were man-made and official apathy was to be blamed. “How can unauthorised units function without the knowledge of the staff from the departments concerned,” he asked and urged the government to deal with the issue with an iron hand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-meet-on-february-18/article33833976.ece
14 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Ensure safety of fireworks unit workers’||In the backdrop of the accident at a fireworks unit in Virudhunagar district, the All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU) has held both the Centre and the State governments responsible for repeated accidents and loss of lives in the fireworks industry The council put forth a series of demands to ensure the safety of workers involved in the fireworks industry. Workplace safety should be ensured and licence of fireworks units that function without safety protocols should be cancelled. There should be strict punishment and those owners who violate the safety protocols should be arrested. It must be ensured that rules/guidelines in handling explosive substances must be strictly adhered to, the trade council said. The government must grant a compensation of Rs. One crore to the families of those who lost their lives in the accident and Rs. 50 lakh to the injured along with full cost of treatment. The State government should provide alternative, safe and dignified employment to ensure livelihood of the people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-ensure-safety-of-fireworks-unit-workers/article33833792.ece
14 February 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||GST, demonetisation affected weavers, says Kanimozhi||Thoothukudi MP M.K. Kanimozhi said here on Saturday that the Centre’s policies, such as demonetisation and the Goods and Services Tax (GST), had severely affected weavers here. Ms. Kanimozhi campaigned at Pallipalayam, Kumarapalayam and various other places, meeting people from various walks of life. Talking to presspersons, she said that while the policies of the Centre severely hit the weavers, no measures had been taken by State government to support them. The MP said dyeing units had polluted river Cauvery here and that the relatives of Ministers were being allowed to set up new units. The Centre had hiked fuel prices though the price of crude oil was reducing in the international market. The hike had severely affected lorry operators. On the NEET issue, she said the DMK would take all measures to cancel it in the State. On the Chief Minister’s announcement of 24-hour, three-phase power supply for farm pumpsets, Ms.Kanimozhi said the State government had made the free electricity provided to farmers and weavers questionable after signing the UDAY scheme. People would not be deceived by such an announcement by the Chief Minister, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/weavers-hit-by-demonetisation-gst-kanimozhi/article33833727.ece
14 February 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Youth nabbed||The public on Saturday nabbed a youth and handed him over to the police for attempting to marry a young woman by force. According to police, the marriage fixed between Balakrishnan from Gudalur and a college-going girl in Namakkal was called off by the families for unknown reasons. However, Balakrishnan tried to tie a T haali around the girl’s neck at the college bus stop on Saturday. The girl pushed him away and ran into the college. Balakrishnan was nabbed by the passers-by and handed over to the police. Namakkal police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-nabbed/article33833821.ece
14 February 2021||NEW DELHI / CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Centre tables Bill to classify 7 SC groups as Devendrakula Velalars||Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Krishan Pal Gurjar on Saturday introduced the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order (Amendment) Bill, 2021, to group seven Scheduled Caste communities in certain districts of Tamil Nadu under ‘Devendrakula Velalars’. This was one of the long-pending demands of sections of these communities. The tabling of the Bill ahead of the Assembly election is deemed significant. However, the Bill does not address the other demand of some community leaders — removal of their castes from the Scheduled Caste list. Puthiya Tamilagam president K. Krishnasamy had insisted that the seven communities be removed from the Scheduled Caste list. On the last day of the first part of the Budget session, Mr. Gurjar introduced the Bill to make the grouping possible. As per the statement of objects and reasons, the Tamil Nadu government proposed certain modifications to the list of the Scheduled Castes by grouping seven castes, which exist as separate entries. The communities are to be grouped in the following way: “Devendrakula Velalar [Devendrakulathan, Kadaiyan (excluding in the coastal areas of Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Ramanathapuram, Pudukottai, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam districts), Kalladi, Kudumbam, Pallan, Pannadi, Vathiriyan] and Kadaiyan (in the districts of Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Ramanathapuram, Pudukottai, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam)”. Any change in the lists of the Scheduled Castes and Tribes requires a constitutional amendment. The Bill may likely be taken up for consideration and passage in the second part of the Budget session, which will begin on March 8. The demand for the grouping had been raised several times, with members of the community having met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2015. Mr. Modi had said at a public meeting in the State that his government was sensitive to the demands of the community. Last December, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami announced that he would urge the Centre to group the seven communities as ‘Devendrakula Velalars’, accepting the recommendation of the Hansraj Varma Committee, which was established by his government.  The Bill may likely be taken up for consideration and passage in the second part of the Budget session, which will begin on March 8||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bill-tabled-to-classify-7-sc-groups-as-devendrakula-velalars/article33833653.ece
14 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Healthcare workers advised to get vaccinated before Feb. 20||The Health Department has advised all healthcare workers to get COVID-19 vaccine before February 20. Director of Health and Family Welfare S. Mohan Kumar, in an office memorandum, said, “As desired by the Lt. Governor and Chief Secretary, 100% vaccination should be ensured to all health workers within February 20.” The supervisors had been advised to submit a compliance report on vaccination on February 21. The healthcare and frontline workers are eligible for vaccination up to February 20, he said in the office memorandum. Mr. Kumar told The Hindu that the aim was to motivate more people to join the vaccination programme. “So far only one person who got the vaccination showed some minor side-effects. He was kept for a few hours under observation and discharged. Such isolated cases happen during any vaccination,” he said. Since the vaccination programme started, as on Thursday, 5,256 healthcare workers and 254 frontline workers had been given the shots. The Union Territory planned to vaccinate around 24,000 healthcare workers, he said. “After the initial hesitation, more and more people are getting vaccinated. On Thursday, 665 healthcare workers took the vaccine. Two days before that, only 335 workers came forward for getting the vaccine. We are aiming for 100% vaccination and hence the advisory,” a senior Health Department official said. The Union Territory on Saturday registered 24 new cases from 2,582 tests. Of the total cases, 18 are from Puducherry region, 4 from Mahe and 2 from Karaikal, data released by the Health Department said. The overall tally is 656 deaths, 284 active cases, a total of 39,440 cases and 38,500 persons treated and discharged, data said. Cuddalore district reported 11 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Saturday, taking the district’s tally to 25,057. While 24,679 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 91. In Villupuram district, three persons tested positive, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 15,226. Kallakurichi district reported two positive cases, taking the overall count to 10,898.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/healthcare-workers-advised-to-get-vaccinated-before-feb-20/article33834056.ece
14 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Mediation can help reduce pendency of cases, says CJ||Madras High Court Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee on Saturday advocated mediation as a tool to reduce the pendency of litigations. Presiding over a workshop on ‘Negotiation skills and mediation advocacy’, for advocates, mediators and law students in Puducherry, Justice Banerjee said cases which required adjudication could be left to the court and those needing only certain adjustments could be solved through mediation. “As a young lawyer I was also under the impression that mediation advocacy was a fad and unnecessary. But as a judge I realised the importance of mediation in solving cases,” he said. Allaying fears of the diminishing role of lawyers while promoting mediation, the Chief Justice said lawyers would continue to play a key role even as mediation, as a method to solve cases, was taken up. “There is a perception that there will be less work for lawyers. But that is not the case. Lawyers will have a key role to play and the lawyers with their expertise can tell you the limits of what may be achieved by a litigant in a particular situation. It is through negotiation or court adjudication,” he said. In the field of mediation, the first and foremost thing was to identify a problem at the earliest and solve it, Justice Banerjee said. “The more the problem remains, the more the ill-will between the parties develops and less will be the chances of arriving at a solution, he said.  The Chief Justice also announced the upgradation of the Taluk Legal Services Committee, Karaikal, as a District Legal Services Authority. He released a flyer for the door-to-door campaign for “Litigation Free Village” and CD of the dubbed Tamil version of ‘Ek Mutthi Aasman’, the theme song of National Legal Services Authority. Madras High Court judge RMT. Teekaa Raman said when a small section of society becomes litigation-free, it would have an impact. Litigant-free citizens would feel social and financial security, which would lead to social justice. This was the concept of a welfare State, he added. Former judge of the Madras High Court K. Kannan participated in the inaugural programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/solving-cases-through-mediation-can-reduce-pendency-of-litigations-cj/article33833720.ece
14 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||CM orders removal of barricades near Raj Nivas||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Saturday directed the district administration to remove all barricades in the Raj Bhavan constituency, except those erected to fortify the Raj Nivas. “I have given instructions to the district administration to remove all barricades except those erected near the compound wall of Raj Nivas. We have no second opinion on giving protection to Raj Nivas. It is the duty of the elected government to give protection to the Lieutenant Governor,” the Chief Minister told reporters after taking a walk from the Legislative Assembly to the spots where barricades were erected. Speaker V. P. Sivakolandhu, Additional Director General of Police Anand Mohan and Collector Purva Garg accompanied the Chief Minister. The Chief Minister said he had asked for the removal of the iron barriers kept near the Legislative Assembly, the Head Post Office, Aurobindo Ashram and the Romain Rolland library. The decision to keep the barricades in those areas had caused inconvenience to those visiting the Assembly, the Government Hospital, the Ashram and the post office, the Chief Minister said.  Rahul's visit Mr. Narayanasamy said that AICC in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao, during his visit to Puducherry on February 15, will make an announcement about Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s tour programme to the Union Territory, ahead of the ensuing Assembly election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-orders-removal-of-barricades-near-raj-nivas/article33834058.ece
14 February 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Health workers receive second dose of vaccination in districts||Health workers were administered the second dose of COVID-19 vaccine at health facilities here on Saturday. According to Health Department officials, 16, 617 doses of Covishield vaccines were administered to health workers and other frontline workers during the first phase in the district. R. Selvakumar, Deputy Director of Health Services, Attur, was the first person in the district to receive the vaccination at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital. P. Ramakrishnan, State president of the Indian Medical Association, and P.V. Dhanapal, Medical Superintendent of the Hospital, received the second dose. Dr. Selvakumar said that the vaccine was being administered at 21 centres in the district. There has to be a gap of 28 to 45 days between the first and second dose. The district has sufficient stock of vaccines, he said. In Erode, healthcare workers received the second dose of vaccination at five centres on Saturday. On January 16, 99 workers were administered the first dose at the District Headquarters and Hospital, Government Hospitals at Perundurai, Bhavani and Gobichettipalayam and at the Primary Health Centre at Siruvalur. A total of 4,312 workers have been vaccinated in the first phase in Erode district. Eight new cases in Salem Salem district on Saturday reported eight new COVID-19 positive cases. According to health officials, all cases were indigenous. Namakkal district reported five new cases. Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri districts reported three indigenous cases each. Erode district reported 11 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 14,601. While 26 persons were discharged, 142 are under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/health-workers-receive-second-dose-of-vaccination-in-districts/article33833817.ece
14 February 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Sengottaiyan’s statement condemnable: R.S.Bharathi||DMK organising secretary R.S. Bharathi said that the Education Minister’s statement on lack of NEET trainers in the State was condemnable. Mr.Bharathi told presspersons here on Saturday that the people were aware that the announcement made by the Chief Minister on three-phase power supply for farm pump sets was only to deceive them. He claimed that Opposition leader M.K.Stalin was the de facto Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu and announcements made by Mr. Stalin were being implemented by the Chief Minister the next day. Mr. Bharathi condemned Education Minister K.A.Sengottaiyan for saying that there were no trainers in the State to offer NEET coaching to students. Tamil Nadu leads in education and it is shameful that the Minister made such a statement after being in power for 10 years, he said. On the Centre’s announcement on Salem-Chennai green corridor project, Mr.Bharathi said that the DMK would take all legal measures to stop the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sengottaiyans-statement-condemnable-rsbharathi/article33833819.ece
14 February 2021||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||‘Modi looking at opponents as enemies’||Senior Congress leader P. Chidambaram on Saturday charged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was looking at his opponents as his enemies. “The attitude of Mr. Modi has to change in the interest of the country,” the former Union Minister said and suggested involving the Opposition in serious and sensitive issues. A consensus approach would be ideal in a secular and democratic nation. Addressing journalists in Karaikal, he said former Prime Minister A.B. Vajpayee discussed key issues with the Opposition parties and then took a decision. Training his guns on Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, he charged that she spent more time on “replying or denying to my statements on the Union Budget” than dealing with the actual issues in it. “There is factual incorrectness in the Budget... They are unable to decipher and are not in agreement to correct the mistakes,” he claimed.  Condemning the petrol price hike, which was nearing the Rs. 100/litre mark, he recalled how the BJP, as Opposition party, had driven bullock carts to oppose fuel price hike during the Congress regime. “Now the BJP has chosen to conveniently forget,” he said, adding that the people will not forgive or forget. The government had lowered excise duty, but increased the cess. Attacking the Union Budget as pro-rich and for the rich, Mr. Chidambaram said that when the country faced closure of 3.5 crore small and tiny units, 12 crore people had lost jobs and another 2.8 crore people were seeking jobs, the Budget or the government had no answers. This would seriously impact the coming years. All that the Centre was doing was to handover well performing Public Sector Undertakings to its rich friends. Seven ports, two banks and an insurance company had gone from public to private. The need of the hour to bring back the economy in a meaningful way would be to give financial assistance of Rs. 2,000 to the Below Poverty Line category people at least for six months, he suggested. But the Centre was following an autocratic model and the economy, no doubt, would crash soon, he feared. Cautions Cong. workers Cautioning Congress workers, he said that though the mood of the voters was to give the DMK-Congress combine a hands down victory in all the 234 Assembly constituencies in Tamil Nadu in the ensuing election, the AIADMK’s money power to “buy” the voters was to be monitored closely. Asked whether the Election Commission of India would be fair and neutral in the election, he said that the institution had to be transparent in its actions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/modi-looking-at-opponents-as-enemies-needs-to-change-chidambaram/article33833714.ece
14 February 2021||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||Seventh phase of excavation at Keeladi inaugurated||The seventh phase of archaeological excavation at Keeladi and its cluster, covering Manalur, Agaram and Konthagai, was formally inaugurated by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday through video-conferencing from Chennai. Sivaganga Collector P. Madhusudhan Reddy, who was present during the inaugural event, said that construction of a museum at a cost of Rs. 12.21 crore to display the artefacts unearthed at the excavations is under way. This museum will help students, researchers and enthusiasts to learn about the ancient civilisation on the banks of the Vaigai. The first three phases of excavations were carried out by the Archaeological Survey of India. A total of 7,818 artefacts were unearthed during these phases. The Tamil Nadu State Department of Archaeology (TNSDA), conducted the fourth, fifth and sixth phases of excavations, and will conduct the seventh phase of excavation. While a total of 5,820 artefacts were unearthed during the fourth phase of excavation, during the fifth phase of excavation around 900 artefacts, including brick structures, were excavated. During the sixth phase, excavations were undertaken at Keeladi, Konthagai, Manalur and Agaram. The artefacts unearthed during this phase indicated that Keeladi was an industrial city with flourishing trading activities. The skeletons and urns unearthed at Konthagai indicated that it was a burial site. The microlithic tools unearthed at Agaram showed that they were manufactured there. Deputy Director of Archaeology R. Sivanandam also participated in the inaugural event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seventh-phase-of-excavation-at-keeladi-inaugurated/article33833797.ece
14 February 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Infant found dead||The Thanjavur West Police are investigating the cause of death of an eight-day-old baby, which was reportedly taken away by some monkeys from a house here on Saturday. According to police, they received a complaint from Raja of West Rampart stating that some monkeys had taken away his twin daughters when his wife, Bhuvaneswari, had gone to the rest room at their house. Bhuvaneswari, who gave birth to the twins a week ago at the Government Rajah Mirasdar Hospital, Thanjavur, found them missing when she returned. Subsequently, she raised an alarm and neighbours rushed in and located one of the infants on the tiled roof of the house where a monkey was also spotted. When they searched for the other infant, they found it in a nearby moat and rushed it to the GRMH where it was declared dead on arrival. Mr. Raja lodged a complaint with the Thanjavur West Police claiming that his daughter was killed by monkeys.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/infant-found-dead/article33834091.ece
14 February 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Tension at hospital||Tension prevailed for some time on Saturday at the COVID-19 vaccination camp site at Thanjavur Medical College Hospital after three health workers complained of giddiness for a few minutes.  Dean clarifies However, the Dean denied that the giddiness was caused by the administration of vaccine shot. The three workers, Manoharan (54), Vimala Mary (53) and Shanthi (48) took the first COVID-19 vaccination shot at around 8 a.m. on Saturday and went to attend their work at the hospital. A few hours later they complained of giddiness and fainted. Fellow health workers panicked as they were aware that the three had taken the vaccine at the hospital a few hours ago. However, a thorough examination of the three revealed that they had suffered from giddiness due to variations in blood pressure and sugar levels and not due to administration of the vaccine, said the Dean, S.Maruthu Durai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tension-at-hospital/article33834092.ece
14 February 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Father claims monkeys killed girl child||Personnel attached to the Thanjavur West police station are investigating the cause of death of an eight-day-old girl, reportedly taken away by some monkeys from a house in the West Rampart area in the town on Saturday. According to the police, they received a complaint from Raja of West Rampart, stating that some monkeys had taken away his twin daughters when his wife had gone to the rest room. Subsequently, his wife raised an alarm and the neighbours located one infant on the tiled roof of the house, where a monkey was also spotted. The other girl was found in a moat nearby and was declared dead when taken to the GRMH.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/father-claims-monkeys-killed-girl-child/article33833721.ece
14 February 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Fungal disease affects paddy yield in Kiliyur and surrounding villages||With paddy harvest under way, farmers in Kiliyur and surrounding villages stare at huge loss as a fungal disease has halved the productivity. T. Sangilimuthu, a farmer in Kiliyur said that as against the usual yield of a minimum of 30 bags of rice obtained per acre, only half of it could be harvested this year. “We did not know our crop was affected by the disease till we began harvesting. Only then did we notice that half of the plants had to be thrown out,” he said While many farmers had sowed the Andhra Ponni variety which was known to be affected by the disease, CO (R) 50, a variety labelled by the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University has also been affected, said K. Tamilarasan, a farmer in Koothappar. “The Department of Agriculture discouraged us from sowing Andhra Ponni and asked us to take up other varieties such as the CO (R) 50 and CO (R) 48, and even these have been affected,” he said. Mr. Tamilarasan said that they have bills of purchase of the seed variety and would claim compensation for the losses. Mr. Tamilarasan said that irregular rains, especially in January ruined the crop in Kiliyur, Koothappar, Natarajapuram and other villages nearby. The Tamil Nadu Agricultural University should come up with better disease-resistant varieties, he said and urged the government to sanction compensation to farmers who had suffered losses. “Those who have taken crop loans have been saved, but many of us have invested our entire life's earnings into agriculture. The hire charge for harvester machine is Rs. 3,000 per day. The charge for a tractor is Rs. 500 per load and agricultural labourers charge Rs. 35 to clean one bag. When there is a disease-infested crop, all our money is wasted,” he said. An official, however, told The Hindu that no major disease attack has come to their notice in those villages though they conceded that there may be drop in yield due to the unseasonal rains. Farmers whose crops have sustained more than 33% damage have been enumerated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fungal-disease-affects-paddy-yield-in-kiliyur-and-surrounding-villages/article33834087.ece
14 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Chief Minister declares open bypass road||Chief Minister Edappadi K.Palaniswami formally declared open a bypass road around Manachanallur on the outskirts of the city, through video conference from Chennai, on Saturday. The bypass road on Tiruchi-Thuraiyur Road runs a length of about 2.64 km and laid at an estimated cost of Rs. 25.15 crore. It starts near Panguni Vaical (beyond Nochiyam) at Athani and joins Thuraiyur Road again beyond Manachanallur Taluk Office averting the need for motorists to go via narrow and congested roads in Manachanallur town. The green field road was laid after acquiring about seven hectares of land spread over Manachanallur, Uluthankudi and Poonampalayam revenue villages. The project was announced in 2012-13 budget session of Assembly. The bypass road comes as a relief to commuters as it will reduce travel time between Tiruchi and Thuraiyur considerably. It will avert frequent traffic snarls on Local Fund Road in Manchanallur. The government has issued a G.O. sanctioning Rs. 17 lakhs for preparation of a project report for the second bypass around Manachanallur. The Highways Department will call for tenders to identify a consultant to prepare the report. The second bypass for the town is planned from Vengankudi on Samayapuram-Manchanallur Road to Athani on Tiruchi-Thuraiyur Road, a distance of about 2.83 km. The road is expected to entail an investment of about Rs. 40 crore approximately. It will involve land acquisition, sources indicated. Vehicles heading towards Musiri/ Namakkal/ Salem and beyond from Tiruchi-Chennai Highway and those plying on the return direction can go through the proposed bypass without having to enter Tiruchi city and the busy No.1 Tollgate Junction. Similarly, those heading to Thuraiyur from Samayapuram can take the bypass roads and save substantial time and fuel by avoiding going via Manachanallur town, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-minister-declares-open-bypass-road/article33833779.ece
14 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 2.78 cr. sanctioned to prepare DPR for elevated corridor||The State government has sanctioned Rs. 2.78 crore for preparing a detailed project report (DPR) for constructing an elevated corridor from Anna Statue near Chinthamani to the railway junction in the city. The order sanctioning funds was issued recently and the Highways Department will soon begin the process of identifying the consultant to prepare the DPR by calling for tenders, say sources. The major project was one of development plans for the city outlined in the Highways Department grants tabled in the Assembly by the Chief Minister last year. A plan to build an elevated corridor was mooted several years ago to ease the congestion within the city, especially on the Chathiram Bus Stand, Gandhi Market and Palakkarai road stretch. Although the distance between the two points is hardly six km, it takes about 45 minutes for someone to commute by public transport on the stretch due to narrow roads and heavy traffic. Some years ago, the Tiruchi Corporation considered a plan to build an elevated corridor between Chathram Bus Stand and West Boulevard Road but did not pursue the project. Subsequently, the Highways Department mooted the idea and submitted a report to the government on building an elevated corridor between Chinthamani and the railway junction after former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa was elected from Srirangam constituency. The proposal was in the drawing board stage for long and the plan has been revived now. While the government move is expected to give a big thrust to road infrastructure development in the city that has been neglected for long, the project could take considerable time to reach the implementation stage.  A plan to build an elevated corridor was mooted several years ago to ease the congestion within the city, especially on the Chathiram Bus Stand, Gandhi Market and Palakkarai road stretch||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-278-cr-sanctioned-to-prepare-dpr-for-elevated-corridor/article33833782.ece
14 February 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Leverage technology, prospective women entrepreneurs told||Prospective women entrepreneurs were exposed to the methods of leveraging technology for their future ventures at a webinar recently, which was organised jointly by Siemens Centre of Excellence, National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi; Department of Women's Studies, Bharathidasan University; and Women Entrepreneurs' Association of Tamil Nadu. Participants were exposed to how artificial intelligence, Internet of Things, biometrics, robotics, and quantum computing, and server-less computing could be leveraged for employment generation. The discussion on the opportunities available to entrepreneurs and MSMEs on emerging technologies involved participation of the Vice-Chancellor of Bharathidasan University, M. Selvam, and Dean - Planning and Development, NIT-T, Duraiselvam. The discussion focussed on simplification of the process of production and services, and speedy delivery. The Vice-Chancellor, in his address, explained the utility of IOT, and elaborated on SWOC (strength, weaknesses, opportunities, challenges) analysis for enhancing capabilities with innovative information and quality quotients. Prof. Duraiselvam said consultancy service will be offered by NIT-T at a very competitive rate on the areas of machine learning, cloud computing, advanced manufacturing, electrical, automation, IOT, product design and validation. Women entrepreneurs will be supported on a priority basis, he said. N. Manimekalai, Head, Department of Women's Studies, Bharathidasan University, said the purpose of the programme was to encourage future women entrepreneurs to embrace emerging technologies for their start ups, on the platform of industry-institution collaboration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/leverage-technology-prospective-women-entrepreneurs-told/article33834085.ece
14 February 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||23 injured in jallikattu||Twenty-three persons were injured in a jallikattu at Periyakulathupatti in Manapparai taluk on Saturday. Two among them were admitted to Manapparai Government Hospital for treatment. Ten among the injured were bull tamers, nine were spectators and four were bull owners, police said. As many as 747 bulls were sent through the vaadivasal following a thorough medical check-up by veterinarians. As many as 254 tamers took part in the event, while 10 were rejected for various reasons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/23-injured-in-jallikattu/article33833745.ece
14 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||52 COVID-19 cases reported||The central region reported 52 COVID-19 cases, but no deaths, on Saturday. Thanjavur reported 15 cases and Tiruchi 13. Six patients were discharged from Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. The other six districts in the central region reported less than 10 fresh cases each. Eight fresh cases were reported in Nagapattinam and six in Tiruvarur.Five patients tested positive in Karur district. In Pudukottai, three patients tested positive, while Ariyalur and Perambalur districts both reported one fresh case each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/52-covid-19-cases-reported/article33833787.ece
14 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mini marathon today||The Tiruchi City police will organise a mini marathon on Sunday as part of the ongoing 32nd Road Safety Awareness month. The event is being organised to create an awareness of the importance of wearing helmet while riding a two-wheeler and seat belt while driving a four-wheeler. Commissioner of Police J. Loganathan and Collector S. Sivarasu will flag off the 5-km run which will start from Thennur Uzhavar Sandhai ground at 6 a.m. and culminate at the roundabout near Anna stadium. Those aged above 18 years can take part in the run. Participants should fill up google sheethttp://bit.ly/tcp-marathon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mini-marathon-today/article33834088.ece
14 February 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Child rescued||A three-year-old girl found wandering on Mela Veedhi here was rescued and handed over to a Home for Children in Ariyalur district on Saturday. The Tiruvarur Town police received information that a girl without any attendant was wandering in the Mela Veethi area from the early morning hours. Subsequently, the child was secured and brought to Tiruvarur Government Medical College Hospital and later handed over to the home at Elakuruchi in Ariyalur district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/child-rescued/article33833785.ece
14 February 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Complaint against Law Minister||An office bearer of the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagan lawyers wing has lodged a complaint with the Tiruvarur Town Police on Saturday seeking action against Law Minister C.Ve. Shanmugam for his alleged derogatory remarks against the AMMK leader T.T.V. Dhinakaran and his family. The complainant, Ravichandran, State Joint Secretary, Lawyers Wing, AMMK, alleged that Mr. Shanmugam has violated the oath of office he had taken while assuming charge as the Minister as his remarks against the R.K. Nagar MLA, T.T.V. Dhinakaran, and his family had caused hurt the feeling of AMMK cadres. The Minister’s remarks had not only wounded the hearts of the AMMK cadres but also sowed the seeds for a tense situation across the State hence Mr. Ravichandran demanded legal action against Mr. Shanmugam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/complaint-against-law-minister/article33833747.ece
14 February 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Five mentally ill persons rescued||Five wandering mentally ill persons were rescued in Mannargudi and handed over to an NGO at Thiruthuraipoondi on Thursday. Nesakaram, a federation of social service organisations and traders’ associations in Mannargudi, identified these persons and initiated steps to get them lodged at Nambikkai Home for the Mentally Ill at Thiruthuraipoondi. They were taken to Government District Headquarters Hospital where their health status was checked. Later, they were taken to the office of the Circle Inspector of Police, Mannargudi, where they were handed over to the NGO after completing due procedure. Talking to The Hindu , Soundararajan of the Home said that 40 mentally ill persons were being treated there. Personal care would help their recovery so that they could be reunited with their families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-mentally-ill-persons-rescued/article33833776.ece
14 February 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Movement of heavy vehicles restricted||Movement of heavy vehicles through the Bazaar streets in Mannargudi has been restricted to 12 hours in a day. Disclosing this at a meeting organised by Mannargudi Traders’ Association on Saturday, Deputy Superintendent of Police Ilanchezhian said the decision to restrict the movement of heavy vehicles through Mela Raja Veedhi to Government District Headquarters Hospital through Pandhaladi was taken to ensure safe movement of public and other vehicles between 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. through these areas. The DSP urged the traders to shut down their business, including eateries, before 11 p.m. and install closed-circuit television cameras to help check anti-social activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/movement-of-heavy-vehicles-restricted/article33833777.ece
14 February 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Black storks sighted in the Sigur plateau||A group of six black storks ( Ciconia nigra) , most likely to be passage migrants, were photographed recently in the Sigur plateau in the Nilgiris. Murali. M, a wildlife photographer who records winter migrants to the Sigur plateau each year, photographed the storks. He said the sighting of the black stork in this region was extremely rare. “There has been a previous record in Nagarhole in Karnataka, but they seem to have been very rarely recorded in the Nilgiris,” said Mr. Murali. Though the species is classified by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) to be of “Least Concern” due to their wide geographical range – extending across parts of Europe, Asia and Africa, the population of the species is believed to have declined sharply in the last few decades. Researchers familiar with the study of storks and wetland bird species said that over the last few years, there had been sightings of the black stork in Coimbatore as recently as 2019. “The population of not just the black stork, but other wetland birds too has declined sharply in the last few decades. This can be due to a number of reasons, including habitat loss and dramatic change in local habitats. There are even conservation plans for black storks to improve their wintering conditions in Europe,” said a researcher studying wetland bird species in Tamil Nadu. “Like most species, we need continuous monitoring of the black stork during its winter migration. The wetlands this species and others use have to be identified and protected to ensure that there is no further decline in the populations of these birds,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/black-storks-sighted-in-the-sigur-plateau/article33833726.ece
14 February 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Restrictions for temple fest||The Nilgiris district administration has announced a slew of restrictions to be followed during the Bokkapuram temple festival to be held from February 19 to 23. Pujas as usual Though pujas and other ceremonies will be held as usual, the car festival will not take place during the five-day event Pilgrims from outside the Nilgiris, people who are unwell, senior citizens and children have been asked not to attend the festival. Pilgrims will not be allowed to set up tents around the temple to stay for the course of the festival, and permission has been denied for temporary shops around Bokkapuram. Devotees visiting the temple have been urged to maintain personal distancing and use hand sanitizers and masks to minimise the chance of contracting or spreading COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/restrictions-for-temple-fest/article33833744.ece
14 February 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore logs 8 new cases||The COVID-19 case tally in Vellore district reached 20,870 with eight new cases reported on Saturday. While 20,434 persons have been discharged, the active cases stand at 87. In Ranipet district, eight cases were reported taking the total to 16,181. In Tirupattur district, one case was reported and the total number of positive cases stood at 7,610. In Tiruvannamalai district, five new cases were reported, taking the total cases to 19,421. Out of this, 19,100 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 37.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-logs-8-new-cases/article33834097.ece
14 February 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Fireworks accident: toll goes up to 19||A pall of gloom enveloped villages around Achchankulam in Virudhunagar district, where Friday’s fire accident at the Sree Mariyammal Fireworks unit claimed 19 lives. After 15 workers succumbed to burns and injuries caused by flying debris late on Friday, the toll kept rising till Saturday morning. “We were able to establish the identity of 16 persons, including women. Identity of three bodies could not be ascertained,” Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan said. Stating that human error caused the accident, he said the administration would mount vigil on fireworks units to prevent the practice of leasing them out to multiple operators. Initial inspection of the premises by PESO officials on Friday revealed that it had been sub-leased to three or four persons. “Sub-leasing the unit to multiple operators is a serious violation of safety norms,” said Controller of Explosives K. Pandey. He said the practice could have led to the higher number of casualities. He was accompanied by Deputy Controllers of Explosives Nitin Goel and Amit Goel. Personnel attached to the Elayirampannai station have registered a case. The police have booked six persons. License holder M. Santhanamari, 55, and five persons who sub-leased the units — M. Sakthivel, 38, I. Raja, 46, B. Sivakumar, 50, and his son, S. Ponnupandi, 21, and A. Velaraj, 59 — were named. Of them, Ponnupandi has been arrested. Special teams have been formed to nab the other accused. Bodies of all 16 persons whose identities had been established were handed over to their family members after post-mortem examinations were conducted at government hospitals in Sattur, Sivakasi and Madurai. CPI State secretary Mutharasan, who visited families of the deceased at the Sattur GH, said action should be taken against officials who allowed violations at the unit. Stating that the fireworks industry had become an indispensable industry providing jobs to lakhs of employees, he said efforts should be made to make it safer. He sought Rs. 1 crore relief to family members of the deceased. CPI(M) district secretary K. Arjunan said the State government should ensure continous functioning of the fireworks industry, without the practice of leasing and giving out contracts. Efforts should be made to ensure the livelihood of the workers, but also make the workplaces safer. The deceased have been identified as G. Santhiya, 20; R. Karpagavalli, 22; D. Nesamani, 32; K. Thangalakshmi, 46; M. Panjavarnam; V. Backiyaraj, 40, and his wife Selvi, 40; P. Dhanalakshmi, 45; M. Usha, 35; K. Ravichandran, 58; R. Chinnathambi, 36; M. Rengaraj, 57; R. Kannan, 48; M. Sankaranarayanan, 60; P. Karuppasamy and M. Gopal, 30. In a separate accident at Krishnasamy Fireworks near Sivakasi, a working shed was destroyed on Saturday. One worker, Suresh, 31, sustained minor injuries. Personnel attached to the Maraneri police station are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-more-deaths-take-toll-in-fireworks-accident-to-19/article33833718.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Accident victim’s cash handed over to CMCH||A pilot and an emergency medical technician (EMT) of an ‘108’ ambulance handed over cash totalling over Rs. 1 lakh being carried by an accident victim to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital authorities on Saturday. According to sources, the pilot Suresh and EMT Gopalakrishnan handed over Rs. 1,20,547 to the CMCH administration while admitting Ravichandran, an accident victim. Ravichandran (54) was injured in an accident on 100 Feet Road in Gandhipuram at around 8 a.m. on Saturday. The duo noticed that two persons were allegedly trying to take the cash from the patient’s pockets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/accident-victims-cash-handed-over-to-cmch/article33833724.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Symbol of love||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/symbol-of-love/article33833806.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Bridge opened||A bridge built across the Koraiyar at Thirunallur in Pudukottai district was declared open by Chief Minister Edappadi K.Palaniswami through video conference from Chennai on Saturday. The bridge, built at a cost of Rs. 9.25 crore, will provide an additional link across the river between Viralimalai and Iluppur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bridge-opened/article33833788.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||TH14-02-2021-CITY-SABHA||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA Abbas Cultural.com/ Bharat Kalachar/Roshini Y.Gee. Mahendra presents TRIBUTE TO PB.SREENIVAS, The Man with the Golden Voice. Evergreen immortal songs of the legendary playback singer PBS composed by Music Director’s G. Ramanathan, Sudharsanam, K.V. Mahadevan & M.S. Viswanathan. To be Performed by O.S. Arun, Ananthu, Sai Vignesh, Nagesh, Janaki, Ramya, Anusha & Pavithra in Murali’s Mouna Raagam Live Orchestra. On Sunday, 21st February, 6.30 p.m. @ YGP Auditorium, PSBB School, T.Nagar. Seating with social distancing. Tickets @ bookmyshow.com. 9710633633. Laya Madhuraa - Sangeethothsavam 2021. (Mob. 9940142181) Today 10 a.m. Chaitra Sairam, Shraddha Ravindran, Bombay Sri Vishwa Prasanna, D.V. Venkatasubramaniam. 6.30 p.m. Kunnakudi M. Balamuralikrishna, Akkarai Subbulakshmi, Neyveli Narayanan, K.V. Gopalakrishnan. All are welcome. Ragasudha Hall. NARADA GANA SABHA (REGD) CHENNAI, Ph: 24993201 Today - Main Hall - 6.30 p.m. - Music - Auditorium Inauguration Day - Sid Sriram with Umayalpuram K. Sivaraman, Nagai R. Sriram & Dr. S. Karthick. Limited tickets available at the Hall for non-members. COVID 19 SOPs apply. Sri Thyaga Brahma Gana Sabha (Regd) Vani Mahal, Ph: 28152166 Today: 10.00 a.m. Rendering of Pancharatna Kritis by Eminent Vidwans & Vidhushis. At 6.30 p.m. Vocal concert by Smt. Brinda Manickavasakan, Sri. B. Ananthakrishnan (Violin), Sri. S.J. Arjun Ganesh (Mrudangam), Sri. Sai Subramanian (Morsing). Tomorrow till 17th Feb. 2021. Sangeetha Upanyasam on "Thyagaraja Vaibhavam" by Smt. Suchithra Balasubramanian - ALL ARE WELCOME. Entry as per Government SOP Guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/th14-02-2021-city-sabha/article33833697.ece
14 February 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Stop buying power from others, State govt. urged||“The State government should immediately stop purchasing power from Union government agencies and private companies such as the Adani Power Company, as power produced in the State exceeds the requirement,” Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah said on Friday. He was speaking at an event to launch development works in his constituency of Badami. He said that continued power purchase by the government had led to the shutting down of power generation at the Raichur Thermal Power Station (RTPS). “As of now, the State is producing 35,098 MW power against a demand of 11,000 MW. However, instead of selling this surplus power, the State government is buying power from private companies and other agencies,” he said. He said that development works worth Rs. 75 crore are being launched in his constituency. Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol and Social Welfare Minister B Sriramulu were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stop-buying-power-from-others-state-govt-urged/article33833832.ece
14 February 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘I’ll support a non-partisan AHINDA movement’||“I will support AHINDA agitation if Siddaramaiah were to lead it in a non-partisan manner,” Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi has said in Belagavi. Mr. Jarkiholi said that he strongly believed that it was a Congress-backed movement. “I am for the development and welfare of backward castes and other deprived communities. However, I don’t like to play politics over it,” he said. He said that Mr. Siddaramaiah lacked clarity on the AHINDA issue. “He is confused. If he gets clarity about it and leads a non-partisan movement, then leaders like me can join it,” he said. Minister for Food and Civil Supplies Umesh Katti said that the AHINDA movement had lost direction. “It has neither a proper history nor a clear future. People of the State have left it behind,’’ he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ill-support-a-non-partisan-ahinda-movement/article33833838.ece
14 February 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||A day after Yatnal gets notice, Katti and Jarkiholi defend him||Two Ministers, Umesh Katti and Ramesh Jarkiholi, have come to the defence of Basanagouda Patil Yatnal a day after the BJP high command issued a notice to him for alleged indiscipline. Food and Civil Supplies Minister, Mr. Katti, described the party notice as a “love letter.” “Such love letters keep coming. That is ok, but Mr. Yatnal has not been part of any anti-party activity. He is fighting for his community, which has my support. I have been a fighter all my life myself. I have fought for the welfare of north Karnataka. I have raised my voice whenever north Karnataka suffered injustice. I will continue to do so even if I have become a Minister,” Mr. Katti said. In the past, Mr. Katti has demanded statehood for north Karnataka citing “injustice” meted out to the region. Mr. Jarkiholi, Major and Medium Irrigation Minister, defended Mr. Yatnal saying he had not committed a mistake and had not violated party discipline. “Mr. Yatnal has not done any anti-party activity. I will speak to him. I know that it is not wrong to criticise, but he should keep his criticism within limits. I will tell him that,” he said. “He is a senior party leader and is the leader of a powerful community. Let him continue for the welfare of his community. That is all right,” Mr. Jarkiholi said. The BJP Central Disciplinary Committee has issued a show-cause notice to Mr. Yatnal over his statements that have embarrassed the government and the party in the State. BSY’s bitter critic A bitter critic of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, he has made several statements against him in the media, party fora, and on the floor of the House. In the recent Legislature session he had sought an answer from the Chief Minister on demand for reservation by Panchamashali (Lingayat) community, embarassing the former. Action against him was seen as long overdue by supporters of Mr. Yediyurappa. Meanwhile, refusing to be cowed down, Mr. Yatnal has said that he had no plans of apologising to anyone as he had not indulged in an anti-party activity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/katti-and-jarkiholi-come-to-the-defence-of-yatnal/article33833636.ece
14 February 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||State to take delegation to Delhi||Major and Medium Irrigation Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi will lead a delegation of Ministers to New Delhi to seek national project status for Upper Krishna and Bhadra basin projects and to seek faster clearances for the Kalasa Banduri projects. “I will be going to Delhi on February 21, along will with some Ministers and leaders. We will meet Union Water Resources Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and senior officers,” he said. “We will ask them to grant national project status to Upper Krisha and Bhadra basin projects. I think the Bhadra project is likely to get the status. If a project gets such a status, then the Centre contributes 90% and the state has to pay 10 % of the cost of the project,” he said. “We will hold a meeting with Mohan Katarki, State’s counsel, in New Delhi and discuss the status of the Mahadayi water dispute with him,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-to-take-delegation-to-delhi/article33833841.ece
14 February 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Govt. urged to release funds for projects||Former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah has urged the government to release funds for the various drinking water supply and lift irrigation projects planned in the State. “As Chief Minister, I sanctioned drinking water projects to Badami and Kerur, and the Kerur Lift Irrigation Scheme at a cost of Rs. 500 crore. But the present government has failed to release funds for the project. I request Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and the Ministers concerned to release necessary funds,” he said. “I have already spoken to Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi in this regard.” He urged Deputy Chief Minister Govind M. Karjol to start a Government Medical College in Bagalkot. “As district in-charge Minister, it is the responsibility of Mr. Karjol to take it forward,” he said. Mr. Karjol responded by saying that the COVID-19-induced lockdown had affected the State’s finances, but the government was neither stopping nor delaying any development programmes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-urged-to-release-funds-for-projects/article33833845.ece
14 February 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Hebbalkar from Gokak?||Congress MLA Lakshmi Hebbalkar has said that she does not rule out the possiblity of her contesting from Gokak in the coming elections. “I will do that if the party wants me to,” she told journalists at the Sambra Airport here on Friday. She said that as a Congress leader, she would work hard to see that the party wins all seats in the district and beyond.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hebbalkar-from-gokak/article33833831.ece
14 February 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Region-specific foodgrains likely to come under PDS||Minister for Food and Civil Supplies Umesh Katti has said that he is introducing wide ranging reforms in his departments such as distributing region-specific foodgrains and weeding out ineligible beneficiaries of below poverty line ration cards. “We want to distribute Jowar to people of North Karnataka and Ragi to those in the south. I have requested the Union Food Minister Raosaheb Patil Danave that the Centre give us Jowar and Ragi instead of rice and wheat, proportionally. He has promised to look into the matter. We hope to introduce these region-specific foodgrains by April this year,” he said. He said that the government will weed out ineligible beneficiaries of below poverty line ration cards strictly. “The rules say that those with a annual income of Rs. 1.2 lakh cannot get BPL cards. The rules also say that those who have over five acres of land, a motorbike, a TV or a refrigerator cannot be granted BPL cards. We will implement the rules strictly,” the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/region-specific-foodgrains-likely-to-come-under-pds/article33833840.ece
14 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Sewage pits’ start appearing in Puttenahalli lake||Often touted as a success story of lake rejuvenation in the city, Puttenahalli Lake at J.P. Nagar has been in the news in the recent past more owing to threats to its existence. The latest in the list is of alarmed residents and caretakers noticing the formation of “pits” in the lake filled with dark coloured water. It all started when the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) started cleaning the lake recently, said trustees of the Puttenahalli Neighbourhood Lake Improvement Trust (PNLIT). “After draining the lake, they began to remove the contaminated soil from the surface in some places and further below at others. A fortnight ago, these pits filled with black water and at other places, damp patches formed where weeds began to grow. The underground water was getting exposed by the digging we thought, but the patches became pools which grew in number and size,” said one of the trusties. According to PNLIT, on February 3, the staff at the lake reported that water was entering the wetland through one of the inlet pipes which discharged surface run off from an apartment complex, which turned out to be false. Attention was turned towards the UGD installed by the BWSSB last year. “The ward office sent a contractor to locate the source and plug it. By then, there was some seepage from below the inlet pipes as well. He suggested that we block the pipe with sandbags. The back flow would indicate possible source which could be repaired. The sandbags remained in place and dry though the seepage from below the pipes increased as did the water level in the lake. In just four days, by February 7, many of the pools had not only grown but, they and the trenches dug by the excavators had vile, floating mass which was visible from a distance. We knew only too well that it was sewage once again,” the PNLIT trustees said. Not the first time They pointed out that this was not the first time that sewage had threatened the lake, with what started in 2017 as an occasional trickle of sewage from the UGD at Nataraja Layout becoming a regular feature, even leading to a massive fish-kill in March 2018. The BWSSB started replacing the existing UGD with a bigger one in August 2019, but that has not been free from problems, with challenges from illegal houses on one side and sewage on the other. When contacted,BWSSB officials admitted that there was a blockage in the underground drain. “It will be repaired soon,” said the official. “From 2010, working closely with the BBMP, residents from the neighbourhood and CSR partners toiled to bring a dry lake back to life. We overcame several obstacles on the way but 11 years later, the biggest two still remain — encroachment and sewage. If this situation continues, we will soon have to say, ‘Once there was a tank called Puttenahalli Puttakere’,” the trustees said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sewage-pits-start-appearing-in-puttenahalli-lake/article33833599.ece
14 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Hike in fuel price begins to have a cascading effect on essentials||The rise in diesel price by over 6% (around Rs. 5 a litre) in the State since the beginning of the New Year has already begun to have a cascading effect. The transport cost of essential commodities such as foodgrains and vegetables has shot up, and is expected to be passed on to customer soon. “When the crude oil prices are relatively low in the international market, we don’t understand why the Union and State governments are increasing taxes and cesses on fuel. An increase of even Rs. 1 in diesel price will lead to inflation and burden common people,” said G.R. Shanmugappa of the Karnataka State Lorry Owners’ Association. He said the recent rally in diesel prices was already making itself felt. “Our costs are shooting up. While we will pass it on to the traders, they would eventually pass it on to the consumers,” he said. The lorry yards at most APMC yards in the State have been witness to bargains and in some cases boycotts by transporters demanding a hike in the trip rates to accommodate diesel price rise. “At most yards, transporters are demanding a hike of Rs. 50 per quintal of foodgrains on every trip. As of Friday, we have negotiated it down to Rs. 20 per quintal of foodgrains being transported. That is already a hike of Rs. 0.20 per kg in the wholesale market,” said Ramesh Chandra Lahoti, chairman, APMC Committee, Federation of Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FKCCI). The price rise in the retail market will only add on to the hike in the wholesale market. “The fuel price hike has increased the cost price of commodities for us as the transport cost has gone up, over which we will have to accommodate our retail margin,” said Raju Sundaram, a retailer from Vidyaranyapura. Thus, the fuel price hike has already led to cost escalation at both wholesale and retail markets, which will eventually be passed on to consumers. “If there is a further hike in diesel price, transport costs will further go up, leading to inflation,” Mr. Lahoti said. Vegetable prices Meanwhile, vegetable prices has already started rising. “The transportation cost to take vegetables from the farm to the market has been increasing almost every day. This is obviously reflected in the price,” said G. Sannamune Gowda, a farmer from Devanahalli. A procurement chief of a prominent retail chain attributed the rise in vegetable prices to low supply during winter, but added that the fuel price hike would make the situation worse. ( This is the second of a three-part series on the impact of the fuel price rise )  At most yards, transporters are demanding a hike of Rs. 50 per quintal of foodgrain on every trip. As of Friday, we have negotiated it down to Rs. 20 per quintal being transported. That is already a hike of Rs. 0.20 per kg in the wholesale market. Ramesh Chandra Lahoti,chairman, APMC Committee, Federation of Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industry||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hike-in-fuel-price-begins-to-have-a-cascading-effect-on-essentials/article33833596.ece
14 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Administering second dose of vaccine to begin from tomorrow||The State will start the second dose vaccination of healthcare workers from Monday. A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting with officials from the Centre. This is despite a WHO panel suggesting an interval of 8-12 weeks between doses. COVID-19 experts in the State have also suggested that giving the second dose after eight weeks not only offers higher efficacy but will also give ample time to plan and cover more people. However, the State cannot take a call on its own and has to follow the Centre’s guidelines that say the second dose should be given 28 days after the first. In Karnataka, a total of 13,408 healthcare workers had taken the vaccine on Day 1 of the drive that began on January 16. Most were administered Covishield and were due for the second dose on February 13. Giridhara Babu, member, State’s Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), who heads Lifecourse Epidemiology at Indian Institute of Public Health, said he had in his individual capacity suggested to the State government to propose an 8-week interval between doses. “I have been saying this from the beginning and have tweeted about it several times. I am not sure why the Government of India is not yet considering changing the interval between doses. There is clear evidence that the efficacy is high if the second dose is given after 8-12 weeks,” he said. Pointing out that an expert WHO panel has suggested an 8-12 week interval between two doses, Dr. Babu said the vaccine experts have to take a call now. V. Ravi, former senior professor and head of Neurovirology at NIMHANS, also a TAC member, said he had also suggested that the gap between doses be at least eight weeks. “Maybe the government, which is already dealing with vaccine hesitancy, is concerned that the drop out rate will be high if the second dose is delayed beyond 28 days,” he said. C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said although evidence suggests that the efficacy is better if the interval between two doses is high, it is better to stick to the schedule of vaccination. “According to the factsheet of Covishield, if the second dose is taken within six weeks from first dose, the efficacy is 53.2%. It increases to 60.5% if the spacing is 9-11 weeks. If it is 12 weeks apart, it would be 78.7%. But the Centre has chalked out a protocol that has to be followed. Otherwise the entire vaccination programme and timeline will be disrupted,” he said. Meanwhile, the State has achieved a cumulative coverage of 47% with 5,17,185 of the targeted 11,08,558 healthcare and frontline workers vaccinated so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/administering-second-dose-of-vaccine-to-begin-tomorrow/article33833651.ece
14 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KGA to prune over 1,000 trees||As threats to the Garden City’s green cover continue to rattle citizens, a move to prune over a 1,000 trees has invited the wrath of environmentalists. On the one hand, the government’s plan to create a “tree park” within Bengaluru’s Turahalli forest has caused anger among local residents. In another part of the city, the Karnataka Golf Association’s (KGA) move to prune a large number of trees on its premises has not gone down well with environmentalists. They alleged that the KGA has sought the Forest Department’s permission to prune/trim over 1,400 trees of the 3,000-odd trees on its courses in east Bengaluru for maintenance. Though the Bengaluru DCF was unavailable for comment, KGA office-bearers confirmed the move, but termed it as a part of annual maintenance. Environmentalists such as film-maker Suresh Heblikar questioned the move. “We have been seeing Bangaluru being deprived of its environmental assets such as lakes, forests, and patches of tree clusters at a fast pace. At least the private sector like clubs and other organisations where there are enlightened people should be able to promote the environment rather than destroy trees, lakes and grasslands which the city has,” he said. Prithviraj Raj Urs, honorary secretary, KGA, told The Hindu that the exercise was a part of the golf course’s official annual maintenance. “We’ve been doing this for the last four or five years. We have a large number of trees on the premises, many of which separate the different sides of the courses. They also add to the difficulty (of the game) as it is easy to hit from one side to the other if it is open,” he explained. While M.G. Bhat, captain, KGA, maintained that they had received the department’s nod to prune the trees, Mr. Urs said all trees for which permission was sought would not be pruned or trimmed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kga-to-prune-over-1000-trees/article33833606.ece
14 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Survey of street children: HC summons officials||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday summoned senior officers of the police, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), and the State government on February 18 at 4.30 p.m. to ensure their cooperation in conducting a survey to identify street children in the city. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum issued the direction after noting that several officers of the BBMP, the police, and the State government had failed to attend a recent meeting convened by the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA) to deliberate on the modalities of the survey. H. Shashidhar Shetty, member secretary, KSLSA, in his report submitted to the court, cited non-cooperation from officials while pointing out that assistance of the BBMP and the police was essential for mapping street children. It appears that nothing moves unless the court directs the officers, the Bench orally observed, while pointing out the need for proper cooperation and coordination to conduct the survey. The report also pointed out that only a few NGOs agreed to participate in the survey after being told that they had to render their service for a public cause. The High Court, while hearing a PIL petition filed by Letzkit Foundation, had directed the KSLSA to conduct a survey of children selling toys, flowers, and other articles on streets after the BBMP and the government failed to take steps to collect the data to initiate measures for their education and welfare. The KSLSA informed the court that it had conducted several rounds of observations in 432 spots across the city where children are generally found selling these articles, and has counted 800 children, though their physical identification is yet to be done through the survey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/survey-of-street-children-hc-summons-officials/article33833848.ece
14 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC notice to govt. on law enacted to nullify courts’ verdicts for protecting officers||The High Court of Karnataka has ordered issue of notice to the State government on a petition questioning the law enacted in 2019, giving it retrospective effect from 1994, to protect some public servants whose selections through the Karnataka Public Service Commission were found to be illegal by the courts in 2016. A Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum, passed the order on a PIL petition filed by Khaleel Ahmed K.R. and 13 others. Constitutional validity The petitioners have questioned the constitutional validity of the Karnataka Civil Services (Procedure for selection of candidates during recruitment) Act, 2018, enacted in January 2019 with a retrospective application from May 3, 1994. The new law was brought into force to protect the services of those officers whose selections, made to the posts of Group A and B Gazetted Probationers in the batches of 1998, 1999 and 2004 by the Karnataka Public Service Commission (KPSC), were found to be made in violation of the rules. The Act has declared that selection of candidates made to these posts based on various government orders through competitive main examinations, preliminary tests, final and additional selection list would be valid irrespective of judgements of courts or tribunal. Implementation of the courts’ judgement would have resulted on some officers losing their job, posts of some others being down grated from the Group A posts to Group B posts, and elevation in posts for some from the stages of their original recruitment. Instead of carrying out the directions of the High Court and the Supreme Court, the government, in order to protect the “beneficiaries of fraud” has enacted the legislation to circumvent the orders of the court though the State cannot resort to the path of legislation to protect those whose selections were found to be illegal by the courts, the petitioners have argued. Promotions The petitioners have also alleged that several tainted candidates, who were the beneficiaries of the fraudulent selection, have been promoted as IAS and IPS cadres during the pendency of a litigation before the apex court and they continue to remain in the IAS and IPS category even after apex court ruled against their original selection to Group A and Group posts. “After enacting the law in 2019 to protect those officers selected through the process declared to be tainted by the courts, the government is now contemplating to promote a few more officers to IAS and IPS cadre cadre by perpetuating the illegality,” the petitioners have contended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/officers-services-hc-notice-to-govt-on-law-to-nullify-court-verdicts/article33833640.ece
14 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Centre’s support sought to utilise mining fund||Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani called on Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi in Delhi on Saturday and raised the issue of the accumulated fund of Rs. 18,000 crore, collected out of fines and levies from iron ore mines under the direction of Supreme Court. Mr. Nirani urged Mr. Joshi to extend legal and administrative help in getting the accumulated funds to the State’s kitty so that implementation of Comprehensive Environmental Plan for Mining Impact Zone (CEPMIZ) can be taken up in the State. The fund has been accumulated over the last six years. Directions from the SC are required to go ahead with the implementation of CEPMIZ to rehabilitate the mining ravaged areas in the three districts of Ballari, Chitradurga and Tumakuru. Mr. Nirani informed Mr. Joshi about the collection of Rs. 2,200 crore under the District Mineral Fund in several districts and requested him to extend necessary help from the Centre to carry out welfare schemes. He raised issues related to mining activities of Karnataka State Minerals Corporation Ltd. (KSMCL) that are pending clearance at the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/centres-support-sought-to-utilise-mining-fund/article33833647.ece
14 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cash-strapped RTCs keen on fare increase||The upward trajectory of fuelprices is crippling the already cash-strapped road transport corporations. They are likely to approach the State government seeking revision in bus fares to compensate for the revenue loss. Last year, around this time, corporations were purchasing diesel at Rs. 62.51 per litre. Today, they are paying Rs. 76.22 per litre (bulk purchase cost), an increase of over 20% at a time when people, for the most part, are still avoiding public transport for fear of contracting COVID-19. On account of poor ridership after the lockdown, RTCs have already incurred a loss of Rs. 2,500 crore. Shivyogi C. Kalasad, MD of KSRTC, said, “A revision of bus fares is required to meet increasing operational cost. Moreover, the fares applicable for Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) have not been revised for seven years. Last February, Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) was allowed to revise fares, but it has not made any significant change in revenue collection post-COVID-19.” He added that the matter was broached with the Transport Minister. “It is still in the preliminary stage of discussion. We have not formally approached the government seeking a revision of fares,” he said. All the four corporations (KSRTC, BMTC, NEKRTC, and NWKRTC) purchase 48,960 kilolitres of diesel every month. “There has been a consistent increase in the price of fuel. We are paying 25% more compared to April 2020. After schools and colleges started re-opening, we have started running buses on almost all the routes, but ridership remains low,” said Mr. Kalasad. Burden of passes Another financial burden is student passes. The government’s share in subsidised passes has reduced from 50% to 40% while that of students has come down from 25% to 8%. “The respective corporations bear the rest of the cost. Over the last six years, cumulatively, Rs. 3,000 crore was due from the State government as its share for the subsidised passes. Of this, Rs. 1,500 crore was released to pay the staff after the outbreak of the pandemic,” he added. The corporations have also sought concession from paying Motor Vehicle Tax. Every year, they pay Rs. 300 crore. Another concession sought is on payment of sales tax on diesel, which comes up to around Rs. 500 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cash-strapped-rtcs-keen-on-fare-increase/article33833851.ece
14 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Pruning unavoidable in situations, but has to be done scientifically’||Pruning as an exercise is unavoidable in many situations, but what is important is to do it scientifically, say experts. In cities such as Bengaluru, pruning is often carried out on roadside trees and in parks to facilitate free movement of people, while in other set-ups like coffee plantations, pruning of shade trees become essential. R. Sundararaj, Scientist G and head, and R. Raja Rishi, Scientist E, from the Forest Protection Division, Institute of Wood Science and Technology, say pruning with a higher level of care is recommended in landscape trees like parks to maintain their structural integrity and aesthetics, while forest trees grow quite well with only self pruning. “Removal of foliage through pruning can reduce growth and stored energy reserves. In contrast, pruning invaluable wood species such as teak and sandalwood are recommended by experts and followed by tree growers. It is striking how invisible effects of pruning to the trees are extensive and they are unnoticed until they break down or die. Pruning causes significant health stress for the tree as it damages the bark which is the first-line defence against wood decay fungi and wood borers and ends up with total destruction of the tree,” they explained. Pruning also causes extension of the length of lower branches, busy branching, and loss of balance, leading to easy breaking by wind, while pruning during the rainy season leads to the entry of an array of decay pathogens through the cut ends, causes internal decay, makes the stem hollow, and allows the rainwater to go, resulting in severe decay, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pruning-unavoidable-in-situations-but-has-to-be-done-scientifically/article33833594.ece
14 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Accident leads to arrest of gang involved in rape||It was a freak accident near Esteem Mall at Hebbal on February 11 morning that helped the police crack down on the gang that allegedly raped a woman after robbing a businessman and stealing his car. The gang had been giving the North-east division police many a sleepless nights after committing a series of car-jackings and thefts. On the night of February 10, the situation escalated when the accused intercepted a car at Kogilu Cross, assaulted the owner, robbed him of his mobile phone, and forced him out of the car before driving off. Three gang members — Shabareesh, Imran Pasha and Murali — drove the car towards Yelahanka New Town where they forced a woman — a domestic help on her way to work — into the car, drove to an isolated location and gang-raped her. All three accused are in their 20s. The fourth accused, Ranjith, 30, however, was not with them but met with an accident that helped the police nab the others. “He owned a goods vehicle, which the gang used to commit the robberies. Ranjith would drive them to various parts of the city so that they could identify and attack victims,” said apolice official. After they robbed the car, Ranjith drove off in his goods van with the stolen mobile phone, but lost control of the vehicle near Esteem Mall and rammed into a bus that was parked on the side of the road. The Hebbal traffic police rushedto the spot and shifted the injured to a hospital. “We found the phone and on further investigation realised that it was a stolen one,” the police official added. The Hebbal traffic police shared the details with their counterparts in the North-east Division who swung into action and located Shabarish early on February 11 morning. They arrested him after opening fire when he allegedly attempted to attack the police. Based on his confession, the police tracked down his associates Imran Pasha and Murali and arrested them too. “Ranjith was shifted to Nimhans where he is being treated for the injuries he sustained in the accident. The other three accused are in custody,” said the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/accident-stolen-phone-lead-to-arrest-of-gang-involved-in-rape/article33833604.ece
14 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Converting diesel engine tractors into CNG ones||The Karnataka-based MRN group, owned by Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh R. Nirani, who also runs a sugar production and other agro-based business, has signed a pact with Rawmatt Industries Pvt. Ltd. to convert 500 diesel tractors into CNG engine tractors in the first phase. The agreement was reached between Rawmatt and Vijay Nirani, Managing Director of MRN Group, during the launch of CNG tractor in New Delhi in the presence of Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, and Petroleum and Natural Gas Minister Dharmendra Pradhan.  Cost of conversion The cost of converting the diesel engine tractor into a CNG tractor was around Rs. 2 lakh to Rs. 2.5 lakh. The MRN group would set up CNG dispensation stations which include an engine conversion set up and CNG gas station at Bagalkot district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/converting-diesel-engine-tractors-into-cng-ones/article33833648.ece
14 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Save Turahalli’ walkathon||Continuing to up pressure against the government’s plan to create a tree park within the city’s Turahalli forest, a ‘#saveturahalli” walkathonhas been organised on Sunday from 6.30 a.m. Open to all, it will be a walk/run from 3 km to 10 km. This will be among the series of activities against the Forest Department’s plan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/save-turahalli-walkathon/article33833610.ece
14 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Parking ban on Brigade Road||The traffic police have banned parking on Brigade Road from Cauvery Emporium junction to Opera junction in view of Smart City project work. “Due to the work, one side of the road has been dug up and on the other side huge pipes have been stored. This has resulted in slow moving traffic on the road,” said a traffic police official. He added that the number of cars parked on the busy road increases during the weekends as entry of vehicles is prohibited on Church Street. Alternative parking has been arranged at Cafe Azzure building, which has a capacity for 50 cars and 150 two-wheelers. On M.G. Road, from Cauvery Emporium junction to Mayo Hall junction, arrangements have been made for 30 cars to be parked, while on the south side, only 20 cars will be allowed, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/parking-ban-on-brigade-road/article33833607.ece
14 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Tesla’s unit in Karnataka?||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said in a statement on Saturday that Elon Musk-owned Tesla will set up its electric car “manufacturing unit” in Karnataka. However, confusion prevailed on the status of the investment proposal with Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar in Hubballi saying that the State was “hopeful” of Tesla making more investments in Karnataka. The Industries Minister said that the e-vehicle manufacturer had chosen Bengaluru to set up its R& D centre. Mr. Shettar said the government wanted them to invest in Karnataka and was in talks with the company. “We are hoping that they choose Karnataka for their manufacturing unit,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/teslas-unit-in-karnataka/article33833590.ece
14 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: 419 new cases, four deaths||The State on Saturday reported 419 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total number of cases to 9,44,856. With four deaths, the toll rose to 12,263. This is apart from the 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. Discharged As many as 430 persons were discharged on Saturday, taking the total number of recoveries to 9,26,664. Of the remaining 5,910 active patients, 135 are being monitored in ICUs across the State. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.63%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 0.95%. Testing As many as 66,050 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 62,203 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 1,78,95,155.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-419-new-cases-four-deaths/article33833652.ece
14 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two foreign nationals held, drugs seized||The anti-narcotics wing of the Central Crime Branch (CCB) police arrested two foreign nationals and seized cocaine and ecstasy estimated to be worth around Rs. 15 lakh from them. According to the police, the duo, who hail from Nigeria, were residing in Bengaluru even after their visas had expired. The accused, identifiedas John Egwuatu Chinedu, 28, and Vincent Ejimofor, 37, were staying at B. Channasandra in Ramamurthynagar. A team led by inspector Lakshmikanthaiah, based on information about the duo storing drugs in a house and selling them to their customers, conducted a raid on the premises. “The house where the raid was conducted was being rented by John. Around 60 grams of cocaine and more than 10 grams of ecstasy were seized,” said a CCB official. According to the police, John has been staying in the city for the last three years while Vincent recently came to Bengaluru from Delhi. “They rented separate residences, but when we raided John’s house they were together.The duo supplied drugs for weekend parties and charged Rs. 7,000 to Rs. 8,000 for each gram of cocaine,” the police official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-foreign-nationals-held-drugs-worth-rs-15-lakh-seized/article33833611.ece
14 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||10 lakh doses||The State has so far got a total of 15,52,000 doses of Covishield and Covaxin. While 5,17,185 healthcare and frontline workers have been given the first dose so far, around 30,000 doses have been wasted due to various reasons. Health officials said the State now has a stock of over 10 lakh doses and vaccination for the remaining workers (for the first dose) will be done.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/10-lakh-doses/article33833649.ece
14 February 2021||Bengaluru:,KARNATAKA||‘Links with ring’||A realtor, Ravikumar, who was arrested last week in a drug case, allegedly has links with an international ring. The police say the accused, who has contacts among film stars and even BDA officials, sourced synthetic drugs from his contacts abroad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/links-with-ring/article33833612.ece
14 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Panel discussion on art education||National Gallery of Modern Art, Bengaluru, in association with Ananya Drishya will be organising a virtual panel discussion on “Reshaping Art Education in India” on February 18 at 5.30 p.m. It will be available live on https://www.facebook.c om/ngmablr The participants include Gulam Mohammed Sheikh, R Siva Kumar, G. Jayakumar, Department of Visual Arts, Bangalore University; and Ritu Khoda, Art 1 Foundation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/discussion-on-art-education/article33833597.ece
14 February 2021||bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM’s Gold Medal for five||Four officers and a Home Guard from Bengaluru North district will be conferred with the Chief Minister’s Gold Medal for their services in 2019. They are: Shivalinga A., Mahesh M., T. Bharathi, N. Prema, and M. Rajesh Jayasimha. Each will receive a gold medal and a purse of Rs. 5,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cms-gold-medal-for-five/article33833609.ece
14 February 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||It’s Open Day for children at police stations||The doors of police stations in Chikkamagaluru district were open to students on Saturday. Hundreds of children visited the stations and interacted with the officers on the day as part of the initiative – Open Day. The purpose of the programme was to make children understand the functioning of the police and assure them that police stations are ‘children friendly’, said Akshay M. Hakay, Superintendent of Police of Chikkamagaluru. Around 1,200 children participated in the programme across the district. The police staff invited them to the station and offered them chocolates. The senior police officers told children that police were appointed for the people’s good. They could walk in the station anytime with their problems. “The exercise was done to bridge the gap between the police and children. Whenever children face any issue, they can approach the police without fear”, the SP said. Recently the rape of a minor girl was reported in Sringeri. Several people had abused her over many months. The police are investigating the case and arrested 14 persons. There was another case of a minor raped in Mudigere taluk by a close relative. Such cases were also one of the reasons for holding the programme. “An initiative like this prompts the children to inform the police if any crime happening around them or if they themselves become victims of crime”, he said. The issues addressed during the interaction were good touch and bad touch, domestic violence, drug abuse, addiction among parents, cyberstalking, cyber pornography, among others. The SP said that it was a great experience for the police as well. “Many children expressed happiness about the initiative and felt that their faith in policing enhanced after interacting with the staff members”, the SP added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/its-open-day-for-children-at-police-stations/article33834018.ece
14 February 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Minister promises solution to elephant menace||Minister for Excise K. Gopalaiah has said the State government will find a permanent solution to the elephant menace in Hassan district. The budget to be presented by the Chief Minister would allocate funds for the purpose, he said. In a press conference in Hassan on Saturday, Mr.Gopalaiah, who is also Minister in charge of the district, said the government had understood the gravity of the issue. For decades the people in Sakleshpur and Alur taluks had been facing this problem. Many had lost lives in elephant attacks. “I have spoken to Forest Minister Aravind Limbavali on this issue. He will be coming for a meeting with people of Sakleshpur on February 16. We will listen to people affected by the elephant menace and find out a solution”, he said. Answering a question on the proposal for an elephant corridor, the Minister said the government would look into all possibilities. It would not be difficult to allocate Rs. 100 crore in the budget and take up the work, that would end the problem. Hassan MLA Preetham Gowda, and district BJP chief H.K. Suresh were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-promises-solution-to-elephant-menace/article33834015.ece
14 February 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Chikkamagaluru DC transferred||Chikkamagaluru Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautham has been transferred as Additional Commissioner of Commercial Taxes (Enforcement) in Bengaluru. K.N. Ramesh, who was Director of Tourism Department, will replace him. The State government issued an order to this effect on Saturday. Kumara, who was Additional DC of Chikkamagaluru, has been transferred as Chief Executive Officer of Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat. D. Bharathi, Chief Executive Officer of Hassan ZP, has been transferred as Director of Department of Agriculture Marketing Board in Bengaluru. B.A. Paramesh, who was earlier CEO of Hassan ZP, will return to the post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/chikkamagaluru-dc-transferred/article33834019.ece
14 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Street play, car rally mark National Road Safety Week in Hubballi||Deputy Commissioner of Transport Maruti Sambrani has said that it is the responsibility of every road user to strictly adhere to the traffic regulations and thereby prevent road accidents. Speaking at the launch of the 32nd National Road Safety Week programme at Kittur Chennamma Circle in Hubballi on Friday, Mr. Sambrani said that every year 1.5 lakh people lose their lives in road accidents and around five lakh people are becoming disabled due to injuries that they suffer in road accidents. Mr. Sambrani initiated a street play organised as part of awareness programme by beating the drum. He said that when compared to other nations, India is in the first place in road accidents. “That is why awareness programmes are being held to sensitise all road users. Drivers should drive their vehicles carefully adhering to traffic regulations and at the same time, pedestrians too need to be careful while crossing roads,” he said. CYCD troupe led by Chandrashekhar Kale staged a street play on road safety and also presented awareness songs on road safety. On the occasion, pamphlets on road safety were distributed among drivers of various vehicles and the general public. Subsequently a car rally for awareness on road safety was flagged off from Kittur Chennamma Circle. District Road Safety Committee, District Administration, Police and Transport Department and various driving schools jointly organised the car rally which concluded at the Regional Transport Office at Gabbur Cross. Managing Director of NWKRTC and HD-BRTS Krishna Bajpai, Regional Transport Officer Appayya Nalwatwadmath, Assistant Commissioner of Police A.S. Hosamani and others were present. In Dharwad An awareness programme on road safety was organised at JSS College in Dharwad on Friday as part the National Road Safety Week. Principal of the college Ajit Prasad urged the students to follow traffic rules strictly and also have patience while riding their vehicles. Motor Vehicle Inspector P.R. Desai asked the students to compulsorily secure driving licence and wear helmets with ISI mark. He also elaborated on the precautionary measures to be taken while riding two-wheelers and driving four-wheelers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/street-play-car-rally-mark-national-road-safety-week-in-hubballi/article33833836.ece
14 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Bill on special investment zone soon: Shettar||Minister for Large and Medium Industries Jagadish Shettar said that with the objective of facilitating industrial development in backward districts and taluks, a new law for establishment of special investment zones with a focus on Hubballi-Dharwad, Shivamogga, and Kalaburagi will be formulated soon. Speaking at Hubballi on Saturday, he said that taluks identified as backward industrially had been grouped according to the zones. “The objective is to ensure industrial development in tier-2 and tier-3 cities and also in rural areas. And to facilitate the same special investment zones will be created and separate incentives and rebates will be provided. In the forthcoming session, the Special Investment Zone Bill will be tabled,” Mr. Shettar said. The Minister said that with the recent amendments to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, now people who were not into farming or not owning farmlands could also purchase agricultural land. “With this amendment now industrialists can buy required agricultural land and convert the same for industrial use by following necessary guidelines and making self declaration. They can immediately start construction activities and get the required permits in the next three years,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bill-on-special-investment-zone-soon-shettar/article33833638.ece
14 February 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Left, progressive forces divided in the name of ideological differences’||Recalling the contribution made by senior Communist leader Maruti Manpade, who recently passed away, Shivaganga Rumma, professor, Central University of Karnataka, has said that Mr. Manpade had a great quality of uniting people with diverse political and ideological affiliations under a common banner to create a strong force against injustice. “Left and progressive forces are divided in the name of ideological differences these days. The ideologies should form a basis to unite the people and not divide them. The division among the progressive forces has helped those in power to exploit people and oppress their movement. Maruti Manpade was one among those who always tried to unite the progressive forces in struggles against a common cause. In this pathetic situation of a divided society, Maruti Manpade’s absence is strongly felt,” Ms. Rumma said. She was addressing a programme organised by Maruti Manpade’s followers in Kalaburagi on Saturday. Razak Ustaad, vice-president of Hyderabad Karnataka Horata Samiti, said that Manpade, who had organised farmers and workers and led many a struggle for over three decades, had oriented his uncompromising struggles to the larger goal of creating an egalitarian society. “As we all know, Manpade had great concerns for farmers and workers. He led many a struggle and never compromised. His every struggle was not an isolated event but a part of the larger goal of creating an egalitarian society where all human beings live on an equal footing with dignity. He had clear ideological positions and vision for the future. He was the strong voice against the divisive forces that divided society along religion and caste lines,” Mr. Ustaad said. Sunil Manpade, son of Maruti Manpade, recalled how thousands of people stood by his family when he lost his father. “Even when he was on his deathbed, my father was discussing the hardships of people and means and ways to address them. He truly lived and died for people. His love for people was clearly evident from the fact that thousands of them attended his funeral amid COVID-19 restrictions,” he said, thanking people for their help to his family at a time of distress. Senior artist V.G. Andani, who presided over the event, held that Manpade was a bridge between people and governments striving for the welfare of the former. “Maruti Manpade believed more in street struggles than in negotiations when it came to people’s issues. He was among a few who quickly responded to people’s issues. Manpade was more concerned about people than his own family and his health. We need to take his struggles forward and realise his dreams,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/left-progressive-forces-divided-in-the-name-of-ideological-differences/article33833842.ece
14 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Use of solar fish dryers to be promoted in coastal region||Minister for Ports, Fisheries and Inland Water Transport S. Angara said on Saturday that the Fisheries Department will promote the use of solar fish dryers in the coastal belt. Speaking to media persons in Udupi, the Minister said that under the conventional method, fish is being sun-dried in open yards in an unhygienic manner. When fish is dried in solar dryers, nutrients can be retained and hygiene can be maintained. The matter would be discussed further in the department and later, a proposal will be sent to the government to promote it in the coastal belt. The Central Institute of Fisheries Technology (CIFT), under the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), in Kochi, has developed solar hybrid dryers designed to improve the hygiene and quality of dry fish and to ensure round-the-year operations. These dryers are an alternative to the tradition-bound sunlight-dependent dry fish processing. The solar dryers are popularised with financial assistance given by the Hyderabad-based National Fisheries Development Board. The Minister said that the Kochi model may be followed in the coastal belt. Mr. Angara said that he visited various fisheries harbours in Udupi this month. It is to understand the issues in those harbours and the problems being faced by fishermen. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has consulted the department in view of preparing the State Budget proposals for 2021-22. “We are expecting some grants in the State Budget for the fisheries sector to make it flourish,” he said. Referring to the slipway (for pulling up fishing boats for repair works) at Malpe Fisheries Harbour remaining non-operational, the Minister said that the project worth Rs. 2.39 crore will be put to use at the earliest. “I will ask the officials to take it up,” he said. The Minister said that he will conduct a meeting in Bengaluru on Tuesday and will seek more details about the marina project proposed at Padukare. Fishermen in Padukare are opposing the proposed project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/use-of-solar-fish-dryers-to-be-promoted-in-coastal-region/article33833991.ece
14 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Man arrested for taking video of woman having bath||The Ullal Police arrested a 40-year-old man accused of taking video of a woman having a bath in the bathroom of a hospital in the city. The police gave the name of the accused as Abdul Muneer alias Muneer (40) of Madani Nagar near Thokkottu. He was accused of taking video when the woman was taking the bath in the private hospital in Deralakatte on the night of January 20. After becoming aware that the woman noticed his act, the accused fled from the hospital. Following a complaint, Ullal Police looked into the CCTV footage of the hospital and other places and arrested the accused. Muneer has been charged under Section 354 (C) of the Indian Penal Code, the police said. The police team involved in tracing the accused was led by Ullal Police Inspector Sandeep G.S. and comprised Sub-Inspectors of Police Shivakumar K. and Revanasiddappa and police constables Prashanth, Akbar and Sagara Devakatti. Cocaine seized The Economic and Narcotic Crime Police arrested Supreet (35) of Bolar Marigudi on the charge of selling cocaine. The police seized 21.13 grams of cocaine worth Rs. 2 lakh, his two mobile phones and Rs. 2,000 in cash from him. The police said that Supreet has been accused of making an attempt to sell cocaine near the hostel of a medical college in Bejai on Saturday. The arrest was made by a team headed by Police Inspector Ramakrishna K.K. Arrested A special team of the city police arrested two persons said to be involved in the assault of a 45-year-old man near Pabbas in Lalbagh on the night of February 7. The police gave the names of the arrested persons as Mohammed Fayik (18) of Kudroli and Mohammed Shahil (19). A case has been registered against a minor boy also in connection with the incident. After road rage incident that involved the accused and 45-year-old Deepak Kumar, the former hit the latter with a sharp weapon. The police said that a search is on to find the other persons involved in the incident. The arrested persons were remanded to judicial custody after they were produced before the jurisdictional magistrate, the police said. The special team was led by Urva Police Inspector Mohammed Sharief and comprised Sub-Inspectors pf Police Srikala K.T., Dhanraj, Harun Akthar, Sheetal and Nagaraj.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-arrested-for-taking-video-of-woman-having-bath/article33833999.ece
14 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Man convicted of murder of wife, mother-in-law||Udupi Principal District and Sessions Judge Subrahmanya J.N. on Wednesday convicted a 44-year-old man of the murder of his wife and mother-in-law. Hearing on sentence will be held on Monday. According to the charge-sheet, Sanjay Kumar Datta, a native of Assam, worked as a manager in a factory in Baikampady. He was residing in Chitpady of Badagabettu village of Udupi taluk. He had frequent fights with his wife Archana. On April 20, 2015, Datta and Archana were seen having a heated exchange of words. When Archana’s mother Nirmala tried to intervene, Datta took a sickle and hit her. As Datta was dragging Archana out of the house, Nirmala tried to stop and she was again hit by the man with the sickle. Archana and Nirmala ran towards the house of their neighbour Srinivas. Datta followed them and hit Nirmala on her neck. Archana was assualted on her back too. Nirmala died outside the house of Srinivas. Archana died of injuries in a private hospital in Manipal on April 21, 2015. The police arrested Datta and charged him under Sections 302 (murder) and 498 A (subjecting married woman to cruelty) of the Indian Penal Code. Senior Public Prosecutor Shanti Bai adduced evidence of 25 witnesses, including Srinivas and Udupi Circle Police Inspector Srikanth K. Chain snatched Lakshmi (75) of Kalthodu village of Kundapur lost her gold chain worth Rs. 1 lakh while travelling on a bus on Thursday. According to a compliant to Kundapur Police, Lakshmi boarded Mookambika bus on Thursday evening at Hemmady for going to her daughter’s house in Belthur. When she got down at Belthur, she found her gold chain missing. An offender snatched her gold chain weighing 25 grams when she was on the bus, she has said in her complaint.  On April 20, 2015, he quarrelled with his wife and assaulted her with a sickle  When his mother-in-law intervened, Datta assaulted her too||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-convicted-of-murder-of-wife-mother-in-law/article33833986.ece
14 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Varsity Evening College will be developed under PPP model’||Vice-Chancellor of Mangalore University P.S. Yadapadithaya said on Saturday that the university will hold a meeting this month-end to discuss matters relating to further developing the University Evening College, a constituent college of the university, at Hampankatta here on public-private partnership model. Speaking at a function organised to inaugurate new classrooms built under the Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA)/ University Grants Commission (UGC) project and laying the foundation stone for the construction of new rooms in the University College, the Vice-Chancellor said that the University College in the heart of the city is the symbol of pride of the university. At the same time, the University Evening College, which is in the premises of the University College, will also have to be developed further. Mangaluru City South MLA D. Vedavyasa Kamath said that he will take up any matters relating to the development of the two colleges with the government. The University College now is on the path of the development, he said. Zilla Panchayat president Meenakshi Shanthigodu inaugurated the classrooms. Mangalore University Project Monitoring and Evaluation Board Director K.S. Jayappa inaugurated the mathematics laboratory. Mr. Kamath presided over the meeting of the College Development Council later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/varsity-evening-college-will-be-developed-under-ppp-model/article33833998.ece
14 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Developing a culture of entrepreneurship is the need of the hour: Mohandas Pai||Chairman of Manipal Global Education Services Pvt. Ltd. T.V. Mohandas Pai has said that developing a culture of entrepreneurship is the need of the hour. He was delivering the keynote address at the virtual meet on “Promoting entrepreneurial ecosystem in Coastal Karnataka” on Friday. Mr. Pai said that youngsters these days have a lot of potential and they must be encouraged to take up innovation and entrepreneurship. The youngsters can be inspired by organising a series of interactive sessions with successful founders of great companies. He said that universities of the region must play a lead role in strengthening the entrepreneurial ecosystem by involving industry and all relevant stakeholders. Therefore, a common platform in the form of a consortium of universities and other stakeholders need to be developed. Conducting a grand challenge through consortium can create a larger impact. University courses must focus on developing high-quality skills and hands-on experiences. A structured implementation of these measures would result in more than 10 unicorns from coastal Karnataka in the next 10 years, he said. While inaugurating the meet, Vice-Chancellor, Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE), M.D. Venkatesh, stressed the need to develop regional economy by strengthening the entrepreneurial ecosystem beyond the boundaries of universities. He also emphasised on encouragement for entrepreneurship at home and even at the school level. All vice-chancellors of regional universities, chairman, Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Mangaluru chapter, representatives from various departments of Union and State governments, president, Indian STEP and Business Incubator Association (ISBA), co-founders of leading companies of the region and CEOs of incubators of the region shared their views as panellists. The meet was attended by students, faculty, entrepreneurs, startups and industry professionals. This meet was jointly organised by MAHE, Mangalore University, NITK Surathkal, Nitte (Deemed to be University), Yenepoya (Deemed to be University), Srinivas University, CII Mangalore Chapter, and IKP, a release from MAHE said.  ‘Youngsters these days have a lot of potential and they must be encouraged to take up innovation and entrepreneurship; they can be inspired by organising a series of interactive sessions with successful founders of great companies’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/developing-a-culture-of-entrepreneurship-is-the-need-of-the-hour-mohandas-pai/article33833989.ece
14 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Nandini River Festival in Sasihitlu next month, logo released||Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada K.V. Rajendra said on Saturday that river festivals should become the brand of the coastal belt, particularly Mangaluru, to attract tourists. He was speaking at a programme organised to release the logo of Nandini River Festival to be organised on the river Nandini at Sasihitlu for two days from March 20. The logo was released onboard the vessel Rani Abbakka at Bokkapatna. The Deputy Commissioner said that river festivals should become an annual feature to get tourists to the belt. But this year the festival should be organised with utmost care to prevent the spread of COVID-19. All steps should be taken in this regard. The tourists should be attracted with precautions. Moodbidri-Mulky MLA Umanath A. Kotian, who released the logo, said that the river festival should supplement the growth of tourism in the district and reflect the local culture. President of Dakshina Kannada Cooperative Milk Union Ltd. Raviraj Hegde said that the cooperative will extend all support to the festival to be held next month. Anjaneya Temple and Vyayama Shale, Sasihitlu, will organise the festival in cooperation with the Department of Youth Empowerment and Sports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nandini-river-festival-in-sasihitlu-next-month-logo-released/article33833996.ece
14 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Medical scheme introduced||TMA Pai Rotary Hospital, Karkala in Udupi district, has now been empanelled with the Employees State Insurance Scheme (ESIS) for offering secondary care medical services. Hence, ESI beneficiaries can avail themselves of cashless in-patient treatment under the Department of General Medicine, General Surgery, Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Paediatrics, ENT and Ophthalmology in the hospital. The beneficiaries will have to get a reference from their respective ESI Dispensary only, Kirthinath Ballal, Chief Medical Officer of the hospital, said in a statement here on Saturday. He urged the beneficiaries to make use of the facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/medical-scheme-introduced/article33833987.ece
14 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||More lakes to be restored from CSR funds, says Minister||Minister in charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar on Saturday said a meeting will be convened soon to discuss restoration of more lakes in Mysuru using the funds set aside by various industries and corporate houses under the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). Speaking to reporters after visiting the Hebbal Lake that is being restored to its original charm by the Infosys Foundation, he expressed happiness over the manner in which the lake has been conserved and developed, turning the place into a major lung space for the people in the vicinity. The Minister said that he has got an idea of making use of CSR funds for restoring more number of lakes and developing parks for increasing more lung spaces for the people of Mysuru. During his visit to the lake, the Minister telephoned Sudha Murthy, chairperson, Infosys Foundation, and appreciated the way the lake had been restored. He thanked her for all the efforts put in for bringing the lake back to its earlier glory. Mr. Somashekar said the lake is spread across 54 acres and a sum of Rs. 105 crore was being spent on restoring the lake, incorporating various works and technologies, including the sewage treatment plant, which fully recycles sewage before leaving it to the lake. Replication The same model can be replicated for the restoration of other lakes of Mysuru that are in need of attention, he felt, adding that the foundation has taken up the task of maintaining the lake for the next five years. On the encroachment of lakes, he said Minister for Minor Irrigation J.C. Madhuswamy will soon be holding a meeting in Mysuru with the department officials to discuss about encroachments and also take steps for clearing them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/more-lakes-to-be-restored-from-csr-funds-says-minister/article33834022.ece
14 February 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Mayoral polls: State BJP leadership yet to decide on alliance issue||Minister for Cooperation S T Somashekar, who is also the Minister in charge of Mysuru district, said the issue of BJP aligning with the JD (S) in the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) is yet to secure a clearance from the party’s state President Nalin Kumar Kateel and Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. Though the party in Mysuru is keen to have the first BJP Mayor for the City, Mr Somashekar told reporters that the issue of alliance with the JD (S) will have to be first discussed with the party’s state level leaders after a recommendation from the local leadership. “We will follow their instructions”, he said. The role of the Government in the regard ends with the announcement of the reservation matrix for the posts of Mayor and Deputy Mayor, he said. “We have just announced the reservation and in the coming days we will know… (if there will be alliance with JD (S) or not”, he said at a press conference here on Saturday. The JD (S) is, however, is yet to respond to the overtures of the BJP for the Mayoral polls. JD (S), which has 18 seats, has aligned with the Congress, which has 19 seats, in the 65-member MCC since 2018, leaving the BJP with 22 members to occupy the Opposition benches. While first Mayor of the term was Pushpalatha Jagannath from the Congress, the second term saw Tasneem from JD (S) occupy the coveted post. However, the BJP, which is the ruling party in the State, is keen to capitalise on the souring of the relations between JD (S) and Congress after the fall of the H D Kumaraswamy-led coalition Government in the State. CONGRESS: The Congress, meanwhile, is insisting that its alliance with JD (S) is still intact. Former Minister and Congress MLA representing Narasimharaja assembly segment in Mysuru Tanveer Sait said the party’s alliance with JD (S) will continue for the remaining three years of the MCC Council’s term. The alliance between the two parties struck in 2018 was for a duration of five years. He said he had held talks in the regard with former Minister and JD (S) MLA representing K R Nagar assembly segment S R Mahesh in the presence of the City unit Presidents of both the parties. Referring to former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah’s statement that the Congress was not in alliance with any party at the State level, Mr Sait said the decision in aligning with the JD (S) had been taken at the local level and the same enjoyed the sanction of the party’s state leadership. The matter will be discussed with the state leadership again and the alliance will continue with their permission, Mr Sait said.   The issue of alliance with the JD(S) will have to be first discussed with the party’s State-level leaders after a recommendation from the local leadership: Somashekar  Alliance with JD (S) will continue for the remaining three years of the MCC council’s term: Tanveer Sait||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mayoral-polls-state-bjp-leadership-yet-to-decide-on-alliance-issue/article33834024.ece
14 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||UoM to get community radio station||If everything goes as planned, the University of Mysore may soon become the first State university to launch a community radio station (CRS) of its own for broadcasting educational-based programmes. On the occasion of World Radio Day, the logo of the community radio station – Radio Manasa – was unveiled at the Vignana Bhavan here on Saturday. Vice-Chancellor G. Hemantha Kumar, who launched the logo of Radio Manasa, said the University was awaiting a clearance from the Union Ministry of Information and Broadcasting for formally launching the activities of the community radio station. Today being the World Radio Day, the logo was launched to mark the occasion. Besides the I and B Ministry, the radio station also needed clearances from the Ministry of Telecommunications, and the Ministry of Civil Aviation, and the University was hoping to get the nod soon. The process of launching the station was started three years ago, and the University is inching closer to make it a reality. The name kept for the community radio station was chosen since the campus is called Manasagangotri. This is perhaps the first community radio station project taken up by the State university although the agricultural universities have launched such an initiative, for fulfilling their objectives. Sapna M.S., Coordinator, Radio Manasa Community Radio Station, University of Mysore, spoke about the initiative. Registrar R Shivappa, Lokanath N.K., Director, PMEB, University of Mysore, Devaraja T.S., Finance Officer, Niranjan Vanahalli, professor, Department of Journalism and Mass Communication, and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/uom-to-get-community-radio-station/article33834026.ece
14 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Three ROBs to come up in Shivamogga||In the direction of ensuring uninterrupted movement of road traffic and de-congesting busy approach roads in Shivamogga and Bhadravati, three-level crossing gates - two in Shivamogga and one in Bhadravati - under the territorial jurisdiction of Mysuru division are being eliminated through construction of Road Over Bridges (ROBs) for which foundation stone is being laid on Monday by Chief Mnister B.S. Yediyurappa, and Minister for Railways and Commerce and Industry Piyush Goyal (through a video link). A press release from the Mysuru railway division here on Saturday said the elimination of these level crossings will significantly enhance operational safety, resulting in greater efficiency and higher productivity. The Railways have already announced the National Rail Plan to create a future-ready railway system by the year 2030. Bringing the logistic cost for the industry is at the core of the strategy to enable ‘Make in India’, it said. These three important cost-sharing projects are slated to be completed in May-June 2022. The contracts have been awarded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-robs-to-come-up-in-shivamogga/article33834020.ece
14 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Not all demands can be met in budget: CM||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Saturday cited the financial difficulties faced by the government triggered by the COVID-19 pandemic to fulfil the demand for funds’ allocation in the ensuing budget that he is presenting soon. Responding to the representations submitted by various organisations, institutions and trade bodies on the budget wish-list at a book launch at Kalamandira here, he said, “You are all aware of the difficulties faced over the pandemic in the last eight to nine months. Therefore, it may not be possible to fulfil all your demands in the coming budget. But, in the next budget, they could be considered.” However, the Mysuru airport expansion would get priority, he hinted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/not-all-demands-can-be-met-in-budget-cm/article33834021.ece
14 February 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Action shortly to bring Kabbaligas under STs, says Chinchansur||Chairman of Nijasharana Ambigara Chowdaiah Abhivriddi Nigama Baburao Chinchansur has said that the Union government will take action to include Kabbaliga and Koli communities under the Scheduled Tribes list shortly and hence, there is no need for any padayatra in this regard. He was talking at a press conference in Yadgir on Saturday. Mr. Chinchansur, who is a frontline leader in the struggle by Kabbaligas for STs tag, said that the process of completing the formalities to include the community under STs is under way. “I will now go to Delhi and camp there to take the process further,” he added. While appreciating Prime Minister Narendra Modi for handling COVID-19 situation well, Mr. Chinchansur said that “if somebody else were Prime Minister instead of him [Mr. Modi], the situation would have been very worse and people would have died on the streets in high numbers.” He criticised the Congress stating that that party doesn't have any future and that it would not come to power even in the next 20 years. And, the Janata Dal(S) has no existence in the State. Thus, the BJP is the only party which will rule the State and the country in the future. “Gurmitkal is my home town and I will show my strength in the next Assembly election and surely win from there,” Mr. Chinchansur, who suffered a defeat against Janata Dal(S) candidate Nagangouda Kandkur in the last elections, said. It may be recalled that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa upgraded his post to the level of a Cabinet Minister in the State. Meanwhile, Mr. Chinchansur congratulated senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha MP M. Mallikarjun Kharge on becoming the Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/action-shortly-to-bring-kabbaligas-under-sts-says-chinchansur/article33833844.ece
14 February 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||‘Take precautionary measures to prevent COVID-19’||Raichur Zilla Panchayat president Adimani Veeralaxmi has suggested to officials of the Social Welfare Department to take precautionary measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in hostels being run by the department and ensure cleanliness on hostel premises and supply quality food to students. She was chairing a monthly Karnataka Development Programme meeting in Raichur on Friday. Ms. Veeralaxmi told the Deputy Director of the Social Welfare Department that most of the students housed in all hostels were back home due to the pandemic and many of them probably may not return to hostels. Therefore, officials have to ensure more attendance of students and provide them with quality food as per menu. She specifically asked officials to make a list of the hostels that are not in good condition. N. Keshvareddy and Shivajyothi Srinivas Reddy urged the chair to direct the officials to complete the construction work of 642 toilets attached with anganwadi centres. A sum of Rs. 1.92 cr was released in 2016-17 to construct toilets. The Cashutech and Nirmithi Kendra have constructed 345 and 368 toilets, respectively, but the remaining 642 are yet to be constructed, they said and added that immediate action has to be taken to complete work. Stating the importance of ensuring drinking water to rural areas people in the summer, she said that officials of Rural Drinking Water and Sanitation Department should give priority to flushing, deepening and drilling of new borewells in those areas where there is a possibility of shortage of water and also carry out repair works to defunct water dispensing plants. When she observed that some officials were not attending meetings, Ms. Veeralaxmi instructed the officials of the zilla panchayat to issue show-cause notices to those who remained absent without informing the higher officers. Responding to her, Chief Planning Officer Roni said that such notices were issued to six officials who remained absent in the last KDP meeting and of them, four had replied. Chief Executive Officer Sheikh Tanveer Asif asked the officials to submit a detailed report on the condition of the Kuvempu Residential School building at Hospet village in Raichur taluk. He said that the building was constructed in 2005 and it was completely ruined in 2015. Officials should focus on the fact that how a building could ruin in just 10 years, he added. The panchayat president reviewed the development works taken up by the other departments also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/take-precautionary-measures-to-prevent-covid-19/article33833834.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Reservation row: Seers seek OBC tag for all Lingayats in Central list||In what is being seen as another attempt to build pressure on Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and the BJP central leaders to meet the demands of the Veerashaiva-Lingayat community, a convention of scores of seers was held in Bengaluru on Saturday with a demand for inclusion of all sects of into the Central Other Backward Classes (OBC) list. This comes even as Panchamashali (Lingayat) sect seers and leaders are on a march to Bengaluru demanding including in 2-A category in the State OBC list. Seers at the Bengaluru convention also expressed support for the Panchamashali demand. The seers at the convention on Saturday urged the Chief Minister to include all the sub-sects of Veerashaiva-Lingayatism in the Central OBC list. Dingaleshwar Swami of Balehosur Mutt, who was among the participants at the convention, said that they had submitted memorandum addressed to the Chief Minister through Chairman of Veersashaiva Lingayat Development Corporation B.S. Paramashivaiah. The resurgence of this old demand and the convention, sources say, is aimed at not only putting further pressure on Mr. Yediyurappa but also central leadership of the BJP to fulfil their demands. “It is aimed at conveying a message to the party that it is time to give something back to the Veerashaiva-Lingayat community, which had stood with the party,” said a leader in the know. Meanwhile Basava Jaya Mrutyunjaya Swami of Lingayat Panchamasali Peetha, who is leading the 700-km padayatra to Bengaluru, announced in Tumakuru on Saturday that they would hold a mega convention of Panchamasali community at Palace Grounds in Bengaluru on February 21. Addressing presspersons in Tumakuru, the seer said they were yet to receive confirmation on official letter seeking study on including Panchamasali community under 2A category of OBC to the Backward Classes Commission. Interestingly, the issue of show-cause notice to former Union Minister and Panchamasali leader Basanagouda Patil Yatnal is being seen from a section as an attempt to snub the Panchamasali movement. Meanwhile, Chief Minister’s son B.Y. Vijayendra clarified that he was not misleading any community on the issue of reservation. At Mysuru, he denied allegations levelled against him by former MLA Vijayanand Kashappanavar that he was “bringing pressure on heads of mutts” to issue statements that Panchamasali Lingayats do not need reservations. “All the communities enjoyed the right to seek reservation and the Chief Minister was capable of facing the challenges arising out of the same,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/reservation-row-seers-seek-obc-tag-for-all-lingayats-in-central-list/article33833632.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Campaign on the wheels||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/campaign-on-the-wheels/article33833602.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Students test positive||Giridhar R. Babu, member of the State’s TAC also underscored the importance of strengthening surveillance in all colleges, hotels and super spreader avenues on social media. Mr. Prasad pointed out that there are no restrictions on people coming to the State from Kerala. “In light of the recent spike in cases, those from Kerala can join organisations/colleges only if they possess a negative RT-PCR report not older than 72 hours. If they have not been tested, they will have to be under quarantine for 14 days and later undergo the test. Action will be initiated against institutions violating this,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-test-positive/article33833608.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Net work||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/net-work/article33833642.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Idigas seek to be classified in SC category||There is another addition to the growing demand for reservation by communities, with the Idiga seer Pranavananda Swamy announcing on Saturday that they would start an agitation for inclusion under SC category. “We will meet the Chief Minister soon and demand inclusion in the SC list,” he said. Currently Idigas are in the OBC list under 2-A category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/idigas-seek-sc-tag/article33833643.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BSY: I gain strength from challenges||Responding to a query on whether he was under pressure to meet the demands of various communities for reservation, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said he liked to face the challenges and that he gets strength when he encounters such challenges. He also said that he would make honest efforts to ensure justice for all.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bsy-i-gain-strength-from-challenges/article33833644.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Avid readers||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/avid-readers/article33833850.ece
14 February 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||506 new cases in Alappuzha||The district logged 506 COVID-19 cases on Saturday. Among the fresh cases, 486 patients contracted the disease through contact. The source of infection of 14 persons remains unknown. Four persons who came from abroad and two from another State also tested positive. Meanwhile, 392 people recovered and 560 people were administered the COVID-19 vaccine here. 460 cases in Kollam The district reported 460 new cases and 700 recoveries on Saturday. While 448 patients contracted the infection through contact, others include seven NRIs, one person from another State, one health worker, and three cases with no known source.  376 in Kottayam  As many as 376 persons tested positive in Kottayam on Saturday. Of the fresh cases, all but two persons contracted the virus through local contact. The cases also included 43 children and 71 persons aged above 60. There were also 306 recoveries. 480 in Pathanamthitta As many as 480 persons tested positive here. Of the fresh cases, 468 persons contracted the virus through local contact. Contact source of 29 are yet to be identified. The disease claimed three more lives. Victims were identified as a 68-year-old Kulanada native, 82-year-old Mezhuveli native, and a 34-year-old man from Niranam. There were 257 recoveries.  (With inputs from Kollam, Kottayam and Pathanamthitta bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/506-new-cases-in-alappuzha/article33833949.ece
14 February 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Global meet on gender studies||A two-day virtual global conference on gender studies was organised by the SD College, Alappuzha. Over 50 research scholars presented papers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/global-meet-on-gender-studies/article33833947.ece
14 February 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Govt., not DYFI, should hold talks: Chennithala||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has ridiculed the Democratic Youth Federation of India’s (DYFI) charge that outside political interference had stalled the reconciliatory talks with the striking PSC rank holders in Thiruvananthapuram on Friday night. He said the DYFI had resorted to hyperbole. It could as well have blamed China or Pakistan for the failure of the talks. Mr. Chennithala said the DYFI leadership was engaged in clearing the mess created by the government. The DYFI were the biggest beneficiaries of the back-door appointments made by the government. It had no moral right to play the referee. Mr. Chennithala said the government and not the DYFI leadership should have held talks with the rank holders. He said efforts were still on to regularise those appointed on contract. Giving postings to those on the PSC list was the need of the hour. He said the Nationalist Congress Party and Mani C. Kappan had a role in winning the Pala Assembly seat in the last elections. The United Democratic Front would accept Mr. Kappan and the NCP to its fold. “Even if he comes alone, he will be welcomed,” Mr. Chennithala said. Criticising the suspension of a police officer on the charge of greeting him, Mr. Chennithala said there was nothing wrong in the incident, as he held the Cabinet rank as Leader of the Opposition. Mr. Chennithala was talking to mediapersons at Thodupuzha when the Aishwarya Kerala Yatra entered Idukki district in the morning. The yatra will enter Alappuzha district on Monday. It will be accorded a reception at Thanneermukkom and will stop over at several places across the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-not-dyfi-should-hold-talks-chennithala/article33833954.ece
14 February 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Solar power generation: will be stepped up: Minister||Electricity Minister M.M. Mani has said the government aims to step up solar power generation. Opening the Payyanur electrical division building here on Friday, he called for efforts to raise power production through innovative methods using solar power. He said the government was successful in ensuring complete electrification and elimination of power cuts. Besides, over 17 lakh power connections were provided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/solar-power-generation-will-be-stepped-up-minister/article33833913.ece
14 February 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||State will not implement CAA, says CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said that the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) will not be implemented in the State. At the inauguration of the Vikasana Munnetta Yatra, led by Left Democratic Front (LDF) convener and CPI(M) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan at Uppala here on Saturday, he vehemently criticised Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s statement that the Act would be implemented after the COVID-19 vaccination drive. “Some might wonder how a State can refuse to enforce a Central law. However, it has already been clarified that it will not be implemented in Kerala,” the Chief Minister said. Some were trying to divert attention to communalism, sidelining developmental issues. “This does not augur well for the country,” he added. ‘Fighting communalism’ The stance adopted by organisations such as the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) and the Jamaat-e-Islami to counter communalism fostered by the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) was suicidal. “Instead of confronting communal forces on their own for the protection of minorities, they need to join the fight taken up by the LDF,” he said. The LDF had an uncompromising attitude towards communalism. “The same cannot be said of the Congress. Its stance is similar to that of the BJP’s.” Mr. Vijayan said Keralites wanted the LDF’s rule to continue and they believed that only the Left could strengthen Kerala. ‘For the common man’ On the occasion, Mr. Vijayaraghavan said the LDF government presented the most noteworthy development model in the country. “While the Union government is working for billionaires, the government here has not diluted its commitment to the common man,” he said. Even when COVID-19 was raging globally, the State could instil confidence in the people. Kerala witnessed all-round development under the LDF rule. “But the United Democratic Front (UDF) and the BJP are bent on spreading lies against the government.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-will-not-implement-caa-says-cm/article33833960.ece
14 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Reckless parking continues to hamper business at Broadway||The perennial problem of reckless parking has returned to haunt the business nerve centre of Broadway, which is yet to fully recover from the blow dealt by the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown. Broadway was also closed down quite a few times even post-lockdown as it was declared a containment zone, further hampering business. “Though Broadway is still a no-parking zone as designated by the Regional Transport Authority, it holds little meaning as unregulated and haphazard parking remains the norm. Staff and shop owners from the neighbouring Penta Menaka shopping complex park their two-wheelers here through the day as the space there has been made a paid service. We have raised the matter multiple times with the City Police and Corporation authorities, but no action has been forthcoming,” said P.S. Paul, former general secretary of the Kerala Chamber of Commerce and Industry who runs a shop at Broadway. The shop owners rue that parking in front of shops keeps customers away as they cannot stop their vehicles near the shop to load purchased items. “The congestion caused by the parked vehicles coupled with the vendors on footpaths gives the impression that Broadway remains crowded all the time, which was also a reason why Broadway was declared a containment zone by the police more than once. The business is gradually picking up, but these issues hold it back,” said P.A. Sageer, president of Broadway Shop Owners Association. In the past, Broadway was declared a no-vehicle zone in an attempt to decongest it, but that did not last long since it did not go down well with even a section of traders. Phased intervention Mayor M. Anilkumar said a lasting solution would be found to the issue of unregulated parking and encroachment of footpaths and roads in the city through a phased intervention. “A coordination committee chaired by the Mayor has assigned a special joint team comprising Corporation and police officials to look into parking and encroachment issues. Besides, a special council is to be held to formulate a vending policy whereby identity cards will be issued to roadside vendors and they will be given time to move out of encroached spaces,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/reckless-parking-continues-to-hamper-business-at-broadway/article33833927.ece
14 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Another landmark in cruise tourism for Kochi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the Sagarika International Cruise Terminal on Sunday, marking another landmark for Kochi, which has turned into a major cruise destination across the globe. According to figures from the Cochin Port Trust, 44 cruise vessels called at the port during the financial year 2019-20, the numbers having remained near constant over the last decade during which the port and its facilities have turned popular among cruise vessels. The cruise vessel handling facility, which is now being enhanced by the inauguration of Sagarika, started more than a decade ago. The Port Trust figures showed that 41 cruise vessels were handled in 2010-11 and since then the number of tourism ships calling at Kochi has remained constant except for the current financial year, which has been a virtual washout for the entire tourism industry due to the outbreak of COVID-19. The Cochin Port Trust has catered to the requirements of major cruise operators in the industry and port sources said major operators had found the Kochi facility to their satisfaction. The cruisers calling at Kochi on a regular basis include Cunard Line, Royal Caribbean Line, AIDA Cruises and Costa Cruises. Amenities A dedicated terminal, that is fully air-conditioned and serving the cruise ship requirements, provides all statutory clearances, including Customs and Immigration, for cruise passengers. Other amenities included walk-in-berthing, assured quality bunkers and fresh water services, said Port Trust sources. Cabotage relaxed The Union government has relaxed cabotage restrictions for cruise vessels so that it is possible to transport Indians from one port to another port in the country on foreign cruise vessels transiting through the country’s waters. The location of Kochi, close to the sites in Mattancherry and Fort Kochi that have a rich historic legacy, too has added strength to the importance of the port as a major cruise destination. The backwater tourism in Alappuzha and spices destinations in Idukki are also close enough to draw major tourist operations.  A dedicated terminal provides all statutory clearances, including Customs and Immigration, for cruise passengers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/another-landmark-in-cruise-tourism-for-kochi-port/article33833928.ece
14 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||746 new cases in district||The district recorded 746 new cases while 800 patients recovered. The highest number of cases was recorded in Thripunithura (31), followed by Thrikkara (30), Vengoor (24) and Kuttampuzha (20). The district as on Saturday evening had 10,053 patients and 8,104 of them were at home. Though the district administration promised augmenting facilities at the district hospital in Aluva, there were only 11 patients there while the Government Medical College Hospital, where students were on strike to resume academics in a full-fledged manner, had 49 patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/746-new-cases-in-district/article33833923.ece
14 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Traffic curbs in city today for PM visit||The police have announced traffic guidelines to be followed in the city ahead of the visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Kochi on Sunday. The traffic restrictions along areas including Naval Base, Vathuruthy, BOT East, Thevara Ferry Junction, and Kundannoor will be in place from 12 p.m. to 7 p.m. Vehicles heading towards West Kochi from Ernakulam should take SA Road, Vyttila, Kundannoor flyover, Aroor and Edakochi while vehicles in the opposite direction to Ernakulam and Alappuzha should proceed through Edakochi and Aroor. Commuters bound for Ernakulam from West Kochi and in the return direction could also take the ferry service by going through Goshree road and Vypeen. Since traffic restrictions will be in effect on Seaport-Airport Road, commuters heading from Kakkanad and Kalamassery towards Thripunithura should take a deviation at Kakkanad signal junction and proceed to Palarivattom Bypass Junction. In view of traffic restrictions along the route between Karimugal Junction and Ambalamugal, vehicles from Aluva, Perumbavoor and Pallikara should take the left at Karimugal junction and reach Peechingachira junction before proceeding to Thiruvankulam via Puthencruz. Vehicular movement between Peechingachira and Karimugal will remain banned as between the Hill Palace and Ambalamugal and Karingachira junction and Irumbanam Junction and Eroor and Irumbanam. Commuters from Eroor can reach SN Junction, then head to Kizhakkekotta junction. Vehicle movement will remain banned between SN Junction and Seaport Airport road and Karingachira, Irumbanam Junction, and Ambalamugal. Vehicles heading towards Kakkanad and Ernakulam from Thiruvankulam should proceed along Kizhakkekotta, Mini Bypass and Vyttila.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traffic-curbs-in-city-today-for-pm-visit/article33833925.ece
14 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||PCB to probe waste dumping on HMT land||The State Pollution Control Board (PCB) will probe illegal waste dumping on the HMT Machine Tools premises in Kalamassery. A team from the board’s surveillance centre in Eloor is likely to visit the site on Monday. The board has taken suo motu notice of media reports on the illegal dumping and burning of waste, leading to smoke billowing out to nearby areas. Senior board officials said stringent action would be taken as per the provisions of the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act. The Kalamassery municipality and the company management would be asked to explain the lapses, if any, based on the assessment to be made by the environment surveillance team, they said. A huge heap of plastic refuse dumped on the land owned by the HMT along the extension route of the Seaport-Airport Road was ablaze for some time on Tuesday. Fire and Rescue Services had pointed out that it was the fifth such incident in the vicinity since the start of the year. Under NGT scanner The board officials recalled that the Kalamassery municipality had the responsibility to avoid such instances of waste dumping. The civic body is already under the scanner of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) and the State Level Monitoring Committee on solid waste management for its failure to comply with the provisions of the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. The increasing instances of waste dumping in areas under the municipality remain a matter of concern as they could cause health problems among the public. The burning of plastic and other waste was a blatant violation of the norms under the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, they said. Quoting the directives by the Principal Bench of the NGT, the board said the local bodies should consider having a mechanism whereby citizens could provide information about such illegal dumping and burning of waste. The civic bodies should have guidelines for using CCTV cameras at such sites to track those involved. The Bench had pointed out in January that the State was yet to take meaningful action in ensuring the implementation of the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pcb-to-probe-waste-dumping-on-hmt-land/article33833924.ece
14 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Student drowns in Periyar||A youngster, part of a group of five, drowned in the Periyar at Kanjookarankadavu on Saturday around 2 p.m. The deceased was identified as Adarsh, 19, of Kalamassery, an ITI student. Sources said the group was walking through the river as the water level was low, when the accident occurred and Adarsh got washed away.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/student-drowns-in-periyar/article33833922.ece
14 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Union Minister justifies fuel price hike||A combination of factors, including increased investment in development of basic infrastructure, had resulted in the frequent increase in fuel prices in the country, Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas and Steel Dharmendra Pradhan  told mediapersons here on Saturday. The road and rail sectors got the highest ever allocation in the recent Union Budget. There was a 34% increase in allocation for infrastructure projects. The tax collected from the sale of fuel is among the sources garnering revenue for that. Around 80% of India’s fuel is imported and oil-producing countries are demanding a higher price, since their economies are not in good shape. However, oil-producing countries had announced future pricing mechanisms where they had given some relief to Asian countries like India, he added. Petrochem complex On why the government had invested Rs. 6,000 crore in a petrochemicals complex at the Kochi Refinery (which will be inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday), even as BPCL’s disinvestment process was on, Mr. Pradhan said the project would help the process of India becoming self-sufficient. On Hibi Eden, Ernakulam MP, approaching the Lok Sabha Speaker citing breach of privilege and protocol violation over him being omitted from the dais when the Prime Minister would launch four projects in Kochi on Sunday, the Minister said that he had written to Mr. Eden. The MP had said that people’s representatives from the Congress were “deliberately omitted from the dais as part of a conspiracy”and that it showed that the BJP was “hand in glove” with the CPI(M). Ro-ro vessels Ports, Shipping and Waterways Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said the two container roll-on roll-off (ro-ro) vessels of the Inland Waterways Authority of India, that Mr. Modi would launch in Kochi on Sunday, would play a role in taking container lorries off city roads by helping ferry containers through the backwaters. Coastal shipping promoted by the Centre was also important in decongesting roads, he added. Mr. Modi will also inaugurate Sagarika, an international cruise terminal, at the Kochi port on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/petroleum-minister-justifies-frequent-fuel-price-hike/article33833921.ece
14 February 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kappan’s move widens choices for both fronts in polls||As Mani C. Kappan, the NCP leader who staged an upset win in Pala in the 2019 byelection, defects to the United Democratic Front, an all-important question keeps surfacing: whether the move will enable the Congress-led coalition to reclaim its eroding base in the rubber heartland? According to sources, the breakaway faction may assume the name ‘NCP Kerala’ and will remain in the UDF as an unregistered party. On completion of the Assembly elections in April/May, it will go ahead with the registration proceedings – what the Kerala Congress faction led by P.J. Joseph also is required to do. By taking Mr. Kappan on board, the UDF clearly eyes the political investment made by him as the sitting MLA of Pala. Riding on this wave of popularity, besides its traditional vote base across Pala, the coalition hopes to turn the tide in its favour. It, accordingly, has offered the seat to the sitting legislator. “It was not just the LDF's efficiency, but the personal image of Mr. Kappan was also crucial in ensuring his victory in Pala in 2019. But what the Left front has now done to him is injustice. Realising their intention to seize the seat from him, Mr. Kappan has just acted swiftly,” said Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala. But the exit of Mr. Kappan appears to have put the LDF in a win-win situation as it gives the coalition adequate space to accommodate the new entrant -- the Kerala Congress (M) led by Jose K. Mani, while ensuring the support of a major section of the NCP State unit. Allotting the Pala seat was one of the key conditions set by the KC(M) prior to its entry into the LDF. The LDF, however, has always held that the regional party’s entry was unconditional and that a decision on the seat was yet to be made. Hence, what Mr. Kappan did was ‘politically unethical’ and injustice to the people of Pala, LDF sources said. “Mr. Kappan contested and won the Pala constituency as LDF candidate and his defection will have no political consequence,” said A. Vijayaraghavan, CPI(M) acting State secretary. Emboldened by the entry of the KC(M), which has a strong grassroot network across the Pala and in a couple of adjoining segments, the coalition hopes to repeat the stellar performance that it staged across Central Kerala during the recent local body elections. Opposed Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran, who leads the other NCP faction, has staunchly opposed the defection move right from the beginning. In reward, he is expected to receive the Elathur Assembly seat once again, besides a couple of other seats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kappans-move-widens-choices-for-both-fronts-in-polls/article33833962.ece
14 February 2021||Kottayam,KERALA||Thiruvalla bypass set for opening today||The much-awaited bypass road at Thiruvalla will be thrown open to the public on Sunday. Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran will inaugurate the new road at a function to be held here at 9.30 a.m. Thiruvalla MLA Mathew T. Thomas and Anto Antony, MP, will be also present on the occasion. The 2.3-km-long stretch, which starts from Mazhuvangad on MC Road and ends at Ramanchira, enters the Thiruvalla-Kozhencherry (TK) road via the B1B1 road and enables vehicles proceeding from Chengannur and Kottayam to continue their onward journey along the TK Road without entering the town. The bypass, which is also connected to the Thiruvalla-Mallappally road, will enable vehicles from Mallappally, Chengannur and Kozhencherry directions to proceed toward their respective onward destinations without entering the Thiruvalla town. Delay in work The work on the Rs. 33-crore bypass project was formally launched by former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy in December 2014, fixing October 2016 as the deadline for its completion. However, the work got delayed, as it was obstructed by issues including legal wrangles and the COVID-19-induced lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thiruvalla-bypass-set-for-opening-today/article33833950.ece
14 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Breaking gender barriers in journalism||Kavita Devi, co-founder and editor of Khabar Lahariya , a newspaper run by women in Uttar Pradesh, was the star at the plenary session of the second International Conference on Gender Equality (ICGE-II) here on Saturday. Started in 2002 by a group of homemakers in Chitrakoot in Madhya Pradesh as a small journal, Khabar Lahariya aimed to bring out the plight of villages through its reporters, who were solely local women. On Saturday, the group celebrated the 8th anniversary of its website, while its eight-page broadsheet daily is now making waves across the Hindi belt. Addressing a session on ‘Challenging gendered power structures in sustainable entrepreneurship and social business’ at ICGE-II on the Gender Park campus, Ms. Devi narrated her story of growth from being a meek house wife in a patriarchal village, Bundelkhand, to an empowered woman. “When we sought to bring out a journal highlighting the news around, there was ridicule from society. Men said media work cannot be women’s domain. None would reveal to us any news,” recalled Devi. Slowly, the scenario changed. “We managed to start the paper in a modest way. People got a pleasant surprise on seeing news about their village printed for the first time anywhere,” she noted.  Khabar Lahariya is uncompromising in its attitude, winning both public opposition and applause. Devi, with no formal education and married at the age of 12, is the first Dalit to become a member of the Editors’ Guild of India. The session was chaired by policy analyst Meera Velayudhan, an advisor to the Gender Park.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/breaking-gender-barriers-in-journalism/article33833912.ece
14 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||IUML to discuss candidate selection||As the drumbeat for the Assembly election gets louder, a crucial meeting of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) State working committee will be held on Monday to hold discussions on choosing candidates for the Assembly segments, Malappuram Lok Sabha constituency and a Rajya Sabha seat. The meeting, to be chaired by State president Syed Hyderali Shihab Thangal, will discuss the strategies to be adopted in the seat-sharing talks in the Congress- led United Democratic Front. Additional seats The party is likely to seek additional seats in the wake of the exit of the Jose K. Mani faction of the Kerala Congress (M) and the Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) from the UDF, sources said. IUML nominees contested from 24 seats in the previous elections held in 2011 and 2016 and emerged victorious in 20 and 18 segments respectively. Incidentally, the demand for more seats comes even when the vote share of the party dropped from 8.28 % to 7.4 % in these Assembly polls. The names doing the rounds among party circles for the Lok Sabha seat are State secretary N. Shamsudheen, MLA, now representing Mannarkad, and K.N.A. Khader, the legislator from Vengera. The Malappuram seat fell vacant after general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty quit the Lok Sabha to contest the Assembly polls. Mr. Kunhalikutty plans to contest from Vengera, it is understood. Sources said businessman and party State treasurer P.V. Abdul Wahab, whose tenure in the Rajya Sabha ends in April, had expressed his desire to contest the Assembly polls from Eranad. If that happens, the party will consider nominating its two-time Rajya Sabha member M.P. Abdussamad Samadani for the seat. Another contender is Siraj Ebrahim Sait, secretary of the party, who is based in Karnataka. The party also has plans to field State general secretary K.P.A.Majeed from the Malappuram segment. Mr. Majeed, who had unsuccessfully run for the Lok Sabha from erstwhile Manjeri constituency in the 2004 elections, was overlooked by the party when it came to the Rajya Sabha polls earlier. Last word The sources said Mr. Thangal will have the last word in electoral matters as with organisational or political affairs after deliberating over the issues with different sections of the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iuml-to-discuss-candidate-selection/article33833958.ece
14 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||KSEB begins work on three hydel projects||As part of its mission to exploring non-conventional energy sources, the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) kicked off work on three small hydroelectric power projects in Kozhikode district on Saturday. Minister for Power M.M. Mani opened the work through videoconferencing. KSEB officials said the State government would invest nearly Rs. 190 crore for the completion of projects at Marippuzha, Olikkal, and Poovaranthodu. The board hopes to complete them in three years. At Marippuzha, a 6-MW project will be realised along the Iruvazhinji river at a cost of Rs. 80.93 crore. The construction of a trench weir, intake duct, power duct, fore bay, surplus channel, power house, tail race pool, access roads, bridges, and switch yard will be part of the work, apart from fabrication and erection of penstock and other allied initiatives. For the 2x2-MW Olikkal and 2.1.5-MW Poovaranthodu projects, the government has sanctioned Rs. 107.64 crore. They will be under Thiruvambady and Koodaranhi villages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kseb-begins-work-on-three-hydel-projects/article33833914.ece
14 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Corpn. to strengthen steps against COVID-19||The Kozhikode Corporation has decided to strengthen the activities of its health squad to control crowding on the Kozhikode beach, S.M. Street, and other public places. At an all-party meeting held here on Saturday, it was decided to strengthen the Break the Chain campaign by setting up hand washing and sanitising facilities in public places. The first such kiosk was opened at the mofussil bus stand by Deputy Mayor Musafir Ahamed on Saturday. Awareness programmes on using masks, sanitisers and maintaining physical distancing will be held. Rapid Response Teams (RRTs) will be reorganised. Besides, the corporation will recommend to the State government to administer COVID vaccine to RRT members. Sectoral magistrates have been advised to visit wedding venues and others to make sure that the places are not crowded. In another meeting of representatives of merchant bodies, it was decided that those handling cash in every enterprise should undergo COVID test once in every 15 days. Besides, they should wear gloves and use sanitisers regularly. It was decided that representatives of merchant bodies would also be included in the ward level RRTs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-to-strengthen-steps-against-covid-19/article33833908.ece
14 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||CM to open facilities today||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will open a gender museum, gender library, convention centre, and an amphitheatre at the Gender Park in Kozhikode on Sunday. The functional launch of the Gender Park at 9.30 a.m. will be presided over by Minister for Health, Social Justice and Women and Child Development K.K. Shylaja. The Chief Minister will also lay the foundation stone for an International Women’s Trade and Research Centre on the campus. It envisions a secure and sustained ecosystem for women entrepreneurs and a space to market products.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-to-open-facilities-today/article33833907.ece
14 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Alumni contribute to MCH development||Team Thuna, the 30th batch of MBBS students of the Government Medical College, Kozhikode, donated Rs. 2 lakh as their contribution for the construction of the proposed sky bridge project connecting the Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana (PMSSY) complex with the superspecialty complex, on Saturday. Principal V.R. Rajendran received the cheque from Dr. Abdul Gafoor, president, Thuna. It was the fourth such initiative from the alumni association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alumni-contribute-to-mch-development/article33833915.ece
14 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Police launch probe as NRI businessman goes missing||The Nadapuram police have started an investigation after a 53-year-old Non-Resident Keralite from Thuneri went missing. Though the family members of T.K. Ahammed claimed that he was kidnapped by an unidentified gang on Saturday morning, the police have not got any clear evidence to verify it. According to the complainants, Mr. Ahammed, who was running a firm in Qatar, was abducted while travelling on his motorbike. Quoting an eyewitness, they claimed a car-borne gang had stopped him near Nadapuram. It was a dispute over the suspension of an employee that led to the abduction, they said. Mr. Ahammed’s family members said they had received a call from anonymous person demanding Rs. 1 crore as ransom to free the captive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-launch-probe-as-nri-businessman-goes-missing/article33833909.ece
14 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Furnace oil leak: TTP suspends 2 employees||The Travancore Titanium Products Ltd. (TTP) at Kochu Veli on Saturday placed two employees under suspension and issued show-cause notices to two others in connection with the furnace oil leakage from the plant premises into the coast. Eugene M., section operator, and Gladwin B., senior process operator, were suspended pending inquiry, the TTP said in a statement. The company management further said that show-cause notices had been issued to Hylan T.S., acting process supervisor, and Biby P. Paul, plant manager (production). The action was taken on the basis of an internal inquiry, the TTP said. Approximately 5,000 litres of furnace oil had leaked from a ruptured pipeline on Wednesday morning. A large quantity of oil had spilled into the coast via a drain, triggering environmental concerns and large-scale protests by the local people. Panel to probe The State government undertaking is yet to restart operations after the mishap. The Industries Department had constituted a three-member panel to investigate the oil leak. On the basis of directions issued by the Kerala State Pollution Control Board (PCB), the TTP had cleared most of the oil-contaminated sand from the beach over Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday. Protests However, it could not clear the remaining traces of the spillage directly outside the discharge point of the drain on Saturday too, apparently due to continuing local protests. The PCB Chairman, who had visited the TTP on Friday, had issued directions to the management to clear all traces of oil from the beach. The local people had sealed the mouth of the drain on Thursday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/furnace-oil-leak-ttp-suspends-2-employees/article33834081.ece
14 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||PSC rank holders to intensify stir||The agitating Kerala Public Service Commission (PSC) rank holders on Saturday threatened to intensify their strike outside the Secretariat after conciliatory talks with the government failed. An intervention made by the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) on Friday to broker peace by facilitating negotiations with the government came to naught after either side refused to budge. Three rounds of talks Three rounds of talks, including one at the DYFI State committee office and others at the Secretariat, failed to resolve the deadlock. The discussions that commenced at 11 p.m. lasted for over two hours. Laya Suresh, one of the protesting job aspirants, said the government offered to accept four of their demands through an order. These included steps to report unfilled last grade servant (LGS) vacancies in various departments, including GST, conduct appointments to promotion posts, and fill vacancies in posts reserved for compassionate appointments that did not have any claimants. However, the protesters refused to relent to the government’s demand to call off the agitation as “the assurances did not solve our prime problem of unemployment,” she said. Emerging from the discussions, DYFI State secretary A.A. Rahim hinted at the possibility of external influence behind the agitation. He said the government considered each of the demands with due importance, but some of them, including the one to create posts to accommodate the protesters, were turned down as they were not practical under the current circumstances. Riju, another protester, refuted the allegations that they had exited the discussions unilaterally. He claimed they were also willing to relax certain demands. In the aftermath of the failed talks, the protesters decided to rope in more support for their agitation. The families of many rank holders are set to join them in the next few days. While the police had shored up security in view of the violent protests that rocked the area during the last few days, no such incident took place on Saturday. Nonetheless, there was a steady stream of Opposition leaders to the agitation venue. They pledged solidarity with the ongoing agitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/psc-rank-holders-to-intensify-stir/article33833974.ece
14 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Test positivity dips to 6.36% in State||The test positivity rate in the State which had been holding steady at 7-7.5% for the past few days dropped to 6.36% on Saturday with the State managing to increase the COVID testing done in the past 24 hours to 85,969 samples. The new cases of COVID-19 reported on the day were 5,471 The State’s cumulative case burden is now poised to cross the 10 lakh mark and now stands at 9,99,523. Of the 85,969 tests done on Saturday, RT-PCR tests showed a slight but definite increase at 33,643, while 49,918 of the tests were rapid antigen assay. Other molecular diagnostic tests such as Truenat and CBNAAT constituted the remaining tests. With 5,835 people reported to have recovered on Saturday, the active case pool of the State dropped to 63,581. The cumulative recoveries reported till date has risen to 9,31,706. 16 deaths On Saturday, 16 more deaths were added to the official list of COVID fatalities, taking the State’s COVID toll ever since the pandemic began to 3,970 deaths. Ernakulam, Thrissur and Malappuram reported three deaths each, Kozhikode two, while Kollam, Kannur, Pathanamthitta, Kottayam and Palakkad reported one death each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/test-positivity-dips-to-636-in-state/article33833970.ece
14 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||A single thread connects the twain||Fascinating are the parallels that one can draw between works by filmmakers from two different countries and cultural milieus. At the centre of both Uberto Pasolini’s Nowhere Special , set in Northern Ireland, and Pierre Monnard’s Needle Park Baby , set in Switzerland, is a single parent and the relationship with a young child, who both are set to lose. But, beyond this, the dissimilarities between these films, screened in the World Cinema category at the 25th International Film Festival of Kerala, are stark. In Nowhere Special , John (James Norton), a window cleaner suffering from a terminal illness has only a few weeks to live, and is in search of a family who can adopt his four-year-old son Michael. In Needle Park Baby , 11-year-old Mia is struggling to make her drug-addict mother Sandrine come clean, but is nearing her breaking point. Different longings Both filmmakers go deeply into the relationship between the single parent and the child. While John is trying to gently make the child understand that he will not be around for long, Sandrine keeps ignoring her daughter, as her only concern is the source of her next supply of heroin. At a point, she even sells her daughter’s little dog to buy some heroin. On the other hand, we see John seeing the world of the well-off through the windows he cleans, the mounds of toys gathered up in rooms, and yearns the same for his son. A box for the future Passolini and Monnard manage to move us without being over-dramatic. When the adoption agency suggests to John the idea of a memory box, so that his son could form a picture of his father when he grows up, he initially scoffs at it. But, later we see him packing sealed covers in a box — letters to be opened at each phase of Michael’s life. On top of the box, he puts the wiper he uses to clean windows, to give his son a complete picture of himself. Child is the parent here In Needle Park Baby , the young Mia, who is mature beyond her age, is hopeful of her life turning around, every time her mother promises to come clean of drugs. With every disappointment, she takes solace in music and an imaginary friend, and later in a gang of friends, all from troubled backgrounds. Here, Mia often takes the role of the parent, dragging her to safety whenever she gets into trouble. The single parents in both films lack a support system, except for their interactions with the adoption agency and the social security officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-single-thread-connects-the-twain/article33834083.ece
14 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Regular classes to resume for junior college batches||Over a month after the government approved the resumption of regular classes for final-year students, arts and science colleges in the State are set to receive the students of other batches in a phased manner from Monday. The Directorate of Collegiate Education has chalked out a schedule to permit first-year and second-year students to attend offline classes in separate batches from February 15 to 27 and from March 1 to 16 respectively. Final-year students will return for yet another round of regular classes from March 17 to 30 before the commencement of their examinations. Online classes will continue for the remainder of the academic year for batches that did not attend regular classes. Postgraduate classes will continue on a regular basis, considering the relatively fewer number of students in each batch. COVID-19 protocol The move comes against the backdrop of the review undertaken by the Higher Education Department of the adherence to the COVID-19 protocol in colleges and universities. Director of Collegiate Education V. Vigneshwari said no COVID-19 clusters had been reported in any higher education institutions in the State. Besides, the precautionary arrangements that were adopted by college managements had been found to be satisfactory. Colleges had been empowered to decide on the number of batches that could be accommodated on the campuses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/regular-classes-to-resume-for-junior-college-batches/article33833972.ece
14 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||File chargesheet fast: rights panel||The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has said that the police should not delay submission of chargesheet in cases where children are an accused. The commission said recently that in cases where adults too were an accused, if the trial got delayed till a chargesheet was submitted in court, the purpose of the investigation would be lost and this would be against the best interests of the child. The commission said that in cases involving children in conflict with law, the police should submit chargesheet to the juvenile justice board which should dispose of such cases within four months. If the child attained the age of 18 during the time the chargesheet got delayed, the board’s order would lose relevance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/file-chargesheet-fast-rights-panel/article33834076.ece
14 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Show-cause notice to DME, LBS director||The State Commissioner for Persons with Disabilities has issued a show-cause notice to the Director of Medical Education (DME) and the LBS director for flouting reservation norms related to higher education as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016. Commissioner S.H. Panchapakesan was acting on a complaint that reservation norms for admission to paramedical courses were flouted in the case of Salman Rashid, a differently abled student from Edappal, Malappuram. He directed that either the student whose right to reservation was flouted be admitted to the course as per law or the officials respond to the show-cause notice within 15 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/show-cause-notice-to-dme-lbs-director/article33833965.ece
14 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||4 held for barging into house, beating up family||The police have arrested four persons on charge of barging into a house and beating up occupants. They were identified as Sunilkumar, also known as Kuttan, 44; and Sabari, alias Stephen, 35, both of Ayiroopara; Sreejith Mohan, 30 of Swamiyar Madhom; and Xavier Vincent, 32, of Murukkumpuzha. Cash stolen They stormed into a house at Chenkottukonam at midnight on Friday and beat up its four residents, including an elderly woman, the police said. Those attacked were Baby, 73; Sasi, 60; Anand, 22; and Anilkumar, 43. The four accused smashed the doors and windows of the house. They stole Rs. 13,000 and destroyed a vehicle used by Anilkumar for his vegetable business. One of the four accused had earlier contacted the family, offering to purchase the house and land. The family, not satisfied with the offer, refused. Following this, the accused had got into an altercation with Anilkumar’s brother, and a case had been registered, the Pothencode police said. On Friday evening, the accused removed the key of Anilkumar’s vehicle near a bar at Pothencode. They returned the key later. The accused accosted Anilkumar and a friend while they were heading home. The gang returned late at night and assaulted the family members. Stephen, an accused, had lost his palms when making a bomb, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/4-held-for-barging-into-house-beating-up-family/article33834077.ece
14 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||363 new cases in capital||The district recorded 363 COVID-19 cases and 406 recoveries as the active caseload fell to 4,359 on Saturday. Almost all cases have been attributed to local transmission of the infection. Three health care workers also tested positive. The death toll stood at 795 after the tally grew by seven on Friday. The district administration quarantined 1,905 people, while 1,670 people were permitted to conclude quarantine. At present, 26,123 people are quarantined in houses and 58 in various institutions in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/363-new-cases-in-capital/article33834080.ece
14 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||ECI team to assess poll preparedness||The Election Commission of India team led by Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora will hold discussions with enforcement agencies at Kovalam on Sunday as part of assessing poll preparedness in the State. The meeting is scheduled to be held from 12 noon to 1.30 p.m. at Raviz Convention Centre, Kovalam. The team will meet Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta and senior government officials at 3.30 p.m. at Hotel Hycinth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/eci-team-to-assess-poll-preparedness/article33834053.ece
14 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Studio flats for working women||Studio apartments will be arranged at main centres in the State to ensure safe accommodation for women reaching these places in connection with employment, Minister for Labour T.P. Ramakrishnan has said. He was speaking after laying through videoconference the foundation stone for a studio apartment project launched by the Labour Department at Menamkulam here on Saturday. The project is being implemented by the Bhavanam Foundation Kerala. The apartment complex is coming up on 0.73 acres at the Kinfra Apparel Park, Menamkulam, at a cost of Rs. 1.22 crore. A total of 130 units will be built across six storeys, a pressnote said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/studio-flats-for-working-women/article33833966.ece
14 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Cruise along Malabar to soak in its rich culture||Kerala Tourism is launching its Malanad-Malabar River Cruise Project next week, the first of the 11 types of boat rides to provide individual thematic experience and attract tourists to less-explored places in northern Kerala. The inaugural boat will enter the waters on February 15 and will conduct trips in the waterways in Kannur and Kasaragod. The first service will be on the route linking Parassinikkadavu and Pazhayangadi. The project will help showcase Malabar’s culture, rich with local legends and folk arts. A total of 48 boat terminals and jetties along seven rivers in Kannur and Kasaragod will be part of the project. Work on two terminals is over. Upholding the principles of Responsible Tourism, the project will ensure the participation of local people. “It guarantees better livelihood for local residents,” said Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran. “Fisher folk, farmers, drivers of cabs and autorickshaws, handicraft workers and handloom labourers will benefit,” he said. The Kerala Tourism Development Corporation will run the boats. Six of them as part of the first phase of the project are being built by the Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation. The project is being implemented by the government’s Inland Navigation Department and State-owned KEL. Rani George, Principal Secretary, Kerala Tourism, said the state-of-the-art boat terminals at Parassinikkadavu and Pazhayangadi in Kannur were completed at Rs. 7.5 crore. “Both the government and private operators will run the cruises,” she said. “As for the rest of the project, 90% of the work on the terminals and jetties is complete.” The cruise project was sanctioned Rs. 80.37 crore in September 2018 under the Swadesh Darshan scheme that promotes rural tourism circuits. Kerala Tourism Director P. Bala Kiran said the developmental work is “fast progressing” under the scheme. “The Malanad-Malabar project will get world-class cruise packages once the Swadesh Darshan enters its second phase,” he said. The rivers Mayyazhi, Valapattanam, Ancharakkandi, Kuppam, Perumba, Kavvayi, Thejaswini and Chandragiri rivers and the Valiyaparamba backwaters will be part of the project. Other cruises Other thematic cruises are Malabari cuisine, Birds and Agriculture (along the Valapattanam river), Mangrove cruise (Kuppam), Music cruise (Perumba), Handloom and Handicraft cruise (Kavvayi and Valiyaparamba), Water Sports and River Boating cruise (Thejaswini), Model Responsible Village cruise (Valiyaparamba) and Yakshagana cruise (Chandragiri).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cruise-along-malabar-to-soak-in-its-rich-culture/article33833957.ece
14 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||International webinar on public health||The State government’s Aardram Mission to universalise public health will come under expert scrutiny at an international webinar. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the sessions on February 17. The other sessions are on February 18, 24, 25, and March 5, each session dealing with a specific health issue relevant to the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/international-webinar-on-public-health/article33833963.ece
14 February 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Puthur zoological park becomes a reality||Ending a three-decade wait, the Puthur zoological park has become a reality. Forest Minister K. Raju inaugurated online the first phase of Asia’s second largest zoological park on Saturday. Animals will be transferred to the park by the end of February. Minister for Local Self-Government A.C. Moideen presided. Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac delivered the keynote address. Ministers C. Raveendranath and V.S. Sunil Kumar, Government Chief Whip K. Rajan, Geetha Gopi, E.T. Tyson, and V.R. Sunil Kumar, MLAs, Mayor M.K. Varghese, Thissur Zoological Park Director K.S. Deepa, and others participated. Four animal shelters, park head office, and hospital complex have been completed in the first phase. The zoological park in 136.85 ha has 23 shelters for wild animals. It has a spacious parking facility, basic amenities for visitors, and hospital for animals. Eminent Australian zoo expert Jon Coe has designed the park. The park has been set up at Rs. 360 crore, including Rs. 269.75-crore KIIFB fund and Rs. 40-crore Plan fund. Forest ambience The new park will allow birds and animals to move around freely in spacious shelters in forest ambience. Around 10 lakh plants and trees will be planted in stages. Zoo authorities expect around 30 lakh visitors a year. Hotels and other facilities have also been coming in the area. The road towards the park has been modernised. A tourist corridor, connecting the zoological park with the Peechi dam and backwaters, is likely to find a place in the tourist map soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/puthur-zoological-park-becomes-a-reality/article33833917.ece
14 February 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Thrissur logs 553 cases||A total of 553 COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Saturday while 477 people recovered from the pandemic. There are 4,502 active cases in the district and 114 people are undergoing treatment in hospitals in other districts. So far, 93,436 COVID-19 cases have been reported from the district and 87,819 people have recovered. Local contact According to official statistics, 537 people, including four health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Saturday. Of them, 96 were above the age of 60 and 32 below the age of 10. In all, 3,021 people were under home care. On Saturday, 109 people were hospitalised for treatment of COVID-19. A total of 9,145 samples were collected for testing on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thrissur-logs-553-cases/article33834052.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||All for the good work||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-for-the-good-work/article33833953.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Revision classes on KITE VICTERS||Telecast of revision classes for Classes 10 and 12 (Plus Two) students as part of the First Bell digital classes on the KITE VICTERS channel will conclude on Sunday. The revision classes are also available as audio books on the portalfirstbell.kite.kerala.gov.in From Monday onwards, six classes would be telecast for Plus One students and three classes each for Class 8 and Class 9, KITE chief executive officer K. Anvar Sadath said in a statement here on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/revision-classes-on-kite-victers/article33833971.ece
14 February 2021||ANTARVEDI (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||New chariot at Antarvedi launched||Head of Visakha Sri Sarada Peetham Swaroopanandendra Saraswati launched the four-storey new wooden chariot of Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Antarvedi on Saturday. In the early hours of September 5 last, the century-old chariot was gutted under suspicious circumstances on the temple campus. The State government had spent Rs. 90 lakh on the new 40-foot chariot that was built with teak wood grown in the Bastar forest cover in Chhattisgarh. On Saturday, Sri Swaroopanandendra Saraswati performed ‘samprokshanam’ before dedicating the chariot to the temple. “Later, Sri Swaroopanandendra Saraswati also offered puja to the idols of Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy, Venu Gopala Swamy and Rukmini Devi mounted on the new chariot,” Y. Bhadraji, Endowments Assistant Commissioner and temple Executive Officer, told The Hindu . Principal Secretary (Endowments Department) G. Vani Mohan, Additional Commissioner and Chairman of the chariot committee K. Ramachandra Mohan, Regional Joint Commissioner D. Bramaramba, and Deputy Commissioner (Kakinada) M. Vijaya Raju were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sarada-peetham-head-launches-new-chariot-at-antarvedi/article33833461.ece
14 February 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD writes to Centre seeking vaccination for frontline staff||The Tirumala Tirupathi Devasthanams (TTD) has written to the Union government seeking COVID-19 vaccination to its frontline employees who are managing thousands of devotees each day at Tirumala, its Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy said in Chennai on Saturday. Mr. Reddy told The Hindu that 2,500 employees handling queues, counters, security, darshan etc were identified as frontline warriors since an average of 55,000 devotees were visiting the hill temple daily. “We have written to the government of India to include our staff in the list of frontline corona warriors who are managing the pandemic. We are also pursuing the matter with the State government to facilitate the vaccinations at the earliest,” Mr. Reddy said. About 25-30 employees were infected with COVID-19 of whom two employees died due to comorbidities. The number of devotees visiting the temple, which was restricted to 5,000 in June 2020, was increased in a phased manner. “Now we have an average of 55,000 devotees per day. Before the pandemic, it used to be around 85,000 on weekdays and more than a lakh on weekends.” Mr. Reddy said the hundi collection had increased from Rs. 30 lakh (per day) when the temple was opened after the lockdown to an average of Rs. 2.75 crore in the last two months. The revenue deficit this fiscal was expected to be Rs. 650 crore. Though there was a drastic fall in the hundi collections, the main source of income, the TTD managed to sustain routine activities in its education and healthcare services. Interest from fixed deposits hit The TTD Chairman said the interest accrued from fixed deposits before the pandemic, about Rs. 14,000 crore, was sufficient to manage the establishment cost including salaries, educational institutions, hospitals etc. “At the rate of about 8% we used to get Rs. 120 crore as interest alone. The rate of interest was reduced to 3.5% …in January this year it was increased to 4%,” he said. Asked whether the TTD had any plans to diversify its investments pattern, Mr. Reddy said venturing into new avenues of investments would come with an element of risk. “This is the hard-earned money of the devotees and we cannot afford to take any risk,” he said. Mr. Reddy said the viewership of the Sri Venkateswara Bhakti Channel (SVBC) had touched 8 crore. The TTD had introduced ad-free programmes following feedback from the viewers. Some devotees, most of them NRIs, were offering donations for the devotional channel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-seeks-vaccination-for-employees/article33833454.ece
14 February 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chinta sees secret agenda in BJP-RSS meets||Former Union Minister and Congress Working Committee (CWC) member Chinta Mohan on Saturday alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP) and the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) were holding a series of “secret conclaves” to take over the Tirumala temple and transfer it to mutts of their choice. Speaking to the media at Tirupati, the Congress leader alleged that a nine-hour-long secret meeting chaired by RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat, attended by 30 prominent personalities of the BJP, RSS and Hindu Dharma Acharya Sabha and legal experts, was held at India International Centre, New Delhi, on February 7, in continuation of a similar meeting at Ponpadi in Tamil Nadu last month. “The prime agenda of the conclaves was to handover the Tirumala temple to mutts of their choice,” Dr. Mohan alleged. The CWC member said that after destabilizing the Visakha Steel Plant in Vizag, now it was the turn of the TTD to meet a similar fate. The leader sought the TTD employees, pensioners and people of Tirupati to be alert to the BJP-RSS “designs” to handover the temple to the mutts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chinta-sees-secret-agenda-in-bjp-rss-conclaves/article33833571.ece
14 February 2021||CHITTOOR/KADAPA/ANANTAPUR/KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||2nd phase sees higher turnout than previous elections||The second phase of panchayat polls went off peacefully in the Rayalaseema districts of Chittoor, Kadapa, Anantapur and Kurnool on Saturday. Polls were conducted in 215 panchayats in Chittoor, 135 in Kadapa, 293 in Anantapur and 182 in Kurnool. The officials said the turnout was higher than the previous elections. Chittoor Collector Hari Narayanan said 77.2 percent of polling was reported in the 17 mandals of Madanapalle division. “We have laid special focus on the hypersensitive and sensitive polling stations, and this led to a peaceful election everywhere. Apart from 3,000-plus police personnel on duty, we have deployed mobile and striking forces too,” he said. Earlier, the Collector inspected the polling stations in Piler, Valmikipuram and Kalikiri mandals. Yesteryear actor Ramaprabha caught attention when she arrived at her native village, Ramacharlapalle in Madanapalle rural mandal, to cast her vote. Mild tension in Madanapalle mandal Mild tension prevailed for a while on Saturday evening at Kollabailu village in Madanapalle mandal, when a group of villagers insisted that the ballot boxes be kept at the respective polling stations and counted there itself, instead of taking the boxes to the neighbouring centre. In Anantapur, Superintendent of Police B. Satya Yesubabu told the mediapersons that the polling percentage was satisfactory and went up remarkably compared to the previous years. He said heavy bandobast was in force at 2,996 polling stations in 19 mandals which were in fray for the panchayat elections. In Kadapa district, the polling percentage remained at 80.47 for the 135 panchayats which went to polls. Joint Collector (Revenue) Gowthami said that Vallur mandal witnessed a record 84.12% polling while VN Palle mandal saw 83.3% polling. Unprecedented turnout of voters was reported in Kurnool district with 80.76% polling by 3.30 p.m. District Collector G. Veerapandian said the polling was peaceful in all the 183 panchayats of 13 mandals. Of the 4.36 lakh voters, as many as 3.52 lakh voters had cast their votes. The highest percentage of 87.79 was recorded at Gudur mandal, followed by the lowest at 71.83 per cent in Koilakuntla mandal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/second-phase-registers-higher-turnout-than-previous-polls/article33833573.ece
14 February 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Polling peaceful: Collector||District Collector Vivek Yadav said that the second phase of gram panchayat general elections held on Saturday in 11 constituencies under Narasaraopet Revenue Division were held peacefully. He said voting for 166 sarpanches and 1397 ward members in 1,764 polling stations in Narasaraopet division ended peacefully. A total of 3,12,490 voters cast their votes in Saturday’s poll, with 85.51% of the vote. He congratulated the officials and staff who worked hard for the smooth conduct of the second phase elections. He also asked for more dedicated election functions to ensure smooth conduct of the forthcoming phase two of the elections. He thanked the voters who participated in the gram panchayat elections and exercised their right to vote in large numbers. Inspections Mr. Vivek Yadav along with Joint Collector Sridhar Reddy observed the counting process of the second phase of the gram panchayat general election in the Yedlapada zone under the Narasaraopet Revenue Division on Saturday evening. Mr. Vivek Yadav inspected the voting process at the Zilla Parishad High School in Thimmapuram village in Yedlapadu zone and the MPUP school in Vankayalapadu village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/polling-peaceful-collector/article33834106.ece
14 February 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||82% turnout in East Godavari||The East Godavari district on Saturday witnessed 82.86% turnout of voters in the second phase of gram panchayat elections held in Rajamahendravaram and Ramachandrapuram revenue divisions. Over 6.16 lakh voters exercised their franchise among the total voters of among the total voters of above 7.44 lakh in the second phase conducted in the 14 mandals. In Kandarada panchayat in Pithapuram mandal, where re-polling was conducted on Saturday, 84 per of polling was recorded and the Sarpanch aspirant (supported by the YSR Congress Party) was declared winner, said District Panchayat Officer S.V. Nageswar Naik. On February 10, the re-polling was ordered in the Kandarada panchayat after locals had stolen 47 ballot papers from the counting centre during the counting process. The Rajanagaram mandal had witnessed the highest polling percent of 87.87 and Kadiyam mandal recorded the lowest polling per cent of 79.16 in the second phase in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/82-turnout-in-eg/article33834038.ece
14 February 2021||KALIDINDI (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Nine bundles of saris seized, one held||Police conducted a raid in Pedda Lanka village in Krishna district on Saturday and seized 6,700 saris which were reportedly meant for distributing to the voters. The police seized the material from a villager, T. Nageswara Rao, who was carrying it in nine bundles on a boat. “He was campaigning in favour of a candidate contesting for a sarpanch post,” said Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP) Mallika Garg, who visited the hypersensitive polling centres. The Kalidindi police registered a case and took the accused into custody, Ms. Mallika said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/9-bundles-of-saris-seized/article33833578.ece
14 February 2021||KORUKALLU (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Sarpanch candidate delivers baby after casting vote in Krishna||A woman, Leela Kanakadurga, who is contesting for the sarpanch post in Korukallu gram panchayat in Kalidindi mandal in the district, delivered a baby after casting her vote on Saturday. She reached the polling station during the second phase of GP elections in the village. After casting her vote, the woman developed labour pains. The staff and police rushed her to Kaikaluru Government Hospital, where she gave birth to a baby girl. “I am contesting the elections for the first time and the response is overwhelming. I am the first person to enter into politics in my family,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sarpanch-candidate-delivers-baby-after-casting-vote-in-krishna/article33833581.ece
14 February 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Drones used in Prakasam for elections for first time in State||For the first time in the State, drone cameras were used for surveillance during the second phase of the gram panchayat elections held in 14 mandals in Prakasam district on Saturday. Overseeing the security arrangements in the faction-prone areas in and around Addanki along with technical teams, Prakasam Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal said polling was conducted in a peaceful manner. The SP, who went round the polling stations on a motorcycle in, among other villages, Kalavakuru, Sankhavarapadu, Dharmavaram and Ballikurava, said heightened vigil would be maintained during counting also to prevent any post-poll clashes. He also closely watched the polling process through a network of CCTVs and gave instructions to the police personnel on duty at the polling booths to be alert and ensure free and fair elections. As many as 103 route mobiles, 58 striking force, 2575 para-police and special forces were deployed. Stern action would be taken if anyone disturbed peace after counting, he warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drones-used-in-prakasam-for-elections-for-first-time-in-state/article33833575.ece
14 February 2021||Special Correspondent VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Guidelines for computer proficiency test||The Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC), which has invited online applications from February 2 to March 1 for the Computer Proficiency Test, likely to be held from April 6, has issued few guidelines to be followed by the applicants. A statement released here said the applicants primarily should register One Time Profile Registration (OTPR) in the Department Tests page through the Commission's website https://psc.ap.gov.in. User ID After registering the particulars, a User ID is generated and sent to the applicant's registered mobile number and e-mail ID. The applicants need to apply for the tests using the OTPR User ID through the Commission's website. Last date The last date for submission of the online application and payment of fee is March 1. It is a computer-based practical test and a detailed schedule of time-table will be announced shortly. The test will be conducted only in six centres. They are Vijayawada, Visakhapatnam, Rajahmundry, Nellore, Tirupati and Kurnool.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/guidelines-for-computer-proficiency-test/article33834036.ece
14 February 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bhajan attracts huge gathering||People actively participated in ‘namarchana’ devotional bhajan at Chim Dattanatha kshetram temple Srikakulam on Saturday. Executive trustee Perla Balaji and coordinator Pannala Ramakrishna said that a bhajan would also be conducted on Rathasaptami which is expected to be attended by many people. Indian Red Cross Society chairman P. Jaganmohana Rao said around a lakh of devotees are expected to participate in Laksha Galarchana programme, planned for next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bhajan-attracts-huge-gathering/article33834062.ece
14 February 2021||Staff Reporter VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youngsters urged to take part in plantation drive||Vizianagaram District Forest Officer B. Janaki Rao and Harita Vizianagaram coordinator Mantri Rammohana Rao on Saturday urged youngsters to participate in the plantation drive all along tank bunds in their respective villages and towns. They visited Bhogi Cheruvu in Vendram village of Bondapalli mandal and organised an awareness camp for local residents. Mr. Rammohana Rao said that Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal would provide required infrastructure for the special drive but the plants needed to be protected at least for one year. He said that the protection of saplings and developing gardens would make everyone happy. As many as 30 youngsters of Ramadandu participated in the awareness programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youngsters-urged-to-take-part-in-plantation-drive/article33834040.ece
14 February 2021||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||Brake failure could be the reason for Araku accident||The bus accident in which four persons died and 23 were injured, including two critically, at Damuku in Ananthagiri mandal, on the ghat road from Araku to Visakhapatnam on Friday night, might be due to a number of reasons including brake failure. According to the primary investigation done by the district police, the bus was heading from Araku valley to Visakhapatnam, carrying 27 passengers, including the driver. The driver Srisailam had reportedly stated he was experiencing some issue with the brakes and their were indications of failure. The ghat road from Araku to Visakhapatnam is down gradient and the bus would have been gathering speed, due to issues with the brakes, said Araku Circle Inspector Pydaiah. The incident happened at hairpin bend number 5, which is located between Damuku and Tyda.  The driver reportedly lost control at the hairpin bend, due to brake failure, and he made the decision to stop the bus by ramming it into retaining wall on the right side.  According to a senior police officer, who rushed to the site, had the bus swerved to the left and hit the rocks on the mountain side, the accident would not have been such a serious one. It would have hit rocks and overturned on the road, but would not have fallen into the valley, he said. Only one driver The initial investigation also reveals that the driver might have been fatigued. The bus belonging to one Dinesh Travels and started from Hyderabad on February 10. There was only one driver and it appears that he was fatigued, due to long hours of driving. He also apparently did not have any experience in driving on steep ghat roads, said Mr. Pydaiah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/brake-failure-could-be-the-reason-for-araku-accident/article33834049.ece
14 February 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD plans to resume mass weddings||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) is planning to relaunch the prestigious ‘Kalyanamastu’ (mass marriages) across the country for the benefit of the poor, its Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy said on Saturday. As per the instructions of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, an auspicious muhurtham would soon be finalised for the launch of the ambitious programme under which gold mangalsutrams, silk robes and wedding lunch will be extended to poor couples entering into wedlock. Speaking to reporters after taking part in the foundation laying ceremony for the construction of a Goddess Padmavati temple in Chennai, Mr. Subba Reddy said that the main intention behind the relaunch of the Kalyanamastu programme was to extend the blessings of presiding deity Lord Venkateswara and to meet the minimum wedding costs of the poor couples. Mr. Subba Reddy said the estimated cost for the construction of the Padmavati temple at GN Chetty Street in the heart of Chennai city was pegged at around Rs. 6.85 crore. Out of this cost, the TTD said it would bear Rs. 5.85 crore and the remaining Rs. 1 crore would be contributed by the local advisory committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-plans-to-resume-mass-weddings/article33833897.ece
14 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||84.24% polling in Krishna district||The district witnessed a voter turnout of 84.24% in the second phase of gram panchayat polls conducted in the nine mandals under Gudivada revenue division on Saturday. Polling took place in 1,725 polling booths that saw the participation of 2,53,792 voters out of a total of 3,01,264. The nine mandals are: Gudivada, Gudlavalleru, Kaikaluru, Kalidindi, Mandavalli, Mudinepalli, Nandivada, Pamarru and Pedaparupudi. Elections were conducted for 175 panchayats and 1,023 wards. Soon after the polling was closed, counting began.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/8424-polling-in-krishna-district/article33834104.ece
14 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dedicated freight service begins at Vijayawada airport||The first dedicated freight service from Vijayawada International Airport began on Saturday with the SpiceJet’s cargo service, SpiceXpress, taking off to Kolkata with goods weighing about 15 tonnes. Airport Director G. Madhusudhana Rao, along with Domestic Cargo Terminal custodian K. Venkata Rama Rao, SpiceJet’s cargo sales manager (South) K. Siva Kumar, and AAI cargo manager Abraham Lincoln, formally inaugurated the service on the airport premises. The scheduled cargo service aircraft, which will be operated thrice a week, was given the traditional water cannon welcome at the airport. ‘First-ever’ Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Madhusudhana Rao said the cargo terminal operation had begun in 2018, and only belly cargo transport was going on since then. Though a freight service was operated now and then during the past one year, this was the first-ever dedicated service, Mr. Rao said, and added that it was a milestone in the history of the airport. He said that goods could now be transported to far off destinations in a matter of hours, which, otherwise, used to take a couple of days by road or rail, he said. “This is hugely beneficial for businessmen, farmers, aqua farmers and others within 200 km of the airport,” he added. Freight charges The first freight service took off with 15 tonnes of shrimp, and SpiceXpress would be able to transport up to 40 tonnes in various aircraft, Mr. Rao said. The cost of freight transport would be around Rs. 120 per kg, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dedicated-freight-service-begins-at-vijayawada-airport/article33833856.ece
14 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Want fresh polls in Macherla, Punganur and Tamballapalle’||Alleging large-scale violence and irregularities in the gram panchayat elections, the TDP has urged the State Election Commissioner (SEC) to “rein in the anarchy unleashed by the ruling YSRCP leaders and activists” and ensure that the process is free and fair. In a representation submitted to the Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar on Saturday, the TDP leaders Varla Ramaiah and Bonda Umamaheswara Rao alleged that the ongoing elections were replete with incidence of violence, kidnappings, tearing of nomination papers, and forced unanimous election of the YSRCP-backed candidates. They also alleged that some of the candidates were being harassed by the officials for issuing certificates needed to file nomination papers. The TDP leaders further alleged that the police was biased towards the ruling party candidates. ‘Forced unanimous polls’ Alleging large-scale violence in Punganuru and Tamballapalle (Chittoor district), and Macherla (Guntur district), they said that unanimous election of the ruling party-supported candidates were forced in 80 out of 83 panchyats in Punganuru, 76 out of 77 panchayats in Macherla, and 30 panchayats in Tambalapalle. Demanding fresh elections in Punganuru, Macherla and Tamballapalle, they also insisted on a comprehensive inquiry into the poll code violations by the ruling party leaders, the police personnel, and the officials of election duty, and stringent action against those who had booked false cases against the candidates backed by the opposition parties. The TDP also appealed to the SEC to implement the interim orders passed by the Andhra Pradesh High Court, and ensure that the elections were held in a fair and unbiased manner. Citing violation of the rule that there should be one nomination centre for every three villages, they said only one centre was set up for the entire Punganuru mandal allegedly “to facilitate forced unanimous election.” The TDP leaders also accused the personal assistant of Panchayat Raj Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy of behaving as an extra-constitutional authority, and said that he was exerting pressure on the officials to declare unanimous election of the YSRCP-backed candidates in the fray. TDP leaders urged the SEC to examine the call data of the Minister’s aide and initiate action against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-alleges-irregularities-in-elections/article33833466.ece
14 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||5,820 receive second dose of vaccine||Only 5,820 beneficiaries received the second dose of vaccine against COVID-19 on Saturday. The drive began on January 16 in the State. About 19,000 beneficiaries, including health workers, received the first dose of Covishield vaccine. According to the Health Department, on Saturday, only 31% of those who received the first dose turned up for the second one. The second dose of vaccine is mandatory for the process to complete and one should receive both 28 days apart.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/5820-beneficiaries-turn-up-for-second-dose-of-vaccination/article33834099.ece
14 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||5 kg of ganja seized, 5 held||Sleuths of Police Commissioner’s Task Force (CTF) seized 510 grams of liquid ganja and five kg dry ganja on Saturday. They arrested five persons, including two engineering students. The gang was procuring the contraband from the Agency area in Visakhapatnam district, said Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu. On a tip-off, the team led by CTF Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (ADCP) K.V. Srinivas and ACPs V.S.N. Varma and G.V. Ramana Murthy conducted a raid at a fertilizer shop, located at Gannavaram and seized the contraband. They arrested K. Venkata Suresh of Nellore, K. Sai Kumar of Gannavaram, both B. Tech graduates, K. Durga Karthik, M. Ganesh and V. Hemanth, all natives of Gannavara. The accused were selling the liquor ganja packed in small tins, at Rs. 2,000 each, Mr. Srinivasulu said. The gang was targeting the youth and students in Krishna and the neighbouring places, the Additional DCP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/5-kg-of-ganja-seized-5-held/article33834102.ece
14 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Number of active cases down to 797 in State||The State reported no new deaths and 54 new infections in the past 24 hours ending Saturday morning. It was the second-lowest single-day tally reported in the past eight months. The tally increased to  8,88,814  while the toll and death rate remained unchanged at 7,162  and 0.81% respectively. The number of active cases came down to  797 with 71 new recoveries in the past day. So far, 8,80,855  patients have recovered and the recovery rate stands at 99.10%. The positivity rate of the 33,415 samples tested in the past day was the lowest-ever at 0.16%. So far, 1.35 crore samples with a positivity rate of 6.58% were tested in the State. Also, for the first time in the past several months, all the districts reported no more than 10 new infections while four districts reported zero infections. Visakhapatnam reported nine new infections and was followed by Krishna with eight, Chittoor and East Godavari with seven each, Kadapa with six, Guntur, Nellore and Srikakulam with five each and West Godavari with two new infections in the past day. Anantapur, Kurnool, Prakasam and Vizianagaram reported no new case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/number-of-active-cases-down-to-797-in-state/article33834044.ece
14 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||30,000 liquor bottles seized in State||In a joint operation, the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB), Excise and Law and Order police conducted raids across the State and seized over 30,000 liquor bottles, worth Rs. 14.5 lakh, being transported to villages in a bid to woo voters during the second phase of polling. Police teams arrested nine persons in different cases and seized a tipper, one tractor, a car and three two-wheelers, used for smuggling, said SEB Commissioner Vijeet Brijlal. West Godavari Superintendent of Police (SP) K. Narayan Naik said the police intercepted a tractor at Lingagudem border checkpost and seized 9,696 bottles of Non-Duty Paid Liquor (NDPL), worth Rs. 12 lakh, being transported from Telangana State. Two smugglers, along with the vehicle and the stocks have been seized, said SEB ASP C. Jayarama Raju. In another case, the Mudinepalli police led by Gudivada DSP N. Satyanandam seized a tipper, one car and two bikes, for transporting 2,020 NDPL on Saturday. The stocks were valued about Rs. 2.75 lakh, said Krishna district SP M. Ravindranath Babu. The Vissannapeta police chased a car at Vemireddypalli border checkpost and recovered 635 liquor bottles, being smuggled from the neighbouring Telangana State, said Nuzvid DSP B. Srinivasulu. One person was arrested and a case has been registered, the DSP said. In T.Narsapuram mandal, the police seized 250 liquor bottles, being transported on a bike at Lankapalli village in West Godavari district, said SP Narayan Naik. In Guntur Police seized over 14,000 liquor bottles at Chilakaluripet and Piduguralla in Guntur district, and seized two four-wheelers. The SEB police seized about 51,000 litres of ID liquor at different places and the raids will continue, said the SEB Commissioner. Besides, black jaggery and fermented jaggery wash have been seized, and 200 bottles of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) being sold illegally have been seized, Mr. Vijeet Brijlal added. Pat for police Director General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang on Saturday praised the police for extending good services to the aged, pregnant women and the special need persons at the polling centres. Mr. Sawang also appreciated the police for doing good enforcement during the second phase of local body elections, in which liquor and other freebies, have been seized across the State. “More than 47,000 personnel, including CRPF and APSP contingents have been deputed for the second phase of gram panchayat polling in Andhra Pradesh. Compared to the 2013 local body polls, the number of cases and violence was less now, and the polling percentage during the first and second phase cross 81% in the State,” the DGP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/30000-liquor-bottles-seized-during-second-phase-of-polling/article33834101.ece
14 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Joint Collectors appointed in-charge of DCCBs||The State government on Saturday issued a G.O. appointing Joint Collectors (Revenue & Rythu Bharosa Kendras) as the official Person-In-Charge (PICs) of the District Cooperative Central Banks under Section 32(7)(a)(i) of the Andhra Pradesh Cooperative Societies (APCS) Act, 1964 with immediate effect for six months or till the conduct of elections or till further orders. Through a separate order, the government instructed the Commissioner for Cooperation and Registrar of Cooperative Societies to appoint official PICs for Primary Agricultural Cooperative Societies as per APCS Act up to July 30, 2021 or till the conduct of elections or till further orders whichever happens to be earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/joint-collectors-appointed-in-charge-of-dccbs/article33834046.ece
14 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Narsipatnam division records 84.03% polling||The second phase of gram panchayat elections being held in 10 mandals of Narsipatnam revenue division recorded 84.03% polling in Visakhapatnam district on Saturday. This was a shade lower than the polling percentage in Anakapalle, which recorded 84.23%. The first phase of gram panchayat elections was held in Anakapalle revenue division on February 9. The polling in Narsipatnam revenue division has been peaceful in all 239 gram panchayats, said Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao. A large number of people, including senior citizens and women, were seen actively coming forward to cast their vote, since early morning. Police have arranged queue lines at polling centres, by maintaining social distancing norms, for the voters. Among the mandals, Rolugunta that reported least turnout with 35.89% by till 10.30 a.m., climbed to the top with 86.61%, by the end of the polls. Four other mandals apart from Rolugunta, recorded voting percentage of over 86%. They are Kotauratla (86.58), Makavarapalem (86.44), Narsipatnam (86.19) and Nathavaram (86.19). The least polling percentage was recorded at Payakraopeta with 77.23%. According to Narsipatnam Sub-Collector and Deputy District Election Authority N. Mourya, out of 261 sarpanch posts, 22 have been unanimously elected. As many as 581 sarpanch candidates are in fray for 239 posts. Meanwhile, 4,641 ward member candidates are contesting for 2,184 posts. The 10 mandals in Narsipatnam revenue division have 4,69,583 voters, including 2,53,536 women voters. Out of 261 gram panchayats, 80 were categorised as sensitive and 88 as hypersensitive. sAround 1,800 police personnel were deployed to Narsipatnam revenue division for the polls. According to the 9.30 p.m. bulletin, out of 239 sarpanch posts, results of 171 were declared, and out of 2,184 ward member posts, results of 2,002 were declared.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/narsipatnam-revenue-division-records-8403/article33834041.ece
14 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Astrologers urged to bring out valuable info in the Vedas||The two-day Indian Council of Astrological Sciences (ICAS) national conference began here on Saturday in GITAM Deemed to be University. Delivering the inaugural address, Goa Chief Secretary Parimal Rai said that the experts in the field of astrology must bring out the valuable information of Vedas for the development of society. He advised the astrologers to focus on giving predictions to help the governments. He said that online learning lacks the interactive elements of traditional classrooms that help students develop crucial interpersonal skills for the future. ICAS national president and former bureaucrat A.B. Shukla said that Sanskrit literature is a huge storehouse of knowledge whether in astrology, vaastu sastra, ethics, Indian culture or philosophy. He said that ICAS is focussing on Vedic research and translations to bring out the valuable information. GITAM president M. Sribharath said that GITAM deemed to be university is launching a school in the name ‘swecha’ to mould the children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/astrologers-urged-to-bring-out-valuable-info-in-the-vedas/article33834115.ece
14 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Come onto one platform to oppose VSP privatisation’||Chaitanya Shravanti, an NGO, organised a dharna protesting against the proposed privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, here near Gandhi statue on Saturday. Speaking at the dharna, Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao urged students, NGOs, political parties and trade unions to come onto one platform and raise their voice against the proposed privatisation. Captive mines CPI (M) State secretariat member Ch. Narasinga Rao, said that efforts will be made to meet the Prime Minister, to impress upon him that the steel plant should not be privatised and be allocated captive mines. The turnover of the plant is over Rs. 20,000 crore and its asset value is over Rs. 2 lakh crore. S.A. Rahman, former Chairman of VUDA, said that the decision was unilateral and it should be opposed.Shirin Rahman, founder of Chaitanya Shravanti, said that protest would continue, until the centre takes back its proposal’ She participated in the relay hunger strike, being organised by Vizag Steel Protection Committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/come-onto-one-platform-to-oppose-vsp-privatisation/article33834116.ece
14 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vaccination drive begins at ENC||COVID-19 vaccination drive for naval personnel serving on frontline naval units of Eastern Naval Command (ENC) commenced in Visakhapatnam on Saturday. Vice Admiral Atul Kumar Jain, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, ENC, led the vaccination drive by receiving the first dose of vaccine at INHS Kalyani. The campaign would continue till all frontline workers of the ENC are covered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vaccination-drive-begins/article33834063.ece
14 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VSP committee urges rethink on divestment||Vizag Steel Plant Protection Committee, formed by all trade unions of different parties and various people’s organisations, held a meeting here on Saturday and passed a unanimous resolution urging the Union government to drop the proposal of strategic sale of the steel plant. They also passed a resolution demanding that the Centre immediately allocate captive iron ore mines to the steel plant. The members also laid a roadmap for the agitation, for this month. Speaking to the media, president of the committee M. Jaggu Naidu said that if the Centre did not drop the idea of privatisation of the plant, then the committee would step up the agitation by garnering support from across various sections, including the youth and student. Earlier, M.V.V. Satyanarayana visited the site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vsp-committee-urges-rethink-on-divestment/article33834047.ece
14 February 2021||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Second phase polls peaceful in Srikakulam, Vizianagaram||Barring a few stray incidents, the second phase of polling for panchayat elections went off peacefully both in Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts. Around 82% polling was registered in Vizianagaram district. The second phase was conducted mostly in tribal areas of Parvatipuram division of Vizianagaram district. The district administration conducted the elections in Kotia gram panchayat in spite of objections from Odisha, as both Odisha and A.P. claim jurisdiction rights over the panchayat. Voters formed long queues from the early hours of Saturday to cast their votes in the panchayat elections at 355 places of Parvatipuram division. Tribal people came in large numbers to polling booths from 6 a.m. itself to elect their sarpanches. Long queues were seen in Kurupam, Gummalakshmipuram and other mandals. The elections were also conducted to elect 355 sarpanches and 2,446 ward members. Meanwhile, the elections went off peacefully in 236 places out of 278 panchayats in Srikakulam district. With the completion of elections unanimously for 41 panchayats, the district administration conducted the election for remaining places which come under Assembly constituencies such as Rajam, Itchapuram and Palasa constituencies.  Maoist-affected areas Vizianagaram Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal and Superintendent of Police B. Rajakumari have been monitoring the elections since many panchayats were located in sensitive zones and Maoist-affected areas of A.P.-Odisha border. Mr. Hari Jawaharlal warned that stern action would be initiated against employees who failed to attend election duty. As many as 611 candidates contested for sarpanch posts and 2,716 persons tested their fortunes for the ward members’ posts. The TDP, which won Itchapuram Assembly constituency in the 2019 Assembly elections, strived hard to win maximum number of panchayats in the segment. TDP-A.P. president Kinjarapu Atchannaidu, Srikakulam MP Kinjarapu Rammohan Naidu personally monitored the elections to ensure victory for TDP-backed candidates. TDP-AP president Kinjarapu Atchannaidu and Srikakulam MP Kinjarapu Rammohan Naidu have been personally monitoring the elections to ensure a victory for TDP-backed candidates. Regarding Palasa, Minister for Fisheries and Horticulture Sidiri Appala Raju is pulling out all stops to ensure a victory for the party-backed candidate. Mr. Appala Raju, who won from Palasa Assembly constituency in 2019 elections, has left no stone unturned to win maximum panchayats in Palasa where TDP is also equally poised despite being defeated in the last general elections. TDP State general secretary Gowthu Sirisha, who won in the 2014 elections, has toured extensively in the villages to improve the morale of TDP-backed candidates. Former Minister and TDP Assembly in-charge of Rajam Kondru Muralimohan has conducted a series of meetings with TDP-backed candidates of Rajam, Santakaviti and Vangara mandals. Rajam MLA (YSRCP) Kambala Jogulu hoped to win more than 80% seats in Rajam Assembly constituency. Srikakulam Collector J. Nivas and Superintendent of Police Amit Bardar expressed happiness over the completion of election process peacefully.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/second-phase-of-polls-ends-peacefully-in-srikakulam-vizianagaram/article33834039.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Helping hands in the hour of need||Mr. Sudhakar said that five persons were required to carry one injured person to the road point, since we had to trek uphill. “We carried them on our shoulders,” he said. Many locals used mobile phone lights to carry out the rescue operations. “Our only plan was to waste no time and shift as many as possible to hospital to save lives. The locals really came forward and helped us. We used 108 ambulances, our station vehicles and the local transport to shift the injured,” the SI added. Meanwhile the King George Hospital (KGH) witnessed heart-rending scenes on Saturday morning. Among the 23 injured who were shifted to the hospital for treatment, seven were minors. Among the seven, five were below 10 years of age. As parents of many of these children were undergoing treatment and a few among them were unconscious, it was the hospital staff including nurses, helpers and doctors, took care of the children, while they were crying for their parents. The tourists were seen in deep shock and grief after the accident. “Everything was going well since the last three days. But seems like all of a sudden our lives are changed now. We were about to reach plain area in half an hour. That was when everyone shouted that brakes are not working properly. Everyone screamed and then we met with the accident,” recalls a passenger at KGH.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/helping-hands-in-the-hour-of-need/article33834043.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Weekend fun||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/weekend-fun/article33834120.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Idol parade||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/idol-parade/article33834108.ece
14 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||MoJS clearance for projects should be mandatory: TBJP||Telangana Bharatiya Janata Party (TBJP) has requested the Ministry of Environment and Forest (MoEF) to amend the laws pertaining to issuance of environmental clearance to projects by making it mandatory to include approvals of the Ministry of Jal Shakti (MoJS) to prevent loss to the public exchequer. State BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar along with Advisor to MoJS Sriram Vedire met Union Minister of Environment and Forests Prakash Javadekar in New Delhi on Thursday and submitted a letter with the request alleging that the TRS government was resorting to misuse of the public exchequer on a large scale. Mr. Sanjay Kumar explained to the Union Minister that the Telangana government was getting away from scrutiny of the projects proposed by not submitting detailed project reports (DPRs) to MoJS to seek inter-state, hydrology, techno-economic viability, and cost estimates, among others. However, the State government was getting environmental clearances by submitting the DPRs to MoEF, separately. The issue, if not addressed, would continue to cause huge loss to the public exchequer as the Telangana government has taken up many projects on the inter-state rivers of Godavari and Krishna. Although it is mandatory that DPRs of the projects proposed are to be submitted to various Central agencies for their appraisal and approval before executing/implementing them, the State government was ducking some procedures to avoid scrutiny on cost related issues. Mr. Sanjay Kumar alleged in the letter that the DPRs were not being readied for the benefit of people but to benefit private firms and agencies, who are awarded the works. “Costs of works in DPRs are escalated only to benefit the agencies resulting in large scale corruption at the highest level. Techno-economic viability of the projects is not being considered, denying the intended benefits to people,” he stated in the letter. This, the BJP MP said, was possible as the approval from MoJS was merely advisory in nature and the government was conveniently avoiding the process and without the approval of DPRs by MoJS, was submitting them to MoEF to seek environmental clearance, which is statutory in nature.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mojs-clearance-for-projects-should-be-mandatory-tbjp/article33833885.ece
14 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Chat between KTR, Microsoft CEO to be highlight of BioAsia||From Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella, WHO chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan, USFDA CBER director Peter Marks to NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant, well known names from the world of business, technology, life sciences and prominent policymakers will be addressing the BioAsia 2021. A two-day event, from February 22, this edition of BioAsia will be the 18th in the series andfor the first time is to be held virtually. The 2021 edition will discuss challenges created by COVID-19 pandemic and learning opportunities for the future with the over-arching theme ‘Move the Needle.’ A fireside chat ‘Charcha 2021 – Healthcare to Hit Refresh’ between Telangana Industries and IT Minister K.T.Rama Rao and Mr. Nadella will be the highlight this year. The discussion will be centered around the opportunities created by the intersection of technology and healthcare/ life sciences, digital transformation, role of startups, among others, the release said. The keynote address on day 1 will be delivered by Peter Marks. Others scheduled to address BioAsia 2021 include senior government officials, NITI Aayog member V.K. Paul, CEPI CEO Richard Hatchet, Global Health of Gates Foundation president Trevor Mundel, Nasscom president Debjani Ghosh and heads of several companies. A number of sessions form part of the conference, including one on ‘Reimagining R&D post COVID – Collaboration, Data and Repurposing,’ which will addressed by President R&D of Takeda Andy Plump and Group Head of Corporate Affairs and Global Health of Novartis, Lutz Hegemann. The CEO conclave will see the participation of the IT Minister, Mr.Kant, Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories chairman Satish Reddy, Lupin MD Nilesh Gupta, Biocon CMD Kiran Majumdar Shaw and India Life Sciences Leader of EY Sriram Shrinivasan. Industries and IT Secretary Jayesh Ranjan said “such comprehensive deliberations are the need of the hour to collaborate, innovate and to be better prepared for tomorrow’s challenges”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/chat-between-ktr-microsoft-ceo-to-be-highlight-of-bioasia/article33833859.ece
14 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Police personnel chant the fitness mantra||WhatsApp messenger groups of a few police stations in Hyderabad are now home to conversations around fitness, in addition to discussing crime updates. Sharing details about the new fitness initiative which was launched in eastern zone of Hyderabad Commissionerate, Joint Commissioner of Police M. Ramesh said that in the police department, the health quotient of personnel is now being focused on, with policemen being encouraged to walk at least 6,000 steps or 4 km per day and share the screenshots of their physical activity. “This will certainly boost a healthy competition among our personnel as a culture of fitness sets in. Soon, we will have more fit and healthy police personnel in the city,” he told The Hindu . Mr. Ramesh, a bicycle enthusiast and marathon runner himself, said that they started the initiative some 20 days ago as a healthy practice for both personal and professional life. “Our staff has become more health conscious and have started discussing good food habits and personal accomplishments, apart from the daily crime updates in the WhatsApp groups,” the officer said. “With more than 90% personnel using smartphones one can download the fitness apps and share their daily ‘achievements’ at zero extra cost. We will conduct research in police health pre- and post-fitness, stress levels, wellness etc.” Mr. Ramesh added. “Everyday they can walk for at least 6,000 steps, and there is no force. This has built competitive spirit among the force,” he said, adding that even the family members of the personnel have praised the initiative. Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar during an annual press meet announced to roll out the initiative across the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/police-personnel-chant-the-fitness-mantra/article33833896.ece
14 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Product structure from IRDAI to give wings to drone insurance||Customised insurance covers for drones are likely to hit the market soon with the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) unveiling a product structure for such policies and urging insurers to respond to the new and quickly growing market. Considering the unique characteristics of drones that differentiate them from other aircraft and taking into account the phenomenal growth in the usage of drones for multiple purposes, there is a need to augment the current insurance availability customised to the requirement of drone owners and operators, the regulator said. It said while citing how only a few general insurers in India currently offered insurance cover for Remotely Piloted Aircraft System (RPAS)/drones through existing products under Aviation insurance. A circular on the product structure for insurance of RPAS/drones from IRDAI said all general insurers (other than standalone health and specialised insurers) are encouraged to file the product as per filing guidelines. Alternatively, the insurers may design and develop their own product, in tune with the minimum coverage specified under the product structure. “The filing may be carried out at the earliest to respond to the new and quickly growing market,” IRDAI chief general manager (Non-Life) Yegnapriya Bharath said in the circular. A working group of IRDAI had last year developed a model product for drone insurance. Any such product ought to necessarily offer third party insurance covering the liability that may arise on account of any mishap involving drones and causing death or bodily injury to any person or damage to property, the circular said. The regulator said the objective behind announcing the product structure is to encourage general insurers come with insurance covers for drones and to facilitate flexibility and innovation in the development of insurance coverage for evolving technology requirements. From legal liability to third-party; physical damage to drone body/hull; personal accident cover for operator; medical expenses cover to operator; to optional covers that will enhance the coverage, the product structure unveiled by IRDAI covers various aspects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/product-structure-from-irdai-to-give-wings-to-drone-insurance/article33833867.ece
14 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Dhoni touch to cricket coaching in Telangana||Twenty MS Dhoni Cricket Academy (MSDCA) and School Sports Development Pathway centres will dot Telangana over the next two years. Brainiacs Bee and Aarka Sports Management Pvt. Ltd. (ASMP) will collaborate to establish the centres, said Mihir Diwakar, MD of ASMP. “Our plans will also cover Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka with the first one starting in Bellary in April. As far as Telangana is concerned, the number of trainees to be admitted and also the number of coaches will depend on the kind of infrastructure available to us,” Mr.Diwakar said. The aim will be to ensure that the players get play facilities which even Dhoni himself missed in his formative years. At the same time, emphasis will be laid on academics too, he pointed out. “Ideally, we will love to have batches of 20 students with a designated coach. The focus will not be on just numbers but quality,” said Mr. Diwakar, who was part of the Indian under-19 squad that won the 2000 World Cup. In villages too The centres will not be confined to big towns, but also villages and mandal headquarters. Training methodologies are curated by Dhoni himself and executed on the ground through South African great Daryll Cullinan, who is also director of coaching at MSDCA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dhoni-touch-to-cricket-coaching-in-telangana/article33833863.ece
14 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hyderabad Mayor’s cutouts cost her follower dearly||Newly elected Mayor Vijayalakshmi R. Gadwal received an unusual welcome from the GHMC on Saturday, when one among her followers was fined a hefty sum for flouting rules and defacing the city’s skyscape. The person named Atish Agarwal who described himself as a senior leader from TRS, has been reportedly penalised to the extent of Rs. 5 lakh, for displaying flexi banners and hoardings at multiple locations in the city congratulating the Mayor. The violation was brought to the notice of the Central Enforcement Cell under the Enforcement, Vigilance & Disaster Management wing of the GHMC, by several citizens on the social media platform Twitter. “Can you please convey Mr. Atish Agarwal “special thanks” on behalf of the first citizen for dirtying the city! [sic],” posted one Robin Zaccheus, who uploaded the pictures of flexi banners in Himayatnagar tagging the Director, EVDM, Central Enforcement Cell, Minister K.T.Rama Rao, and other officials. Hoardings were also placed at locations such as Jubilee Hills, Banjara Hills, Khairatabad, Kacheguda, Secunderabad, and others. After the issue gained focus, they were seen being removed. Responding to the tweets, the EVDM officials have issued a series of notices to Mr. Agarwal, imposing penalties ranging from Rs. 15,000 up to Rs. 2 lakh for various violations. The offences included erection of unauthorised advertisement element above 15 feet in height from ground level and unauthorised erection of banners and cutouts. The penalties have been imposed under the Sections 420 and 421 of GHMC Act, pertaining to regulation of sky signs, and regulation and control of advertisements. The Mayor-elect has later tweeted about the imposition of penalties, and cautioned her followers. “Issued fines to my followers who set up flexes and hoardings in GHMC premises. This is to reiterate the fact that everyone is equal before law. We must adhere to the rules and regulations of the city,” she posted from her official Twitter account.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mayors-cutouts-cost-her-follower-dearly/article33833873.ece
14 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Revanth’s padayatra to end on February 16||The 10-day padayatra of Telangana Congress working president and Malkajgiri MP A. Revanth Reddy will conclude on February 16 at Raviryala on the city outskirts with a massive public meeting. The padayatra started from Achampet opposing the three farm bills and with an intention to sensitise farmers on how they would be detrimental to their interests in the long run. Speaking to reporters at Amangal on the 7th day of his walkathon on Saturday, Mr. Reddy said farmers were realising how dangerous the laws were and wondering why Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had backtracked after criticising the same. “I have understood the apprehensions of the farmers who had expressed their fears during my seven days of interaction with hundreds of them,” he said. Terming the laws as ‘black laws’, he said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had decided to turn farmers into farm labourers in their own land just to help his crony capitalists. Mr. Reddy said with the laws coming into effect, all procurement centres would be closed, market yards would fade away, farmers cannot go to the courts if they are cheated by the contractors and even the ration shops will be closed. “Farmers want to do farming but these laws want them to do business, which is impossible,” he said. Stating that only Congress was a farmer-friendly party, he reminded that Congress had distributed land to the land-less farmers. Congress enacted stringent laws to ensure that farmers were not cheated. Even the Minimum Support Price (MSP) concept was introduced to see farmers get their due for their hard work. Farm loan waiver, free power, subsidised seeds and farm inputs were given by all the Congress governments. For the landless poor, the MNREGA scheme was launched assuring 100 days of work. But all those benefits are now being snatched away by two Gujaratis to help Ambani and Adani, he said, referring to Prime Minister Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah. KCR’s silence The Congress MP attributed the silence of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to the secret understanding between the BJP and TRS. “KCR is silent as he is afraid that his corruption will be exposed if he doesn’t toe BJP’s line,” he alleged. Farmers’ flags Mr. Reddy said it was the responsibility of everyone irrespective of party affiliation to hold the farmers’ flag to extend their support for the food suppliers of the nation. “There are no elections now. So let us hold farmers’ flag along with the party flag.” Replying to a question, he ridiculed KCR saying he doesn’t believe in supporting farmers when they are alive but only after they die. He said the AICC had backed his padayatra that will conclude on February 16 with a huge tractors’ rally. He appealed to all people connected with farmers and farming directly or indirectly to attend the meeting to extend their support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/revanths-padayatra-on-farm-laws-to-end-on-february-16/article33833888.ece
14 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Call for greater safety for women, action against culprits||State BJP women’s wing has urged the government to ensure that the the police react swiftly and take strict action against the perpetrators involved in recent crimes against women in the twin cities and elsewhere across the State. In a memorandum submitted to Deputy Chief Minister and Home Minister Mohd. Mahmood Ali on Friday, women’s wing president K. Geetha Murthy especially referred to the latest incident of a student’s kidnapping and sexual assault by a seven-seater auto driver and his accomplices despite the girl’s mother informing the police about her daughter’s plight. Urging the government to enhance the security for women, Ms Murthy regretted that Telangana stood in fourth position in the number of atrocities against women with cases of rapes, kidnap, dowry harassment, child marriages, acid attacks and so on, in the country. She charged that in many cases, the police have been succumbing to political pressures and not even filing cases or chargesheets. The BJP brought to the notice of the Minister that the Centre had released funds for women safety but not even 20% was spent in the last six years with just 100 victims getting financial help out of the 8,000 cases filed against such atrocities. Many victims were not even aware of the availability of such assistance and hence, there was need to increase public awareness. There are 28,896 cases under investigation in 2019 and in 572 cases, the police had failed to ensure taking witness accounts or file chargesheets. Only 62% cases have been chargesheeted while in 37.9% cases chargesheets were yet to be filed. Of the 24,601 chargesheeted cases, arrests were made in 15.3% cases only, she pointed out. Earlier, the women’s wing held a protest demonstration outside Exhibition Grounds to highlight the rising number of atrocities against women. ‘Pay salaries’ In a separate event, party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar demanded corporate colleges to pay salaries of the lecturers without any further delay. Responding to a delegation of lecturers, who represented their grievances to him, he said the corporate colleges have been collecting fees from students to the tune of lakhs of rupees without any respite and hence, it was not fair to deprive the teachers of the salaries under the pretext of losses during the COVID-19 pandemic. If necessary, the party will support lecturers in laying siege to the corporate colleges, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/call-for-greater-safety-for-women-action-against-culprits/article33833860.ece
14 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. to withdraw SLP over land||Telangana government has decided to withdraw the special leave petition (SLP) it had filed in Supreme Court questioning an order passed by the Telangana High Court over a land dispute. The SC bench dismissed the petition following its withdrawal, giving liberty to the State government to file a review petition on the matter in the HC. In December 2020, Justice M.S. Ramachandra Rao of the Telangana High Court, while disposing of two civil revision petitions and two contempt of court pleas, found fault with Sangareddy district Revenue officials for not complying with earlier orders to issue ownership document over five acres of land to two petitioners. Holding three Revenue officials of Sangareddy guilty of contempt of court, the judge awarded two-month simple imprisonment to them and imposed a fine of Rs. 2,000 each. The government was directed to initiate disciplinary action against them for not complying with the HC order. Challenging the HC order, the State government filed the SLP but eventually withdrew it to file a review in the HC again on the matter. In a separate case, Justice Challa Kodanda Ram of the Telangana High Court imposed a fine of Rs. 1,000 on Deputy Commissioner of Mahabubnagar Prohibition and Excise department for not complying with the court order. The fine amount should be collected from the officer’s salary, the order said. The P&E authorities seized a lorry of the petitioner accusing the latter of transporting jaggery allegedly for making ID liquor. The petitioner moved the High Court, which directed the authorities to release the vehicle after obtaining an undertaking from him. The petitioner filed the contempt case as the authorities declined to release the vehicle even after the court order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-to-withdraw-slp-over-land-row/article33833886.ece
14 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||MWD faces Muslim staff crunch||The Telangana government has sought information from several of its departments to encourage Muslim officers and seek their willingness to work in the Minorities Welfare Department (MWD), which is facing a dearth of senior qualified staff. In an UO note recently sent to all government departments, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar stated that several agencies of the MWD have been facing a shortage of staff, and that while some of these agencies mandate that officers should be Muslim, in others, it is ‘more practical’. “All the Departments of Secretariat, Telangana State, Hyderabad, are therefore requested to obtain and furnish the willingness of Muslim officers working in departments under the administrative control (including under their HoDs) in the cadre of Deputy Secretary to Government and Assistant Secretary to Government or in posts equivalent to these cadres who are willing to work in the Minorities Welfare Department, as early as possible preferably by 15-2-2021,”(sic) the note states. Agencies of the MWD include the Telangana State Urdu Academy, Telangana State Waqf Board, and Telangana State Haj Committee, among others. According to senior officers, there has been no recruitment in the past several years, and those who were serving in the capacity of deputy secretaries or assistant secretaries have retired. Interestingly, the G Sudhir Committee, which studied the socio-economic status of Muslims in Telangana in 2016, noted that there is a poor representation of Muslims in government departments in the State. As on July 28, 2016, there were 3.37% Muslim employees in the welfare departments. The representation of Muslims in 23 departments was 7.36%. The committee’s report submitted to the government observed that over half of Muslim employees working in State government departments are ‘last grade employees’ and that only 1.43% of them are gazetted officers. “We are indeed facing a massive shortage of staff. Even in the districts, there is a need for supervisors, and in some places District Minorities Welfare Officers. There are only a few Muslim officers. In fact, several of those working at the Waqf Board are on consolidated pay or are outsourced,” a senior officer who did not wish to be quoted said. Meanwhile, activists expressed concerns over the moving of Muslim officers from other departments to the MWD. S.Q. Masood, an activist who has worked extensively on welfare schemes, said, “The G Sudhir Committee report says that representation of Muslims, or inadequate representation, in government departments indicates inclusion. We should also look at consequences, in terms of representation, of moving Muslim officers from other departments to the MWD.”  We are indeed facing a massive shortage of staff. Even in the districts, there is a need for supervisors, and in some places District Minorities Welfare Officers. There are only a few Muslim officers. A senior officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mwd-faces-muslim-staff-crunch/article33833592.ece
14 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Man held for sexually assaulting minor girl||A 40-year-old man was arrested by the Dundigal police of Cyberabad commissionerate on Saturday for repeatedly sexually assaulting a minor girl. The accused has been assaulting the 13-year-old girl for the past two months. However, the offence came to light only on Friday when the man, the victim’s neighbour, was caught red-handed by the locals, police said. They said that on Friday other neighbours saw him with the victim and alerted her parents,who in turn approached the police and lodged a complaint. He was booked under Section 376 (punishment for rape) of Indian Penal Code and relevant Sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. The girl was sent for medical examination. According to police, the girl was trapped by the accused, and he took her to his home where he sexually assaulted her. He threatened her with dire consequences not to reveal about the offence and gave her some money, the investigators said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-held-for-sexually-assaulting-minor-girl/article33833869.ece
14 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Protest held against HCA selection process||A group of Club Secretaries, affiliated to the Hyderabad Cricket Association, and parents of players led by former HCA chief G. Vinod protested at Gymkhana Ground here on Saturday against the alleged irregularities in the selection of the Hyderabad team for the Vijay Hazare Trophy one-day tournament. “What has happened in the last two days with regard to the selection of the Hyderabad team was unprecedented. Cricket administration has hit a new low,” said Mr. Vinod while addressing the group and appealed to all the 220-odd affiliated Secretaries to raise their voice against “gross injustice being meted out to the performing players”. “It is in gross violation of the Justice Lodha guidelines which suggest that a five-member selection panel has to pick the team. But, unfortunately, the day before a two-member committee was involved in the process,” Mr. Vinod said in the presence of former HCA Secretary T. Seshnarayan among others. “We will write to the BCCI to depute an Observer at least for selecting the under-19, under-16 and under-23 teams in the future. The fact that none of the five top scorers in the A1-Division League figured in the Hyderabad squad is proof of them,” he explained. We also appeal to the HCA to convene the AGM immediately, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/protest-held-against-hca-selection-process/article33833870.ece
14 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||556 HCWs miss second dose of COVID vaccine||Healthcare workers (HCWs) in Telangana have started taking second dose of COVID-19 vaccine from Saturday. Going by the details provided by the Health department, 556 targeted beneficiaries did not take the second dose. Along with the HCWs, 1,111 FLWs received the first dose on Saturday. No case of minor or severe Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI) was reported. The immunisation drive was launched on January 16. The vaccine is administered in two doses with a gap of 28 days. The first priority was given to HCWs from government and private sector, followed by frontline workers (FLW) from Municipality, Police, Revenue and Panchayat Raj departments. On the first day of the immunisation, 3,962 HCWs from government sector were given the jab. A media bulletin issued by the Health department on Saturday stated 3,752 HCWs targeted to take second dose on Saturday. Of them, 3,196 took the jab. That means 556 beneficiaries listedfor the second dose did not take it. Director of Medical Education K. Ramesh Reddy was among the recipients to take the second dose. The Health department staff will resume administering the second dose from Monday. So far, 2,78,936 people have received the first vaccine dose. Of them, 1,93,485 are HCWs from government and private sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/556-hcws-miss-second-dose-of-coronavirus-vaccine/article33833865.ece
14 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Komatireddy padayatra from February 20||Protesting against the government’s failure to complete irrigation projects in Nalgonda, former minister and Member of Parliament from Bhongir Komatireddy Venkata Reddy will take out a padayatra from Brahmanavellema in Nalgonda to Hyderabad from February 20 to 26. In a statement here, he said he had written letter seeking permission from the Election Commission and the police. He demanded that the Brahmanavellemla and SLBC project be completed immediately. The Bhongir MP accused Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao of showing fake love on Nalgonda district. Congress started the Brahmanavellemla project in 2008 and it needs just Rs. 100 crore for completion but KCR is not willing to allocate that amount, he claimed. Similarly, Congress government spent Rs. 1300 crore for the SLBC tunnel and it will be completed with another Rs. 1000 crore. Despite many representations the Chief Minister has ignored it. About 4 lakh acres would have come under irrigation with these but were ignored as KCR feared credit would go to Komatireddy, he claimed. Had the tunnel been completed AP government could not have taken water to AP, he said and alleged that KCR was enacting a drama in Nalgonda keeping in view the Nagarjunasagar bypoll. He said the padayatra would be peaceful to expose the government’s failures and asked the farmers to turn up in huge numbers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/komatireddy-padayatra-from-feb-20/article33833889.ece
14 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Zoo animals adopted||Chairman of the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) Anil Kumar Epur, along with his family members, visited the Nehru Zoological Park on Saturday, and offered to adopt four species of animals, including two mammals, a reptile and a nocturnal bird, for one year, a press release from the zoo informed. Mr. Anil Kumar and his family adopted a leopard, a jaguar, a king cobra, and a horned owl, paying Rs. 2 lakh, as per the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/wwf-chairman-adopts-zoo-animals/article33833890.ece
14 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||1971 War veterans honoured||Indian Air Force Station in Begumpet felicitated the ‘Men in Blue’ who participated in the 1971 War to commemorate the 50th anniversary of India’s victory over Pakistan, on Friday. The event commenced with receiving of the ‘Swarnim Vijay Mashal’ (Golden Victory Flame) by air warriors filled with feelings of patriotism and gratitude towards war veterans. Air Vice Marshal CV Parkar, Bilkees, wife of late Air Marshal SSH Naqvi, and Tehmi Jal Mistry, wife of late Squadron Leader JM Mistry graced the event. Apart from the awardees, more than 100 veterans including former Air Chief Marshal NAK Browne and former Air Marshal MB Madan participated in the event. Veterans were felicitated by Air Marshal IP Vipin, AVSM, VM, Commandant, Air Force Academy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/1971-war-veterans-honoured/article33833861.ece
14 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS sees 151 COVID cases, no death||Telangana recorded 151 COVID-19 cases on Friday, taking the total to 2,96,428. No deaths were reported, which is the second such fatality-free day in over two months. The death toll stands at 1,614. The new 151 cases include 31 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, 13 from Rangareddy and 11 from Medchal-Malkajgiri. No case was reported from the four districts of Suryapet, Nirmal, Narayanpet and Mahabubnagar. Since March 2 last year, when the first COVID case was detected in the State, a total of 82,69,364 samples have been tested. Of the total cases, 1,781 were active while 2,93,033 have recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-sees-151-virus-cases/article33833864.ece
14 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||No clarity on conservation work at Charminar: RTI||The pandemic has thrown a spanner in the conservation work at Charminar, and there is no clarity when work will resume, a RTI query has indicated. The Charminar is in the custody of Archaeological Survey of India. According to an RTI response, Rs. 13.53 lakh was spent in FY 2019-2020 on conservation. Work would resume in a phased manner soon, but the ASI did not mention a date.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-clarity-on-conservation-work-at-charminar-rti/article33833877.ece
14 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Man found hanging from signage board at LB Nagar||A man was found dead near LB Nagar traffic police station here on Saturday. Police said that the victim, Nirmal from Srikalahasti in Chittoor of Andhra Pradesh, committed suicide by hanging from a signage board. He was under the influence of alcohol, LB Nagar inspector V Ashok Reddy said. In 2019 Nirmal was arrested by Tirumala police in connection with a case. Roshni - suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-found-hanging-from-signage-board-at-lb-nagar/article33834072.ece
14 February 2021||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Woman stages kidnap drama after quarrel with husband||A woman’s kidnapping case turned out to be a hoax after she was traced by police and made to spill the beans. The incident took place at Narsapur mandal headquarters on Saturday. Police said Mrusat (30) was frequently quarreling with her husband Md Ajju and her in-laws. On Saturday morning, she left home with her three-year-old son. When she did not return after hours, Ajju called her. She said she had been kidnapped and switched off the phone, said police, adding that Ajju then lodged a complaint. Given her last phone call, police traced her location near Suchitra junction. When she switched on her phone, police contacted her and asked her to stay put at the place. They got in touch with the local police station and brought her back to Narsapur. During interrogation, Mrusat admitted she had run away, unable to bear harassment. Police counselled the in-laws and asked them to take proper care of Mrusat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/woman-stages-kidnap-drama-after-quarrel/article33833900.ece
14 February 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Nalgonda barbers protest against competition from ‘outsiders’||Taking cue from the fortnight-long protests by their brothers in Mancherial district, barbers in Nalgonda are preparing to launch a movement against competition from ‘outsiders’, or what they call ‘corporate salons’. As a starter, Nayi Brahmin workers and owners downed their salon shutters in Nalgonda town on Thursday, like on Tuesday, the traditional week-off of barbers, and took to the streets in protest. The demonstrations ended with submission of a petition of grievance and demands to the district authorities. But the solution is not with the authorities, the protesters are convinced, and they say they have always faced a tough question in return: “Why non-Nayi Brahmin men can’t run salons, is it legally prohibited?” The main grievance of the barbers, whose age-old caste-based occupation is hairdressing besides performing birth and death rituals, is ‘corporate salons’ or salons set up by persons other than men from the Nayi Brahmin community. They say the ‘corporates’ are eating into their traditional occupation, with Muslim workers from Delhi, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. For Nalgonda town, which has about 250 salons and some 200 roadside ‘salon boxes’, even a dozen ‘other salons’ is a threat, they say. “I charge Rs. 50 or less for a shave as per the rate fixed by the Association. The same service is for Rs. 100 or more in a corporate salon, because they create the ambience. In a city like Hyderabad, such salons are fine because they pay huge rents to locate themselves on main roads. But in Nalgonda, one such corporate salon means destruction of some livelihoods,” says M. Satyanarayana of Ramagiri. For L. Venkateswarlu, on the arterial Hyderabad road in Nalgonda, the government should intervene to protect the community’s occupation, like it has been assisting Golla-Kuruma, Padmashali, Gouda, Bestha and Mudiraj communities. According to Nayi Brahmin Association district president Nelapatla Ramesh, the government should bring an order to make the occupation exclusive for the community men. It should extend loans to help set up modern salons, give barbers in temples a decent pay and establish a sustainable community welfare fund.  I charge Rs. 50 or less for a shave as per the rate fixed by the Association. The same service is for Rs. 100 or more in a corporate salon. In Nalgonda, one such corporate salon means destruction of some livelihoods. M. Satyanarayana||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/barbers-protest-against-outsiders/article33833883.ece
14 February 2021||R. AvadhaniSANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Villagers turn garbage to vermi compost||Slowly, but surely, the face of villages is changing for the better with people getting acquainted with segregation of garbage. Not only that, the garbage is being transformed to vermicompost and used for plants. Take the case of Kodakanchi village in Jinnaram mandal with about 3,000 population. The villagers have completed construction of a dumpyard and started segregating wet and dry garbage as directed by the officials. Many villages in four mandals in the district including Jinnaram and Kohir are following the same. So far, vermicompost was produced six times, each time 15 bags, at the dump yard. That is being used at nurseries, avenue plantation and parks. Some of the farmers have also taken that for use in their farms. The village level officials say that it takes about four to five days to dry the kitchen garbage and use it in preparing the compost. Red wiggler worms will be put in the yard bins to produce the compost. At Sajjapur and Picharagadi villages in Kohir mandal four bags of compost was collected each time. Here also it was used for nurseries, avenue plantation and Palle Prakruthi Vanams. “We got about eight bags of vermicompost once, each bag consisting about 50 kilograms. This was used for nurseries, avenue plantation and the two rows of saplings planted at the dump yard. The plant growth is satisfactory,” said Ashok Reddy, Panchayat Secretary, Sajjapur. “With naked eye, one can understand whether the vermi compost is ready or not. Once you release red wiggler worms and pour some water, it is sure that the compost will be ready in the next 45 days. We are using this compost even at our houses,” says D.V. Sadhana, panchayat secretary of Kodakanchi Plantation drive “The first priority for using vermicompost is plantation drive taken up by the government like nurseries, Haritha Haram and Palle Prakruti Vanams. Once the requirement is fulfilled we will extend this to farmers,” district panchayat officer V. Suresh Mohan told The Hindu, adding that construction of dump yards was completed in all villages and compost production was commenced in some villages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/village-waste-turned-into-compost/article33833899.ece
14 February 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Jai Chandiram Memorial Media Film fest organised||The Jai Chandiram Memorial 3rd National Community Media Film Festival was organised at DDSKVK, Didigi, Zaheerabad on Saturday. Film director Nag Ashwin of ‘Mahanati’ fame, UoH’s Prof. Kanchan K. Malik, director of Bars & Tones Vijendra Patil and UNESCO Chair on the community media Prof. Vinod Pavrala, among others, attended the event. This year, the film festival had 27 national entries from 11 States across India and seven international entries from West Africa. “Log Drum of Pessao” from Green Hub Organisation, Nagaland, received the main award, followed by “Buchad - Heap of Soyabean crop” from Ingit productions, Maharashtra. “Identity of a woman as a farmer” from Drishti & ANANDI, Ahmedabad, received the jury award. Director P.V. Satheesh said, “The Jai Chandiram Community Media Film Festival has started its journey in the year 2017. Jai Chandiram, who is a prominent television film-maker and producer, has always been our spiritual mentor and inspiration. Though Jai Chandiram worked in commercial television, her interest always lied in rural, oppressed women and children. The Community Media Trust (CMT) of DDS decided to organise film festival in her memory. Also, DDS CMT have had enough privilege to screen some of the prominent national and international film festivals.” “We need more people like Nag Ashwin who could be a bridge between community films and commercial films, where issues can reach a larger audience,” he added. Nag Ashwin said, “Coming from a different world of film making, their narration of issues through films has been a unique and enriching experiencing.“I will continue to be part of DDS and help in any small way that I can,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jai-chandiram-memorial-media-film-festival-organised/article33833892.ece
14 February 2021||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||BRF||Leaders, officials and former members of the Armed Forces remembered Maha Vir Chakra Col. Santosh Babu on his 38th birth anniversary and paid rich tributes here on Saturday. The event was organised by Suryapet Ex-Servicemen Welfare Association. A blood donation camp and awareness workshop for aspirants of police and Armed Forces were held at S.V. Degree College auditorium. Chief guest Minister G. Jagadish Reddy said the martyrdom of Col. Babu would continue to inspire many youths, and Suryapet, his home, would forever be proud of him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article33834069.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Welcome||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/welcome/article33834071.ece
14 February 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||BJP blocks highways in Odisha to press for paddy procurement||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Saturday blocked the National Highways for three hours to protest against non-procurement of paddy lying stacked at different market yards across western Odisha. The party stopped vehicular movements on the highways passing through 37 Assembly constituencies under five Lok Sabha segments in these districts. “Tokens issued by the State government for procurement of paddy have lapsed. Farmers are facing a dire situation while the government is unable to procure the paddy,” alleged Nauri Naik, BJP MLA from Rengali constituency in Sambalpur district. He said, “We had earlier protested in phases. The Revenue Divisional Commissioner (Northern) had assured us that farmers whose tokens would lapse would be listed again. However, no such list has so far been submitted to the government.” Jai Narayan Mishra, BJP MLA from Sambalpur, said, “The policy of the government is faulty. It helps millers instead of farmers. A situation is being created to force farmers to go for distress sale. At some market yards, farmers were asked to give away five to seven kg of paddy from a single bag.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-blocks-highways-in-odisha-to-press-for-paddy-procurement/article33833772.ece
14 February 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha makes property return filing must for all government employees||The Odisha government has made the submission of an annual property statement mandatory for public representatives and government servants of all ranks. The move is said to be the government’s attempt to ensure a transparent and corruption-free administration. A resolution to this effect was passed by the General Administration and Public Grievance Department here. The State government will now amend the Odisha Government Servants’ Conduct Rules, 1959, to implement the latest decision. From now on, all government servants will have to submit annual property returns as on January 1 of each year by January 31 of the year. Up-to-date filing of property return has been made a prerequisite for promotions. An enabling online facility will be created for easy filing of property returns. At present, the State government employees are required to obtain prior permission for the purchase of movable assets with value more than two months’ basic pay. “Now, the employees will intimate any such transaction immediately to the head of office, besides mentioning such transaction in the property return,” say the modalities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/odisha-makes-property-return-filing-must-for-all-government-employees/article33833773.ece
14 February 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Wrestling coach held from Delhi||In a joint operation on Saturday, the Haryana and Delhi police arrested wrestling coach Sukhwinder, who had allegedly shot dead five people and injured two others in Rohtak late on Friday, the police said.   Rohtak Superintendent of Police Rahul Sharma told The Hindu that Haryana Police shared information regarding his possible location with Delhi Police after which they arrested the accused from Samaypur Badli area in Delhi.  “The accused is currently in the custody of Delhi Police. We will be taking his custody in a day or two,” he added. ‘Personal enmity suspected’ A Special Investigation Team was set up to investigate the matter earlier in the day and a reward of Rs. 1 lakh announced for any information on the main accused.   The police said personal enmity could be the reason behind the incident which took place at an ‘ akhara ’ [wrestling centre] of a private college. Those killed included a wrestling coach Manoj Malik, his wife Sakshi Malik and three other wrestlers. The injured include a four-year-old son of Manoj and Sakshi. Two others are undergoing treatment, they said. “Sukhwinder had been working as a wrestling coach at the college’s gymnasium and was removed by Manoj from his job on a complaint against him. Apparently anguished, the accused opened fire at his colleagues at the akhara ,” Mr. Sharma said. “Once he is brought to Rohtak, other details will be unravelled,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/wrestling-coach-held-from-delhi/article33833771.ece
14 February 2021||CHANDIGARH,||HC notice on woman activist’s arrest||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has taken suo motu cognisance of a complaint through anonymous emails alleging illegal confinement of a woman labour rights activist by Haryana Police, who was arrested on January 12. Justice Arun Tyagi has issued notice of motion to the Haryana government, which has been accepted by Additional Advocate General Ranvir Singh Arya. The matter has been listed for February 24. Justice Tyagi pointed out that complaints on February 6 and 8 were received through emails regarding illegal confinement of the activist and under orders of Justice Jaswant Singh have been treated as criminal writ petition and ordered to be listed on judicial side. The 23-year-old activist was arrested by the Sonipat police on January 12 on charges including attempt to murder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-notice-on-woman-activists-arrest/article33833770.ece
14 February 2021||GUWAHATI,||Rahul to kick off Cong. campaign today||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi is scheduled to kick off the party’s campaign for the upcoming Assembly elections in Assam on Sunday. He would address a rally in eastern Assam’s Sivasagar, close to a historic field from where Prime Minister Narendra Modi had launched the Bharatiya Janata Party’s poll campaign in January. “We are expecting a large turnout at the Sivasagar mega rally, the first of four the Assam Pradesh Congress Committee has planned in as many strategic places before starting the formal election campaign,” State party president Ripun Bora said. He said party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra would address some of the other rallies. Mr. Gandhi’s visit would follow a ‘bus yatra’ the State unit had launched on Friday to drum up support for its ‘ Axom Basaon Ahok (Come, let’s save Assam)’ campaign. The yatra, started from four regions, involves a two-week tour for senior leaders with the objective of meeting voters and discussing their grievances and issues. A yatra each would be led by MPs Pradyut Bordoloi and Gaurav Gogoi, MLA and Congress Legislature Party chief Debabrata Saikia and Mahila Congress president Sushmita Dev. “Today, Assam is facing a grave crisis. The peace and prosperity are both under threat from BJP. We have to go to the people for a new imagination of our future and to save Assam,” Mr. Bordoloi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rahul-to-kick-off-cong-campaign-today/article33833769.ece
14 February 2021||JAIPUR,||Six killed in Rajasthan road accident||Six persons were killed and seven others injured when the jeep in which they were travelling collided with a trailer coming at a high speed from the opposite direction at Rajiyasar in Rajasthan’s Sriganganagar district on Saturday. The deceased, including four women, belonged to a single family. They were on their way to Ramdevra temple in Jaisalmer. Those injured were being treated. Governor Kalraj Mishra and Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot expressed grief over the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/six-killed-in-rajasthan-road-accident/article33833774.ece
14 February 2021||Mumbai,||Sena urges Centre to recall Governor for toeing BJP line||The Shiv Sena on Saturday accused Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari of toeing the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) line, and said that if the Centre wants the Constitution to be upheld, it should recall him. The party also asserted that the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is stable and strong, and added that the Centre cannot use the Governor’s shoulders to take aim at the State government. “Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari is back in the news. He has been in politics for the last many years. He was a Union minister and also the chief minister of Uttarakhand. However, ever since he became the Maharashtra Governor, he has always remained in the news or landed in controversy,” the Sena said in an editorial in its mouthpieceSaamana. “Why he is always landing in controversy is a question. Recently, he was in the news over the use of a State government plane. The Governor wanted to go to Dehradun using the aircraft. But the MVA government denied permission. He sat in the aircraft on Thursday morning, but as the plane did not have approval to fly, he had to disembark and take a commercial flight,” it said. The editorial said the BJP was creating an issue out of the incident. “But why did the Governor sit in the plane even as the government had not given its approval for it to fly. It was a private tour of the Governor and as per the law, not only the Governor, but even the Chief Minister cannot use a State plane for such purposes. The Chief Minister’s Office has acted in accordance with law,” it said. ‘Politics of ego’ On Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis accusing the government of being egoistic, the Sena said, “The country knows who is indulging in politics of ego. Despite the death of over 200 farmers during the protest on Delhi borders, the government is not ready to withdraw them. Isn’t that ego?”. A Governor should pursue the agenda of the government and not that of the Opposition, it added. The Sena also criticised the delay in the Governor’s approval of 12 names recommended by the Cabinet for nomination to the State Council from his quota. “The Governor is acting like a puppet. The Governor of Maharashtra is an honourable person. But it is also his own responsibility to keep the prestige of the position that he occupies. However, he is being forced to dance to the BJP’s tunes,” it said. The editorial said the Home Ministry should recall the Governor if it wants the Constitution to be upheld.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sena-urges-centre-to-recall-governor-for-toeing-bjp-line/article33833945.ece
14 February 2021||Mumbai,||Modi govt. supporters behind R-Day violence: Sharad Pawar||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Saturday said supporters of the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre were responsible for the violence at Red Fort amid the farmers’ rally in Delhi on Republic Day. This is the first time a major Opposition leader has directly attacked the Centre over the violence that erupted on January 26. “The main feature of the agitation against the new farm laws has been its peaceful conduct from day one,” said Mr. Pawar, addressing a public meeting in Solapur district. The NCP chief said the police did not even have to resort to lathi charge during the months-long agitation. “It [violence] happened once. But we were told that no farmer was involved. It was a group that wanted to defame the agitation. The ruling party was behind this,” Mr. Pawar said. ‘Farmers willing to wait’ The former Union agriculture minister said farmers are willing to wait it out to make sure there is a legal provision to provide them with a minimum support price for their produce. “They are ready to wait as long as it takes. Farming families have come out in large numbers. The only thing they demand is a fair price for their crop. Even though the Centre claims it is working to find a solution, nothing seems to be happening in reality,” he said. Mr. Pawar added, “An MP said in Parliament that farmers never protested when I was handling the agriculture ministry for 10 years. The Manmohan Singh government stood with the farmers. Today’s government has gone back on this stance. Sooner or later there will have to be a change in the present condition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/modi-govt-supporters-behind-r-day-violence-sharad-pawar/article33833941.ece
14 February 2021||Mumbai,||3,611 new cases in Maharashtra||Maharashtra reported 3,611 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the State’s total case tally to 20,60,186. As many as 38 more fatalities were also reported, taking the death toll to 51,489. Of the latest deaths, 17 were from the past 48 hours, three in the last week, and 18 deaths from an earlier period. A total of 1,773 patients were discharged, taking the tally of recoveries to 19,74,248. The State’s active case tally is 33,269. While the case recovery rate stands at 95.83%, the case fatality rate is 2.50%. 529 fresh cases in Mumbai Mumbai reported 529 fresh cases and six deaths, pushing the tally to 3,13,431 and toll to 11,415. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region, which includes Mumbai city and its satellite towns, reported 933 new cases, taking the case load to 7,03,420. The death toll stands at 19,672. Nashik division’s tally increased to 2,80,841, with a toll of 5,170. The case load in Pune division stood at 5,08,146 and the death toll at 11,666. Kolhapur division has reported 1,18,631 cases and 4,038 deaths till now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/3611-new-cases-in-maharashtra/article33833943.ece
14 February 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Gangster Suresh Pujari booked for extortion||The Turbhe MIDC police have registered a case of extortion against gangster Suresh Pujari for threatening to kill the managing director of a five-star hotel in Mahape MIDC if he did not pay up Rs. 1 crore. The police said the managing director of the hotel received a call from an international number on February 10, but he did not answer it. Later, the chairman got a call from the number and he responded. The caller introduced himself as Pujari and said he was calling from Australia. The caller then told the chairman that the managing director would be shot dead in the hotel if he continued to ignore the gangster’s calls. The police said the chairman and the managing director received several calls from numbers in Australia, Tunisia, Thailand, Argentina, Russia, and Panama the same day. However, neither of them responded to these calls. Around 5 p.m. on February 11, Pujari sent a text message from Costa Rica to the chairman. The message said that the managing director would be killed if the hotel did not arrange Rs. 1 crore for the gangster. The chairman then approached the Turbhe MIDC police and filed a complaint against Pujari under Sections 387 (putting person in fear of death or of grievous hurt in order to commit extortion) and 507 (criminal intimidation by anonymous communication) of the Indian Penal Code. “We are verifying from where the calls were made,” a police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/gangster-suresh-pujari-booked-for-extortion/article33833942.ece
14 February 2021||New Delhi,||Over 1,800 healthcare workers get second jab||Roll out of the second and final dose of the COVID-19 vaccine started in the city on Saturday and 1,856 healthcare workers got the jab. A total of 13,768 beneficiaries, healthcare and front-line workers, took the COVID-19 jab on Saturday and there were six Adverse Events Following Immunisation, said a Delhi government spokesperson. Of the total beneficiaries, 3,530 healthcare workers received the first dose and 1,856 their second dose. Also, 8,382 frontline workers received the first dose of the vaccine. The vaccination of healthcare workers started on January 16 and front-line workers from the first week of February. The second dose of the vaccine is given 28 days after the first dose. There were complaints that healthcare workers in some centres did not get a message from the government to take the second dose and thus the turnout was less, said officials. The government did not share details about how many people were supposed to get the second dose of the vaccine on Saturday. “I took the second dose of the vaccine on Saturday. There were no problems at all. I also got a certificate from the hospital that I have completed my vaccination," said Biji Tomy, 48, a nurse at Lok Nayak Hospital. Ms. Tomy had booked flight tickets, even before taking the second dose, to go back to her home town in Kerala on February 16 to meet her parents. Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital spokesperson Chhavi Gupta said no special arrangements were made for the second dose. Following directions from the Centre, the Delhi government also issued a notice that the first dose of vaccination of all healthcare workers must be “mandatorily completed” by February 20, and there will be a final mop-up round for healthcare workers from February 21-25. “All healthcare workers are advised to get vaccinated at designated sites,” the notice read. No deaths Delhi witnessed 126 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total to 6,36,796, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Saturday. No deaths were reported in the past 24 hours and the death toll stood at 10,889. This is the second time this week that no deaths were reported. A total of 60,876 tests were done in a day. Of the total cases, 6,24,866 people have recovered and there are now 1,041 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/over-1800-healthcare-workers-get-second-jab/article33833767.ece
14 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Crime Branch to probe Rinku Sharma murder; communal angle ruled out||Delhi Police on Saturday said that the Rinku Sharma murder case has been transferred to the Crime Branch. The 25-year-old victim was allegedly stabbed by five men after a quarrel at a birthday party in Mangolpuri on February 9.  The police said the men had gone to Rinku’s house and stabbed him with a knife. They allegedly had some rivalry over an eatery business, which was shut due to financial losses. Rinku was taken to a hospital where he succumbed to injuries. On February 11, the police arrested four accused: Nashruddin, Islam, Mehtab, Jahid. Tajuddin was arrested on February 12. Rinku Sharma’s family had claimed that issues between the two parties had cropped up over a rally he had organised last year for Ram Temple in Ayodhya. Rinku’s brother Manu said the victim was an active Bajrang Dal worker.  The police have clarified there is no communal angle to the murder. “The quarrel started during a birthday party over shutting down of a restaurant. All persons are known to each other and live in the same locality. Any other motive alluded to this incident is factually wrong,” the police said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/crime-branch-to-probe-rinku-sharma-murder-communal-angle-ruled-out/article33833762.ece
14 February 2021||New Delhi,||AAP demands Amit Shah’s resignation||Citing the murder of Rinku Sharma, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) said that Hindus are “not safe” under the BJP and demanded Home Minister Amit Shah’s resignation. “On behalf of AAP, I want to make it clear that Mr. Shah is responsible for these heinous crimes taking place in Delhi and the Delhi police are completely failing to protect the citizens,” AAP Chief Spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj said. Delhi Police comes under the ambit of the Central government. He added that everyone knows “what kind of political benefit” the BJP is getting from such murders. “The AAP demands that Mr. Shah should take responsibility and immediately resign. The AAP also demands stringent punishment for the criminals. And we also demand that the people who are conspiring these crimes must also be punished,” he said. ‘Jihadist mentality’ Meanwhile, Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta alleged that Rinku’s murder bore testimony to “jihadist mentality” and sought to attack the Opposition. “Today, every Delhiite has to stand against the jihadi mentality. What triggers sadness is that those who patronise this mentality are silent today. Where are Rahul Gandhi, Mamata Banerjee and Arvind Kejriwal?” Mr. Gupta demanded. “I want to ask Arvind Kejriwal whether he is the Chief Minister of a particular community or all of Delhi. His silence on such incidents reflects his attachment to the jihadist mentality,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/aap-demands-amit-shahs-resignation/article33833764.ece
14 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Withdraw surveillance, TMC MP tells police chief||Trinamool Congress MP Mahua Moitra wrote a letter to Delhi Police Commissioner S.N. Shrivastava on Saturday asking him to withdraw “some sort of surveillance” at her residence on Barakhamba Road. In the letter, which was also addressed to Station House Officer of Barakhamba Road police station, she stated that the SHO had come to meet her at her residence on February 12 and shortly “thereafter, around three BSF personnel armed with assault rifles had been deputed outside my house. The conduct of these armed officers indicate that they are making notes of movements to and from my residence, it appears to me that I am under some sort of surveillance,” she wrote. "Upon making inquiries, I was informed that the armed officers had been deputed for my protection... I did not ask nor want such protection... kindly withdraw these officers”. Delhi Police refused to comment on the matter till time of going to press.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/withdraw-surveillance-tmc-mp-tells-police-chief/article33833761.ece
14 February 2021||New Delhi,||‘In six months, 630 electric two-wheelers hit Delhi roads’||The first week of Switch Delhi campaign, focusing on promoting electric two-wheelers, has garnered enthusiastic support from the public and industry alike, the Delhi government said on Saturday. Since the launch of the Delhi Electric Vehicles Policy in August 2020, 630 new electric two-wheelers have been registered and more are being registered every day, said the government. Savings, subsidy The campaign aims to generate awareness about benefits of electric vehicles (EV) and perks offered by the government. An individual can save around Rs. 20,000 a year switching from petrol scooter/bike to an electric one, the Transport Department said. Dalbir Chand Kohli, a businessman and a third time EV owner, said: “Seven years ago, I was the first to purchase an EV in Delhi. After the EV policy, I purchased my third EV and got a subsidy of Rs. 7,700 and waiver of road tax and registration fee.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/in-six-months-630-electric-two-wheelers-hit-delhi-roads/article33833763.ece
14 February 2021||new delhi,||Cloudy sky, dense fog likely today||A thick blanket of fog enveloped Delhi on Saturday morning, with the visibility dropping to 50 metres at Safdarjung and 250 metres at Palam at 8.30 am, MeT department officials said. The city recorded a minimum temperature of 10.8 degrees Celsius and a maximum temperature of 26.6 degrees Celsius. A partly cloud sky with “dense to very dense fog” is forecast for Sunday. “The maximum and minimum temperatures will be around 28 and 12 degrees Celsius, respectively,” the official said. The Air Quality Index in Delhi was 354 (very poor) on Saturday. Pollution monitoring agency SAFAR has predicted an AQI of 343 in the city on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cloudy-sky-dense-fog-likely-today/article33833765.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||PLA paper offers clues to China’s moves||As India and China on February 10 began the first steps of implementing a disengagement plan after more than nine months of a tense stand-off at multiple points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the causes of last year’s border crisis still remain a mystery. Top Indian officials, including External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar, have said publicly that China was yet to offer “a credible explanation” for the deployment last summer of an unprecedented number of troops so close to the border, breaking decades of consensus on managing an undemarcated LAC. A once-in-a-decade military strategy document released by the People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) leading think tank in 2013 offers some clues to China’s border moves, as it called for putting a stop to “nibbling” of territory as well as warned of India’s expanding maritime reach as it looked to stabilise its land borders, a development it viewed as a threat to China’s security interests. ‘The Science of Military Strategy’ released in 2013 by the Academy of Military Sciences was the third edition of the text, following previous versions in 1987 and 2001. A full-English translation of the 276-page Chinese document, which was first released a year into Xi Jinping’s tenure in October 2013, was published on February 8 by the United States-based China Aerospace Studies Institute at Air University, based at Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama. The section evaluating India’s military strategy described India as “a regional power in South Asia and the Indian Ocean... an emerging major country that is in the midst of arising” and a country whose “international status is improving every day”. Three stages It outlined three stages of India’s military strategy since 1947: a limited offensive strategy until the early 1960s, a period of “expansion on two fronts” from the 1960s to the early 1970s; a “maintain the land and control the sea” until the late 1980s, and “a major adjustment” after the end of the Cold War from “regional offence” to “regional deterrence” that stressed “the role of deterrence and not emphasising conquest and occupation of territory”. With India’s economy taking off and its “overall national power continually strengthened”, the paper noted that India’s “economic and military power exceeded the sum total of the various other countries in South Asia, and the other South Asian countries in actuality had no power to pose a major threat against India”. The text outlined four characteristics of India’s strategy as seen by military planners in Beijing. The first viewed India “as the heart of Asia and that the Indian Ocean is India’s ocean” and “treated the South Asian subcontinent as its sphere of influence and it has regarded some neighbouring countries as the main obstacles blocking it from achieving its geopolitical interests”. India, in its view, “attempted to build the South Asian subcontinent into a strategic foundation with itself as the centre and to thus manage and control the Indian Ocean”. In the view of the PLA think tank, India carried on with some aspects of what it inherited from British India’s military strategic thought, the core of which was “to treat Kashmir, Nepal, Sikkim, Bhutan, and Assam as the internal lines of India’s defence; to incorporate Tibet into its sphere of influence as a buffer state; and to treat the illegally concocted McMahon Line [which China doesn’t recognise, on the eastern sector] and the Ardagh-Johnson Line [in the western sector] as its security inner ring”. The text claimed that with the rise of India’s national power, the “offensive” elements “have been increasing” but “restricted to the South Asian subcontinent and the Indian Ocean situation”. China strategy “As regards its strategy against the People’s Republic of China, India has adopted a defensive posture overall, but at the same time has also used offence as a defence to actively seek local superiority, and has also used its unremitting nibbling away in peacetime to create conditions for switching from defence to offence in wartime,” it said. “In regard to China, it has carried out ‘dissuasive’ deterrence, to deter China from using troops against India, and has restrained China from entering its sphere of influence. In regard to the small countries along the South Asian periphery, it has carried out ‘punitive’ deterrence, to ensure that they do not dare go against India’s interests and to force them to humbly heed India’s control.” For China, it noted that while “the possibility of a large-scale land invasion war occurring is fairly low nonetheless some border demarcation problems are hanging in the balance, and some border-area nibbling and counter-nibbling, and frictional and counter-frictional struggles will be present for the long term”. China has unresolved land borders with India and Bhutan. The PLA strategy predicted that India would look to stabilise its land borders and pay more attention to the sea, a development it viewed as unfavourable for China’s interests. On the Quad Written eight years ago, it foresaw deepening ties among the Quad – India, U.S., Japan and Australia – and noted “against this backdrop, Japan’s going southward and India’s advancing eastward might intersect in the South China Sea, forming ‘dual arcs’ from the directions of two oceans, and Japan and Australia would constitute ‘dual anchors’ at the south and north ends of the Western Pacific”. It said “on the basis of ensuring its interests in the Indian Ocean”, India would “attempt to realize a military presence in the South China Sea”. The PLA document calls to extend China’s “strategic forward edge” from “the coastal and border regions” to a broader “limited arc shaped strategic zone that covers the western Pacific Ocean and the northern Indian Ocean”. It sees what it calls a “two oceans region”, outlining Beijing’s own early version of an Indo-Pacific strategy, as “a crucial area in influencing our nation’s strategic development and security in the future”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pla-paper-offers-clues-to-chinas-moves/article33833451.ece
14 February 2021||Washington,||Trump impeachment trial reaches final stage||The U.S. Senate began hearing final arguments on Saturday in the impeachment trial of Donald Trump as the top Republican Senator said he would vote to acquit the former President of inciting the deadly January 6 assault on the Capitol. Republican Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell’s decision means Mr. Trump is all but certain to be acquitted by the Senate of the charge of inciting an insurrection. Before moving to final arguments, the proceedings were interrupted for a few hours after House prosecutors, in a surprise move, said they wanted to call witnesses at the trial. House impeachment manager Jamie Raskin said he wanted to call a Republican lawmaker as a witness but eventually agreed with Mr. Trump’s defence lawyers just to have her testimony entered into evidence. Mr. Trump’s lawyers had threatened to call witnesses of their own. The Senate voted 55-45 to allow witnesses, but Senators, House prosecutors and defence lawyers then hammered out an agreement allowing the trial to proceed to closing arguments.  A vote on whether to acquit or convict the 74-year-old former Republican President is expected later on Saturday afternoon. Mr. Raskin had wanted Representative Jamie Herrera Beutler to testify after she released a statement about the events of January 6. Ms. Herrera Beutler, a Republican from Washington State, was one of the 10 Republican lawmakers who voted to impeach Mr. Trump in the House of Representatives. In her statement, she said Republican House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy had called Mr. Trump while the attack was ongoing and implored him to call off the rioters. “When McCarthy finally reached the President on January 6 and asked him to publicly and forcefully call off the riot, the President initially repeated the falsehood that it was Antifa that had breached the Capitol,” Ms. Herrera Beutler said. “McCarthy refuted that and told the President that these were Trump supporters,” the Congresswoman said. “That’s when, according to McCarthy, the President said: ‘Well, Kevin, I guess these people are more upset about the election than you are’,” she said. Mr. Trump was impeached by the Democratic-controlled House on January 13 for inciting the attack on the U.S. Capitol by his supporters, who were seeking to block congressional certification of Democrat Joe Biden’s November 3 election victory.  Mr. Trump’s lawyers argued on Friday that the former President bore no responsibility for the attack on Congress. They called the impeachment unjust, unconstitutional and an “act of political vengeance”. They argued that Mr. Trump’s rally speech near the White House that preceded the January 6 attack, when he told supporters to “fight”, was merely rhetorical. Seeking to turn the table on the Democrats’ powerful use of video evidence, defence lawyers played their own compilations showing Democratic lawmakers at different times using the word “fight”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-lawyers-demand-acquittal-in-unjust-trial/article33833449.ece
14 February 2021||Rome,||Draghi sworn in as new PM as Italy hopes to turn the page||Former European Central Bank chief Mario Draghi was formally sworn in as Italy’s new Prime Minister on Saturday, against the backdrop of the deadly coronavirus pandemic and a crippling recession. The appointment of the 73-year-old known as “Super Mario” capped weeks of political instability for the country still in the grips of the health crisis that has killed more than 93,000 people. “I swear to be loyal to the Republic,” recited Mr. Draghi, as he stood before President Sergio Mattarella in the ornate presidential palace in a televised ceremony. Members of his new Cabinet, who include technocrats, veteran politicians and Ministers held over from the previous government, each took the oath of office. Rudderless country Mr. Draghi was parachuted in by Mr. Mattarella after the previous centre-left coalition under premier Giuseppe Conte collapsed, leading Italy rudderless amid the worst recession since the Second World War. After assembling a broad-based coalition, on Friday night Mr. Draghi formally accepted the post of premier, publicly revealing the new Cabinet for the first time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/draghi-sworn-in-as-new-pm-as-italy-hopes-to-turn-the-page/article33833447.ece
14 February 2021||Yangon/Naypyitaw,||Tensions high as mass protests in Myanmar enter second week||Opposition to Myanmar’s new military regime intensified on Saturday as spontaneous neighbourhood watch groups mobilised to thwart arrests of anti-coup activists and the UN demanded the release of ousted leader Aung San Suu Kyi. The Army takeover that brought a decade-old democracy to an end has unleashed a storm of anger and defiance, with huge protests bringing urban centres around the country to a standstill. Since taking Suu Kyi and her allies into custody, troops have stepped up arrests of civil servants, doctors and others joining strikes calling on the Generals to relinquish power. The junta on Saturday suspended laws constraining security forces from detaining suspects or searching private property without court approval and ordered the arrest of well-known backers of mass protests. The announcements bore echoes of the near half-century of military rule before reforms began. An order signed by military ruler General Min Aung Hlaing suspended three sections of laws “protecting the privacy and security of the citizens”, which had been introduced during the gradual liberalisation. Those sections include the requirement for a court order to detain prisoners beyond 24 hours and constraints on security forces’ ability to enter private property to search it or make arrests. The suspensions also free up spying on communications. Crowds defied curfews to gather on the streets as night fell, hours after finishing a seventh straight day of rallies, following rumours that the police were launching a fresh wave of arrests. One group swarmed a hospital in Pathein on rumours that a popular doctor would be taken. “If I have problems, I will ask for your help,” Than Min Htut told the group which had come to aid him.    More than 320 people have been arrested since last week, according to the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners monitoring group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/tensions-high-as-mass-protests-in-myanmar-enter-second-week/article33833448.ece
14 February 2021||Washington,||Biden wants to shut prison at Guantanamo||U.S. President Joe Biden wants to close the Guantanamo Bay prison for terror suspects before the end of his term, the White House said on Friday, echoing an unfulfilled campaign promise from Barack Obama’s administration. Asked at a press conference about a possible closure of the prison in Cuba during Mr. Biden’s tenure, spokeswoman Jen Psaki said, “That certainly is our goal and our intention.” She said the administration was working through the National Security Council to “assess the current state of play that the Biden administration has — well, we've inherited from the previous administration”. In his 2016 presidential campaign, Donald Trump expressed willingness to keep the Guantanamo prison open and “fill it with bad guys”. The Republican retained this position once elected. However, some detainees were promised their release from Guantanamo under his Democratic predecessor Obama, but he never succeeded in working out a compromise with Congress. Mr. Biden was Obama’s Vice-President. The military prison accommodates inmates linked to the U.S. “war on terror”, including Pakistani Khaled Sheikh Mohammed, the self-proclaimed mastermind of the September 11, 2001 attacks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-wants-to-close-guantanamo-bay-prison/article33833445.ece
14 February 2021||Kabul,||Massive fuel tanker fire in Afghanistan||Dozens of oil and gas tankers carrying millions of dollars’ worth of fuel caught fire on Saturday, creating an inferno at Afghanistan’s biggest trade crossing with Iran, officials said. The blaze broke out in the afternoon at Islam Qala port, some 120 km from Herat, engulfing the tankers that were parked nearby after crossing the border. “There were between 200 and 300 fuel tankers there and we managed to save some, but most have been engulfed and the fire is so huge that nobody can get to within even a kilometre of it,” said Younus Qazi Zada, head of the Herat Chamber of Commerce. “The initial estimate is of millions of dollars of losses.” At least 17 people have been taken to hospital, some of them with serious burns, said Ibrahim Mohammadi, head of the Herat ambulance service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/massive-fuel-tanker-fire-in-afghanistan/article33833545.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Defence fund to tap Gross Revenue Receipts not tax revenue’||The Centre has accepted the Fifteenth Finance Commission’s recommendation to share 41% of the divisible pool of taxes with the States and is examining the panel’s views on creation of a non-lapsable Defence and Internal Security Modernisation Fund. Commission chairperson N.K. Singh explains the rationale behind the key recommendations: Edited excerpts:  What was the Commission’s overall approach? I would say the emphasis on continuity and stability. This is reflected in the continuity of the 41% share (factoring in J&K’s change in status), giving revenue deficit grants. One more component of stability is the horizontal formula and the percentages assigned to different weights at more or less what they were, with very marginal change by increasing the forest cover criteria. But the use of the 2011 Census would have meant many of the States who have done better on demographic management might have suffered, if we had done no corrections. Therefore, we introduced a new criteria of demographic management by assigning a 12.5% weightage, and if States still suffered, we have tried to mitigate that by a revenue deficit grant which covers many of the States like Andhra Pradesh, Kerala and Telangana. We have sought to therefore evenly balance, on the weightages side, the triple consideration of equity, need and efficiency. The second important thing is the reprioritisation of the expenditure pattern. With our current health infrastructure given the pandemic, we have assigned a very specific treatment of the resources to urban local bodies towards improving health infrastructure of primary health centres and district hospitals. Unlike in the past, the fiscal consolidation roadmap for the Union and the States have been made somewhat flexible and introduce a range instead of a fixed point, recognising that the State finances may be in stress, even though State FRBM laws assigned a certain fiscal deficit target, we have given them one percentage point more — 4% instead of the 3% of GSDP, and an additional 0.5% for undertaking power sector reforms. If any of the States have to undertake fresh borrowing on account of liabilities arising out of the GST compensation cess, that would be over and above the flexibility we have given now. As far as the central government is concerned, we have given a certain roadmap over a medium term. We have recommended that we need a new fiscal consolidation plan, a new debt trajectory, and the constitution of what I have called an inter-governmental body. In the action taken report, the ministry has said that they are going to examine this proposal separately. Could you could provide us some clarity on the Defence and Internal Security Modernisation fund for which you have suggested about Rs. 1.5 lakh crore be shifted from the Consolidated Fund of India over five years? Should States be concerned that this might shrink their share of the divisible pool? None of this is coming from the Gross Tax Revenue, but the Gross Revenue Receipts. And we have already calibrated it without touching the GTR or the options of a cess or a surcharge or a defence tax. But we stayed clear of that. I wanted to come clean on that. We have taken this from the GRR but we were persuaded by the erudite legal opinion of Mr. K. Parasaran on the indivisible obligation of every stakeholder to become a partner in strengthening the defence of this country. Historically, there has been a mismatch between the procurement cycle and the financial allocations on an annual basis. We need to give a degree of stability on availability of resources for meeting capital expenditure for Defence is what we came to the conclusion on this term of reference given to us; that this would be the path forward. While one component comes from the Consolidated Fund, there is a very significant part which will come from the monetisation of idle land assets — defence is the biggest holder of land. They can use that for their own benefit and the proceeds of the disinvestment from the public sector defence enterprises. This is Rs. 51,000 crore per annum for defence and Rs. 10,000 crore for the Ministry of Home Affairs for strengthening the capital expenditure of forces like the ITBP and BSF, which are also engaged in defence, and a small amount which we have given for the Jawans’ Army Welfare fund. We were the only Finance Commission to have had the opportunity to go to Leh and see the war memorial for the Kargil martyrs and were happy to be able to grant them something. The Commission didn’t make a particularly strong push for a Fiscal Council... The 12th Commission had done it, the 13th did it, the 14th had done it. We have also done it, but we haven’t written a lot of poetry on it. Notwithstanding the wide-ranging recommendations, despite these exceptional times, the government has honoured [the panel’s] recommendations and not rejected any recommendation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/defence-fund-to-tap-gross-revenue-receipts-not-tax-revenue/article33833432.ece
14 February 2021||Chennai,||Renault India to sell 1.2 lakh units by 2023: Mamillapalle||Renault India targets to increase sales volume to 1.2 lakh vehicles by 2023, said a top official. “During 2020, we sold 80,000 vehicles against about 89,000 vehicles in the year-earlier period,” Venkatram Mamillapalle, CEO & MD, said in an interview. “This year, sales will be better than 2020. It will take at least 2023 to reach the target that has been delayed by a year due to the pandemic,” he added . He also said that the company’s market share in the passenger vehicle segment had increased to 3.4% from 2.5%. Plans were afoot to raise it to 4.5% over the next 18 months through new products and upgraded models. Last year, the company exported 10% of its total volume and hopes to maintain the same percentage for the current year as well. He expressed the hope that Kiger SUV, which would be unveiled shortly, would be a game changer. The price would be announced on February 15. On the non-availability of semiconductors impacting the global automobile players, he said Renault had enough inventory for the next three-four weeks and they were monitoring the situation closely. Currently, Renault India makes Kwid, Triber and Duster vehicles at the Oragadam plant. On the possibility of a price hike following a steep increase in metal and steel costs, he said, “There will not be a price hike at least for the next two months. “But, there would be something, during the course of the year.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/renault-india-to-sell-12-lakh-units-by-2023-mamillapalle/article33833425.ece
14 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||C.K. Birla Group’s HIL to hone focus on markets it just added||C.K. Birla Group company HIL Ltd. benefited from a reorientation of strategy amid the pandemic that saw it tap new markets for building materials especially in tier II and III cities, helping it perform well even as business from major cities slowed. The building materials segment, consisting of AAC blocks, panels and boards, which was aligned 90% to construction projects in big cities moved to tier II and III locations as the government set up COVID centres and dwellings for labourers were established at various project sites. “We started contributing to that business,” said MD and CEO Dhirup Roy Choudhary. “Of the total building material sales in 7-8 months this year, 40-45% came from these new ventures we moved into.” The rural economy, which fared well in the backdrop of good rainfall, gave a fillip to HIL as it forayed into new markets, especially in east and south India. Roofing, building and polymer solutions are HIL’s main businesses in India, while the acquisition of German flooring solutions firm Parador has given it access to many countries, especially in Europe. HIL has 22 manufacturing facilities in India and two in Europe. “We are full in our [building solutions] capacity,” the MD said. “Now we will have to add new capacity to grow,” he added.  The rural economy, which fared well in the backdrop of good rainfall, gave a fillip to HIL||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ck-birla-groups-hil-to-hone-focus-on-markets-it-just-added/article33833426.ece
14 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Vodafone Idea loss narrows to Rs. 4,532 cr., to raise Rs. 25,000 cr.||Debt-ridden Vodafone Idea on Saturday reported consolidated loss narowed to Rs. 4,532.1 crore in the third quarter, mainly on account of a one-time gain from stake sale in Indus Towers. The telecom firm posted a loss of Rs. 6,438.8 crore in the year-earlier quarter. Vodafone Idea Limited (VIL) sold 11.15% stake in Indus Towers on the completion of its merger with Bharti Infratel for Rs. ,760 crore and paid Rs. 2,400 crore to the merged entity as per its agreement during the reported quarter. ‘Subscriber retention’ “In the third quarter, we improved subscriber retention and operating performance, supported by Vi GIGAnet,” Vodafone Idea MD and CEO Ravinder Takkar said in a statement. “We remain focused on executing our strategy, and our cost optimisation plan remains on track to deliver the targeted savings,” he added. Revenue from operations fell 1.7% to Rs. 10,894 crore, from Rs. 11,089.4 crore. “The Board has approved fundraising to support our strategic intent and we are in active discussions with potential investors,” he said. The board approved raising up to Rs. 25,000 crore through a mix of debt and equity, the company said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/vodafone-idea-loss-narrows-to-rs-4532-cr-to-raise-rs-25000-cr/article33833437.ece
14 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Amara Raja Q3 net rises 18% on demand uptick||Amara Raja Batteries’ (ARBL) consolidated net profit rose 18% to Rs. 193.69 crore for the quarter ended December, from the year-earlier period, following a revival in demand across key sectors of the business. The increase in profit came on a more than 13% rise in total income to Rs. 1,995.63 crore. The company has declared an interim dividend of Rs. 5 per equity share (face value of Rs. 1).  The firm would set up a greenfield, lead-recycling unit with a capacity of one lakh tonnes. Total capital outlay is expected to be Rs. 280 crore, to be spent over the next 18 months. The project would help the company comply with recycling standards while adopting advance technology in the most environmentally-friendly manner. A 50 MW solar power plant in Chittoor district of Andhra Pradesh with an outlay of Rs. 220 crore is being established by ARBL. “The rebounding of the economy is improving the prospects of various market segments, especially those in which we are operating.” said Jayadev Galla, vice- chairman and MD.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/amara-raja-q3-net-rises-18-on-demand-uptick/article33833428.ece
14 February 2021||MUMBAI,||Equirus Capital eyes double-digit growth||Equirus Capital Pvt. Ltd., a financial services firm 20% owned by Federal Bank, aims to achieve double-digit market share across products and sectors, a top executive said. “We are looking at a double-digit market share across products and sectors to build upon the deal closures we achieved during the pandemic,” said Ajay Garg, MD. “This is being made possible by the considerable time and energy we have spent in strengthening our teams across advisory and capital markets verticals.” In FY21, the firm closed deals worth Rs. 5,000 crore, he said. The firm is into investment banking, fixed income, capital markets, institutional equities, PMS and wealth management. To support its growth, the firm has expanded its team by adding Venkatraghvan S., Vinay Pai and Bhavesh Shah who have expertise in making deals. “We are anticipating the next 12 months to be the best period for advisory and capital markets practices across the markets,” added Mr. Garg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/equirus-capital-eyes-double-digit-growth/article33833430.ece
14 February 2021||new delhi,||ONGC profit dives 67% to Rs. 1,378 cr. as oil, gas slide||State-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) on Saturday reported over 67% fall in the December quarter net profit on the back of a drop in oil and gas prices. Standalone net profit in October-December quarter at Rs. 1,378 crore was 67.4% lower than the net profit in the same quarter of the previous year, the company said in a statement here. The company realised $43.9 on every barrel of crude oil it produced and sold in the third quarter of the current fiscal, down from $58.24 a barrel it had realised in the same period a year back. Government-mandated gas price dropped to $1.79 per million British thermal unit from $3.23 per mmBtu rate it got in October-December 2019. Turnover was down 28% at Rs. 17,024 crore. The company board, at its meeting, approved an interim dividend of 35%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ongc-profit-dives-67-to-rs-1378-cr-as-oil-gas-slide/article33833435.ece
14 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Petrol nears Rs. 95 a litre in Mumbai||Petrol price in Mumbai neared a record Rs. 95 per- litre mark on Saturday as its rate as well as diesel prices were hiked for the fifth day in a row. Petrol price was increased by 30 paise per litre and diesel by 36 paise a litre, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. This took petrol price to an all-time high of Rs. 88.41 a litre in Delhi while diesel rate climbed to Rs. 78.74. In Mumbai, petrol price soared to Rs. 94.93 per litre and diesel to a record Rs. 85.70 a litre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/petrol-nears-rs-95-a-litre-in-mumbai/article33833433.ece
14 February 2021||Chennai,||Rohit puts his stamp of authority as India thrives on day one||You could see puffs of dust from a first-day pitch. The top soil appeared loose. Batting was demanding. But then, gifted batsmen make their own rules. And the surface becomes seemingly easy. Rohit Sharma is one such player. When timing combines with dexterous wrists, an attacking mindset, and audacious front-footed batsmanship, you get Rohit. He innovates and creates. Brutal batting Rohit is brutal when he goes after the bowling, slicing open the gaps, altering lengths, scattering the field and changing the bowlers’ mindset from picking wickets to arresting the flow of runs. Just consider this. When players walked off for lunch — it was a crucial toss for the host to win — on the opening day of the second Test at the M.A. Chidambaram Stadium on Saturday, India was 106 for three. Out of this, the dominant Rohit was unbeaten on a rollicking 80 showcasing the extent of his influence. And India finished the day on 300 for six with opener Rohit conjuring 161, his seventh Test hundred. Rishabh Pant, playing with typical bravado, was batting on 33 at stumps. Just before close, Joe Root accounted for R. Ashwin with extra bounce. The mode of dismissal would have pleased India. Earlier, Rohit, the marauder from Mumbai, inflicted considerable damage on England before sweeping left-armer Jack Leach into deep square-leg’s hands. Someone with a measured back-lift, Rohit launched into the new ball with a cover-drive and a straight hit off Stuart Broad. And the goodly crowd roared. When the ball was short, Rohit cut or pulled. And anything on his leg was whipped ruthlessly. He used his feet to spinners. Rohit has this rare ability to change the direction of his shot with his flexible wrists to fire the ball through the gaps. Setting fields for him becomes hard. Delicate shots If Rohit was dominant with the front foot, we saw some delicate shots off the back foot from Ajinkya Rahane. The Indian vice-captain was in need of runs and he responded with a fine 67, adding 162 runs for the fourth wicket with Rohit. The manner Rahane travels back, shortens length, creates room and scores runs past or behind point is about quality. He fell attempting to sweep an off-spinner from Moeen Ali that had loop and turn. For England, Olly Stone displayed raw pace. Shubman Gill misjudged a Stone delivery that nipped back. Gill has the gift of timing but needs to work on his footwork. Stone is an interesting bowler. He has a nice load-up, a quick-arm action and a good release. But then, the Englishmen should have attacked the stumps more. Lacking consistency When Moeen — in for Dom Bess — did so with a sharp off-spinner, he castled Virat Kohli. However, Moeen lacked consistency. Earlier, the impressive Leach got a delivery to drift into Cheteshwar Pujara and then turn away to find the edge. India — which rested Jasprit Bumrah, included Mohammed Siraj and gave a Test cap to Axar Patel — has a distinct advantage going into the second day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rohit-puts-his-stamp-of-authority-as-india-thrives/article33833540.ece
14 February 2021||Melbourne,||Nadal overcomes injury concerns and Norrie||Rafael Nadal stayed on course for a record 21st Grand Slam title at a fan-free Australian Open on Saturday as Ashleigh Barty gave locked-down Melbourne something to cheer. As Victoria State went into a snap, five-day lockdown to curb a coronavirus outbreak, Daniil Medvedev, Stefanos Tsitsipas and Andrey Rublev all reached the last 16 at an eerily empty Melbourne Park. But World No. 1 Novak Djokovic, the defending champion and holder of a record eight Australian Open titles, faced a race to be fit for his third-round clash on Sunday. The loss of Djokovic, 33, would be another blow for the tournament, reducing the men's 'Big Three' to just one — Nadal — with Roger Federer already sidelined by injury. Nadal, who has his own injury concerns with a stiff lower back, faced down his toughest test so far with a 7-5, 6-2, 7-5 win over British leftie Cameron Norrie. Barty, the women's top seed, also said it was "very strange" to play behind closed doors, a day after more than 22,000 fans visited Melbourne Park. Barty's straightforward 6-2, 6-4 win over Russia's Ekaterina Alexandrova put her into the fourth round without dropping a set as she bids to become the first Australian winner since Chris O'Neil in 1978. Into a bubble Players were ordered into a biosecure "bubble" during the lockdown, just the latest coronavirus disruption for a tournament that was pushed back three weeks to allow for quarantines. As play unfolded in the empty arenas, former World No. 1 Karolina Pliskova had a racquet-smashing tantrum en route to a 7-5, 7-5 defeat by fellow Czech Karolina Muchova.  "It's a different atmosphere, different vibe," said Greek World No. 6 Tsitsipas, after his 6-4, 6-1, 6-1 win over Mikael Ymer. Tsitsipas beat Ymer in a silent John Cain Arena — which had been packed with thousands of noisy fans late on Friday for Australian player Nick Kyrgios' defeat by Dominic Thiem. Indian campaign ends Meanwhile, Rohan Bopanna and his Chinese partner Yingying Duan lost 4-6, 4-6 to American Bethanie Mattek-Sands and UK's Jamie Murray.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nadal-overcomes-injury-concerns-and-norrie/article33833623.ece
14 February 2021||MELBOURNE,||I can change like the wind: Kyrgios||Big-ticket Australian Nick Kyrgios cast doubt over how much he will play this year, maintaining he doesn’t miss tennis and will not “force myself around the world” while COVID-19 continues to rage. The volatile 25-year-old missed virtually the entire 2020 season through injury and COVID-19 fears but returned for the opening Grand Slam of the year and lit up the tournament. Poor shot choices He played two epic five-setters in heaving arenas before a heartbreaking loss to third seed Dominic Thiem on Friday, throwing away a two-set lead as the ice-cool Austrian pounced on poor shot choices from the 25-year-old. “I don’t know, man. I can change like the wind,” Kyrgios said about his plans. “Depending on what happens with COVID-19 in Australia, you know. For me personally, I’m used to playing in front of packed stadiums. “I’m not gonna force myself around the world when the time is not right where I have to quarantine for a week and then play. I don’t particularly care, either.” Any Kyrgios absence will be a blow for the ATP Tour, with the polarising Australian showman a major drawcard, despite only being ranked 47. Igniting the Open He ignited the pandemic-hit Australian Open when saving match points in his five-set epic against Frenchman Ugo Humbert on the third day. He again pulled in the punters on Friday to create a rollicking party atmosphere against Thiem, one of the last matches before fans were shut out after Melbourne went into new five-day lockdown. Amazed Kyrgios said he was amazed his body had held up so well and was proud of himself. “You know, I took 13 months away from the game, and to produce that level and go toe-to-toe with one of the best players in the world, I’m pretty proud,” he said. “I left it all out there. I actually physically felt pretty good... couple points in it. I’m not disappointed at all.” Despite the loss, Kyrgios said he was at the stage of his career where he didn’t plan to dwell on it, with his time away from the sport reinforcing that there was more to life than tennis. “As I said, I haven’t missed the sport at all. I don’t miss much about it,” he said.  As I said, I haven’t missed the sport at all. I don’t miss much about it||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-can-change-like-the-wind-kyrgios/article33833417.ece
14 February 2021||CHENNAI,||Barmy Army finds voice in Chennai||The opening day of the second Test marked the return of fans at a stadium in India for the first time in over a year. While India had played before a crowd in Australia, for England it was the first time in front of an audience in over a year. However, amid a largely partisan crowd, there was a pocket of support for the visitors, with a contingent of six from the Barmy Army — the England cricket team’s official fan club — present at the M.A. Chidambaram Stadium on Saturday. Joe Phelan, an expat from England living in Delhi, said, “I am part of the Barmy Army and the six of us are the Barmy Army for this Test match, making as much noise as possible. There are four from England, one Australian and one American.” First visit For Matthew Christensen, an American engineer from Delhi, it is his first visit to a cricket match and he had read up on the game before shifting to India. “When I moved, learning cricket was easier than learning Hindi for me as it is the language of the country to connect with the people here.” In Sri Lanka, a Barmy Army fan named Rob Lewis became a sensation as the lone English supporter atop the Galle Fort. His efforts were appreciated by the English players with skipper Joe Root even talking to him over the phone from the ground. Though Lewis couldn't make it here, the six Barmy Army fans have his image from on top of the fort on their t-shirts. Phelan said, “We would love to meet the England players, but with the COVID protocols, it is hard to do so. The players know we are here and we were able to get the attention of Moeen Ali and Jack Leach today. People are braving cold weather in England and a hard lockdown. They are seeing the sunshine in India and hoping that numbers can come down and some normalcy can return.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/barmy-army-finds-voice-in-chennai/article33833536.ece
14 February 2021||Chennai,||Was angry but it did not cost us: Leach||England left-arm spinner Jack Leach said that while it was frustrating to lose a wicket to an umpiring error on Saturday, the fact that it didn't cost the team much cushioned the blow. Commenting on the Ajinkya Rahane referral for a catch at short-leg, Leach said, “We were trying to get them to roll it [the footage] through. Because we felt it [the nick] had come after it [passed the bat]. They then checked the lbw which we knew wasn't out. Obviously it is a mistake and these things happen. “At that time I was angry, but getting a wicket the next over makes it easier. It did not cost us much and we got our review back which is also important,” he added. On the stumping call against Rohit Sharma, the 29-year-old said, “Ben [Foakes] didn't say he was definitely out as he wasn’t sure. From behind, I thought it might get given but from side-on it was hard to tell. So I wouldn’t want to comment.” Asked about his assessment of the day's play, Leach said, “It was a hard-fought day and we had to be quite patient. We got a couple of wickets towards the end of the day, which is good. With the new ball, we hope to get a couple quickly in the morning and get back.” He said there was more turn on this pitch than the first one they played on, but backed his team’s batsmen to do well. “This pitch is a bit drier and spinning. But as you saw with Rohit and Rahane, once you get a partnership going and with an older ball, it gets easier. We have to believe we can do the same.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/was-angry-but-it-did-not-cost-us-leach/article33833538.ece
14 February 2021||Chennai,||Have to be proactive on turning tracks, says Rohit||Joe Root had highlighted the effectiveness of the sweep shot in Sri Lanka and in the previous Test here when he made a double century. On Saturday, Rohit Sharma, who struck a brilliant 161, said he had decided to employ the sweep against England because of the assistance on offer for the spinners. “When you play on turning pitches, you have got to be proactive. You cannot be reactive. We wanted to make sure we used our feet a lot more and made sure we swept the ball,” said Rohit on the adjustments he made to his game. Crucial “Getting on top of the bowler and making sure you are ahead of him was very crucial. The preparation helped. We knew how the pitch was prepared and it was going to turn. We had a few good training sessions before the game and practised according to what we were going to expect in the middle,” he added. Elaborating on his decision to sweep, Rohit said, “Moeen [Ali] was trying to bowl in the rough outside the off-stump. So there was very little chance of being out lbw when you are sweeping from outside off. “With two fielders on the boundary line, even if I top-edged it, I knew it was going to land in a safe area. Against Leach, I wanted to make sure I played with an angled bat with the turn.” In sublime touch In the first session, the opener was in sublime touch, scoring 80 of the 106 India made. “When you play on a pitch like that which might do something every ball, you have to look to score runs by rotating the strike and using your feet,” said Rohit on his brisk pace of scoring. Commenting on the state of the match, Rohit said 350 will be a good first-innings total. “It is going to start turning more as the days go by. We still have four wickets in hand and if [Rishabh] Pant and Axar [Patel] can get as many as possible tomorrow [Sunday] because there are already rough patches on the pitch.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/have-to-be-proactive-on-turning-tracks-says-rohit/article33833542.ece
14 February 2021||Pebble Beach (USA),||Bold Spieth pulls ahead on a day of Pacific breeze||Jordan Spieth took on a bold tee shot and pulled it off perfectly to set up birdie. He hit a poor 3-wood that went off a tree and back into the fairway that led to another. Whether it’s good golf or good breaks, it’s making him feel a lot better about his game at the AT&T Pebble Beach Pro-Am. He shot a 5-under 67 at Spyglass Hill on Friday for a one-shot lead over Daniel Berger going into the weekend. “I like where things are at,” Spieth said, referring to more than his name atop the leaderboard on the weekend for the second straight week. There was a 45-foot birdie putt he holed on the tough par-3 fifth. He also missed a few inside 10 feet, and his lone bogey was a three-putt from seven feet on the par-5 first after he made the turn. Spieth was at 12-under 132, his first 36-hole lead since Birkdale. Berger shot a 66 at Pebble Beach by going 2-3-2 along the ocean on a day filled will sunshine and a Pacific breeze. He holed 15-foot birdie putts on the par-3 fifth and par-3 seventh, and in between chipped in for eagle from about 20 feet on the par-5 sixth. Henrik Norlander had a 70 and was 10-under, while the group at 9-under 135 included Patrick Cantlay, whose record-tying 62 at Pebble Beach on Thursday was quickly forgotten.  Top scores: 132 (65-67) Jordan Spieth; 133 (67-66) Daniel Berger; 134 (64-70) Henrik Norlander; 135 (62-73) Patrick Cantlay, Tom Lewis (66-69), Paul Casey (68-67).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bold-spieth-pulls-ahead-on-a-day-of-pacific-breeze/article33833419.ece
14 February 2021||CHENNAI:,||Parthiban and Navyanth scalp five||M. Parthiban’s five for 51 was the highlight of Royapettah’s 65-run win over Rising Stars in a III-B match of the TNCA league recently. In VI-A, R.K. Navyanth’s five for 35 went in vain as Presidency College lost to Madras Indians by one wicket.  The scores:   III-B: Royapettah 221/9 in 50 overs (L. Vignesh 62, M. Naveen Kumar 33, D. Rohit 4/48) bt Rising Stars 156 in 36.4 overs (D. Rohit 35, B. Ilaya Murugan 30, M. Parthiban 5/51).   VI-A: Presidency College 122 in 29 overs (D. Dhilip Kumar 47, K. Velmurugan 31, N. Yuvaraj 4/29, T. Viswanathan 3/15) lost to Madras Indians CC 128/9 in 22.3 overs (B. Avinash 45 n.o., R.K. Navyanth 5/35, R. Mohammed Saalim 3/32).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/parthiban-and-navyanth-scalp-five/article33833687.ece
14 February 2021||Kathmandu,||Aman claims second straight title||Second seed Aman Dahiya defeated top seed Nishant Dabas 6-2, 6-4 to clinch his second successive singles title in the ITF grade-4 junior tennis tournament here on Saturday. Aman who trains at the Altevol Academy in Ahmedabad, did not drop a set in two weeks while winning his 10 singles matches. In the doubles final, Aman and Nishant lost 10-7 in the super tie-break to Anargha Ganguly and Karan Singh.  The results:   Boys (final): Aman Dahiya bt Nishant Dabas 6-2, 6-4; Semifinals: Nishant bt Yuvan Nandal 6-2, 6-2; Aman bt Tomas Quesada Perez (Esp) 6-3, 6-0.   Doubles (final): Anargha Ganguly & Karan Singh bt Nishant & Aman 3-6, 6-3, [10-7] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aman-claims-second-straight-title/article33833423.ece
14 February 2021||Chennai,||TV umpire under the scanner||Umpire Anil Chowdhary found the seat of the third umpire rather hot on a sultry afternoon here on Saturday. The Englishmen were left visibly disappointed after umpire Chaudhary ruled ‘not out’ following an English review in the 75th over of the innings. Ajinkya Rahane, on 66, pushed forward to England left-arm spinner Jack Leach and the Englishmen were convinced that the Indian batsman was caught at short-leg. On-field umpire Virender Sharma ruled ‘not out’ and the decision was referred to the television umpire Chaudhary. Not out! He saw the footage till the ball passed the bat — there was no contact between the bat and the ball till this point — and declined England’s review. However, subsequent replays showed the ball, after passing the bat, had made contact with the pad and then bounced off the glove to Ollie Pope at short-leg. The English players who saw the replay on the big screen quickly pointed out to umpire Virender that they were actually reviewing for a catch off the glove. Chowdhary, then, checked for a leg-before decision and soon negated it since the ball pitched outside leg. Did Virender communicate England’s clarification to Chaudhary? Minutes later, match referee Javagal Srinath, who must have seen the footage and made use of the snicko, reinstated England’s review. What the rules say Rules say an unsuccessful review can be reinstated by the match referee if it had occurred due to a failure of technology.  In the 71st over, Rohit Sharma (on 159) survived a review for a stumping off Leach when his foot appeared to be on the line, which is out. Not all angles provided It did appear that all the angles were not provided to the third umpire by the broadcaster. Both the unsuccessful referrals did not prove costly for England as both Rohit and Rahane were out soon. Even technology can fail sometimes. Here it appeared that there was both human and technical failures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tv-umpire-comes-under-the-scanner/article33833533.ece
14 February 2021||KOLKATA,||Punjab FC downs Chennai City FC||RoundGlass Punjab FC produced a goal in each half to down Chennai City FC 2-0 in the I-League at the Kalyani Municipal Stadium on Saturday. Papa Babacar Diawara found the target late in the first half before Rupert Nongrum came in as a substitute to double the lead for Punjab FC. The victory helped it move to the top with 14 points from eight outings. Chennai City remained on nine after playing seven matches. Punjab FC had a greater share of the exchanges and went in the hunt early as Chennai City was forced to substitute dependable midfielder Mohamed Iqbal owing to an injury in the 10th minute.  In another match at the Kishore Bharati Stadium, Gokulam Kerala FC outplayed TRAU FC 3-1 to better its chances of finishing among the top-six.  The results:   TRAU 1 (Komron Tursunov 87) lost to Gokulam Kerala 3 (Emil Benny 16, Sharif Mohammad 57, Zodingliana Ralte 86).   Punjab FC 2 (Papa Babacar Diawara 43, Rupert Nongrum 88) bt Chennai City 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/punjab-downs-chennai-city/article33833620.ece
14 February 2021||DUBAI,||India claims four more gold medals||Indian men’s javelin throwers came up with a brilliant show as reigning World champion Sandeep Chaudhary (F44), Ajeet Singh (F46) and Navdeep (F41) won gold on the third day of the 12th Fazza International World Para Athletics Grand Prix here on Friday. They were later joined by Pranav Prashant Desai in the men’s 200m F64, while World champion javelin thrower Sundar Singh Gurjar (F46) finished with a bronze.  Navdeep and Arvind also secured quotas for the upcoming Tokyo Paralympics as India’s tally swelled to 17 medals, including nine gold. Arvind, who finished fifth in men’s shot put final (F35/36) with a 14.05m heave, attained the Minimum Qualification Standard for the Tokyo Paralympics. Navdeep had a throw of 43.58m on his third attempt to secure a Paralympcis quota, while Sandeep cleared a distance of 61.22m for the gold. In javelin (F46) final, Ajeet Singh reached 58.76m to take the honours. Pranav clocked 24.96s while winning the men’s 200m (T64).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-claims-four-more-gold-medals/article33833626.ece
14 February 2021||Leicester,||Liverpool in freefall||Slumping champion Liverpool fell to a third straight loss in the Premier League after a dramatic late collapse against Leicester, conceding three goals in seven minutes in a 3-1 defeat at King Power Stadium on Saturday. Leading 1-0 through Mohamed Salah’s league-high 17th goal of the season, Liverpool was pegged back in the 78th when James Maddison’s low free kick crept in and then went behind after another blunder by goalkeeper Alisson Becker. A week after gifting Manchester City crucial goals in a 4-1 loss, the Brazil international collided with debutant centre back Ozan Kabak as they attempted to cut out a long pass and the ball fell kindly for Jamie Vardy to run through and tap into an empty net. Stunning fightback Harvey Barnes then capped Leicester’s stunning fightback, running through unchallenged — after Liverpool conceded possession pushing for the equaliser — and slotting his finish past Alisson in the 85th. Fourth-place Liverpool dropped six points behind Leicester, which climbed above Manchester United into second place, in the race for Champions League qualification. The champion is in danger of losing its place in the top four, with Chelsea and West Ham only one point further back, and any hopes of retaining the title seemingly are over now. Back to winning ways LaLiga leader Atletico Madrid overcame conceding a second-half equaliser to score again and beat Granada 2-1 away from home on Saturday to get back to winning ways and move eight points clear at the top of the standings. Marcos Llorente put Atletico in front in the 63rd minute with a low finish from the edge of the area but the visitors’ joy was short-lived as Venezuelan midfielder Yangel Herrera equalised for Granada three minutes later following a corner. Atletico was on course to drop points for a second consecutive game after Monday’s 2-2 draw at home to Celta but it regained the lead in the 75th thanks to a heavily deflected effort from Argentine forward Angel Correa. Diego Simeone’s side moves on to 54 points after 21 games, eight clear of second-placed Real Madrid and with a game in hand.  The results:   Premier League: Leicester City 3 (Maddison 78, Vardy 81, Barnes 85) bt Liverpool 1 (Salah 67); Crystal Palace 0 lost to Burnley 3 (Gudmundsson 5, Rodriguez 10, Lowton 47).   LaLiga: Granada 1 (Herrera 66) lost to Atletico 2 (Llorente 63, Correa 74).   Serie A: Torino 0 drew with Genoa 0.   Bundesliga: Borussia Dortmund 2 (Sancho 24, Haaland 81) drew with Hoffenheim 2 (Dabbur 31, Bebou 51); Bayer Leverkusen 2 (Alario 14, Schick 84) drew with Mainz 2 (Glatzel 89, Stoeger 90+2).   Werder Bremen 0 drew with Freiburg 0; Stuttgart 1 (Kalajdzic 45+1) drew with Hertha Berlin 1 (Netz 82).   Friday: LaLiga: Celta Vigo 3 (Mina 45, 68, Mendez 45+2) bt Elche 1 (Rigoni 50).   Bundesliga: RB Leipzig 2 (Olmo 38-pen, Nkunku 43) bt Augsburg 1 (Caligiuri 77-pen).   Serie A: Bologna 1 (Sansone 1) drew with Benevento 1 (Viola 60).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/liverpool-in-freefall/article33833630.ece
14 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sandeep, Priyanka qualify for Tokyo||Four years ago, Sandeep Kumar stamped his dominance in the 50km race walk with a National record that still stands. On Saturday, the 34-year old added the 20km to his kitty, winning the 8th National/4th International race walking championships in Ranchi with a new National record that also saw him qualify for the Tokyo Olympics and the World Championships next year. Sandeep timed one hour, 20 minutes and 16 seconds, five seconds quicker than K.T. Irfan’s London Olympics and Devender Singh’s Asian Championships mark. With his timing, the Haryana Armyman also qualified for the World race walking championships next year. Second-placed Rahul, who finished in 1:20:26, also qualified for Olympics and Worlds. The qualification time for both events for men is 1:21:00. Irfan, who has already qualified for the Olympics, did not finish the race. Among women, 24-year old Priyanka Goswami from Uttar Pradesh also set a National record and qualified for both Olympics and the Worlds with a timing of 1:28:45s, more than a minute quicker than erstwhile holder and runner-up here Bhawana Jat. Bhawana, already qualified for Tokyo, finished in 1:32:59.  The results: Men 20km: 1. Sandeep Kumar (Har, 1:20:16); 2. Rahul (Har, 1: 20:26); 3. Hardeep (Har, 1:24:41).   Women 20km: 1. Priyanka Goswami (UP, 1:28:45); 2. Bhawana Jat (Raj, 1:32:59); 3. Sonal Sukhwal (Raj, 1:36:05).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sandeep-priyanka-qualify-for-tokyo/article33833613.ece
14 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Shabbir Ali Football Academy launched||Better late than never, says former India football captain Shabbir Ali as his dreams of starting a full-fledged academy finally take shape thanks to the initiative of MB Sports here. At 65, Shabbir Ali laughs out loud when asked whether this has not come a bit late in his career. “I look at it the other way. Extremely grateful to Mr. Mirza Wasim Baig, CEO & MD of MB Sports, and Mr. Syed Ali Akbar Abedi, Head (Operations) of MB Sports, for fulfilling my dream,” he said. “Glad that the Shabbir Ali Football Academy (SAFA) at Bandlaguda will be operational from March 1,” says the former India coach. “Plans are to recruit 20 boys each in the under-14, 16, 18 and 20 age-groups initially. Emphasis will be on quality not quantity,” said Shabbir, who, according to the latest AIFF book, is the fourth highest goal-scorer for India. The Dhyan Chand awardee insisted he would work in tandem with Telangana Football Association to ensure quality players are groomed. Not surprisingly, two of Shabbir’s best friends and illustrious players of their time — Victor Amalraj and Mohd. Farid — were present at the formal launch. “Hope Shabbir’s Academy produces players who go on to play not just in Kolkata but also for India,” Farid said. Amalraj said SAFA could revive the football culture in the City. “Given his experience and class as player and coach, the academy should be a cradle of talent,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shabbir-ali-football-academy-launched/article33833880.ece
14 February 2021||KOLKATA,||Local cricket resumes||After 334 days of inaction due to the pandemic, local cricket resumed here with the conduct of 14 first and second-division matches on Saturday. Mohammedan Sporting and Dalhousie Club locked horns at the Kalighat ground in the inaugural first-division match for the J.C. Mukherjee Trophy, while Shibpur Institute took on Central Calcutta Sporting at the Rajasthan ground in the opening match of the second-division league for the N.C. Chatterjee Trophy. The grounds were sanitised before the matches and strict COVID-19 guidelines were handed to all the players and clubs. During each match, five-minute hygiene breaks were introduced after every 10 overs. “We have been able to commence local tournaments with a set of changes which are necessary in the new normal. “While on-field SOPs have been given out on how to strictly follow the COVID protocols, some bylaws have been changed to suit the present times,” said Cricket Association of Bengal president Avishek Dalmiya. The participating players, umpires, scorers, observers and other officials went through mandatory RT-PCR tests on Friday prior to the start of the tournaments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/local-cricket-resumes/article33834032.ece
14 February 2021||LILLE (France),||Bielsa testifies before French court||Leeds manager Marcelo Bielsa testified before a French court on Friday to make his case for millions of euros in damages over his firing from Lille more than three years ago. Bielsa lasted just six months at Lille before the French club fired him for “serious misconduct” in December 2017 following poor results. French media has widely reported that Bielsa is seeking €19 million for damages and the remainder of the two-year contract that he had. Bielsa told the court, via videoconference, that he was subjected to “harassment” in the months before he was fired, according to La Voix du Nord newspaper. A decision is expected on July 2. The club has previously described Bielsa’s claims as “totally baseless.” Bielsa spent six years leading Argentina, which included Olympic gold in 2004, and four years with Chile.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bielsa-testifies-before-french-court/article33833415.ece
14 February 2021||Hyderabad:,||It’s Lombardy vs. Ashwa Bravo in Derby Stakes||Lombardy and Ashwa Bravo should fight out the finish of the HRC Golconda Derby Stakes (Gr. 1), the blue riband of the Hyderabad Winter Season scheduled to be run here on Sunday (Feb.14). There will be no false rails.  MADRAS RACE CLUB CUP (Div. II) (1,200m) (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II), 12.10: 1. Bruno (5) C.S. Jodha 56, 2. Costello (9) Suraj Narredu 56, 3. Gurbaaz (3) G. Naresh 56, 4. My Master (14) Nakhat Singh 56, 5. Quality Warrior (11) Kiran Naidu 56, 6. Starwalt (4) Ajeeth Kumar 56, 7. Sye Ra (2) Afroz Khan 56, 8. Angelita (10) R. Manish 54.5, 9. Burano (12) Akshay Kumar 54.5, 10. Good Tidings (7) Arshad Alam 54.5, 11. Mandala Bay (6) Trevor 54.5, 12. Moonlight Ruby (1) A. A. Vikrant 54.5, 13. Nefertiti (13) Ashad Asbar 54.5 and 14. Soloist (8) Koushik 54.5.  1. MANDALA BAY,   2. BRUNO,   3. COSTELLO   HOVERCRAFT PLATE (Div. I) (1,100m) rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 12.40: 1. Best In Show (8) Kuldeep Singh 60, 2. Aintree (5) G. Naresh 59.5, 3. Dancing Doll (11) Mukesh Kumar 59, 4. Good Connection (7) Trevor 58, 5. Certitude (3) Chouhan 56.5, 6. Angel Tesoro (6) B.R. Kumar 56, 7. Blink Of An Eye (2) Afroz Khan 56, 8. Appenzelle (14) A.A. Vikrant 54.5, 9. Augenstern (13) Akash Rajput 54.5, 10. Crackershow (10) Koushik 54, 11. Hurricane (9) Abhay Singh 53.5, 12. Red River (4) Santosh Raj N R 52, 13. Tapatio (12) Surya Prakash 52 and 14. City Of Fusion (1) R. Manish 50.5.  1. GOOD CONNECTION,   2. CERTITUDE, 3. APPENZELLE   MYSORE RACE CLUB CUP (Div. II) (1,400m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 1.10: 1. Vijays Simha (1) Suraj Narredu 60, 2. Beautiful Luv (13) Abhay Singh 58.5, 3. Committed Warrior (7) Koushik 58.5, 4. Look Of Love (9) Trevor 58.5, 5. Whiskey Martini (4) Mukesh Kumar 58, 6. Artemis Arrow (8) Akash Rajput 56, 7. Cheltenham (12) Arshad Alam 56, 8. Team Player (11) B.R. Kumar 56, 9. Star Dancer (3) Kiran Naidu 55.5, 10. N R I Sun (6) Ajeeth Kumar 54.5, 11. Misty River (10) Ashad Asbar 53.5, 12. Sputnic (2) R. Manish 53 and 13. Lorena (5) R.S. Jodha 52.5.  1. VIJAYS SIMHA, 2. BEAUTIFUL LOVE, 3. LOOK OF LOVE .  ROYAL WESTERN INDIA TURF CLUB CUP (1,600m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II), 1. 40: 1. City Of Wisdom (2) Mukesh Kumar 60, 2. Spicy Star (1) Akshay Kumar 59.5, 3. That’s My Magic (4) Md. Ismail 58.5, 4. Ayur Shakti (8) Akash Rajput 56.5, 5. Rhythm Selection (5) Kuldeep Singh 56.5, 6. Downtown Gal (7) Suraj Narredu 56, 7. Chuckit (9) Ashad Asbar 55, 8. Big Brave (10) Gopal Singh 53.5, 9. Shiloh (6) R. Manish 53.5 and 10. Ulysses (3) Afroz Khan 53.5.  1. DOWNTOWN GAL,   2. SPICY STAR, 3. CHUCKIT   MADRAS RACE CLUB CUP (Div. I) (1,200m) (Term) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II), 2.10: 1. Be Crimson (1) Koushik 56, 2. City Of Blessing (3) Trevor 56, 3. First In Line (6) Surya Prakash 56, 4. Knotty Dancer (10) Suraj Narredu 56, 5. Pedro Planet (7) Arshad Alam 56, 6. Sorrento (14) Ajeeth Kumar 56, 7. Stunning Force (12) Akshay Kumar 56, 8. Zamazenta (11) Kuldeep Singh 56, 9. Galwan (13) C.S. Jodha 54.5, 10. Goldrun (8) Akash Rajput 54.5, 11. Goodwood (9) Ashad Asbar 54.5, 12. Inside Story (2) Nakhat Singh 54.5, 13. Racing Rani (4) Afroz Khan 54.5 and 14. Secret Circle (5) Kiran Naidu 54.5.  1. GALWAN, 2. CITY OF BLESSING, 3. KNOTTY DANCER   MYSORE RACE CLUB CUP (Div. I) (1,400m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 2.50: 1. Miss Marvellous (5) G. Naresh 60, 2. Just Incredible (6) C.S. Jodha 57.5, 3. City Of Passion (2) Mukesh Kumar 56.5, 4. King Roger (9) Akshay Kumar 56.5, 5. Unstoppable (4) R. Manish 56, 6. Coastal Cruise (8) A. A. Vikrant 54.5, 7. Blue Valentine (1) Surya Prakash 54, 8. Scramjet (11) Chouhan 54, 9. Polonsky (13) Santosh Raj N R 53, 10. Belle Springs (12) Arshad Alam 52.5, 11. Platinum Claasz (3) B.R. Kumar 51.5, 12. Shivalik Bright (7) Md. Ismail 51 and 13. Thunder Road (10) Abhay Singh 50.5.  1. KING ROGER,   2. SCRAMJET,   3. JUST INCREDIBLE   BANGALORE TURF CLUB CUP (1,600m), rated 80 and above (Cat. I), 3.25: 1. Consigliori (10) Chouhan 61, 2. Exclusive Blue (7) Santosh Raj N R 60, 3. Highly Acclaimed (6) Surya Prakash 59, 4. Phenomenal Cruise (9) Deepak Singh 59, 5. Nayadeep (8) Srinath 58, 6. Galloping Gangster (1) Suraj Narredu 57, 7. Lightning Bolt (3) Trevor 52, 8. Yours Forever (5) Ajeeth Kumar 51, 9. Paso Robles (2) Arshad Alam 50 and 10. Premier Action (4) Akshay Kumar 50.  1. LIGHTNING BOLT,   2. CONSIGLIORI, 3. EXCLUSIVE BLUE   HRC GOLCONDA DERBY STAKES (Gr. 1) (2,400m) (Terms) 4-y-o only, 4.00: 1. Arabian Phoenix (9) Sandesh 57, 2. Ashwa Bravo (8) Suraj Narredu 57, 3. Bold Legend (3) Chouhan 57, 4. Hidden Hope (2) Kuldeep Singh 57, 5. Peaky Blinders (4) C.S. Jodha 57, 6. Roaring Tiger (5) Srinath 57, 7. Royal Pal (6) Nakhat Singh 57, 8. Towering Presence (1) Akshay Kumar 57, 9. Vachan (7) S. John 57 and 10. Lombardy (10) Trevor 55.5.  1. LOMBARDY, 2. ASHWA BRAVO,   3. ROARING TIGER .  HOVERCRAFT PLATE (Div. II) (1,100m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 4.40: 1. Flamingo Fame (4) Santosh Raj N R 60, 2. Four One Four (2) Akash Rajput 59.5, 3. Lagos (5) Suraj Narredu 59.5, 4. Amyra (13) R.S. Jodha 59, 5. Different (14) Akshay Kumar 58.5, 6. Aibak (12) Ashad Asbar 55.5, 7. Blazing Jupiter (11) C.S. Jodha 55.5, 8. Art In Motion (7) Afroz Khan 54.5, 9. Classy Dame (8) Abhay Singh 54, 10. California Beauty (3) B.R. Kumar 53.5, 11. Elegant Stroke (6) Nakhat Singh 51, 12. Sublime (1) Gopal Singh 51, 13. Charcoal (9) R. Manish 50.5 and 14. Tough And Go (10) Surya Prakash 50.  1. LAGOS,   2. FLAMINGO FAME,   3. AMYRA   TWIN STAR PLATE (1,200m), rated up to 25 (Cat. III), 5.15: 1. Amaretto (11) Trevor 60, 2. India Gate (2) R.S. Jodha 60, 3. Let It Be Me (13) G. Naresh 60, 4. Secret Command (4) Kiran Naidu 60, 5. Southern Saffron (10) Kuldeep Singh 60, 6. Sugar An Spice (12) Deepak Singh 60, 7. Diesis Dream (7) Md. Ismail 59, 8. Star Of Fashion (14) Abhay Singh 59, 9. Golden Lace (6) Ashad Asbar 58.5, 10. Big Day (9) Nakhat Singh 58, 11. N R I Gift (5) A.A. Vikrant 58, 12. Millennia (1) Santosh Raj N R 57.5, 13. Hopscotch (3) Ajeeth Kumar 54 and 14. Moment Of Silence (Ex: Vijays Maestro) (8) Afroz Khan 52.  1. AMARETTO,   2. SECRET COMMAND, 3. N R I GIFT  Day’s best: GOOD CONNECTION  Jackpot: (i) 1, 2, 3, 4 & 5. (ii) 6, 7, 8, 9 & 10. Mini jackpot: (i) 3, 4, 5 & 6. (ii) 7, 8, 9 & 10. Treble: (i) 2, 3 & 4; (ii) 5, 6 & 7; (iii) 8, 9 & 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/its-lombardy-vs-ashwa-bravo-in-derby-stakes/article33833614.ece
14 February 2021||BENGALURU:,||Multifaceted triumphs||Darius Byramji-trained Multifaceted (Srinath up) won the Sprinters Trial Stakes, the chief event of the races held here on Saturday. The winner is owned by Mr. Rienzie M.K. Edwards & Mrs. P.P.M. Edwards.  1. BIJAPUR PLATE (1,200m), rated 00 to 20: ULTIMATE CHOICE (B. Dharshan) 1, Top News (Rayan) 2, Activated (Trevor) 3 and Fortuneer (S. Sunil) 4. 1/2, 2 and 2-1/4. 1m, 16.61s. Rs. 373 (w), 61, 40 and 12 (p), SHP: 107, THP: 134, FP: 7,314, Q: 1,826, Trinella: 10,918 and 7,018, Exacta: 70,124 (carried over). Favourite: Activated. Owner: M/S. Kunal Gupta Stud Farm, LLP. Trainer: B. Prithviraj.  2. TALKAD PLATE (Div. II) , (1,400m), rated 15 to 35: SMITHSONIAN (A. Imran) 1, Golden Memory (Trevor) 2, Smoke The Grass (Neeraj) 3 and Beldona (R. Marshall) 4. 3/4, 1-1/4 and 3/4. 1m, 27.65s. Rs. 37 (w), 15, 14 and 14 (p), SHP: 40, THP: 34, FP: 105, Q: 49, Trinella: 182 and 103, Exacta: 12,006 and 8,575. Favourite: Golden Memory. Owner & Trainer: Mr. Aravind Ganapathy.  3. WORLD RADIO DAY PLATE (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only, (Terms): ASCOVAL (Trevor) 1, Ruling Goddess (Akshay K) 2, Electric Blue (Srinath) 3 and Winmylove (Neeraj) 4. Not run: Capri Girl. 5-1/2, 4-1/4 and 4-1/2. 1m, 13.83s. Rs. 35 (w), 16, 39 and 36 (p), SHP: 113, THP: 69, FP: 657, Q: 419, Trinella: 4,043 and 1,348, Exacta: 11,882 and 7,638. Favourite: Winmylove. Owner: Mr. Rajan Aggarwal. Trainer: S. Padmanabhan.  4. MANASA SAROVARA PLATE (1,600m), rated 15 to 35, 5-y-o & over: MY VISION (Nazerul) 1, Gazebo Talk (S. Shareef) 2, Mrs Thatcher (Trevor) 3 and Iconic Princess (Indrajeet Singh) 4. 2-1/2, 3/4 and 3/4. 1m, 40.46s. Rs. 72 (w), 18, 53 and 16 (p), SHP: 116, THP: 42, FP: 1,476, Q: 641, Trinella: 8,895 and 2,859, Exacta: 34,262 and 14,684. Favourite: Dreams United. Owners: Mr. Neil Darashah & Mr. Arun Nahata. Trainer: Neil Darashah.  5. G. KRISHNAPPA MEMORIAL TROPHY (1,200m), rated 60 & above: COLONEL HARTY (Sai Kiran) 1, Alpha (Nazerul) 2, Alexandre Dumas (B. Harish) 3 and Turf Magic (Jagadeesh) 4. 2-3/4, 2-3/4 and 1. 1m, 13.57s. Rs. 20 (w), 11, 26 and 29 (p), SHP: 70, THP: 63, FP: 269, Q: 155, Trinella: 1,730 and 1,483, Exacta: 54,707 (carried over). Favourite: Colonel Harty. Owner: Mr. Gnanadeva Rao. Trainer: Narayana Gowda.  6. SPRINTERS TRIAL STAKES (1,200m), 4-y-o & over, (Terms): MULTIFACETED (Srinath) 1, Golden Oaks (Trevor) 2, Snowdon (Neeraj) 3 and Dream Catcher (Kiran Rai) 4. 2-3/4, 1 and 1-3/4. 1m, 12.24s. Rs. 21 (w), 12 and 11 (p), SHP: 31, THP: 33, FP: 45, Q: 16, Trinella: 104 and 120, Exacta: 562 and 264. Favourite: Golden Oaks. Owners: Mr. Rienzie M.K. Edwards & Mrs. P.P.M. Edwards. Trainer: Darius Byramji.  7. NIGHTINGALE OF INDIA PLATE (1,600m), rated 30 to 50: NIGHT SECRET (Arshad) 1, See My Heels (Akshay K) 2, Livisilla (Neeraj) 3 and Ombudsman (Vaibhav) 4. 1-1/4, 1/2 and 4. 1m, 39.07s. Rs. 50 (w), 16, 24 and 10 (p), SHP: 51, THP: 76, FP: 396, Q: 162, Trinella: 673 and 297, Exacta: 31,276 and 8,042. Favourite: Livisilla. Owners: Manjri Horse Breed Farm Pvt Ltd, M/S. D.T. Racing & Breeding LLP & Mr. Mukul A. Sonawala. Trainer: Neil Darashah.  8. TALKAD PLATE (Div. I) , (1,400m), rated 15 to 35: ALLABOUTHER (Antony) 1, Arlette (Akshay K) 2. Shivalic Gold (Chethan G) 3 and Mahalakshmi (S. John) 4. Not run: In A Breeze. 4, Nose and 3. 1m, 27.63s. Rs. 40 (w), 15, 13 and 18 (p), SHP: 37, THP: 55, FP: 108, Q: 63, Trinella: 525 and 171, Exacta: 1,769 and 884. Favourite: Arlette. Owner: Dr. Suresh Chintamaneni. Trainer: Arjun Mangalorkar. Jackpot: Rs. 15,915 (51 .tkts); Runner-up: 925 (376 tkts.); Treble (i): 1,239 (seven tkts.); (ii): 1,071 (11 tkts.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/multifaceted-triumphs/article33833627.ece
14 February 2021||Moscow,||Russian track president steps aside||The Russian track federation's president stepped aside on Saturday after taking a job with a government agency, bringing more leadership churn to a body which is already suspended from World Athletics over doping. The federation, known as RusAF, said that Pyotr Ivanov would officially remain president but relinquish his authority until December 2022. That's when restrictions imposed on Russian sports officials by a Court of Arbitration for Sport ruling expire. Irina Privalova, gold medallist in the 400m hurdles at the 2000 Olympics, will take temporary charge at RusAF. The CAS ruling blocks Russian government representatives from sitting on the boards of a range of sports bodies. The Russian cabinet appointed Ivanov as deputy director of a government anti-trust body last month, one month after the CAS ruling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/russian-track-president-steps-aside/article33833420.ece
14 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Tejaswani on top||Tejaswani of Haryana topped the women’s 25-metre rapid fire pistol event with a score of 551 in the third National shooting selection trials at the Dr. Karni Singh Range on Saturday. She was comfortably ahead of Niveditha Nair (TN) and Neeraj Kaur (BSF) in a field which had Anisa Sayyed, Abhidnya Patil and Annu Raj Singh.  The results: Women: 25m rapid fire pistol: 1. Tejaswani 551; 2. Niveditha Nair 538; 3. Neeraj Kaur 534.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tejaswani-on-top/article33833421.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The fans are back!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-fans-are-back/article33833532.ece
14 February 2021||Dhaka,||Bangladesh concedes big lead but hits back||Bangladesh's spinners shared the early wickets to stop West Indies taking complete control of the second and final Test on Saturday. West Indies was 41 for three in its second innings at stumps on day three for a lead of 154 runs. Nkrumah Bonner (8) and nightwatchman Jomel Warrican (2) were at the crease. Off-spinner Rahkeem Cornwall earlier helped West Indies take a 113-run first innings lead, claiming five for 74 as Bangladesh was bowled out for 296 in reply to West Indies' 409. It was Cornwall's second five-for in Tests. Fast bowlers Shannon Gabriel (3/70) and Alzarri Joseph (2/60) also made an impact. Liton Das was the top-scorer for Bangladesh with 71 while Mehidy Hasan, fresh from his first century in the first Test, hit 57. Mushfiqur Rahim contributed 54.  The scores: West Indies 409 & 41/3 vs Bangladesh 296 in 96.5 overs (Tamim Iqbal 44, Mushfiqur Rahim 54, Liton Das 71, Mehidy Hasan 57, Shannon Gabriel 3/70, Rahkeem Cornwall 5/74).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bangladesh-concedes-big-lead-but-hits-back/article33833534.ece
14 February 2021||LAHORE,||South Africa pulls level with easy win||South Africa beat Pakistan by six wickets in the second T20I on Saturday, levelling the three-match series at 1-1. Pite van Biljon and Reeza Hendricks both scored 42 as South Africa chased down a modest 145-run target in just 16.2 overs. Fast bowler Dwaine Pretorius took five for 17.  The scores: Pakistan 144/7 in 20 overs (Mohammad Rizwan 51, Dwaine Pretorius 5/17) lost to South Africa 145/4 in 16.2 overs (Pite van Bijlon 42, Reeza Hendricks 42).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/south-africa-pulls-level-with-easy-win/article33833543.ece
14 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Carlsen to play So in final||Magnus Carlsen’s inconsistency returned to haunt him before he managed to beat Maxime Vachier-Lagrave in the deciding Armageddon game and move into the final of the $100,000 Opera Euro rapid online chess tournament on Friday. After two drawn rapid games in the second set, Vachier delivered back-to-back blows to force the tie-breaker. In the blitz games, both won from the white side. In the Armageddon, Carlsen played white and won in 40 moves. In the final, Carlsen will take on Wesley So. Having won the first set, So needed only two points from the best-of-four second set to advance. After two drawn games, he won the third to end the contest.  The results (semifinals):   Set Two: Rapid: Maxime Vachier-Lagrave (Fra) bt Magnus Carlsen (Nor) 3-1; Blitz: Carlsen drew with Vachier 1-1; Armageddon: Carlsen wins and advances to the final.   Wesley So (USA) bt Teimour Radjabov (Aze) 2-1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/carlsen-to-play-so-in-final/article33833615.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Goa shares points with last-gasp effort||Chennaiyin FC’s inability to hold on to an advantage came to the fore again as FC Goa fought back in style to hold the former champion to a 2-2 draw in an Indian Super League (ISL) match at the GMC Stadium, Bambolim, on Saturday. Goa improved its chances of making it to the play-offs, moving to the third position with 24 points, while Chennaiyin FC remained in the eighth place with 18 points. Pandita to the rescue After his superb show at the death against Mumbai City FC the other day, super-sub Ishan Pandita did the star turn again for Goa by scoring in the nick of time to hold the two-time champion. Virtually out of contention for the playoffs, Chennaiyin started the contest impressively by pressing hard which resulted in quite a few chances in the first half. Sylvestr’s super strike Jakub Sylvestr put Chennaiyin ahead with a brilliant left-footed finish, off a pass from Reagan Singh. The Slovakian forward did well to get past three defenders for the final lunge. However, the joy was short-lived as Goa equalised through a penalty by striker Igor Angulo, who emerged as the joint top-scorer (12) of ISL with Roy Krishna. Chennaiyin took the lead again through Lallianzuala Chhangte. A Reagan chip saw goalkeeper Dheeraj Singh jump, losing communication with his defenders and throwing himself out of position. With the ball at his behest, Chhangte slotted home. Goa’s fighting instincts found full expression when the 22-year-old Pandita unleashed a left-footer from close range, following a neat pass from Alberto Noguera, to help his side share the honours.  The result:   Chennaiyin 2 (Jakub Sylvestr 13, Lallianzuala Chhangte 60) drew with FC Goa 2 (Igor Angulo 19-pen, Ishan Pandita 90).   Sunday’s matches: NorthEast United FC v Odisha FC, 5 p.m.   ATKMB v JFC, 7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/goa-shares-points-with-last-gasp-effort/article33833616.ece
14 February 2021||Los Angeles,||Sixth straight win for Jazz||Rudy Gobert and Joe Ingles scored 27 points each as league-leading Utah Jazz beat Milwaukee Bucks 129-115 in the NBA on Friday. The Jazz had four players score 25 points in a game for the first time in franchise history as Donovan Mitchell (26) and Jordan Clarkson (25) also got into an offensive flow in front of a pandemic-limited crowd of almost 4,000. Second big win Gobert had 12 assists and four blocks while Clarkson came off the bench to score 25 as Utah beat Milwaukee for a second time this season, both by double digits. Antetokounmpo finished with 29 points, 15 rebounds and six assists but the Bucks lost their second game in a row. It was the sixth straight win and the 17th victory in 18 games for the Jazz. Elsewhere, LeBron James and Anthony Davis combined for 63 points as Los Angeles Lakers used a second-half blitz to beat Memphis Grizzlies 115-105 for its seventh straight win.    The results: Boston Celtics 102 lost to Detroit Pistons 108; Atlanta Hawks 114 lost to San Antonio Spurs 125; LA Lakers 115 bt Memphis Grizzlies 105.   Portland Trail Blazers 129 bt Cleveland Cavaliers 110; Sacramento Kings 112 lost to Orlando Magic 123; Denver Nuggets 97 bt Oklahoma City Thunder 95; Utah Jazz 129 bt Milwaukee Bucks 115; Chicago Bulls 106 lost to LA Clippers 125.   Charlotte Hornets 120 bt Minnesota Timberwolves 114; Washington Wizards 91 lost to New York Knicks 109; Dallas Mavericks 143 bt New Orleans Pelicans 130.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sixth-straight-win-for-jazz/article33833621.ece
14 February 2021||Melbourne,||Djokovic opts for rest||Novak Djokovic skipped practice on Saturday. With his title defence in doubt because of a side muscle issue, at least he’ll get the maximum possible rest before having to play: he is scheduled to face 2016 Wimbledon runner-up Milos Raonic in the last match on Sunday. Djokovic showed up at Melbourne Park on Saturday but did not swing a racquet. He planned to have medical tests done to “understand what’s really going on” after hurting himself while losing his footing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/djokovic-opts-for-rest/article33833684.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Soha upsets Humera for title||Home favourite Soha Sadiq upset top seed Humera Baharmus of Telangana 4-6, 6-3, 5-2 (retd) in the final to emerge as champion of the Rs. 1 lakh AITA women’s tennis tournament at PBI-CSE Tennis Academy (Padukone-Dravid Centre for Sports Excellence) here on Saturday. Soha, the second seed, took the title after Humera retired in the third set due to a leg injury.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/soha-upsets-humera-for-title/article33833619.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||SCOREBOARD||INDIA — 1ST INNINGS   Rohit Sharma c Moeen b Leach 161 (231b, 18x4, 2x6), Shubman Gill lbw b Stone 0 (3b), Cheteshwar Pujara c Stokes b Leach 21 (58b, 2x4), Virat Kohli b Moeen 0 (5b), Ajinkya Rahane b Moeen 67 (149b, 9x4), Rishabh Pant (batting) 33 (56b, 5x4, 1x6), R. Ashwin c Pope b Root 13 (19b, 1x4), Axar Patel (batting) 5 (7b, 1x4); Total (for six wkts. in 88 overs): 300.   FALL OF WICKETS   1-0 (Gill, 1.3 overs), 2-85 (Pujara, 20.2), 3-86 (Kohli, 21.2), 4-248 (Rohit, 72.6), 5-249 (Rahane, 75.2), 6-284 (Ashwin, 82.3).   ENGLAND BOWLING   Broad 11-2-37-0, Stone 15-5-42-1, Leach 26-2-78-2, Stokes 2-0-16-0, Moeen 26-3-112-2, Root 8-2-15-1.   Toss: India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/scoreboard/article33833544.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Bharath, Sai Samhitha emerge champions||Tamil Nadu’s Bharath Nishok Kumaran and Sai Samhitha clinched a double each at the Match Point Tennis Academy-AITA Open tournament on Saturday. Vivek Reddy, Treasurer, Tamil Nadu Tennis Association, gave away the prizes.  The results (finals):   Men: Bharath Nishok Kumaran (TN) bt Prithvi Sekhar (TN) 6-2, 6-1; Doubles: Bharath Nishok Kumaran & Boopathy Sakthivel bt Deepak Senthil Kumar & Yeshwanth Loganathan 6-4, 6-2.   Women: Sai Samhitha (TN) vs bt Shrivalli Bhamidipaty (TS) 6-2, 6-2; Sai Samhitha & Tentu Shrichandrakala bt Paavani Pathak & Smriti Bhasin 6-2, 6-3 .    A 10-member squad will represent Tamil Nadu in the senior National table tennis championships to be held from Feb. 14 to 23.  The squad: Men: S. Preyesh, D. Ananth, Nitin Thiruvengadam, Sachin Hemanth, V. Abhinay. Coach: S. Raman.   Women: N. Vidya, S. Sharmitha, P. Pavithra, S. Hrithika, Amrutha Pushpak. Coaches: G. Vinod, N. Aditya .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bharath-sai-samhitha-emerge-champions/article33833692.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||ENGAGEMENTS||Cricket: India vs England, second Test, day two, M.A. Chidambaram stadium, 9.30 a.m. TNCA-TDCA league, I div., MAS CC vs FSCA (Gojan), 9.30 a.m.; III div., WABCO Ind RC vs Sri Vaishnavi CC (Hindu A), 8 a.m.; IV div., IEC RC vs Frankworrell CC (Hindu A), 1 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/engagements/article33833688.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 07:47 IST,||Sudoku — February 14, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-february-14-2021/article33834150.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||‘I am an ambassador of Indian music’||Shreya Ghoshal’s hectic life revolving around concerts and studios came to a grinding halt in 2020 during lockdown. Far away from her musical colleagues, Shreya felt “uninspired”. The urge to do something close to her roots resulted in ‘Angana Morey’, an independent track she released on February 3. The song, which has clocked over seven million views on YouTube, is a contemporary interpretation of a girl longing for her beloved. Over phone from Mumbai, Shreya shares her excitement on what the positive response means to her. Edited excerpts: The reaction to the song suggests fans expect more non-film content from you... Fans have given extra love to this song probably because it is a personal project. ‘Angana...’ is very different from what I have done before. It cannot be defined in a genre. But the positive feedback it has received gives me encouragement and tells me that I’m on the right track.  Was it liberating that there was no composer, director or music label telling you what to do?  It was. The song was done during a time when I was feeling very uninspired. During lockdown, I was cut-off from colleagues and working from a small corner of my house. ‘Angana Morey’ was like a boat that kept me afloat in those times. It kept me busy because I had to coordinate with musicians across the world. Usually, as a singer, my participation in a song comes in the second phase, once the tune and lyrics are set. With ‘Angana Morey’, which I composed, wrote and sang, I got to experience a part of the creation process. The music production, done by my brother, Soumyadeep Ghoshal, was done around my improvisations. #ShreyaRevivesIndianMusic was a Twitter trend after the song’s release. Your thoughts?  I see myself as an ambassador of Indian music. I just love the classical and folk music of India. I have travelled every part of the world and listened to all kinds of music, but Indian music is something else. Its melodic richness is unparalleled due to the ragas and emotions behind it. We need to place it in the right position on the world music map. You grew up as a fan of A.R. Rahman. Today, when you record tracks with him, is it easy to see him as a colleague?  I am still in awe of him. I have to put in a lot of effort to make conversation. It is difficult to bridge this gap between being a fan and a colleague, as I have admired him for long. The ARR sir that I saw a decade ago is very different from the person I see today; he has opened up and is enjoying life. It is a lovely side of him that I now see. There is an aura around him that I feel comes only to some people who are very elevated in their spiritual philosophy. With composer D. Imman, you have produced lilting melodies in Tamil...  Imman’s music is like a Christmas gift that keeps surprising you. He sings the track himself and teaches it to me in an old-school manner. The mark of a great musical artiste is the ability to create a charanam that is even better than a pallavi . Imman has that quality. He creates a musical ladder that takes you through a climax and comes back to the beginning. There is an old-school vice in his melodies wrapped in a new-age arrangement; that is what I love most. I have sung for him in Rajinikanth’s Annaatthe . What does it take to get the correct pronunciation of words in languages you are not familiar with?  I’m a Bengali and when I hear a Bengali song, I get very thrown off if a word is mispronounced. My whole focus starts revolving around that mispronounced word, and not on the musical expression. I just cannot have that kind of a flaw when I sing. It hurts me if I get criticised for mispronunciation because I feel I am doing a big disservice to the language. In my first Tamil song — ‘Chellame Chellame’ ( Album ) for Karthik Raja — it was very challenging because there were so many words that I was not used to. That was my introduction to a new language, but I understood how musical it was. I have since wanted to ensure that my diction does not sound like an outsider. How do you think an aspiring musician should go about their career today?  I got hooked on to social media at a very early age. I took it as a big boon, and today, it greatly helps me connect with fans. For aspiring musicians, it is a great way to announce their creations to the world. Today, it is a creators’ world and not that of the music bosses. Having said that, one needs to find the right balance... this ‘oh, I have to put something out, it will become viral’ thought process is detrimental to a creator. Music cannot be decided by numbers.  ‘Angana Morey’ was like a boat that kept me afloat during the tough lockdown period||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/i-am-an-ambassador-of-indian-music/article33833933.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Charlie and the masala factory||Last year, as Novak Djokovic triumphantly lifted the Australian Open trophy, Charlie Carrington was busy juggling three tonnes of hummus. He successfully managed to feed nearly 25,000 people over two weeks at his popup restaurant at Melbourne Park. Interestingly, this tennis extravaganza is also a haven for connoisseurs of good food. Grand Slam Oval features a variety of cuisine that traverses between fine dining and street food. After making his début at the event last year, Carrington is back again. This year, his restaurant Atlas Dining will cater at the venue and the focus is on Australian cuisine. “It’s a lot of fresh produce. The food has got a lot of influence from different countries: Lebanese, Chinese, Indian, Greek...,” says Carrington, over a Zoom call from Melbourne. He is bringing in local flavours that translate to a refreshing menu starring Murray cod, Paroo kangaroo, ‘Red Hill’ apples, pickled beetroot, smoked ‘Holy Goat’ cheese served with heirloom tomato, and mango sorbet with saffron crumble. This time, given the pandemic, the number of people will be lesser. Carrington will start service on Thursday and is looking at serving 60 guests per day. And do the tennis players also get to grab a bite at his popup? “No, it’s just the spectators. The players are too busy eating fish and salad,” he laughs. In addition, Carrington is also doing an Atlas Master Class. “We are sending out ingredient boxes and uploading videos on our YouTube channel. We have uploaded three videos with tennis player Sam Groth,” he says. Carrington’s cooking style is influenced by his “incredible travel experiences”. So far, he has travelled to 13 countries to learn more about its food, recipes, cooking styles. “I spend two weeks in a country, go to markets, talk to people.” He was in India last March, scouring the city of Mumbai that inspired him with its street food and ingredients. Once the pandemic situation sorts out worldwide, he plans to pick up from where he left off: India; he wants to head back and go to Goa and Kerala.  Watch Australian Open 2021 live on Sony Pictures Sports Networks||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/charlie-and-the-masala-factory/article33833935.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The new chapter is on gated communites||A library looking for a space near a humongous gated community to establish a branch is more common than that very community inviting it to start one on its premises. Easwari Lending Library received such an invitation from a gated community in Siruseri, marking a new chapter in its business. Essentially about exclusively catering to partnering gated communities, this model has invigorated the 66-year-old enterprise. In 2013, Easwari Lending Library instituted a library at L&T Eden Park in Siruseri. Between then and now, it has set up six such libraries. “Initially, we did not consider gated communities a potential customer base for us, but when a few management committee members sought us to supply books to residents we proposed this idea,” says P. Satish Kumar, one of the proprietors of the family-run Easwari Lending Library. The model has the library collecting a monthly fee from the Apartment association for stocking books, offering the services of a librarian and maintaining the space. Satish says though this model does not yield much profit, it enhances the organisation’s brand value. The apartment association is happy about offering the library as another amenity. “The fee may range from Rs. 5,000 and Rs. 20,000 depending on the number of residents at the community. A stock of 5,000 books across genres would be parked, and replenished based on needs,” he says, adding this model would be sustainable in the long run. “If Easwari Lending Library has survived in this digital age it is because of the nine branches that we have across Chennai, five of them are owned by us,” says Satish. “Rent outlays burn a hole in our pockets, and this model helps us cut down on this expenditure.” Word-of-mouth publicity has helped Easwari promote this model. “The committee members of Metrozone in Anna Nagar visited L&T Eden Park before setting up their library. It was the same with Ozone Greens in Perumbakkam,” he points out. Every community runs the library the way they deem fit. While some want a librarian to maintain the inventory, a few communities manage with resident-volunteers. “At Amarprakash in Chrompet, we only supply books and collect Rs. 5000 from them every month,” he says. The pandemic has however slowed down Easwari’s plan to drive this model, says Satish, adding that the target is 50 gated communities in the next two years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-new-chapter-is-on-gated-communites/article33833244.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Hearing is seeing: The strange case of the Pallas’ Grasshopper Warbler||Though a winter sojourner in Chennai, the Pallas’ Grasshopper Warbler’s vacation photos would scarcely fill an album. As Old-World warblers go, this brownish bird has more pronounced markings than most others. So technically, it should be easy to spot and identify one in the field. The bird however does not make it that easy for the observer. Titles get thrust upon birds, and one that sits unfortunately on the Pallas’ Grasshopper Warbler’s (PGW) significantly-streaked brown back is: Skulker to the nth degree. The bird would tenaciously stick to the undergrowths in reed-beds till a Zen master’s patience begins to wear as thin as the fairy feather. So, in time, birders, especially those watching the PGW in its wintering range, train their ears to identify its call. More often than not, that would be the only way to documenting the bird’s presence. Patch loyalty A particular PGW behaviour helps matters though. “The Pallas’ Grasshopper Warbler is a reliable bird, if you have seen it in a patch, you will likely see it there every winter for a long time unless there is habitat destruction,” says eBird reviewer Vikas Madhav Nagarajan. “In 2018, I had seen the Pallas’ Grasshopper Warbler at a patch on the Thoraipakkam side of the Pallikaranai Marsh and I still see it there, in 2021. So is the case with a patch in Karapakkam that is overrun with reeds.” Similarly, in thick reed-beds near what is called the Global Hospital road in Perumbakkam, Vikas heard the Pallas’ Grasshopper’s characteristic call. Later, when birder Rama Neelamegam and Vikas paid a visit to the said patch, they both could document the presence of the bird with clicks of their cameras. Ornithologist V. Santharam draws attention to the how PGW sightings in Chennai have been on the increase in the last three-to-four years. “The bird was there earlier too, and it was not really reported because of an unfamiliarity with its call. With easy access to recordings of bird calls, this problem does not exist anymore. The Pallas’ Grasshopper Warbler’s call is distinct, and once you know it, it should be easy to identify it,” says Santharam, adding: “You also know the kind of habitats that the bird is found in. If you wait for the bird, you should find it. With easier ways to transmit information now, when there is a sighting, news spreads and others know where to look for the bird. Based on eBird listings, I visited a section of the Perumbakkam Wetland, and then Karapakkam, and at both these reedy patches, I was able to see the Pallas’ Grasshopper Warbler.” Birder Aravind AM’s experience supports Santharam’s view that more records are leading to more records. Aravind explains: “Sidharth Srinivasan (also a birder) and I heard the bird at Karpakkam. I did not record the call then, but just observed the bird’s movements and listened to its calls. When I heard Sidharth’s recording of a Pallas’ Grasshopper Warbler’s call, I liked the sound of it. As I had observed the bird’s movements carefully, it was easy for me when I sought to record the bird’s call myself. When Sidharth and I were out there, we had observed a particular behaviour of this bird. While moving from one reed to another, the Pallas’ Grasshopper Warbler makes these short calls, and once its movements become less intense, it makes a long metallic call.” Whenever a Pallas’ Grasshopper Warbler’s recording runs for a reasonably long stretch of time, a passage would recur like a leitmotif — it comes with the rapidity of a gunfire, and is best described as “metallic”. Aravind says that he has been able to hear, and on days that glint under a lucky sun, even see the Pallas’ Grasshopper Warbler, with a good degree of predictability at reed-beds where the bird has earlier been heard or sighted, or both. Aravind elaborates: “I would hear the bird’s calls at Ram Nagar Swamps (Madipakkam); in Karapakkam; and have also heard it a couple of times, above the din of heavy vehicular traffic on Sholinganallur-Medavakkam Road, along a section of the Perumbakkam Wetland characterised by dense reed beds. It is also the place where bitterns, yellow and black, are seen.”  (Migrant Watch' is a column about birds that visit Chennai during winter)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/hearing-is-seeing-the-strange-case-of-the-pallas-grasshopper-warbler/article33833252.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||A recycling project with a social focus||For 23-year-old Stephi K, a resident of the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board tenements in Perumbakkam, last month signifies a high point. With an earning of Rs. 8,000 — her fattest pay packet so far — she met some outstanding expenses, paid the house rent and with what was left, bought provisions for her family. She is one of 12 constituting a women’s self-help group in Perumbakkam that has been selected to work on a sustainability project initiated by Tetra Pak, in association with Chennai-based social venture Wasted 360 Solutions. Being in this exercise, she is assured of a monthly salary for the next one year. In return, she and her team would send cleaned beverage cartons, collected from across Chennai, to a recycler in Maharashtra. These cartons would be processed before being turned into utility products. The women are beneficiaries of Arpanam Trust, a three-decade-old non-profit housed at Sacred Heart School Church Park. At the “Take Me Back” campaign, launched in Chennai in December, these women learnt about waste segregation, the advantages of recycling beverage cartons, weighing the raw materials and taking a brand audit of the materials that come to their centre at Perumbakkam. “We work with 26 SHG women in Perumbakkam and also have a dedicated space where we offer them skill development programmes in tailoring and the making of products like candles, jute bags, soaps and condiments,” says Sister Sagayam, director, Arpanam Trust. The pandemic disrupted the livelihoods of many families. Besides making and selling masks, they had little work coming their way. “Marketing is necessary. These products will not get sold, unless companies are made aware of them,” says the director, adding that it is the first time a project has come along, assuring women of a fixed income. Ann Anra, founder, Wasted 360 Solutions, says alcohol addiction is a major issue in the slum board tenements so this project was aimed to help women become breadwinners. “Of the 12 women deployed for the project, six have been hired on a full-time basis and the rest would work on a part-time basis,” says Ann. The campaign The recycling initiative requires residents to first segregate waste at source. The used beverage cartons need to be rinsed, dried and flattened and later dropped in any of the 20 collections points in Chennai. Or, one can avail a free pick-up from Dunzo if the cartons number above 50. Besides communities, the campaign also targets schools and colleges, asking them to collect tetra packs. “The larger aim of the campaign is to create awareness among consumers that if they throw a tetra pack carton then they are wasting the raw material,” says Ann. We expect to collect 2,000 kilos of beverage cartons a month and work on the project will begin in March, she says. In Mumbai, Tetra Pak has been running this campaign for many years with children playing a key role in it. The processed cartons have morphed into furniture, stationery and other utility products that are placed in communities that need them the most. For details about drop points, visitwww.takemeback campaign.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-recycling-project-with-a-social-focus/article33833258.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Book Nook: A neighbourhood community built around the written word||Harry MacLure and Pran Amrith can take pride in the choice of name for their enterprise, Book Nook. That was from a different era, 1984 precisely. It was a name whose time had not arrived. A current design trend, book nooks are a frill — even a frippery, as some may argue — to the pursuit of knowledge. For those not familiar with it, a book nook is a three-dimensional artwork depicting a library, that is wedged into a deliberate gap in a real book shelf. At Third Avenue, near the Anna Nagar Roundtana, the two friends ran a lending library by this name, offering top-up features at no additional cost. Book Nook crowned the pursuit of knowledge with society. A social space Journalist-turned-management-professional M. Keshav recalls, “In 1983, I came to Anna Nagar, and from 1984 to 1990, I would frequent Book Nook, where members were encouraged to play Scrabble. Five of us would sometimes spend all evening at the board. Scrabble was a ritual that earned us lifelong friendships.” Keshav underlines how Book Nook served as a social hub for a sprawling locality, Anna Nagar, by drawing people from its various blocks. “In the morning, the Scrabble set would be busy; and in the evening, Pran and I would be, as the footfall would have increased, and books would have to be continually issued,” remembers Harry, sixty-one now. Pran is older by one year. Authors dissected Irrespective of the workload, the duo was never too buried in book-issuing work to discuss books. There would be impromptu expositions of books chosen by members. Harry, a writer-and-illustrator, says, “Amrith is not a writer, but a voracious reader. So, he could recommend books, even question a member’s choice of a title. He would explain why a particular book has not lived up to an author’s reputation. He would never push a book on anyone, and often suggest an alternative title.” Keshav remembers Harry driving discussions about authors, especially their craft, as he himself was a writer. Harry reminisces about how the happening novelists were represented at Book Nook. On the subject of how they managed variety in their offering, he says: “India Book House on Ethiraj Salai, who were book distributors, would give us good discounts, because we were in the book trade. Mr. Padmanabhan of East West Books would even give us credit for a month or two.” The challenges The enterprise was clearly fuelled by the love of books. A community had been built around reading. However, as it played out, it took more to stay in the black, staving off competition from the big players when they arrived. Harry points out that with the advent of Ramona’s and Easwari Lending Library, Book Nook’s chances of survival slimmed by the year. The stock at any lending library comes with built-in perishability. At the least, every twenty years, it should be refreshed to reflect new trends in human thought and publishing. “They made decent money, but not sufficient money to invest too much of it into the business again. I asked them why they would not try stocking new books and be a book distributor. That was one of the reasons I thought it never worked out. At some point, they tried selling old books, but it never worked out. That said, there can be no lending library like Book Nook. It was good as long as it lasted,” concludes Keshav. Concluding chapter By the mid-1990s, the writing was splattered across the wall. Book Nook had flipped past its heyday-pages. Harry reveals the enterprise went belly up only in 2005. However, in the final years, there were only the dying embers of what was once a scintillating startup, to fuel Book Nook. Concurrently, Harry had settled into running Anglos In The Wind, a community magazine for Anglo-Indians worldwide and there was his book illustration work to be taken care of. Harry would also get into film-making and publishing. With the British Council, Pran would put down roots in England. The Pran-Harry friendship survived entrepreneurial vicissitudes, and continues to this day. Says Harry, “Pran is the producer of my feature film, Calcutta, I’m Sorry.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/book-nook-a-neighbourhood-community-built-around-the-written-word/article33833249.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Kazura Gardens RWA seeks a park||Residents of Kazura Gardens in Neelankarai on East Coast Road are miffed at the delay in the restoration of a waterbody in the locality. They have been looking forward to the walkway that would be built around the pond after the latter’s restoration. “We do not have any parks in our neighbourhood; nor are there any open-space reservation lands meant for the creation of parks. We go to a park in Palavakkam, which is a kilometre from Kazura Garden. As there are no footpaths, the question of walking to this park does not arise. After it is restored, a walkway would come around it, and that would solve the issue,” says K.Srilakshmi Mohan Rao, vice-president, Kazura Garden Welfare Association. Besides, Kazura Garden Welfare Association has reportedly identified a piece of vacant land that belongs to State government, requested it to ensure it is developed into a park. Says Srilakshmi, “The piece of land belonging to the government lies between First Main Road and Second Main Road. The request to have this land developed into a park is two years old.”  “As there are no footpaths, the question of walking to this park does not arise”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/kazura-gardens-rwa-seeks-a-park/article33833215.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||A leaf out of Eloor||Before Eloor Libraries closed the books on its Chennai branch, Anup Luiz had followed an SOP that is embossed on his mind. “Before shutting down a branch, we exhaust all options, giving it enough time to make a recovery. Because, closing a branch is easy; building one is not,” begins 34-year-old Anup, who holds the reins of an enterprise with three branches — Kochi, Trivandrum and Bengaluru — and runs it with the help of his mother Mini Luiz. Anup has watched Eloor branches being planted in new soil, and also seen some of them — Chennai, Kolkatta, New Delhi and Calicut — being pulled up by the roots. He has never seen both situations being treated flippantly, first when his father P. Luiz John was at the helm, and later when his brother Gautam Luiz was. Since 1979, when he established the first Eloor library in Kochi, founder P. Luiz John had followed a tradition. Each time Eloor Libraries would establish a branch in a new city, the family would tag along, stay in the new place for sometime, which ensured that both Gautam and Anup had a ringside view of processes being followed at the evolving organisation. Anup points out that this tradition was dispensed with, only when the Kolkatta and Calicut branches were established. “I grew up in Chennai, doing my schooling there. So, the branch in Chennai is the one I have visited the most number of times,” he announces. “Before closing the Chennai branch, we considered going digital and also looked for a space at a lower rent. The overheads had shot up, and the branch was bleeding the brand, and we had to ultimately let go of it, in the interests of employees across the group, many of them serving Eloor Libraries for decades. The longest-serving employee is our Kochi branch manager K. Sabu, at 35 years of service; followed by Narayanan, our Trivandram branch manager, at 34-and-a-half years of service.” While digital technology is certainly testing the endurance of traditional businesses, which include lending libraries that are run largely with in-person processes, Eloor Libraries’ setbacks over the last decade largely have to do with just the existential burden of being human. “My father passed away 11 years ago suddenly due to heart attack, and he was just 59 then. My brother succumbed to cancer in 2017, at age 36, after battling the disease for seven years,” reveals Anup. With an MBA to his name, Anup had been working in the corporate sector, before the mantle of running Eloor Libraries was on him due to the two untimely deaths in the family. “If my father and brother were around now, Eloor Libraries would be in a different position altogether. Twelve years ago, when my dad was alive we had an online plan for the business. Ninety per cent of what people are doing now, we had planned 12 years ago,” explains Anup. “When a life crisis is raging, you would naturally want to attend to that and everything else could be in a state of suspension, and we tried everything we could to save my brother, and all other concerns had receded from our mind.” Going digital With the pandemic bringing a set of new challenges, how is Eloor Libraries responding to the twin challenges faced by most businesses across the spectrum: Holding the fort and at the same time crowning it with a digital superstructure. Anup views the pandemic as the best opportunity to be innovative, and make those decisions that should have been made long ago, but were not. He reveals that he has empowered a millennial employee working with the Kochi branch to launch brand-building campaigns on social media by just engaging with members and the world at large by just talking books. Besides, last year, in the midst of the pandemic, Anup held a huddle with the managers of three branches and the outcome was revelatory. “The Trivandrum manager said the business would be ruined if we went totally digital in Trivandrum,” discloses Anup. “In Trivandrum, a majority of the members would not warm up to door-delivery of books. Government employees constitute a big section of the membership and they would like to talk with the staff personally and get book recommendations. The same culture can be expected at Kochi.” Only Bengaluru would likely be fertile soil for an out-an-out digital strategy. “Though the majority of the work processes have been moved digital, and only the door-delivery part has to be integrated into it,” Eloor Libraries plans to chop and change its digital programme based on local realities. Anup reports, “Last Sunday, at our Kochi branch, 39 members walked in and between them, they took 165 books.” This number is indeed a significant pointer when viewed against the backdrop of an ongoing pandemic. So, as with most other things, the answer probably lies in choosing the middle path.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-leaf-out-of-eloor/article33833241.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Garbage woes in Kandhanchavadi||The four waste containers placed at the entrance of Sree Jeyendra Colony, a gated community at Thiruvalluvar Street in Kandhanchavadi on Old Mahabalipuram Road is source of vexation for residents. Waste can almost always be found overflowing from the bins and lying strewn around them. Residents of the gated community say that nearby streets do not have waste bins. Hence, residents of other streets also discard their waste in the containers kept near the gate of Sree Jeyendra Colony. “We are facing this problem for the past two-and-a-half months. Our colony has 15 blocks and spread over Ward 183 and Ward 184. Blocks that fall under Ward 183 are not affected by this menace. Those that are a part of Ward 184 suffer on account of waste pile-ups. The worst affected are residents of P block which is closer to the gate. Residents of P block are unable to keep their windows open due to the foul smell emanating from the waste pile-ups. It is not just domestic waste, leftovers and garbage from nearby eateries are also dumped into these containers. We want Greater Chennai Corporation to attend to this issue,” says Baby Christu, a resident of the gated community||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/garbage-woes-in-kandhanchavadi/article33833225.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||A champion in their midst||AGS Colony Residents Welfare Association in Velachery honours national basketball player Anitha Pauldurai, who is a Padma Shri awardee for 2021. Anitha Pauldurai would not miss her everyday fitness programme for anything. The same goes for her practice as a basketball player. The commitment paid off. She is a national basketball player who has been receiving accolades for sterling performances, especially in big-ticket events like Common Wealth Games, Asian Games, and FIBA Asian Basketball Championship. Now, as a crowning glory, this mother of two children has made it to the list of achievers who would be conferred with the Padma Shri Award for the year 2021. “Since 11, I have been actively taking part in various sports and winning prizes. Coach N. Sampath encouraged me to take up basketball. Playing at the regional and State level, fetched me a job in Southern Railway, which further paved the way for me to represent the Indian team. I became the captain of the Indian team when I was just 19. I was considered the youngest captain,” says Anitha, an alumna of St. Antony’s Higher Secondary School in Santhome and Lady Sivaswamy Ayyar Girls’ Higher Secondary School in Mylapore. A month after delivering her son in 2014, she started a workout regimen to shed the excess weight gained during pregnancy. Without reducing her food intake, she lost nearly 10 kg, purely through exercise and yoga, she says. She followed the same programme after she had her second baby. Anitha obviously has great time-management skills, as she has done justice to various commitments: As a mother, Chief Welfare Inspector (Sports) in Southern Railway and of course, as a basketball player. “I am thankful that my mother and husband have been supporting me to pursue my goals as a basketball player,” says 35-year-old Anitha, who is an MBA graduate. Residents of AGS Colony in West Velachery have been proud about having a national basketball player in their midst. Until she moved to AGS Colony in November 2020, she was a resident of Iyyapanthangal. AGS Colony Residents Welfare Association honoured her last week and plans to felicitate her after she receives the coveted award in March.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-champion-in-their-midst/article33833238.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Uncommon Residents The other babbler||When it comes to babblers, it helps to have two facts wedged into one’s mind. They like the sound of their own calls — which explains their name. At the same time, they do not mind their calls being drowned by their species-mates’ — in plain terms, they enjoy company. In Chennai, from the ubiquitous yellow-billed babblers to the uncommon yellow-eyed babblers, these basic facts about babblers are immutable. Chennai and surrounding areas fall within the Yellow-eyed Babbler’s range, but these resident birds do not show up on the radar often. “They are a bird of the scrub environment,” points out eBird reviewer Vikas Madhav Nagarajan, who had sightings of these birds at Guindy National Park in 2016. Though not so common in Chennai, certain patches in and around the metro may always offer the promise of a sighting. That inclues Vandalur Repeater Road. eBird has two photographic records of Yellow-eyed Babbler sightings from this section — one by Karthikeyan GB (10 December, 2016) and the other by Karthikeyan Ponnambalamoorthy (7 January 2017). “The Yellow-eyed Babbler is a social bird, but how gregarious it appears depends on where you see it,” says Vikas. “You do not get to see it in large numbers in and around Chennai, but in Karnataka, I have seen it in flocks of 10 to 15. In Tamil Nadu, I have not come across Yellow-eyed Babbler flocks bigger than 4 to 5 birds.” Across Tamil Nadu, slight variations in Yellow-eyed Babbler occurrence can be observed. Recently, Rama Neelamegan was treated to a sight of gregarious and noisy Yellow-eyed Babblers at a patch that is part of the Eastern Ghats in Vellore. Rama explains that with a scrub environment, this patch is just what the doctored ordered for the Yellow-eyed Babbler. Yellow-eyed Babblers allopreen each other, just like their more common cousin: the Yellow-billed Babblers. These two also diverge on many points, two of them being that the Yellow-eyed Babbler is more bush-centred, and is given to higher levels of acrobatics. (Uncommon Residents, as the title suggests, is about birds that are resident in Chennai but not commonly seen)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/uncommon-residents-the-other-babbler/article33833254.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Honour for Kotturpuram police||The J4 Kotturpuram police station has been adjudged the third best police station in Tamil Nadu for the year 2019-2020. The officials attached to the police station were awarded with a trophy on Republic Day by Chief Minister Edappadi K Palanisamy. Assistant Commissioner Sembedu Babu says, “J4 Kotturpuram police station scored well against the various parameters that were taken into account. These include the number of contraband and liqour bottles seized, number of preventive arrests, number of cases relating to traffic violations, conviction of murder cases, mainaining cleanliness and hygiene at the police station. Another factor that increased our score is the rapport we have developed with residents. We regularly organise meetings with residents welfare associations and senior citzens. Many residents’ welfare associations have installed CCTV cameras following our awareness programmes. Next, we will focus on checking crime against children.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/honour-for-kotturpuram-police/article33833208.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||New food waste treatment system at Amma canteen in Indira Nagar||The office of Zone 13 of Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) has installed a plant for the treatment of food waste at Amma Unavagam (Amma canteen) located on the premises of a Greater Chennai Corporation Primary School in Indira Nagar, Adyar. The plant, developed by Avris Environment Technologies Limited Liability Partnership (LLP), a Chennai-based start-up, was inaugurated by Alby John Varghese, Regional Deputy Commissioner - South, GCC recently on February 2. V. Bharath, director of the start-up says,“The plant can take in 75 kg of waste. The waste is crushed and turned into a slurry, which further gets converted into bio-gas. This fuel is piped to the stove in the kitchen and used for cooking.” Srikant Sitaraman, director, says, “The slurry is a fertiliser-rich in nitrogen phosphorous and potassium.” The start-up calls their product Chugg. Apart from one with 75-kg capacity, there is one that comes with 35-kg capacity, says Ravi Ayyangar, director of the start-up. According to GCC’s Assistant Engineer, V. Ravichandran, “The plant is user-friendly and we are training our staff to operate it. This Amma Unavagam generates 20 to 25 kilograms of waste every day.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/new-food-waste-treatment-system-at-amma-canteen-in-indira-nagar/article33833201.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Footpaths on MG Road usurped by food joints||In most parts of Chennai, pedestrian space is violated. They are usurped by all kinds of commercial establishments. Food outlets usurp the footpaths on Mahatma Gandhi Road in Shastri Nagar, Adyar. They are being misused as an open kitchen. Gas cylinders and stoves on footpath increase the risk of fire accidents. It is also being misused as a wash area. Abutting the pavements, a good number of auto-rickshaws and two-wheelers are parked. All of these hinder a hassle-free movement of pedestrians, who are forced to walk in the middle of the road. The waste generated from these outlets is sometimes discarded into stormwater drains and rainwater harvesting pits. In spite of repeated representations about this to the authorities concerned, no action has been taken till date. V. Raja Pandian is a resident of Adyar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/footpaths-on-mg-road-usurped-by-food-joints/article33833223.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Save this waterbody’||A waterbody atVGP Selva Nagar in Velachery is in a state of neglect, and is being misused to dump construction debris and pavements slabs. Further, the passers-by relieve themselves in the waterbody. The waterbody comes under the purview of the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC). GCC has to protect whatever remains of the waterbody., It is disheartening to see stone slabs meant for pavements being dumped here. The slab stones look polished and hence should be expensive. Instead of being reused, the slabs have been discarded. If steps are taken to remove the unwanted vegetation and deepen the waterbody, rainwater could be stored in it, thereby recharging the groundwater table. Further, the waterbody should be fenced. T.D. Babu is one of the founders of Spark, a citizens’ forumbased in Besant Nagar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/save-this-waterbody/article33833230.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||IMA Pallikaranai takes part in relay fast||Indian Medical Association (IMA) is organising a relay fast all over India from February 1 to 14 as a mark of protest against the proposal by the Union government to train AYUSH (Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy) doctors to perform surgeries. IMA - Pallikaranai took part in the relay fast on February 10. Over 60 members including those from IMA - Tambaram and IMA - Kelambakkam particpated in it, says a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/ima-pallikaranai-takes-part-in-relay-fast/article33833235.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer- writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtownfeedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number. Here’s a short note on the basic building blocks of any short news feature. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. c) News features have to be factually-grounded and the central portion, which will consist of a few paragraphs, should support the anecdotal paragraph and the cosmic paragraph||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/you-can-be-our-volunteer-writer/article33833228.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Raising funds for a cause||HELP TRUST, a non governmental organisation functioning from the premises of CSI Deaf and Dumb School in Santhome, is organising a women’s fest to raise funds to support its various activities. According to a press release, the non-profit works for the upliftment of the differently-abled by offering free training in computers, nursing, tailoring, confectionery-making and baking. “We have seven teaching and three non-teaching staff and we find it a challenge to pay them their salaries,” says S. Karpagam, coordinator, Help Trust. The various skill development programmes are held through the year and each batch has around 10 students. “Getting students is not a challenge as many of those graduating from the CSI Deaf and Dumb School would enrol for the programmes offered by the Trust. After completion of the programme, we help them by guiding them on the job fairs to attend,” says Karpagam. They also have women from the Nochi Kuppam community attending these programmes. “We help many of our students receive loans so that they can start their own venture,” she says. The women’s fest is open to all, and the amount raised through stall bookings will be used to meet operational expenses. The fest is scheduled to be held on March 7 at CSI Deaf And Dumb School, Santhome High Road. For details, call 9094686187.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/raising-funds-for-a-cause/article33833260.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Session on zentangle art||Sandhya Manne Studio is conducting an online workshop on Zentangle art on February 20. Time: From: 10.30 a.m. to 1.30 p.m. According to a press release, the session is meant for beginners and the minimum age limit is 13 years of age. For details, call 9042072639||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/session-on-zentangle-art/article33833204.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Calf rescued from SWD||Recently, a calf fell into a stormwater drain at Shastri Street in Annai Indira Nagar, Velachery. With the broken manhole cover left unattended, such a crisis was only waiting to happen. Hearing the plaintive moos of the calf around 10 p.m. that day, we informed the Tamil Nadu Fire & Rescue Service (TNFRS) immediately, and its personnel arrived on time and rescued the calf. So, a word of congratulation for TNFRS is due from our side. This incident should spotlight the danger that could result from not replacing a broken manhole cover in time. S. Kumararaja is vice-president of Annai Indira Nagar Residents Welfare Associationin Velachery||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/calf-rescued-from-swd/article33833213.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Stray cattle and the risk of accidents on ECR||On many sections of East Coast Road, motorists are likely to have encounters with bovines. I regularly drive down East Coast Road, and have faced this problem often. From Thiruvanmiyur bus stand junction to Mahabalipuram, the problem can be seen, and it gets worse on the section from Muttukadu to Mahabalipuram. I have witnessed a couple of accidents involving stray cattle. Recently, the Greater Chennai Traffic Police came up with a programme called “zero-tolerance” traffic junction. It is certainly a welcome initiative. At a zero-tolerance junction, motorists are expected to comply strictly with all traffic rules such as following what signals have to say, wearing helmets and using seat belts. They should not use the mobile phone while driving. They should not violate the stop line. Thiruvanmiyur is one of the four chosen junctions. The other three: Spencer’s junction, Anna Arch, and Madhavaram roundabout. But the safety at Thiruvanmiyur junction is compromised due to this stray cattle. Sometime ago, there was a drive by civic authorities to impound such animals and put them in a shelter. But it seems that such drives are not being carried out anymore. It high time that strict rules are enforced and such cattle are impounded. B. Madhusudanan is a resident of Palavakkam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/stray-cattle-and-the-risk-of-accidents-on-ecr/article33833227.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Thinking out of the book||From a spare room on the ground floor to a dedicated space at the club house, the library at L&T Eden Park has come a long way. While the Association made the path-breaking move of letting Easwari Lending Library set up shop in the community in 2013, resident-volunteers’ role in sustaining it cannot be overemphasised. “Satish from Easwari Lending Library brought some shelves and stacked them with books, in a crammed space and we were some 8 to 10 volunteers trained to run the library,” says Deepa Som, a volunteer. A small membership fee was charged initially. It took just a month for the initiative to catch on. “Over 100 members had sought membership, and 80% of them were children. We were surprised as we had expected senior citizens and homemakers to patronise the library. With children coming to read, their mothers would also join them,” says Deepa, a mother of a 13-year-old girl who values reading through books. From 2,000 books, the library has grown to 8,000 books and commands a membership of 250. Every month, at least 500 books are replaced with new ones. Volunteers’ role First, resident-volunteers performed the functions of a librarian which include scanning the barcode and feeding details into the system. With membership mounting, the Association hired a person to run the space, and also waived off the membership fee. During the pandemic, except for a short period when the government mandated that all common amenities be closed, the doors of the library have always stayed open. “Due to COVID-19 and cost-cutting measures, we run the library. Going forward, I feel it is better to have resident-volunteers run it as the involvement is greater,” says Deepa, adding that volunteers organise a reading challenge every summer and other activities including storytelling. A book is maintained for residents to pen down a wish-list of books they want to read, and this is shared with the lending library.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/thinking-out-of-the-book/article33833245.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Programme on entrepreneurship on Saturdays||The Stenographers’ Guild, T. Nagar, is organising a programme on entrepreneurship development on Saturdays from January 30. Time: From 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. According to a press release, there is no fee to take part in the session. The programme was launched by Justice P. N. Prakash of Madras High Court. In his inaugural address, he insisted on the importance of becoming an entrepreneur and thereby creating job opportunities. For details, call 044 - 2434 2421/ 2433 7387.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/programme-on-entrepreneurship-on-saturdays/article33833233.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The Coromandel connection||Harry MacLure, editor of Anglos In The Wind and filmmaker, believes friendship formed the spine of the book-lending startup, Book Nook. Its promoters Pran Amrith (62) and Harry (61) are friends “united by the love of books, movies and creative pursuits.” Pran and Harry were colleagues at Taj Coromandel. There is another name the circle of friendships forged over creativity: actor Nassar (62), also employed then at the hotel. Harry recalls, “For one and a half years, Nassar and I were room-mates, sharing a rented accommodation at Yahali Street, Teynampet.” When on our morning shift (6 a.m. to 3 p.m.), Nassar and Harry would visit USIS library after work. “I would devour books on writing and illustration; and Nasser, those on films.” Harry continues: “At 6 p.m., the librarian would literally chase us out. We would then head to the Drive-in Woodlands (where the Semmozhi Poonga is located now), have a dosa and head back to our room.” “A few months ago, Pran was in Chennai. Before leaving for England, he and I met Nassar at the actor’s residence and had a heart-warming reunion.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-coromandel-connection/article33833246.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Two-day saris sale at Alwarpet||Silk Threads is organising a sale on February 19 and 20 at C.P Art Centre on Eldam’s Road in Alwarpet. According to a press release, cotton saris, linen silk cottons and tussar saris are available. Time: From 11 a.m. to 7p.m. For details, call 99300 13973 / 99459 25960.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/two-day-saris-sale-at-alwarpet/article33833203.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Ceremony at temple||The consecration ceremony( Kumbhabhishekam )of a newly-constructed tower ( Raja Gopuram ) of Sree Arulmigu Muppathamman temple at Maharajapuram Santhanam Salai in T. Nagar will be held on February 21. According to a press release, the height of the Gopuram is 39-feet. It has been constructed at the inter-face of Muppathamman, the presiding deity. It’s construction was funded by S. Rajarathinam, founder, Saravana Stores; R. Revathy Rajarathinam, and R. Sabapathy, administrative directors, Super Saravana Stores, the press release adds. Besides, other shrines at the temple were renovated. As part of the ceremony, special pujas will be held from February 18 to 20. Annadhanam is also part of the celebration, says the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/ceremony-at-temple/article33833205.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||A neighbourhood community built around the written word||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-neighbourhood-community-built-around-the-written-word/article33833217.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The new chapter in on gated communities||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-new-chapter-in-on-gated-communities/article33833221.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||A recycling project with a social focus||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-recycling-project-with-a-social-focus/article33833219.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||on obeying traffic rules||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/on-obeying-traffic-rules/article33833232.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The new chapter is on gated communites||A library looking for a space near a humongous gated community to establish a branch is more common than that very community inviting it to start one on its premises. Easwari Lending Library received such an invitation from a gated community in Siruseri, marking a new chapter in its business. Essentially about exclusively catering to partnering gated communities, this model has invigorated the 66-year-old enterprise. In 2013, Easwari Lending Library instituted a library at L&T Eden Park in Siruseri. Between then and now, it has set up six such libraries. “Initially, we did not consider gated communities a potential customer base for us, but when a few management committee members sought us to supply books to residents we proposed this idea,” says P. Satish Kumar, one of the proprietors of the family-run Easwari Lending Library. The model has the library collecting a monthly fee from the Apartment association for stocking books, offering the services of a librarian and maintaining the space. Satish says though this model does not yield much profit, it enhances the organisation’s brand value. The apartment association is happy about offering the library as another amenity. “The fee may range from Rs. 5,000 and Rs. 20,000 depending on the number of residents at the community. A stock of 5,000 books across genres would be parked, and replenished based on needs,” he says, adding this model would be sustainable in the long run. “If Easwari Lending Library has survived in this digital age it is because of the nine branches that we have across Chennai, five of them are owned by us,” says Satish. “Rent outlays burn a hole in our pockets, and this model helps us cut down on this expenditure.” Word-of-mouth publicity has helped Easwari promote this model. “The committee members of Metrozone in Anna Nagar visited L&T Eden Park before setting up their library. It was the same with Ozone Greens in Perumbakkam,” he points out. Every community runs the library the way they deem fit. While some want a librarian to maintain the inventory, a few communities manage with resident-volunteers. “At Amarprakash in Chrompet, we only supply books and collect Rs. 5000 from them every month,” he says. The pandemic has however slowed down Easwari’s plan to drive this model, says Satish, adding that the target is 50 gated communities in the next two years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-new-chapter-is-on-gated-communites/article33833290.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||FOB avoided like the plague||Pedestrians avoid the footover bridge connecting EVR Periyar Salai in Periamet and the Cooum River Bridge Road in Chintadripet like the plague. Reason: Lack of illumination, the location of a poorly maintained open toilet and the presence of tipplers make walking through the bridge after sunset unsafe. The bridge comes under the maintenance and jurisdiction of the Southern Railway. Many pedestrians take a detour to avoid taking the bridge. The stretch abutting the tracks near the Chennai Park railway station FOB has a lone lighting facility. The stretch is misused as a dumping ground, and that including dumping of abandoned vehicles. Some pedestrians board buses or depend on private modes of transport to avoid taking this facility. Adding to commuters’ woes, there are no steps at the FOB to connect platforms one, two and three at Park railway station. Electrical Multiple Units (EMU) commuters from Chintadripet have to put themselves at risk and cross the tracks to reach platforms 1 and 2 for entraining EMU trains. Some pedestrians jump over the wall at the FOB and cross the tracks to go to platform 3. It is mandatory to construct steps connecting an FOB and the platforms at a railway station, says D. Sathyanarayanan, a senior citizen and an activist. “It is quite common to see tipplers consuming alcohol on the steps of the FOB even in broad daylight,” says V. Shanthi, a school teacher who uses the stretch. Commuters and pedestrians from Chintadripet walk through EVR Periyar Salai, Periyamet till the Government College of Fine Arts intersection, Gandhi-Irwin Bridge Road, Egmore and through Krishnappa Chetty Street, Chintadripet. Police patrolling must be intensified on the Cooum River Bridge Road, say commuters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/fob-avoided-like-the-plague/article33833284.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Wearing many hats||With his motorised wheelchair, Kumaran Kumanan makes a familiar face at 12th Avenue, Ashok Nagar. For him, this vehicle symbolises independence. “I enjoy the freedom of stepping out from home and watching the world around me, and the exercise always leaves me energised and inspired,” says Kumaran, a practising psychologist with counselling as specialisation. Kumaran has cerebral palsy (CP) which he was diagnosed as a toddler. He was home-schooled since Class V, and wrote Class X and XII exams through open school. He would then go on to receive undergraduate and postgraduate degrees from the Madras University. “I always yearned to be a part of an inclusive classroom, be with friends who would be happy to take me out but that never happened, and that plunged me into depression,” says Kumaran. Studying psychology brought a healing touch, as it enabled him to understand human emotions. He also coped with depression by watching cricket and movies; writing has also been therapeutic. “I have written a book in Tamil, Anandha Thaandavam , which is about my journey since I came to know that CP was going to stay with me for the rest of my life,” says Kumaran, adding that the book is essentially about venting out one’s emotions. The English version of the book, CP to CP: Cerebral palsy to counselling psychologist was released later. Kumaran moderates a WhatsApp group ‘The Happy Hub Family’, which he describes as an inclusive group with members drawn from various geographies. “It’s a support group for people seeking any kind of help in the context of disability,” says 30-year-old Kumaran. Over nearly three decades, Kumaran has received support from 20 therapists and still needs therapy. On the strength of this experience, he says, he would be in a position to help those in similar situation. His parents and brother have been a pillar of strength to him. “My mother was scared to drive a two-wheeler but she was forced to learn to drive the car to take me out for all my therapies,” he says. His brother ensured he got to work in films. In the Tamil film, Nenjamundu Nermaiyundu Odu Raja , Kumaran makes a debut as a lyricist. Says Kumaran, “I have another movie project in the pipeline.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/wearing-many-hats/article33833267.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Hearing is seeing: The strange case of the Pallas’ Grasshopper Warbler||Though a winter sojourner in Chennai, the Pallas’ Grasshopper Warbler’s vacation photos would scarcely fill an album. As Old-World warblers go, this brownish bird has more pronounced markings than most others. So technically, it should be easy to spot and identify one in the field. The bird however does not make it that easy for the observer. Titles get thrust upon birds, and one that sits unfortunately on the Pallas’ Grasshopper Warbler’s (PGW) significantly-streaked brown back is: Skulker to the nth degree. The bird would tenaciously stick to the undergrowths in reed-beds till a Zen master’s patience begins to wear as thin as the fairy feather. So, in time, birders, especially those watching the PGW in its wintering range, train their ears to identify its call. More often than not, that would be the only way to documenting the bird’s presence. Patch loyalty A particular PGW behaviour helps matters though. “The Pallas’ Grasshopper Warbler is a reliable bird, if you have seen it in a patch, you will likely see it there every winter for a long time unless there is habitat destruction,” says eBird reviewer Vikas Madhav Nagarajan. “In 2018, I had seen the Pallas’ Grasshopper Warbler at a patch on the Thoraipakkam side of the Pallikaranai Marsh and I still see it there, in 2021. So is the case with a patch in Karapakkam that is overrun with reeds.” Similarly, in thick reed-beds near what is called the Global Hospital road in Perumbakkam, Vikas heard the Pallas’ Grasshopper’s characteristic call. Later, when birder Rama Neelamegam and Vikas paid a visit to the said patch, they both could document the presence of the bird with clicks of their cameras. Ornithologist V. Santharam draws attention to the how PGW sightings in Chennai have been on the increase in the last three-to-four years. “The bird was there earlier too, and it was not really reported because of an unfamiliarity with its call. With easy access to recordings of bird calls, this problem does not exist anymore. The Pallas’ Grasshopper Warbler’s call is distinct, and once you know it, it should be easy to identify it,” says Santharam, adding: “You also know the kind of habitats that the bird is found in. If you wait for the bird, you should find it. With easier ways to transmit information now, when there is a sighting, news spreads and others know where to look for the bird. Based on eBird listings, I visited a section of the Perumbakkam Wetland, and then Karapakkam, and at both these reedy patches, I was able to see the Pallas’ Grasshopper Warbler.” Birder Aravind AM’s experience supports Santharam’s view that more records are leading to more records. Aravind explains: “Sidharth Srinivasan (also a birder) and I heard the bird at Karpakkam. I did not record the call then, but just observed the bird’s movements and listened to its calls. When I heard Sidharth’s recording of a Pallas’ Grasshopper Warbler’s call, I liked the sound of it. As I had observed the bird’s movements carefully, it was easy for me when I sought to record the bird’s call myself. When Sidharth and I were out there, we had observed a particular behaviour of this bird. While moving from one reed to another, the Pallas’ Grasshopper Warbler makes these short calls, and once its movements become less intense, it makes a long metallic call.” Whenever a Pallas’ Grasshopper Warbler’s recording runs for a reasonably long stretch of time, a passage would recur like a leitmotif — it comes with the rapidity of a gunfire, and is best described as “metallic”. Aravind says that he has been able to hear, and on days that glint under a lucky sun, even see the Pallas’ Grasshopper Warbler, with a good degree of predictability at reed-beds where the bird has earlier been heard or sighted, or both. Aravind elaborates: “I would hear the bird’s calls at Ram Nagar Swamps (Madipakkam); in Karapakkam; and have also heard it a couple of times, above the din of heavy vehicular traffic on Sholinganallur-Medavakkam Road, along a section of the Perumbakkam Wetland characterised by dense reed beds. It is also the place where bitterns, yellow and black, are seen.”  (Migrant Watch' is a column about birds that visit Chennai during winter)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/hearing-is-seeing-the-strange-case-of-the-pallas-grasshopper-warbler/article33833294.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||A recycling project with a social focus||For 23-year-old Stephi K, a resident of the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board tenements in Perumbakkam, last month signifies a high point. With an earning of Rs. 8,000 — her fattest pay packet so far — she met some outstanding expenses, paid the house rent and with what was left, bought provisions for her family. She is one of 12 constituting a women’s self-help group in Perumbakkam that has been selected to work on a sustainability project initiated by Tetra Pak, in association with Chennai-based social venture Wasted 360 Solutions. Being in this exercise, she is assured of a monthly salary for the next one year. In return, she and her team would send cleaned beverage cartons, collected from across Chennai, to a recycler in Maharashtra. These cartons would be processed before being turned into utility products. The women are beneficiaries of Arpanam Trust, a three-decade-old non-profit housed at Sacred Heart School Church Park. At the “Take Me Back” campaign, launched in Chennai in December, these women learnt about waste segregation, the advantages of recycling beverage cartons, weighing the raw materials and taking a brand audit of the materials that come to their centre at Perumbakkam. “We work with 26 SHG women in Perumbakkam and also have a dedicated space where we offer them skill development programmes in tailoring and the making of products like candles, jute bags, soaps and condiments,” says Sister Sagayam, director, Arpanam Trust. The pandemic disrupted the livelihoods of many families. Besides making and selling masks, they had little work coming their way. “Marketing is necessary. These products will not get sold, unless companies are made aware of them,” says the director, adding that it is the first time a project has come along, assuring women of a fixed income. Ann Anra, founder, Wasted 360 Solutions, says alcohol addiction is a major issue in the slum board tenements so this project was aimed to help women become breadwinners. “Of the 12 women deployed for the project, six have been hired on a full-time basis and the rest would work on a part-time basis,” says Ann. The campaign The recycling initiative requires residents to first segregate waste at source. The used beverage cartons need to be rinsed, dried and flattened and later dropped in any of the 20 collections points in Chennai. Or, one can avail a free pick-up from Dunzo if the cartons number above 50. Besides communities, the campaign also targets schools and colleges, asking them to collect tetra packs. “The larger aim of the campaign is to create awareness among consumers that if they throw a tetra pack carton then they are wasting the raw material,” says Ann. We expect to collect 2,000 kilos of beverage cartons a month and work on the project will begin in March, she says. In Mumbai, Tetra Pak has been running this campaign for many years with children playing a key role in it. The processed cartons have morphed into furniture, stationery and other utility products that are placed in communities that need them the most. For details about drop points, visitwww.takemeback campaign.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-recycling-project-with-a-social-focus/article33833296.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||A sumptuous half century||Sydoji Mess, Kasi Vinayaga Mess, Sankara Iyer mess, Ratna Cafe and Murali Cafe are among factors that led to Triplicane’s popularity, particularly as a bachelor’s paradise. These landmark eateries can be treated on par with many other landmarks in the region. K. Vasudevan, an alumnus of Presidency College, started Kasi Vinayaga Mess in 1971 at Pillayar Koil Street off Big Street in Triplicane. It opened with 18 seats and a 145 paise meal. Now, this mess has 38 seats which are used during the course of day by huge number of customers. A meal now comes at Rs. 80. Currently, the mess is located at Akbar Sahib Street. At any time, around 10 persons can be seen waiting outside the mess to get their token, or waiting for their turn. This sight is proof of the mess’ popularity and how people swear by the food it offers. Various factors have contributed to this mess’ success, one of them being how it combines good taste and hygiene. By following token system, orderliness is in place. Thoordal and ghee or the dhal powder with ghee is the starter before an elaborate meal that is set to follow. Good curd is part of what makes up an apt finale to the gastronomic fare. At any given time, you cannot get your seat easily — you will have to wait for your turn as per your token. It is amusing to note that though there are 38 tokens, you will not see no. 9. Each table has a number that in sync with a token. After number 8, it will be 8A and from there, the serial will continue from 10. On Fridays and festival days, sweet pongal is served. In the early days, I used to head with a carrier and rice bowl to buy parcel meals. If three meals were ordered, five persons could have their fill.  (G.Subramanian is former PRO, ICF and a resident of Tambaram)   At any given time, you cannot get your seat easily — you will have to wait for your turn as per your token||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-sumptuous-half-century/article33833277.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||More safety features at renovated bus terminus||A section of Old Jail Road, near the recently renovated bus terminus, has received a traffic signal and steel barricades. Both these features are aimed at ensuring pedestrians’ safety, especially while motorcyclists take a 'U' turn in front of the terminus. Many commuters have started using the terminus as the temporary terminus near the Basin Bridge flyover does not have bus shelters, streets lights and bus bays. The decades-old terminus was renovated by the CMRL as part of its agreement with the Greater Chennai Corporation to acquire land from the terminus for Metro Rail station project. The renovation was carried out during at the height of the lockdown. “The new barricades and traffic signal would help prevent rash driving and also ensure a safe crossing on the busy stretch for commuters as they head to the bus terminus and the Metro Rail station,” says K. Parvathi, a resident of Broadway. Rash driving was common on Parasarathy flyover near the Metro Rail station as motorists would drive at a fast clip. During rush hour and in the evenings, frequent accidents were reported near the ramp of the flyover and the bus terminus due to rash driving. At present, bus services are being operated mainly to key areas, which include Broadway, Central Railway Station, Egmore, Perambur and T. Nagar, as feeder services for the benefit of train commuters from the Metro Rail station, which is located adjacent to the renovated bus terminus. Currently, on an average, 540 trips are made by 96 buses that are operated from the temporary terminus near the Basin Bridge junction every day. A large number of these bus services are now being operated from the renovated bus terminus near the Metro Rail station on Old Jail Road.  The new barricades and traffic signal would help check rash driving||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/more-safety-features-at-renovated-bus-terminus/article33833288.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Book Nook: A neighbourhood community built around the written word||Harry MacLure and Pran Amrith can take pride in the choice of name for their enterprise, Book Nook. That was from a different era, 1984 precisely. It was a name whose time had not arrived. A current design trend, book nooks are a frill — even a frippery, as some may argue — to the pursuit of knowledge. For those not familiar with it, a book nook is a three-dimensional artwork depicting a library, that is wedged into a deliberate gap in a real book shelf. At Third Avenue, near the Anna Nagar Roundtana, the two friends ran a lending library by this name, offering top-up features at no additional cost. Book Nook crowned the pursuit of knowledge with society. A social space Journalist-turned-management-professional M. Keshav recalls, “In 1983, I came to Anna Nagar, and from 1984 to 1990, I would frequent Book Nook, where members were encouraged to play Scrabble. Five of us would sometimes spend all evening at the board. Scrabble was a ritual that earned us lifelong friendships.” Keshav underlines how Book Nook served as a social hub for a sprawling locality, Anna Nagar, by drawing people from its various blocks. “In the morning, the Scrabble set would be busy; and in the evening, Pran and I would be, as the footfall would have increased, and books would have to be continually issued,” remembers Harry, sixty-one now. Pran is older by one year. Authors dissected Irrespective of the workload, the duo was never too buried in book-issuing work to discuss books. There would be impromptu expositions of books chosen by members. Harry, a writer-and-illustrator, says, “Amrith is not a writer, but a voracious reader. So, he could recommend books, even question a member’s choice of a title. He would explain why a particular book has not lived up to an author’s reputation. He would never push a book on anyone, and often suggest an alternative title.” Keshav remembers Harry driving discussions about authors, especially their craft, as he himself was a writer. Harry reminisces about how the happening novelists were represented at Book Nook. On the subject of how they managed variety in their offering, he says: “India Book House on Ethiraj Salai, who were book distributors, would give us good discounts, because we were in the book trade. Mr. Padmanabhan of East West Books would even give us credit for a month or two.” The challenges The enterprise was clearly fuelled by the love of books. A community had been built around reading. However, as it played out, it took more to stay in the black, staving off competition from the big players when they arrived. Harry points out that with the advent of Ramona’s and Easwari Lending Library, Book Nook’s chances of survival slimmed by the year. The stock at any lending library comes with built-in perishability. At the least, every twenty years, it should be refreshed to reflect new trends in human thought and publishing. “They made decent money, but not sufficient money to invest too much of it into the business again. I asked them why they would not try stocking new books and be a book distributor. That was one of the reasons I thought it never worked out. At some point, they tried selling old books, but it never worked out. That said, there can be no lending library like Book Nook. It was good as long as it lasted,” concludes Keshav. Concluding chapter By the mid-1990s, the writing was splattered across the wall. Book Nook had flipped past its heyday-pages. Harry reveals the enterprise went belly up only in 2005. However, in the final years, there were only the dying embers of what was once a scintillating startup, to fuel Book Nook. Concurrently, Harry had settled into running Anglos In The Wind, a community magazine for Anglo-Indians worldwide and there was his book illustration work to be taken care of. Harry would also get into film-making and publishing. With the British Council, Pran would put down roots in England. The Pran-Harry friendship survived entrepreneurial vicissitudes, and continues to this day. Says Harry, “Pran is the producer of my feature film, Calcutta, I’m Sorry.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/book-nook-a-neighbourhood-community-built-around-the-written-word/article33833293.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||A leaf out of Eloor||Before Eloor Libraries closed the books on its Chennai branch, Anup Luiz had followed an SOP that is embossed on his mind. “Before shutting down a branch, we exhaust all options, giving it enough time to make a recovery. Because, closing a branch is easy; building one is not,” begins 34-year-old Anup, who holds the reins of an enterprise with three branches — Kochi, Trivandrum and Bengaluru — and runs it with the help of his mother Mini Luiz. Anup has watched Eloor branches being planted in new soil, and also seen some of them — Chennai, Kolkatta, New Delhi and Calicut — being pulled up by the roots. He has never seen both situations being treated flippantly, first when his father P. Luiz John was at the helm, and later when his brother Gautam Luiz was. Since 1979, when he established the first Eloor library in Kochi, founder P. Luiz John had followed a tradition. Each time Eloor Libraries would establish a branch in a new city, the family would tag along, stay in the new place for sometime, which ensured that both Gautam and Anup had a ringside view of processes being followed at the evolving organisation. Anup points out that this tradition was dispensed with, only when the Kolkatta and Calicut branches were established. “I grew up in Chennai, doing my schooling there. So, the branch in Chennai is the one I have visited the most number of times,” he announces. “Before closing the Chennai branch, we considered going digital and also looked for a space at a lower rent. The overheads had shot up, and the branch was bleeding the brand, and we had to ultimately let go of it, in the interests of employees across the group, many of them serving Eloor Libraries for decades. The longest-serving employee is our Kochi branch manager K. Sabu, at 35 years of service; followed by Narayanan, our Trivandram branch manager, at 34-and-a-half years of service.” While digital technology is certainly testing the endurance of traditional businesses, which include lending libraries that are run largely with in-person processes, Eloor Libraries’ setbacks over the last decade largely have to do with just the existential burden of being human. “My father passed away 11 years ago suddenly due to heart attack, and he was just 59 then. My brother succumbed to cancer in 2017, at age 36, after battling the disease for seven years,” reveals Anup. With an MBA to his name, Anup had been working in the corporate sector, before the mantle of running Eloor Libraries was on him due to the two untimely deaths in the family. “If my father and brother were around now, Eloor Libraries would be in a different position altogether. Twelve years ago, when my dad was alive we had an online plan for the business. Ninety per cent of what people are doing now, we had planned 12 years ago,” explains Anup. “When a life crisis is raging, you would naturally want to attend to that and everything else could be in a state of suspension, and we tried everything we could to save my brother, and all other concerns had receded from our mind.” Going digital With the pandemic bringing a set of new challenges, how is Eloor Libraries responding to the twin challenges faced by most businesses across the spectrum: Holding the fort and at the same time crowning it with a digital superstructure. Anup views the pandemic as the best opportunity to be innovative, and make those decisions that should have been made long ago, but were not. He reveals that he has empowered a millennial employee working with the Kochi branch to launch brand-building campaigns on social media by just engaging with members and the world at large by just talking books. Besides, last year, in the midst of the pandemic, Anup held a huddle with the managers of three branches and the outcome was revelatory. “The Trivandrum manager said the business would be ruined if we went totally digital in Trivandrum,” discloses Anup. “In Trivandrum, a majority of the members would not warm up to door-delivery of books. Government employees constitute a big section of the membership and they would like to talk with the staff personally and get book recommendations. The same culture can be expected at Kochi.” Only Bengaluru would likely be fertile soil for an out-an-out digital strategy. “Though the majority of the work processes have been moved digital, and only the door-delivery part has to be integrated into it,” Eloor Libraries plans to chop and change its digital programme based on local realities. Anup reports, “Last Sunday, at our Kochi branch, 39 members walked in and between them, they took 165 books.” This number is indeed a significant pointer when viewed against the backdrop of an ongoing pandemic. So, as with most other things, the answer probably lies in choosing the middle path.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-leaf-out-of-eloor/article33833289.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Triplicane resident helps kids raise civic complaints||Brothers A Mohammed Ameer and A Mohammed Salman, in Class VII and Class V respectively, raise a complaint with Namma Chennai App about a non-functional streetlight at Azrudhin Khan Street in Triplicane. With her mother’s help, Swastika .V, in Class IV, calls attention to the issue of overflowing sewage at First Main Road in Kamaraj Nagar, Thiruvanmiyur. With his mother’s guidance, S.L. Jai Sudhan, also a Class IV student, makes a complaint about a non-functional streetlight at Ramaswamy Garden, Adyar. Vishwa and Shwetha from Sholinganallur were excited that Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) acted on their complaint and provided a shelter for the stray cats in their neighbourhood. Having put these children through a primer on how to use GCC’s Namma Chennai App and the 1913 helpline, Mohandass Sangita Gandhi, a Triplicane resident, deserves credit for these acts of civic responsibility. Mother of a boy child, 35-year-old Sangita began to conduct these awareness sessions for children and their mothers in November 2017, having realised the necessity of this exercise, at a personal level “I was returning home with my son M.S. Hithesh Kannan (in Class II then) from a drawing class late in the evening. When we drove by his school in Arunachalapuram, Adyar, he take it in, looking through the car window. Without the glow of streetlights, the school was plunged in darkness. He was disappointed and wanted something to be done about it. That is when I learnt about Namma Chennai App and 1913,” says Sangita, who conducts awareness sessions about these redressal forums with the support of community organisations like Bhumi and Nallore Vattam and youngster M.Vishvajit. “I also approach authorities of schools and offer to conduct these sessions. So far, I have covered schools in Adyar, Chepauk, Triplicane and Parrys, and want to do the same in other areas,” says Sangita. In some cases, either she or Nallore Vattam would lodge the complaint on the child’s behalf.  Continued on page 8||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/triplicane-resident-helps-kids-raise-civic-complaints/article33833270.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Misleading route numbers||The electronic visual display on MTC route number B18 (Tambaram – Korukkupet), 32 (Vivekanadar Illam – Korukkupet) as also the boards on route number 32B (Vivekanadar Illam – Korukkupet Railway Station) indicate that these route numbers will ply till Korukkupet. But that is not the case. These route numbers ply only till Pencil Factory bus stop, Old Washermanpet. There is no bus terminus or bus depot for the Korukkupet region. From Pencil Factory bus stop, commuters either walk or take share autos to go to Korukkupet railway station. The share autos ply till the railway station, Kannan Street, Korukkupet. From Ennore High Road, Korukkupet, pedestrians depend on autos. A few commuters walk along the tracks between Basin Bridge and Korukkupet railway stations. The volume of vehicular traffic on Parasuraman Street and Kannan Street, Old Washermanpet and Korukkupet is high, and autorickshaws come at a break neck speed posing a risk to pedestrians’ safety. Other issues faced by residents include the lack of a dedicated walkway for commuters. The road space and the pavements are used to park vehicles and also dump garbage and construction debris. (S. Thiagarajan is a resident of Korukkupet. )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/misleading-route-numbers/article33833274.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||New bus route to Mint sought||I request the Metropolitan Transport Corporation to ply buses from Kaviarasu Kannadasan Nagar bus terminus to Mint Metro Railway Station (Vallalar Nagar Chennai Metro Rail Limited) through Kuppamedu (warehouse) Ezhil Nagar, Kodungaiyur, Korukkupet, Ambedkar Nagar, and Moolakothalam. At present, bus route number 2A, which is operated from the terminus takes more than half-an-hour to reach Mint (Vallalar Nagar). If steps are taken to operate a route number through the suggested route, travel time would be reduced. Route number 2A plies through SIDCO, Kodungaiyur, Kannadasan Nagar Electricity Board, Mahakavi Bharathiyar Nagar, Mullai Nagar, Vysarpadi, Moolakothalam and Mint (Vallalar Nagar). While returning, the bus can be operated through the 2A route as work is under way at Elephant Gate Bridge. As a result, the Basin Bridge junction is now a one-way. Having this arrangement will help commuters go to Korukkupet railway station. There is no bus connectivity from Korukkupet Railway station to the terminus through Ennore High Road and Manali High Road, Korukkupet, and Kodungaiyur and Tondiarpet High Road, Kodungaiyur, and Kaviarasu Kannadasan Nagar.  (N. Mahendran is a long-time resident of Kaviarasu Kannadasan Nagar)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/new-bus-route-to-mint-sought/article33833279.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Construct public toilets at RK Salai’||On many roads and by-lanes in Mylapore, there are no toilets meant for the general public. Dr.Radhakrishnan Salai is a ready example. There is none on the road; nor any on the roads leading off this arterial road. The absence of this amenity on Dr. Radhakrishnan Salai is glaring, as it is considered a key road that provides access to many other important roads and neighbourhoods in the region. Besides, the pavements on this road leave a lot to be desired. They are encroached upon by hawkers, and motorists also misuse it, by parking their vehicles there. The granite stones on the footpath near AVM Rajeswari Kalyana Mandapam are broken due to water stagnation, and the resultant damage. Pedestrians have difficulty walking on this stretch. Greater Chennai Corporation should carry out an audit of this road.  (P.S. Subrahmanian is a resident of Mylapore)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/construct-public-toilets-at-rk-salai/article33833280.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Uncommon Residents The other babbler||When it comes to babblers, it helps to have two facts wedged into one’s mind. They like the sound of their own calls — which explains their name. At the same time, they do not mind their calls being drowned by their species-mates’ — in plain terms, they enjoy company. In Chennai, from the ubiquitous yellow-billed babblers to the uncommon yellow-eyed babblers, these basic facts about babblers are immutable. Chennai and surrounding areas fall within the Yellow-eyed Babbler’s range, but these resident birds do not show up on the radar often. “They are a bird of the scrub environment,” points out eBird reviewer Vikas Madhav Nagarajan, who had sightings of these birds at Guindy National Park in 2016. Though not so common in Chennai, certain patches in and around the metro may always offer the promise of a sighting. That inclues Vandalur Repeater Road. eBird has two photographic records of Yellow-eyed Babbler sightings from this section — one by Karthikeyan GB (10 December, 2016) and the other by Karthikeyan Ponnambalamoorthy (7 January 2017). “The Yellow-eyed Babbler is a social bird, but how gregarious it appears depends on where you see it,” says Vikas. “You do not get to see it in large numbers in and around Chennai, but in Karnataka, I have seen it in flocks of 10 to 15. In Tamil Nadu, I have not come across Yellow-eyed Babbler flocks bigger than 4 to 5 birds.” Across Tamil Nadu, slight variations in Yellow-eyed Babbler occurrence can be observed. Recently, Rama Neelamegan was treated to a sight of gregarious and noisy Yellow-eyed Babblers at a patch that is part of the Eastern Ghats in Vellore. Rama explains that with a scrub environment, this patch is just what the doctored ordered for the Yellow-eyed Babbler. Yellow-eyed Babblers allopreen each other, just like their more common cousin: the Yellow-billed Babblers. These two also diverge on many points, two of them being that the Yellow-eyed Babbler is more bush-centred, and is given to higher levels of acrobatics. (Uncommon Residents, as the title suggests, is about birds that are resident in Chennai but not commonly seen)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/uncommon-residents-the-other-babbler/article33833295.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Raising funds for a cause||HELP TRUST, a non governmental organisation functioning from the premises of CSI Deaf and Dumb School in Santhome, is organising a women’s fest to raise funds to support its various activities. According to a press release, the non-profit works for the upliftment of the differently-abled by offering free training in computers, nursing, tailoring, confectionery-making and baking. “We have seven teaching and three non-teaching staff and we find it a challenge to pay them their salaries,” says S. Karpagam, coordinator, Help Trust. The various skill development programmes are held through the year and each batch has around 10 students. “Getting students is not a challenge as many of those graduating from the CSI Deaf and Dumb School would enrol for the programmes offered by the Trust. After completion of the programme, we help them by guiding them on the job fairs to attend,” says Karpagam. They also have women from the Nochi Kuppam community attending these programmes. “We help many of our students receive loans so that they can start their own venture,” she says. The women’s fest is open to all, and the amount raised through stall bookings will be used to meet operational expenses. The fest is scheduled to be held on March 7 at CSI Deaf And Dumb School, Santhome High Road. For details, call 9094686187.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/raising-funds-for-a-cause/article33833297.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Thinking out of the book||From a spare room on the ground floor to a dedicated space at the club house, the library at L&T Eden Park has come a long way. While the Association made the path-breaking move of letting Easwari Lending Library set up shop in the community in 2013, resident-volunteers’ role in sustaining it cannot be overemphasised. “Satish from Easwari Lending Library brought some shelves and stacked them with books, in a crammed space and we were some 8 to 10 volunteers trained to run the library,” says Deepa Som, a volunteer. A small membership fee was charged initially. It took just a month for the initiative to catch on. “Over 100 members had sought membership, and 80% of them were children. We were surprised as we had expected senior citizens and homemakers to patronise the library. With children coming to read, their mothers would also join them,” says Deepa, a mother of a 13-year-old girl who values reading through books. From 2,000 books, the library has grown to 8,000 books and commands a membership of 250. Every month, at least 500 books are replaced with new ones. Volunteers’ role First, resident-volunteers performed the functions of a librarian which include scanning the barcode and feeding details into the system. With membership mounting, the Association hired a person to run the space, and also waived off the membership fee. During the pandemic, except for a short period when the government mandated that all common amenities be closed, the doors of the library have always stayed open. “Due to COVID-19 and cost-cutting measures, we run the library. Going forward, I feel it is better to have resident-volunteers run it as the involvement is greater,” says Deepa, adding that volunteers organise a reading challenge every summer and other activities including storytelling. A book is maintained for residents to pen down a wish-list of books they want to read, and this is shared with the lending library.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/thinking-out-of-the-book/article33833291.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Triplicane resident helps kids raise civic complaints||Continued from page 1  “At times the parents would be reluctant, but the child would be keen on registering a complaint. A child from Adyar became aware of the danger from telecom cables precariously dangling from trees, narrowly escaping being hit by a bundle himself. I lodged a complaint on behalf of this child. In another instance, Nallore Vattam raised a complaint on the behalf of two teens who wanted to spotlight the issue of broken liquor bottles in their neighbourhood in Parrys,” says Sangita, who also explains the workings of Kavalan SOS app of the police department and the 1098 helpline meant for children. In her sessions, she gets children to take the oath for “enlightened citizenship” by former President Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam. Mohandass Sangita Gandhi can be reached at 96000 92651.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/triplicane-resident-helps-kids-raise-civic-complaints/article33833262.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Diversion of MTC buses||To facilitate the construction of a pedestrian subway at the intersection of Pallavan Salai and E. V. R. Periyar Salai, opposite the Chennai Central Railway Station, by Chennai Metro Rail Limited, changes have been made in the operation of MTC buses plying from Broadway, Ennore and Thiruvottiyur bus termini. As per the traffic arrangements, MTC route numbers come through Rattan Bazaar Road, George Town, and Evening Bazaar Road, Park Town, and take a right or left turn at the intersection of Evening Bazaar Road and E. V. R. Periyar Road, depending on their destinations. Buses heading towards Red Hills will proceed through EVR Periyar Road; and buses heading towards Velachery and Tambaram will proceed through Muthusamy Salai and Anna Salai. Route numbers 7M (JJ Nagar West – Broadway), 64C (Manali – Broadway), 42 (Periyar Nagar – Broadway), 120F (Oragadam – Broadway), 18G (Tambaram – Broadway), 15F (Vadapalani (Through CMBT- Broadway), 17D (KK Nagar – Broadway), 242 (Red Hills – Broadway) and 101 (Poonamallee- Broadway) will take a right turn at the intersection and proceed through Chennai Central Railway Station and Periyamedu. Route numbers: 54 (Poonamallee – Broadway), 21 (Mandavelli – Broadway), E18 (Guduvancherry – Broadway), A1 (Chennai Central Railway Station – Thiruvanmiyur), 1(Thiruvottiyur – Thiruvanmiyur), 1C (Ennore – Thiruvanmiyur), 5C (Taramani – Broadway), and M18C (Keezhkattalai – Broadway) will take a left turn at the intersection, and halt at Nurses’ Quarters. Some commuters have complained that there was no communication regarding this diversion of routes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/diversion-of-mtc-buses/article33833285.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The Coromandel connection||Harry MacLure, editor of Anglos In The Wind and filmmaker, believes friendship formed the spine of the book-lending startup, Book Nook. Its promoters Pran Amrith (62) and Harry (61) are friends “united by the love of books, movies and creative pursuits.” Pran and Harry were colleagues at Taj Coromandel. There is another name the circle of friendships forged over creativity: actor Nassar (62), also employed then at the hotel. Harry recalls, “For one and a half years, Nassar and I were room-mates, sharing a rented accommodation at Yahali Street, Teynampet.” When on our morning shift (6 a.m. to 3 p.m.), Nassar and Harry would visit USIS library after work. “I would devour books on writing and illustration; and Nasser, those on films.” Harry continues: “At 6 p.m., the librarian would literally chase us out. We would then head to the Drive-in Woodlands (where the Semmozhi Poonga is located now), have a dosa and head back to our room.” “A few months ago, Pran was in Chennai. Before leaving for England, he and I met Nassar at the actor’s residence and had a heart-warming reunion.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-coromandel-connection/article33833292.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer-writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtownfeedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number. Here’s a short note on the basic building blocks of any short news feature. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. c) News features have to be factually-grounded and the central portion, which will consist of a few paragraphs, should support the anecdotal paragraph and the cosmic paragraph||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/you-can-be-our-volunteer-writer/article33833281.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Recycling with a social focus||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/recycling-with-a-social-focus/article33833271.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The new chapter in on gated communities||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-new-chapter-in-on-gated-communities/article33833272.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Welcome to the classroom||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/welcome-to-the-classroom/article33833265.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The new chapter is on gated communites||A library looking for a space near a humongous gated community to establish a branch is more common than that very community inviting it to start one on its premises. Easwari Lending Library received such an invitation from a gated community in Siruseri, marking a new chapter in its business. Essentially about exclusively catering to partnering gated communities, this model has invigorated the 66-year-old enterprise. In 2013, Easwari Lending Library instituted a library at L&T Eden Park in Siruseri. Between then and now, it has set up six such libraries. “Initially, we did not consider gated communities a potential customer base for us, but when a few management committee members sought us to supply books to residents we proposed this idea,” says P. Satish Kumar, one of the proprietors of the family-run Easwari Lending Library. The model has the library collecting a monthly fee from the Apartment association for stocking books, offering the services of a librarian and maintaining the space. Satish says though this model does not yield much profit, it enhances the organisation’s brand value. The apartment association is happy about offering the library as another amenity. “The fee may range from Rs. 5,000 and Rs. 20,000 depending on the number of residents at the community. A stock of 5,000 books across genres would be parked, and replenished based on needs,” he says, adding this model would be sustainable in the long run. “If Easwari Lending Library has survived in this digital age it is because of the nine branches that we have across Chennai, five of them are owned by us,” says Satish. “Rent outlays burn a hole in our pockets, and this model helps us cut down on this expenditure.” Word-of-mouth publicity has helped Easwari promote this model. “The committee members of Metrozone in Anna Nagar visited L&T Eden Park before setting up their library. It was the same with Ozone Greens in Perumbakkam,” he points out. Every community runs the library the way they deem fit. While some want a librarian to maintain the inventory, a few communities manage with resident-volunteers. “At Amarprakash in Chrompet, we only supply books and collect Rs. 5000 from them every month,” he says. The pandemic has however slowed down Easwari’s plan to drive this model, says Satish, adding that the target is 50 gated communities in the next two years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-new-chapter-is-on-gated-communites/article33833325.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Wearing many hats||With his motorised wheelchair, Kumaran Kumanan makes a familiar face at 12th Avenue, Ashok Nagar. For him, this vehicle symbolises independence. “I enjoy the freedom of stepping out from home and watching the world around me, and the exercise always leaves me energised and inspired,” says Kumaran, a practising psychologist with counselling as specialisation. Kumaran has cerebral palsy (CP) which he was diagnosed as a toddler. He was home-schooled since Class V, and wrote Class X and XII exams through open school. He would then go on to receive undergraduate and postgraduate degrees from the Madras University. “I always yearned to be a part of an inclusive classroom, be with friends who would be happy to take me out but that never happened, and that plunged me into depression,” says Kumaran. Studying psychology brought a healing touch, as it enabled him to understand human emotions. He also coped with depression by watching cricket and movies; writing has also been therapeutic. “I have written a book in Tamil, Anandha Thaandavam , which is about my journey since I came to know that CP was going to stay with me for the rest of my life,” says Kumaran, adding that the book is essentially about venting out one’s emotions. The English version of the book, CP to CP: Cerebral palsy to counselling psychologist was released later. Kumaran moderates a WhatsApp group ‘The Happy Hub Family’, which he describes as an inclusive group with members drawn from various geographies. “It’s a support group for people seeking any kind of help in the context of disability,” says 30-year-old Kumaran. Over nearly three decades, Kumaran has received support from 20 therapists and still needs therapy. On the strength of this experience, he says, he would be in a position to help those in similar situation. His parents and brother have been a pillar of strength to him. “My mother was scared to drive a two-wheeler but she was forced to learn to drive the car to take me out for all my therapies,” he says. His brother ensured he got to work in films. In the Tamil film, Nenjamundu Nermaiyundu Odu Raja , Kumaran makes a debut as a lyricist. Says Kumaran, “I have another movie project in the pipeline.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/wearing-many-hats/article33833322.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Hearing is seeing: The strange case of the Pallas’ Grasshopper Warbler||Though a winter sojourner in Chennai, the Pallas’ Grasshopper Warbler’s vacation photos would scarcely fill an album. As Old-World warblers go, this brownish bird has more pronounced markings than most others. So technically, it should be easy to spot and identify one in the field. The bird however does not make it that easy for the observer. Titles get thrust upon birds, and one that sits unfortunately on the Pallas’ Grasshopper Warbler’s (PGW) significantly-streaked brown back is: Skulker to the nth degree. The bird would tenaciously stick to the undergrowths in reed-beds till a Zen master’s patience begins to wear as thin as the fairy feather. So, in time, birders, especially those watching the PGW in its wintering range, train their ears to identify its call. More often than not, that would be the only way to documenting the bird’s presence. Patch loyalty A particular PGW behaviour helps matters though. “The Pallas’ Grasshopper Warbler is a reliable bird, if you have seen it in a patch, you will likely see it there every winter for a long time unless there is habitat destruction,” says eBird reviewer Vikas Madhav Nagarajan. “In 2018, I had seen the Pallas’ Grasshopper Warbler at a patch on the Thoraipakkam side of the Pallikaranai Marsh and I still see it there, in 2021. So is the case with a patch in Karapakkam that is overrun with reeds.” Similarly, in thick reed-beds near what is called the Global Hospital road in Perumbakkam, Vikas heard the Pallas’ Grasshopper’s characteristic call. Later, when birder Rama Neelamegam and Vikas paid a visit to the said patch, they both could document the presence of the bird with clicks of their cameras. Ornithologist V. Santharam draws attention to the how PGW sightings in Chennai have been on the increase in the last three-to-four years. “The bird was there earlier too, and it was not really reported because of an unfamiliarity with its call. With easy access to recordings of bird calls, this problem does not exist anymore. The Pallas’ Grasshopper Warbler’s call is distinct, and once you know it, it should be easy to identify it,” says Santharam, adding: “You also know the kind of habitats that the bird is found in. If you wait for the bird, you should find it. With easier ways to transmit information now, when there is a sighting, news spreads and others know where to look for the bird. Based on eBird listings, I visited a section of the Perumbakkam Wetland, and then Karapakkam, and at both these reedy patches, I was able to see the Pallas’ Grasshopper Warbler.” Birder Aravind AM’s experience supports Santharam’s view that more records are leading to more records. Aravind explains: “Sidharth Srinivasan (also a birder) and I heard the bird at Karpakkam. I did not record the call then, but just observed the bird’s movements and listened to its calls. When I heard Sidharth’s recording of a Pallas’ Grasshopper Warbler’s call, I liked the sound of it. As I had observed the bird’s movements carefully, it was easy for me when I sought to record the bird’s call myself. When Sidharth and I were out there, we had observed a particular behaviour of this bird. While moving from one reed to another, the Pallas’ Grasshopper Warbler makes these short calls, and once its movements become less intense, it makes a long metallic call.” Whenever a Pallas’ Grasshopper Warbler’s recording runs for a reasonably long stretch of time, a passage would recur like a leitmotif — it comes with the rapidity of a gunfire, and is best described as “metallic”. Aravind says that he has been able to hear, and on days that glint under a lucky sun, even see the Pallas’ Grasshopper Warbler, with a good degree of predictability at reed-beds where the bird has earlier been heard or sighted, or both. Aravind elaborates: “I would hear the bird’s calls at Ram Nagar Swamps (Madipakkam); in Karapakkam; and have also heard it a couple of times, above the din of heavy vehicular traffic on Sholinganallur-Medavakkam Road, along a section of the Perumbakkam Wetland characterised by dense reed beds. It is also the place where bitterns, yellow and black, are seen.”  (Migrant Watch' is a column about birds that visit Chennai during winter)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/hearing-is-seeing-the-strange-case-of-the-pallas-grasshopper-warbler/article33833329.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||A recycling project with a social focus||For 23-year-old Stephi K, a resident of the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board tenements in Perumbakkam, last month signifies a high point. With an earning of Rs. 8,000 — her fattest pay packet so far — she met some outstanding expenses, paid the house rent and with what was left, bought provisions for her family. She is one of 12 constituting a women’s self-help group in Perumbakkam that has been selected to work on a sustainability project initiated by Tetra Pak, in association with Chennai-based social venture Wasted 360 Solutions. Being in this exercise, she is assured of a monthly salary for the next one year. In return, she and her team would send cleaned beverage cartons, collected from across Chennai, to a recycler in Maharashtra. These cartons would be processed before being turned into utility products. The women are beneficiaries of Arpanam Trust, a three-decade-old non-profit housed at Sacred Heart School Church Park. At the “Take Me Back” campaign, launched in Chennai in December, these women learnt about waste segregation, the advantages of recycling beverage cartons, weighing the raw materials and taking a brand audit of the materials that come to their centre at Perumbakkam. “We work with 26 SHG women in Perumbakkam and also have a dedicated space where we offer them skill development programmes in tailoring and the making of products like candles, jute bags, soaps and condiments,” says Sister Sagayam, director, Arpanam Trust. The pandemic disrupted the livelihoods of many families. Besides making and selling masks, they had little work coming their way. “Marketing is necessary. These products will not get sold, unless companies are made aware of them,” says the director, adding that it is the first time a project has come along, assuring women of a fixed income. Ann Anra, founder, Wasted 360 Solutions, says alcohol addiction is a major issue in the slum board tenements so this project was aimed to help women become breadwinners. “Of the 12 women deployed for the project, six have been hired on a full-time basis and the rest would work on a part-time basis,” says Ann. The campaign The recycling initiative requires residents to first segregate waste at source. The used beverage cartons need to be rinsed, dried and flattened and later dropped in any of the 20 collections points in Chennai. Or, one can avail a free pick-up from Dunzo if the cartons number above 50. Besides communities, the campaign also targets schools and colleges, asking them to collect tetra packs. “The larger aim of the campaign is to create awareness among consumers that if they throw a tetra pack carton then they are wasting the raw material,” says Ann. We expect to collect 2,000 kilos of beverage cartons a month and work on the project will begin in March, she says. In Mumbai, Tetra Pak has been running this campaign for many years with children playing a key role in it. The processed cartons have morphed into furniture, stationery and other utility products that are placed in communities that need them the most. For details about drop points, visitwww.takemeback campaign.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-recycling-project-with-a-social-focus/article33833331.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Nivar-hit Kodambakkam flyover still waits for repairs||Nivar had an impact on the Kodambakkam flyover at Arcot Road — the bitumen topping on the carriageway got washed away. Two-and-a-half months on, the damage remains. “Much of the bitumen topping on the flyover’s carriageway, especially on that side where the traffic flows towards Kodambakkam, got washed away due to cyclone Nivar. As a result, the carriageway is uneven. However, no steps have been taken to set this right,” says S. Vimal, a resident of Kodambakkam. On both sides, a large portion of the sidewall has been damaged. For much of its length, the footpaths at the flyover are occupied by cables. Motorists point out rash driving to be another problem. A Greater Chennai Corporation official says, “Steps will be taken to repair the flyover at the earliest.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/nivar-hit-kodambakkam-flyover-still-waits-for-repairs/article33833314.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Book Nook: A neighbourhood community built around the written word||Harry MacLure and Pran Amrith can take pride in the choice of name for their enterprise, Book Nook. That was from a different era, 1984 precisely. It was a name whose time had not arrived. A current design trend, book nooks are a frill — even a frippery, as some may argue — to the pursuit of knowledge. For those not familiar with it, a book nook is a three-dimensional artwork depicting a library, that is wedged into a deliberate gap in a real book shelf. At Third Avenue, near the Anna Nagar Roundtana, the two friends ran a lending library by this name, offering top-up features at no additional cost. Book Nook crowned the pursuit of knowledge with society. A social space Journalist-turned-management-professional M. Keshav recalls, “In 1983, I came to Anna Nagar, and from 1984 to 1990, I would frequent Book Nook, where members were encouraged to play Scrabble. Five of us would sometimes spend all evening at the board. Scrabble was a ritual that earned us lifelong friendships.” Keshav underlines how Book Nook served as a social hub for a sprawling locality, Anna Nagar, by drawing people from its various blocks. “In the morning, the Scrabble set would be busy; and in the evening, Pran and I would be, as the footfall would have increased, and books would have to be continually issued,” remembers Harry, sixty-one now. Pran is older by one year. Authors dissected Irrespective of the workload, the duo was never too buried in book-issuing work to discuss books. There would be impromptu expositions of books chosen by members. Harry, a writer-and-illustrator, says, “Amrith is not a writer, but a voracious reader. So, he could recommend books, even question a member’s choice of a title. He would explain why a particular book has not lived up to an author’s reputation. He would never push a book on anyone, and often suggest an alternative title.” Keshav remembers Harry driving discussions about authors, especially their craft, as he himself was a writer. Harry reminisces about how the happening novelists were represented at Book Nook. On the subject of how they managed variety in their offering, he says: “India Book House on Ethiraj Salai, who were book distributors, would give us good discounts, because we were in the book trade. Mr. Padmanabhan of East West Books would even give us credit for a month or two.” The challenges The enterprise was clearly fuelled by the love of books. A community had been built around reading. However, as it played out, it took more to stay in the black, staving off competition from the big players when they arrived. Harry points out that with the advent of Ramona’s and Easwari Lending Library, Book Nook’s chances of survival slimmed by the year. The stock at any lending library comes with built-in perishability. At the least, every twenty years, it should be refreshed to reflect new trends in human thought and publishing. “They made decent money, but not sufficient money to invest too much of it into the business again. I asked them why they would not try stocking new books and be a book distributor. That was one of the reasons I thought it never worked out. At some point, they tried selling old books, but it never worked out. That said, there can be no lending library like Book Nook. It was good as long as it lasted,” concludes Keshav. Concluding chapter By the mid-1990s, the writing was splattered across the wall. Book Nook had flipped past its heyday-pages. Harry reveals the enterprise went belly up only in 2005. However, in the final years, there were only the dying embers of what was once a scintillating startup, to fuel Book Nook. Concurrently, Harry had settled into running Anglos In The Wind, a community magazine for Anglo-Indians worldwide and there was his book illustration work to be taken care of. Harry would also get into film-making and publishing. With the British Council, Pran would put down roots in England. The Pran-Harry friendship survived entrepreneurial vicissitudes, and continues to this day. Says Harry, “Pran is the producer of my feature film, Calcutta, I’m Sorry.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/book-nook-a-neighbourhood-community-built-around-the-written-word/article33833328.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||A leaf out of Eloor||Before Eloor Libraries closed the books on its Chennai branch, Anup Luiz had followed an SOP that is embossed on his mind. “Before shutting down a branch, we exhaust all options, giving it enough time to make a recovery. Because, closing a branch is easy; building one is not,” begins 34-year-old Anup, who holds the reins of an enterprise with three branches — Kochi, Trivandrum and Bengaluru — and runs it with the help of his mother Mini Luiz. Anup has watched Eloor branches being planted in new soil, and also seen some of them — Chennai, Kolkatta, New Delhi and Calicut — being pulled up by the roots. He has never seen both situations being treated flippantly, first when his father P. Luiz John was at the helm, and later when his brother Gautam Luiz was. Since 1979, when he established the first Eloor library in Kochi, founder P. Luiz John had followed a tradition. Each time Eloor Libraries would establish a branch in a new city, the family would tag along, stay in the new place for sometime, which ensured that both Gautam and Anup had a ringside view of processes being followed at the evolving organisation. Anup points out that this tradition was dispensed with, only when the Kolkatta and Calicut branches were established. “I grew up in Chennai, doing my schooling there. So, the branch in Chennai is the one I have visited the most number of times,” he announces. “Before closing the Chennai branch, we considered going digital and also looked for a space at a lower rent. The overheads had shot up, and the branch was bleeding the brand, and we had to ultimately let go of it, in the interests of employees across the group, many of them serving Eloor Libraries for decades. The longest-serving employee is our Kochi branch manager K. Sabu, at 35 years of service; followed by Narayanan, our Trivandram branch manager, at 34-and-a-half years of service.” While digital technology is certainly testing the endurance of traditional businesses, which include lending libraries that are run largely with in-person processes, Eloor Libraries’ setbacks over the last decade largely have to do with just the existential burden of being human. “My father passed away 11 years ago suddenly due to heart attack, and he was just 59 then. My brother succumbed to cancer in 2017, at age 36, after battling the disease for seven years,” reveals Anup. With an MBA to his name, Anup had been working in the corporate sector, before the mantle of running Eloor Libraries was on him due to the two untimely deaths in the family. “If my father and brother were around now, Eloor Libraries would be in a different position altogether. Twelve years ago, when my dad was alive we had an online plan for the business. Ninety per cent of what people are doing now, we had planned 12 years ago,” explains Anup. “When a life crisis is raging, you would naturally want to attend to that and everything else could be in a state of suspension, and we tried everything we could to save my brother, and all other concerns had receded from our mind.” Going digital With the pandemic bringing a set of new challenges, how is Eloor Libraries responding to the twin challenges faced by most businesses across the spectrum: Holding the fort and at the same time crowning it with a digital superstructure. Anup views the pandemic as the best opportunity to be innovative, and make those decisions that should have been made long ago, but were not. He reveals that he has empowered a millennial employee working with the Kochi branch to launch brand-building campaigns on social media by just engaging with members and the world at large by just talking books. Besides, last year, in the midst of the pandemic, Anup held a huddle with the managers of three branches and the outcome was revelatory. “The Trivandrum manager said the business would be ruined if we went totally digital in Trivandrum,” discloses Anup. “In Trivandrum, a majority of the members would not warm up to door-delivery of books. Government employees constitute a big section of the membership and they would like to talk with the staff personally and get book recommendations. The same culture can be expected at Kochi.” Only Bengaluru would likely be fertile soil for an out-an-out digital strategy. “Though the majority of the work processes have been moved digital, and only the door-delivery part has to be integrated into it,” Eloor Libraries plans to chop and change its digital programme based on local realities. Anup reports, “Last Sunday, at our Kochi branch, 39 members walked in and between them, they took 165 books.” This number is indeed a significant pointer when viewed against the backdrop of an ongoing pandemic. So, as with most other things, the answer probably lies in choosing the middle path.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-leaf-out-of-eloor/article33833324.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Cost accountant helps kids raise civic complaints||Brothers A Mohammed Ameer and A Mohammed Salman, in Class VII and seven Class V respectively, raise a complaint with Namma Chennai App about a non-functional streetlight at Azrudhin Khan Street in Triplicane. With her mother’s help, Swastika .V, in Class IV, calls attention to the issue of overflowing sewage at First Main Road in Kamaraj Nagar, Thiruvanmiyur. With his mother’s guidance, S.L. Jai Sudhan, also a Class IV student, makes a complaint about a non-functional streetlight at Ramaswamy Garden, Adyar. Vishwa and Shwetha from Sholinganallur were excited that Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) acted on their complaint and provided a shelter for the stray cats in their neighbourhood. Having put these children through a primer on how to use GCC’s Namma Chennai App and the 1913 helpline, Mohandass Sangita Gandhi, a Triplicane resident, deserves credit for these acts of civic responsibility. Mother of a boy child, 35-year-old Sangita began to conduct these awareness sessions for children and their mothers in November 2017, having realised the necessity of this exercise, at a personal level “I was returning home with my son M.S. Hithesh Kannan (in Class II then) from a drawing class late in the evening. When we drove by his school in Arunachalapuram, Adyar, he take it in, looking through the car window. Without the glow of streetlights, the school was plunged in darkness. He was disappointed and wanted something to be done about it. That is when I learnt about Namma Chennai App and 1913,” says Sangita, who conducts awareness sessions about these redressal forums with the support of community organisations like Bhumi and Nallore Vattam and youngster M.Vishvajit. “I also approach authorities of schools and offer to conduct these sessions. So far, I have covered schools in Adyar, Chepauk, Triplicane and Parrys, and want to do the same in other areas,” says Sangita. In some cases, either she or Nallore Vattam would lodge the complaint on the child’s behalf. “At times the parents would be reluctant, but the child would be keen on registering a complaint. A child from Adyar became aware of the danger from telecom cables precariously dangling from trees, narrowly escaping being hit by a bundle himself. I lodged a complaint on behalf of this child. In another instance, Nallore Vattam raised a complaint on the behalf of two teens who wanted to spotlight the issue of broken liquor bottles in their neighbourhood in Parrys,” says Sangita, who also explains the workings of Kavalan SOS app of the police department and the 1098 helpline meant for children. In her sessions, she gets children to take the oath for “enlightened citizenship” by former President Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam. Mohandass Sangita Gandhi can be reached at 96000 92651.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/cost-accountant-helps-kids-raise-civic-complaints/article33833299.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Winding queues and needless delays?||Queues at the two ticket counters at the Mambalam railway station often wind on like the green anaconda. With only two out of the ten counters functioning, and catering to both commuters on the suburban line and long-distance travellers, persistently long queues are inevitable. Railway officials cite staff shortage for keeping the other eight ticket counters locked. “They could operate more counters at least during the rush hour,” says S. Vignesh, a resident of West Mambalam. Railway officials point out that around 140 suburban trains stop at the railway station every day. Despite its importance, the railway station is lacking in basic facilities including proper lighting, adequate seating arrangements, time boards and ramps for the differently-abled. Further, the staircases are occupied by hawkers. A Southern Railway official says, “Steps will be taken to operate the remaining ticket counters. Besides, other basic facilities will provided at the railway station soon.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/winding-queues-and-needless-delays/article33833302.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Heavy vehicles trundle through Dasarathapuram street||Residents of Veeramamunivar Street in Dasarathapuram near Chinmaya Nagar are concerned about the continual movement of mini-lorries in their neighbourhood. Mini-lorries and buses are parked at two open spaces along the street. With their frequent movement, these vehicles pose a threat to the safety of pedestrians. Residents also complain about how the noise resulting from the movement of these mini-lorries at night disrupts their sleep. When the lockdown was at its height, these mini-lorries remained idle as film shootings had been put on hold. With relaxations in the lockdown, the movement of these mini-lorries resumed. The stretch falls in Ward 129 of Zone 10 of the Greater Chennai Corporation. “We have been regularly complaining to the local police and GCC to check the practice of parking such vehicles in a residential locality. But, neither of them has acted on the complaint,” says K. Vivekananda, a resident of Dasarathapuram. Due to the movement of these vehicles, Veeramamunivar Street has lost much of its bitumen topping. Veeramamunivar Street provides access to big localities in the vicinity which include Koyambedu and Vadapalani. It is also one of the interior streets that motorists take to avoid having to travel down the congested Jawaharlal Nehru Main Road and narrow Kaliamman Koil Street. During weekends and festival holidays, Veeramamunivar Street witnesses a greater influx of vehicles as residents of Ashok Nagar, Virugambakkam, Porur, Nesapakkam and Valasaravakkam use it to reach CMBT, thereby avoiding the Koyambedu junction where a flyover is under construction. A Corporation official, says “Steps will be taken to relocate THE mini-lorries from the neighbourhood at the earliest.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/heavy-vehicles-trundle-through-dasarathapuram-street/article33833308.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||‘India Post’s delivery service yet to resume in Balaji Avenue’||Before the onset of COVID-19 pandemic, the service offered by India Post in our area was prompt. Balaji Avenue in Iyappanthangal comes under Poonamallee Post Office, and in the neighbourhood, letters and parcels were delivered on time. Even after several relaxations in rules relating to efforts to check COVID-19, the postal department’s delivery services are yet to resume in our area. Recently, I had to go to the office twice and collect parcels after I received messages stating that the parcel would be returned to the sender if I did not turn up to collect them. I appeal to the authorities to do the needful and resume home-delivery postal services in our locality. J. Giridharan is a resident of Balaji Avenue in Iyappanthangal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/india-posts-delivery-service-yet-to-resume-in-balaji-avenue/article33833319.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Uncommon Residents The other babbler||When it comes to babblers, it helps to have two facts wedged into one’s mind. They like the sound of their own calls — which explains their name. At the same time, they do not mind their calls being drowned by their species-mates’ — in plain terms, they enjoy company. In Chennai, from the ubiquitous yellow-billed babblers to the uncommon yellow-eyed babblers, these basic facts about babblers are immutable. Chennai and surrounding areas fall within the Yellow-eyed Babbler’s range, but these resident birds do not show up on the radar often. “They are a bird of the scrub environment,” points out eBird reviewer Vikas Madhav Nagarajan, who had sightings of these birds at Guindy National Park in 2016. Though not so common in Chennai, certain patches in and around the metro may always offer the promise of a sighting. That inclues Vandalur Repeater Road. eBird has two photographic records of Yellow-eyed Babbler sightings from this section — one by Karthikeyan GB (10 December, 2016) and the other by Karthikeyan Ponnambalamoorthy (7 January 2017). “The Yellow-eyed Babbler is a social bird, but how gregarious it appears depends on where you see it,” says Vikas. “You do not get to see it in large numbers in and around Chennai, but in Karnataka, I have seen it in flocks of 10 to 15. In Tamil Nadu, I have not come across Yellow-eyed Babbler flocks bigger than 4 to 5 birds.” Across Tamil Nadu, slight variations in Yellow-eyed Babbler occurrence can be observed. Recently, Rama Neelamegan was treated to a sight of gregarious and noisy Yellow-eyed Babblers at a patch that is part of the Eastern Ghats in Vellore. Rama explains that with a scrub environment, this patch is just what the doctored ordered for the Yellow-eyed Babbler. Yellow-eyed Babblers allopreen each other, just like their more common cousin: the Yellow-billed Babblers. These two also diverge on many points, two of them being that the Yellow-eyed Babbler is more bush-centred, and is given to higher levels of acrobatics. (Uncommon Residents, as the title suggests, is about birds that are resident in Chennai but not commonly seen)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/uncommon-residents-the-other-babbler/article33833330.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Programme on entrepreneurship||The Stenographers’ Guild, T. Nagar, is organising a programme on entrepreneurship development on Saturdays from January 30. Time: From 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. According to a press release, there is no fee to take part in the session. The programme was launched by Justice P. N. Prakash of Madras High Court. In his inaugural address, he insisted on the importance of becoming an entrepreneur and thereby creating For details, call 044 - 2434 2421/ 2433 7387.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/programme-on-entrepreneurship/article33833310.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer-writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtownfeedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number. Here’s a short note on the basic building blocks of any short news feature. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. c) News features have to be factually-grounded and the central portion, which will consist of a few paragraphs, should support the anecdotal paragraph and the cosmic paragraph||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/you-can-be-our-volunteer-writer/article33833323.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Raising funds for a cause||HELP TRUST, a non governmental organisation functioning from the premises of CSI Deaf and Dumb School in Santhome, is organising a women’s fest to raise funds to support its various activities. According to a press release, the non-profit works for the upliftment of the differently-abled by offering free training in computers, nursing, tailoring, confectionery-making and baking. “We have seven teaching and three non-teaching staff and we find it a challenge to pay them their salaries,” says S. Karpagam, coordinator, Help Trust. The various skill development programmes are held through the year and each batch has around 10 students. “Getting students is not a challenge as many of those graduating from the CSI Deaf and Dumb School would enrol for the programmes offered by the Trust. After completion of the programme, we help them by guiding them on the job fairs to attend,” says Karpagam. They also have women from the Nochi Kuppam community attending these programmes. “We help many of our students receive loans so that they can start their own venture,” she says. The women’s fest is open to all, and the amount raised through stall bookings will be used to meet operational expenses. The fest is scheduled to be held on March 7 at CSI Deaf And Dumb School, Santhome High Road. For details, call 9094686187.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/raising-funds-for-a-cause/article33833332.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Ticketing machines at suburban stations not being put to optimum use’||Resources are said to have been allocated towards installation of automatic ticket vending machines (ATVMs) at more railway stations. The reality on the ground is that even the existing machines are hardly used, particularly at suburban stations across Chennai. Because, not many commuters know how to use these ATVMs. Hence, the Railways should first take steps to creat awareness among commuters about how an ATVM should be used. A. Jainulabdeen is a resident of Ashok Nagar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/ticketing-machines-at-suburban-stations-not-being-put-to-optimum-use/article33833317.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Thinking out of the book||From a spare room on the ground floor to a dedicated space at the club house, the library at L&T Eden Park has come a long way. While the Association made the path-breaking move of letting Easwari Lending Library set up shop in the community in 2013, resident-volunteers’ role in sustaining it cannot be overemphasised. “Satish from Easwari Lending Library brought some shelves and stacked them with books, in a crammed space and we were some 8 to 10 volunteers trained to run the library,” says Deepa Som, a volunteer. A small membership fee was charged initially. It took just a month for the initiative to catch on. “Over 100 members had sought membership, and 80% of them were children. We were surprised as we had expected senior citizens and homemakers to patronise the library. With children coming to read, their mothers would also join them,” says Deepa, a mother of a 13-year-old girl who values reading through books. From 2,000 books, the library has grown to 8,000 books and commands a membership of 250. Every month, at least 500 books are replaced with new ones. Volunteers’ role First, resident-volunteers performed the functions of a librarian which include scanning the barcode and feeding details into the system. With membership mounting, the Association hired a person to run the space, and also waived off the membership fee. During the pandemic, except for a short period when the government mandated that all common amenities be closed, the doors of the library have always stayed open. “Due to COVID-19 and cost-cutting measures, we run the library. Going forward, I feel it is better to have resident-volunteers run it as the involvement is greater,” says Deepa, adding that volunteers organise a reading challenge every summer and other activities including storytelling. A book is maintained for residents to pen down a wish-list of books they want to read, and this is shared with the lending library.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/thinking-out-of-the-book/article33833326.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Honour for Kotturpuram police||The J4 Kotturpuram police station has been adjudged the third best police station in Tamil Nadu for the year 2019-2020. The officials attached to the police station were awarded with a trophy on Republic Day by Chief Minister Edappadi K Palanisamy. Assistant Commissioner Sembedu Babu says, “J4 Kotturpuram police station scored well against the various parameters that were taken into account. These include the number of contraband and liqour bottles seized, number of preventive arrests, number of cases relating to traffic violations, conviction of murder cases, maintaining cleanliness and hygiene at the police station. Another factor that increased our score is the rapport we have developed with residents. We regularly organise meetings with residents welfare associations and senior citizens. Many residents’ welfare associations have installed CCTV cameras following our awareness programmes. Next, we will focus on checking crime against children.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/honour-for-kotturpuram-police/article33833306.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The Coromandel connection||Harry MacLure, editor of Anglos In The Wind and filmmaker, believes friendship formed the spine of the book-lending startup, Book Nook. Its promoters Pran Amrith (62) and Harry (61) are friends “united by the love of books, movies and creative pursuits.” Pran and Harry were colleagues at Taj Coromandel. There is another name the circle of friendships forged over creativity: actor Nassar (62), also employed then at the hotel. Harry recalls, “For one and a half years, Nassar and I were room-mates, sharing a rented accommodation at Yahali Street, Teynampet.” When on our morning shift (6 a.m. to 3 p.m.), Nassar and Harry would visit USIS library after work. “I would devour books on writing and illustration; and Nasser, those on films.” Harry continues: “At 6 p.m., the librarian would literally chase us out. We would then head to the Drive-in Woodlands (where the Semmozhi Poonga is located now), have a dosa and head back to our room.” “A few months ago, Pran was in Chennai. Before leaving for England, he and I met Nassar at the actor’s residence and had a heart-warming reunion.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-coromandel-connection/article33833327.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||IMA chapters take part in relay fast||Indian Medical Association (IMA) is organising a relay fast all over India from February 1 to 14 as a protest against the proposal by the Union government to train AYUSH (Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy) doctors to perform surgeries. IMA - Pallikaranai took part in the relay fast on February 10, says a press release. Over 60 members including those from IMA - Tambaram and IMA - Kelambakkam participated in the fast, says a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/ima-chapters-take-part-in-relay-fast/article33833298.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Ceremony at temple||The consecration ceremony ( Kumbhabhishekam ) of a newly-constructed tower ( Raja Gopuram ) of Sree Arulmigu Muppathamman temple at Maharajapuram Santhanam Salai in T. Nagar will be held on February 21. According to a press release, the height of the Gopuram is 39-feet. It’s construction was funded by S. Rajarathinam, founder, Saravana Stores; R. Revathy Rajarathinam, and R. Sabapathy, administrative directors, Super Saravana Stores, the press release adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/ceremony-at-temple/article33833300.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Two-day saris sale||Silk Threads is organising a sale on February 19 and 20 at C.P Art Centre on Eldam’s Road in Alwarpet. According to a press release, cotton saris, linen silk cottons, and tussar saris are available. Time: From 11 a.m. to 7p.m. For details, call 99300 13973 / 99459 25960.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/two-day-saris-sale/article33833311.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Session on zentangle art||Sandhya Manne Studio is conducting an online workshop on Zentangle art on February 20. Time: From: 10.30 a.m. to 1.30 p.m. According to a press release, the session is meant for beginners and the minimum age limit is 13 years of age. For details, call 9042072639||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/session-on-zentangle-art/article33833312.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||A new innings||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-new-innings/article33833304.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||A recycling project to reduce load on the landfills||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-recycling-project-to-reduce-load-on-the-landfills/article33833305.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||the lens view: safety measure||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-lens-view-safety-measure/article33833316.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||School of life||Swati* is a Class VIII student at a government school in Bengaluru. She was looking forward eagerly to the new school year with friends when the pandemic struck. Schools and colleges were the first to close, not just bringing to a halt curriculum learning, but also robbing children of the feeling of being connected, of collaborative learning, teamwork, and peer interaction. But today, Swati is able to navigate this situation that nobody prepared her for, thanks to the vital skills she has been learning through an unlikely medium: football. She learns about relationships, self-awareness, teamwork, listening to instructions, goal setting and gender norms. Her two-hour session begins with an icebreaker. Swati then plays the game incorporating street football rules, such as small-sided games, multiple balls, mixed or single-gender teams with no referee. Then, in a session called ‘reflection circle’, she shares her experiences: what she learnt, how she will communicate her learning to others. Swati is enrolled with Dream A Dream, an organisation that uses sports and arts to engage and develop critical life skills among younger children. Founded a couple of decades ago by a group of people who wished to volunteer their time to engage children who were terminally-ill or abandoned, the project, during the pandemic, has a new agenda. According to a UNESCO report, 28.6 crore children between pre-primary and secondary levels have been affected by the pandemic. Big tech companies jumped in, offering digital platforms to host free virtual classes. Ed-tech companies too seized the opportunity and muscled their way into our gadgets. Yet, not many responded to a loss bigger than academic learning — that of mental health. The pandemic has after all denied children a classroom experience that offers crucial social and emotional interactions that contribute to life skills development.  Setting goals  But there came to the fore a handful of organisations, such as Dream A Dream, which have been delivering the kind of programme often overlooked by the formal education sector — social-emotional learning (SEL). The Collaborative for Academic, Social, and Emotional Learning defines SEL as ‘how children and adults learn to understand and manage emotions, set goals, show empathy, establish positive relationships, and make responsible decisions.’ “During a crisis like this, the social-emotional impact is usually long term. We experienced that during the 2004 tsunami, where our interventions with children were aimed at minimising the impact of the trauma on mental health. But this time, the interventions have to be preventive,” explains Suchetha Bhat, CEO, Dream A Dream. But there are challenges. Swati’s family of four shares one smartphone between them. She had to get her parents to part with it for a few hours to attend online school. Then she had to convince her parents, who were daily wage workers, to recharge the phone. The hurdles were overcome, thanks to the life skills she learnt through football, and Swati was able to attend classes, a big win for a child with her background bearing the economic and social brunt of the pandemic. Nalandaway, another organisation, uses visual and performance arts as a method to improve learning abilities and reinforce positive behaviour. When the pandemic struck, they reached out to over six lakh students from poor backgrounds studying in government and aided schools in Tamil Nadu who were due to write their Class X board exams. The pandemic had added to their natural exam anxiety. Nalandaway came up with a 30-day Interactive Voice Response (IVR) story project called Take It Eazy. The students had to give a missed call to listen to a humorous audio drama, involving Pavitra, a 15-year-old girl, her mischievous younger brother Darshan, and Mala akka , the friendly neighbour. The purpose of the stories was to help children deal with stress, address emotions, and promote self-affirmation and mindfulness. Digital privilege “We realised that over 90% of the students did not have access to a smartphone,” says Sriram Ayer, founder of Nalandaway. With the IVR technology already available, and the team just focussed on the scriptwriting and recording, all done on mobile phones from their respective homes. The organisation has launched nine projects since the lockdown, one of which reaches out to children directly with learn-at-home kits. Some 29,000 kits have been distributed so far. “We have had several significant revelations. One was that interventions have to be non-digital as well because digital access is still a privilege,” adds Ayer. Project Rangeet, however, has technology at its core. It delivers a Social-Emotional and Ecological Knowledge curriculum (SEEK), developed around the UN Sustainable Development Goals and was built for digital delivery on an affordable, easy-to-implement mobile platform. Project Rangeet tries to tackle the issue of teacher competency and integrating SEL programmes in mainstream education. SEEK’s teaching-learning tools are designed to produce better primary school teachers, in alignment with a 2017 study by Collaborative for Academic, Social, and Emotional Learning that says teachers who possess strong social and emotional competencies are more likely to stay in the classroom longer because they are able to deal with students more effectively, and are less likely to suffer burnout. “Teachers are overburdened and the pandemic has worsened this. While adapting to the new way of teaching, teachers are struggling to deliver their core subjects. Besides, schools are also wary of using extra screen time on SEL programmes over academics,” says Simran Mulchandani, one of the three founders of Project Rangeet, but adds that schools are slowly realising its importance.  Reimagining curricula  Bhat agrees, but thinks that SEL’s growing acceptance during the pandemic is more a glimmer than a blaze of light. “I am disappointed that the focus everywhere is still on learning loss. The talk is all about ‘we need to finish the syllabus’. Instead, we need to focus on the well-being of the children once they return to school to avoid a mental health collapse. We need to reimagine our curriculum.” To become part of mainstream teaching, SEL programmes perhaps need to follow a ‘hybrid’ model of education. Says Anantha Duraiappah, Director of the UNESCO Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Education for Peace and Sustainable Development: “Contrary to views that online learning cannot be conducive for SEL due to the lack of face-to-face interactions, we find that with proper design, online SEL can be just as effective. Of course, the best method will be a hybrid system that maximises the strengths of both online and face-to-face pedagogy.”  (*Name changed.)    Swati’s family of four shares one smartphone between them. She had to get her parents to part with it for a few hours to attend online school||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/school-of-life/article33833402.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The secret ingredient is Maria Callas||Each wedding season, I think of making an apple tart again. It all started when Eric, a legendary teacher at Alliance Française in Madras, brought an apple tart with him to the tea room, a place where intense addas took place in a casual atmosphere that we imagined was quintessentially French. It was not any old apple tart, I must insist. “It is a legend, my grandmother’s apple tart. I cannot reveal its secret!” Eric exclaimed. Of course, it sounded much more intriguing when he said it in French: “Tartes aux pommes — un secret incroyable!”  Though I was not one of his students, Eric and I had bonded over the fact that I had been to his hometown, Dieppe, in Normandy on the west coast of France. Just as he was about to leave Chennai for good, Eric invited me and another adda regular, a young man whom I will call ‘the designer’, to his house. Learn by watching “I will show you the secret but you will have to learn by watching. There is no recipe for this apple tart. It is just passed down orally from one generation to the next,” Eric announced mysteriously. “Amma will make the pâte brisée, ” he added, gesturing at his Tamil lady cook who was in charge of making the pastry. He bade us sit down on the sisal hemp mat on the floor. Before the ‘party’ began, we had to choose the music, of course. Eric decided that it would be Maria Callas singing ‘Casta Diva’ from Bellini’s Norma . We listened entranced, sipping tea from small ceramic bowls. Eric explained sagely that there are various degrees of pâte brisée. “At its simplest it’s a combination of plain flour, butter and water at a 3-2-1 ratio, the golden mean of cooking. The butter has to be cold, but not frozen. The water has to be iced, just a few tablespoons. Your hands, if you are using them, should also be very cool.” “Notice that we are making pâte sucre,” he pointed out. “We have added a tablespoon of confectioner’s sugar — what you call icing sugar — into the flour, before sifting both together.” Eric’s commentary continued. “I talked about the golden mean but now I ask you to forget it. What you need is butter, more butter. Yes, but no water, not iced, not cooled, not warm, nothing at all. That is the secret. And if you are very confident that you have a light touch with the pastry you may add the yolk of one egg.” That’s good As Maria Callas’s golden voice wove its web of magic around us, Amma wrapped the slab of pastry in cloth and put it in the fridge. Next, she sliced two or three apples into delicate moon-like crescents before dunking them in a bowl of iced water. The oven had been switched on. After 15 minutes, the pastry was taken out of the fridge and rolled briskly into a circular shape. Using the rolling pin, Amma lifted the pastry with a practised hand and placed it precisely on the prepared baking pan with a fluted rim. The pastry was ready for the oven. Amma stabbed it a couple to times with a fork. When it came out after another 15 minutes, it was pale golden brown and still not fully cooked. “This is when you add the confiture, or strawberry jam,” declared Eric as he spooned some from a bowl and glazed the pastry with the jam. Then taking the apple slices one by one, he arranged them deftly in alternating circles starting at the edge, overlapping each, till they reached the centre. “ Bon , that’s good, ready for the oven,” he said, slipping the pan into the oven. We waited as the fragrance of cooked apples wafted over the room and Amma placed the hot pastry pan on the wooden table. She then poured a mixture of fresh cream, sugar, vanilla and a lightly beaten egg into the pastry so that the liquid trickled down all the valleys and crevices, creating a flood plain of creamy egg custard. Pure delight The pan went again into the oven. “We will let the custard cook nicely and then leave the apple tart to cool for the night,” announced Eric gravely. My companion and I looked at each other in shock. “But we thought we were here to eat the apple tart,” we cried. “We can’t sit here till tomorrow.” “Ah, I had thought of that,” said Eric, pulling out an apple tart from his pantry cupboard. “Amma already made one for you yesterday.” And so it was that we had more tea, more Callas, and the perfect apple tart on that last evening in Chennai with Eric. I lost touch with the designer, remembering him only when I needed a floral decorator for my daughter’s wedding a few years later. Now a landscape designer of some note, he was more than willing to come and help. “It has to be simple but elegant,” I kept repeating, as my Maria Callas companion set to work with his band of floral gnomes. He worked through the night. I slept. In the morning he had created a canvas of pure delight — jasmines strung in cascades against a vast curtain of white and gold. “How can I ever pay you back for this?” I asked, overwhelmed. “Three apple tarts!” he replied. “Eric’s apple tarts!” We shook hands over the deal. I took out my rolling pin. There was no recipe in any book. But there was Maria Callas singing ‘Casta Diva’. The tarts came out perfect. The Chennai-based writer is a critic and cultural commentator.    The butter has to be cold, but not frozen. The water has to be iced, just a few tablespoons. Your hands, if you are using them, should also be very cool||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-secret-ingredient-is-maria-callas/article33833333.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Unlearning the literate||Tasvir, a young poet-author at Muskaan, a learning centre in Bhopal, tells us how writing can be used to empower his historically stigmatised community: “Pardhis have a rich history. But the way others label us today is wrong. I believe we should start writing and publish our stories. Our lives need to be heard. Our community is losing its identity, our culture is being erased, our connection with the forest forgotten.” Pardhis were classified as a ‘criminal tribe’ by the British, and were re-labelled as a ‘denotified tribe’ after Independence. But the literacy Tasvir talks about comes from a pedagogy where Adivasi children are encouraged to teach their languages to their teachers and where education is rooted in the child’s social and cultural milieu. To understand what a departure this is from colonial-era hierarchies, which still overshadow most Adivasi schooling, we need to untangle several neglected strands of history. In 1960, the Elwin Committee report (among the earliest tribal policy statements of independent India) recognised that tribal people have their own institutions of learning, and that a policy of ‘integration’, as opposed to ‘assimilation’, should treat these as allies, not rivals, of schools. The best known of these indigenous institutions is the Ghotul  in Bastar, where older Muria Gond children educate youngsters through a work-play continuum and a sophisticated etiquette of passing on knowledge orally. Children learn countless skills, while sharing myths, riddles, songs, dances, and an ethics based on values of sharing rather than competition. Similar institutions such as Dhumkuria and Dangribasa  exist in Jharkhand and Odisha. Literacy has prime value today. The question is: how to impart it without erasing Adivasi knowledge and value systems? Most early schools for Adivasis were set up by Christian missions. During the 1920-50s, a reaction set in. Gandhi’s Nai Talim was one, decolonising education to bring unity of hand, mind and heart, and emphasising local practical knowledge and mother tongues. Another was Hindutva, consolidated in the 50s, when R.K. Deshpande set up Vanavasi Kalyan Ashram (VKA), which soon established a vast network of schools. The VKA’s perception of Adivasis was coloured by the idea of them as ‘backward Hindus,’ promoted by G.S. Ghurye, a founding father of Indian sociology, trained in anthropology at Cambridge in the 1920s. Ghurye advocated ‘assimilation’ of tribal people, as did A.V. Thakkar (Thakkar Bapa), who set up the influential ashramshala model. In recent years, the absorption of ‘Hindu’ practices in RSS schools has drawn many Adivasis into violent communal politics. Although Thakkar was a follower of Gandhi, there is little that is Gandhian about the ashramshala pedagogy. The most recent government committee on tribal affairs, headed by Virginius Xaxa, refers to an ‘ashramisation’ of tribal education. Many ashram schools covertly became Hindu nationalist, yet followed patterns set by Christian mission schools, with uniforms, strict (often brutal) discipline, a deeply hierarchical structure, alien ‘knowledge’ learnt by rote, short haircuts, and Adivasi names replaced with Hindu ones. A 1941 lecture by Thakkar in Pune highlighted negative stereotypes about tribal ‘laziness’, ‘promiscuity’, ‘illiteracy’, and ‘addiction to shifting cultivation’. The cultural racism in such stereotypes forms the backdrop to the continuing discrimination and humiliation of Adivasis. Cultural genocide In the U.S, the forced assimilation of indigenous people was the official policy from the 19th to the mid-20th centuries. By the 1970s this changed, and the ‘detribalising’ residential schools were closed. Twenty years later, the Prime Ministers of Canada and Australia apologised for the cultural genocide embedded in this policy. In India, the Xaxa report (2014) indicates that the official policy of ‘integration’ conceals a policy of assimilation.  Two key aspects of assimilation are residential schools that are removed from community life, and the imposition of dominant regional languages. Each Adivasi language encompasses a world of knowledge, cosmology, and values. This is partly why, although violated routinely, Article 350A of the Constitution, which gives every child the right to education in their own mother tongue, is so significant. Studies show that multilingual education aids cognitive development and stimulates intellectual confidence much more effectively. In the words of Lado Sikaka, Dongria Kondh leader of the campaign to save Niyamgiri from bauxite mining, “If our language is alive, only then will our culture thrive. Losing our language, we will lose our identity, our forests, rivers and mountains.” Thakkar’s 1941 lecture advocated using tribal tongues as a ‘bridge’, but in practice, even  this did not happen. Jaipal Singh Munda confronted Thakkar Bapa in the Constituent Assembly debates in 1949 about failing to use tribal languages in his schools. From the 1960s there was a rapid increase in residential schools for Adivasi children, which focused on training tribal citizens for jobs in industrial projects — a trend clearly aimed at producing a compliant workforce for the industries expanding in Adivasi areas. This grew stronger in the 1990s, when several new tribal residential schools started, such as the state-run Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya (KGBV), the Eklavya Model Residential Schools, and private ones like the Kalinga Institute of Social Sciences (KISS) in Bhubaneswar. From 2005, with the Maoist conflict escalating and mining companies vying to take over forest lands, hundreds of day schools have been shut down in Adivasi villages. Replacing them, ‘portacabin’ schools were set up in south Chhattisgarh, removing Adivasi children en masse from ‘Maoist affected’ villages. Around this time, companies also started funding their own tribal schools. The National Mineral Development Corporation set up ‘education cities’ in Chhattisgarh; Adani opened a joint school with KISS in Mayurbhanj last year. Like these companies, Vedanta and Nalco too have deals with KISS, funding admissions from areas where they have mining interests. . KISS, which claims to be the world’s largest residential school, has 27,000 students, all from Scheduled Tribe communities. Describing itself as ‘the world’s largest anthropological laboratory,’ it was due to host the next World Congress of Anthropology in January 2023. This was cancelled following opposition by Adivasi activists and anthropologists. KISS seems to share key features of U.S. residential schools, and its stated goal of ‘converting tax consumers into taxpayers’ implies a view of tribal cultures as ‘primitive’. This insensitivity to the complexity of Adivasi society and economy, the sheer scale of KISS, and its distance from villages, alienate children from their roots. The free education is hyped as a ‘gift’ for Adivasi children — yet why do police play such a big role in bringing the children to school? KISS promotes Hindu festivals and Sanskrit prayers rather than Adivasi languages, prayers or festivals. Says one ex-student of KISS: “The gods only understand Sanskrit at KISS. Our Kondh children forget how to pray in Kui.” Achyut Samanta, charismatic founder of KISS, has spoken of non-literate Adivasi parents as people who “don’t understand anything”. The cultural racism rampant in such schools goes back to colonial stereotypes. At a KGBV in Jharkhand, teachers described their students to us through widely prevalent negative stereotypes. One non-Adivasi teacher said, “These girls are unteachable. All they are interested in is sajna-savarna (dressing up) and they follow very bad [sexual] practices in their villages.” At the end of an extended conversation, however, the teacher reflectively said, “In a way, I feel these girls  have more freedom and agency than us. We are not even allowed to choose our marriage partner.” Key national and international guidelines on indigenous education have not been followed. The 1961 Dhebar Commission had recommended integration of tribal knowledge and languages into the curriculum, and ensuring that school times didn’t clash with tribal festivals and agricultural work, which are vital learning spaces. Similar recommendations from the National Curriculum Framework of 2005 have not been followed. The 2006 UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples underscores their right to establish and control their own educational institutions. Signs of hope This abysmal situation stands in stark contrast to a growing network of alternative schools that offer a different kind of hope. On a very small scale compared to the widely promoted homogenising mega-schools, they respect diversity and are sensitive to the socio-cultural and political context of the children. Muskaan in Bhopal, working with the children of ST waste-collectors, draws on Paulo Freire’s Pedagogy of the Oppressed . Teachers use Pardhi, Gondi and other Adivasi languages along with Hindi and English. This makes classroom interaction meaningful and engaging and builds children’s self-confidence. Community members participate as teachers, storytellers, artists and textbook writers. In Badwani district, Madhya Pradesh, the village-based Adharshila Learning Centre runs on similar principles, incorporating Adivasi knowledge systems and the local language, Bareli. Besides studies, children have built much of the school and planted agricultural fields and vegetable gardens around it. Adharshila  started over 20 years ago after its founders met Adivasi children in government-run ashram schools and were shocked by the children’s fear of school and the inferiority complex it had instilled about their background, skills, and language. In Rayagada in Odisha, Kondh parents distinguish between dangar patha (mountain learning) and kagaj patha (paper learning). Asked which they prefer, many parents answer ‘both’. This expresses a need deeply felt by Adivasis: literacy, with fluency in the regional language or English, is important; but so is respect for native languages and knowledge systems linked to the land and forest. The National Education Policy of 2020 is silent on the crucial question of integrating Adivasi knowledge. It appears to encourage multilingual education but calls for ‘philanthropic’ (read: corporate) investment, focused on producing workers for the market rather than implementing the Right to Education Act (2009). In too many classrooms, Adivasi children have sat silent for too long. Baali, a Gond teacher at Muskaan, who suffered years of humiliation in mainstream schools, describes how they were often beaten and forbidden to speak Gondi, causing many to drop out. “Many more of us would have stayed on,” she says, “if our languages weren’t frowned upon. Many more of us would have acquired higher education. We could have expressed concepts of unemployment or inflation or forestry from our perspective and in our language.” In her classroom, children move freely between languages. “Pardhi children greet me in Gondi and Kanjar children speak Pardhi. I have my charts with words from all the languages we use.” Such methods stimulate learning and give them pride in their own culture while learning about others. The notion of ‘mainstreaming’ needs to be challenged not just because Adivasi culture is being crushed, but also because Adivasi values and ways of life offer insights that the ‘mainstream’ needs. If we are to halt the destruction of ecosystems, we need to understand how closely biodiversity and cultural diversity are intertwined. Perhaps it is time to reverse the gaze and begin to learn afresh from Adivasis. Malvika Gupta is a D.Phil candidate at the Department of International Development at Oxford University. Felix Padel is a social scientist trained at Oxford and Delhi Universities, currently a Research Associate at Sussex University  From the 1960s, there was a rapid increase in residential schools for Adivasi children, which focused on training tribal citizens for jobs in industrial projects; producing a workforce for the industries expanding in Adivasi areas||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/unlearning-the-literate/article33833368.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||It’s a #wonderful world||Every evening, when Mridula Gupta returns home from her job at a digital marketing company in Pune, she either spends her time reading books or setting up perfect flat lays featuring books to post on Instagram. In all her photos, the books sit snugly on her favourite prop, an ochre-coloured sweater, amid white roses, scribbled notes, elaborate bookmarks, and coffee cups with latte art. Gupta, 26, is particular about the colour scheme of her photos — she prefers “warm filters with yellow hues”. It takes her at least three-four hours to curate a week’s worth of photos. “Instagram is a visual medium, so photography is important,” she says. “Apart from the books, of course.” Gupta is one of the thousands jostling for space on ‘Bookstagram’. In this world, books are not just markers of intellect but importantly, objects of art. Book lovers post almost exclusively about books, often throwing in tousled sheets and dainty tea cups into their photos for good measure, all to attract an audience. Once bookstagrammers crack the code of popularity, their ‘followers’ multiply. Followers become their ammunition to approach publishers and request them for books to review for free. “Numbers really matter,” says Gupta, who took three years to get nearly 10K followers. “Publishers first ask you how many followers you have, how many people see your ‘stories’. Only then do they give you books to review. But once you have built a rapport with them, they send you a list of their new releases every month. And they give you a copy of the book(s) you want. We review the book(s) on Instagram or Twitter or Goodreads or Amazon or our blogs — sometimes on several of these platforms. It’s an unspoken rule that you have to review the book on at least one social media platform.” Instant connection Given its obvious appeal and wide reach, #Bookstagram has transformed the way books, especially works of fiction, are marketed, read and reviewed today. Publishers continue to send piles of books to traditional media houses for reviews, but they also spend time collaborating with bibliophiles on various online platforms to promote books in unique ways. This model combining offline and online mediums is what works today, says Shabnam Srivastava, Deputy General Manager Marketing, HarperCollins India. “Reviews, testimonies and word of mouth matter a lot, whether they’re on community platforms like Goodreads, a marketplace like Amazon, or a tribe-led space of influencers on Instagram,” she says. Unlike the analytical, often long, and sometimes acerbic reviews in traditional media publications, book posts on Instagram are short, snappy, and emotional. They have an instant appeal, especially in this age where the notoriously distracted goldfish is said to have better attention span than us. “Imagine hanging out with friends at tea time, but on social media. That’s what Bookstagram is and that’s what makes it so relatable,” says Resh Susan, who has 58K followers. “You’re at your raw self. You say what in the book worked for you, what didn’t. And you strike an instant connection with other readers as well as authors.” Feedback from her followers helps Susan tailor her content accordingly. Does that mean she promotes only those books that could attract more followers? “No, no,” she clarifies hastily. “I don’t hype up books. I try to be as honest as possible. And publishers know my taste, so they give me what they think I might enjoy.” Tricks of the trade The platform appeals equally to authors. When he was rejected by several publishers in 2015-16, Aditya Nighhot began posting about his self-published book on Instagram. With only a trickle of followers, he struggled to generate sales. But when he gave review copies to a few popular bloggers, he began to learn the tricks of the trade. His book was republished by Fingerprint Publishing. As bloggers don’t charge for review copies, the author has to bear only the book and shipping cost, says Nighhot. Sometimes, authors give online reviewers an Amazon gift card. “Only some genuine bloggers with about 10K-20K followers charge Rs. 2,000-3,000 per post. But that’s fine because if I go to a bookstore and ask for a pile-up display, I’ll be charged Rs. 10,000-15,000 a month,” he says. “The store will take a share of the sales, and I will only get 10%-20% as royalty. The good thing is that if you’ve got the online sales going, it translates into offline sales as well.” Bookstagram has given everyone a voice, a platform to praise or tear apart books; it has led to democratisation of opinion. “But there is a problem with that,” says Jai Arjun Singh, journalist and author of three books. “Anyone who finds a way to draw eyeballs can be seen as a critic of some importance. We now have hundreds and hundreds of ‘reviewers’ whose reviews are more like consumer guides.” Singh, who clarifies that he doesn’t know much about the platform, is not off the mark: several book posts on Instagram are bulleted and are rarely over 50-100 words long, and the number of hashtags is sometimes as long as the posts. Dead petals Singh, who also writes book reviews for this newspaper, says his author friends complain bitterly about how poorly their publishers market their books. “And they have been harassed for free copies by Bookstagrammers with just a few hundred followers,” he says. Vivek Tejuja, culture editor of Verve magazine, agrees. He doesn’t think many even read the books they are gifted (“They’re even willing to review a book on the public policy of sanitation!”) and is upset that publishers seem okay with that. Tejuja has 11.3K followers on Instagram where he extensively reviews books and interviews authors, without the props and frills. “According to most Bookstagrammers, everything is beautiful, heart-rending, emotional, sensitive, picturesque. There’s nothing about characters and plot points in these posts,” he says. “Frankly, all I see are pictures of dead petals.” But both Singh and Tejuja grant that social media has played an important role in challenging the so-called gatekeepers of the literary world. Singh recalls the time he wrote a blog post about a Chetan Bhagat book and got pilloried for it. As a fan of popular culture, he says he is happy “when the canons of high literature are discomfited a bit” but emphasises that only someone with a breadth of reading can be trusted to give a good review of a popular book. Another advantage of Instagram is that there is a lot of chatter on books and genres (such as fantasy, horror, romance and Young Adult fiction) that are not lucky enough to be reviewed by mainstream publications. “No one here is judging you for what you’re reading,” says Tejuja. Given that the platform is beneficial for authors, publishers and book lovers, Gupta wonders why Bookstagrammers are not paid. She tells me that she was horrified on learning that some authors reached out to fellow Bookstagrammers offering as little as Rs. 10 for a post. Gupta, who doesn’t call herself a reviewer (“I only post opinions”), selectively accepts books from new authors and charges Rs. 300-500 for posts on those books. She provides the disclaimer that these books have been ‘gifted’. “We put in a lot of hard work — we invest in photography, we write compelling captions, we think about what hashtags could work. We should get paid,” she says. Nighhot worries that Bookstagram, chock-a-block with advertisers and authors, may no longer work for his third book. He tried everything, from launching book trailers, to conducting quizzes on his books, to organising book-signing events, for his second book. “Now I need to think of new ways of attracting readers,” he says grumpily.  Unlike the analytical reviews in traditional media publications, book posts on Instagram are short, snappy, and emotional||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/its-a-wonderful-world/article33833376.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Inside the club compound||The sub-heading of this book is ‘Two Hundred Years of English Prose’, and as you begin to flip the pages you understand that this means non-fiction pieces in English written by Indians. For a moment after that you find yourself noting the preponderance of Bengali names in the contents pages. Of the 45 pieces of prose collected here, 14 are by Bengalis, 15 if you count Ram Guha as an honorary Bong. From a Calcuttan’s p.o.v this is a paltry 30% strike rate. To be fair, this over-representation isn’t the fault of the Bengalis/Kolkataiyas: what were they to do if other desis slouched for a hundred years before picking up the auxiliary Bengali language called English? Arvind Mehrotra has included a couple of gems here from the 19th and early 20th centuries, such as Shoshee Chunder Dutt’s witty compilation of Calcutta street-vendors’ calls and Rabindranath Tagore’s succinct challenge to the very idea of a nation. For an example of genuine Bengali cosmopolitanism you can’t do better than Buddhadeb Bose’s lovely recounting of visiting Henry Miller in California in the mid-50s. In contrast there is Ashok Mitra’s superb rendering of a deeply local Calcutta life in ‘An Ordinary Man’. Besides these pieces there are many other lovely bits of writing to be found in the book, by both Bengalis and the non-blessed. However, the more you read more the questions start to bubble up about the organising principle of the anthology and the selection Mehrotra has made. Many exceptions “...it was decided to restrict this anthology as far as possible to ‘Indian’ writers. Literary geography, unfortunately, had to be mapped on to the political one, but only loosely,” writes Mehrotra in his introduction, explaining why he has left out people such as Ved Mehta, Salman Rushdie and Vikram Chandra while having “allowed in” Santha Rama Rau and Victor Anant. This doesn’t hold water: if a certain weight of residence in India was a serious criterion for inclusion then not only Rau and Anant but also Aubrey Menen, Amrita Sher-Gil, Nirad Chaudhuri, G.V. Desani, F.N. Souza, Madhur Jaffrey, Anita Desai, Dom Moraes (at the time of writing), Chitrita Banerji, Amitav Ghosh and Sara Rai, i.e. nearly one third of the writers, are exceptions to the ‘rule’. As with other aspects of the selection, this codification begins to feel more arbitrary than ‘loose’ in a way that doesn’t enhance the quality of the collection. Mehrotra also explains the exclusion of political essays and of someone like Arundhati Roy thus: “Political writing is urgent but it is soon replaced by something as urgent the next day... we need it more than ever before; but so do we, as urgently, the essays in this anthology.” This claim to urgency leads to a bit of head-scratching because it’s not as if very many of the essays throw other kinds of sharp light on our current reality. Mehrotra claims various serendipitous connections between different essays but the one ‘link’ that emerges is his fondness for novelistic family memoirs, of which there are several. These pieces read like slight variations on the same theme; of the eight, all are to do with the middle or upper class, seven are filled with cousin sadnesses, six are to do with urban north India, only one is not set in middle of the 20th century. Such a bloc do these pieces form that one wonders if it might not have been an idea to do a collection of solely devoted to these sort of dissections of the peculiarities of Indian kinship. Way with words Arbitrariness also seeps in from yet a different angle. The first two-thirds of the anthology have a certain tenor, a certain way in which the English is used. With the brilliant exception of G.V. Desani’s ‘The Benares that Was’ — where Desani cracks open the language as only he can — and also Dharma Kumar’s light way with her words, there is a similarity to the smooth rounded prose so respectful of British cadences, a far cry from the photographs of Walker Evans and the paintings of Cezanne that Mehrotra cites in his introduction, more the written equivalent of Rubens and Ravi Varma. Perhaps the anthology should have ended with the piece by Chitrita Banerji who was born in 1947. Mehrotra is one of the most generous intellects in the Indian world of letters. Therefore, it is mystifying to see the parsimony and timidity of his choices as we come to our own times. It’s as though Mehrotra’s great erudition has been denied a proper visa into the zone of contemporary Indian writing in English. With the exception of Allan Sealy on the Anglo-Indians, Mukul Kesavan’s delicious evisceration of the Indian male and Sara Rai’s extremely moving memoir ‘On Not Writing’, the array of usual suspects and some truly bizarre choices is disappointing. It’s not only the NRIs, Mehta and Rushdie et al who have been banished outside the club compound. How do you have an anthology of Indian essays in English that includes not even one writer from Paromita Vohra, Kai Friese, Ambarish Satwik, Rahul Bhattacharya, Samanth Subramanian, Snigdha Poonam, Raghu Karnad or Aman Sethi?  The reviewer is a filmmaker and columnist.  The Book of Indian Essays Edited by Arvind Krishna Mehrotra Black Kite/Hachette India  Rs. 699||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/inside-the-club-compound/article33833388.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Can I tell you a joke?||All of you must have heard of Munawar Faruqui. He is India’s World No. 1 stand-up comedian. They say his jokes are so powerful they can offend sentiments and destroy the nation even before he tells them. I don’t agree though. I think it’s just propaganda. The reality is that, in the last six years, it has become almost impossible for the average citizen to crack a joke. It’s as if India has embraced the policy of One Nation, One Joker. Powerful individual I’m not saying I’m an average citizen. If you ask me, I’d say I’ve consistently exceeded expectations, though HR might disagree. But the bottom line is that a very powerful individual believes I should stop cracking jokes, especially in a newspaper, where there is no privacy and anyone can read them. This powerful individual also thinks my jokes are too political, and given the times we are living in, involve too much risk for too little reward. Yes, I am talking about my wife. And yesterday she even told me she can come up with better jokes than I do. “Fine,” I said. “Tell me a joke. Let’s see how funny you are.” “On one condition,” she said. “What condition?” “If it fulfils the criteria — of being apolitical and giving zero scope for anyone to take offence — you must use it in your column instead of poking fun at powerful evil people.” “Agreed,” I said. “Now let’s hear your joke.” “So there was this old married couple,” she began, “Jack and Jane. They had been married for 42 years.” “Wait,” I said. “What’s this Jack and Jane business? Is this something you memorised from a joke book?” “Will you stop interrupting?” “Sorry,” I said. “But no dirty jokes. This is a family newspaper.” “Jack and Jane had two children, Rihanna and Greta.” “Rihanna and Greta? I thought your joke was going to be apolitical?” “It is. Rihanna and Greta are just names. I once had a classmate named Greta whose nickname was Rihanna. Will you stop interrupting me or not?” “No more interruptions.” “So, after Jack retired from his lucrative job with an investment bank on Wall Street, Jane took retirement from her successful career as a yoga instructor. They were both fascinated by India. They were in awe of India’s unique caste system, its exemplary poverty, and the cosmic levels of air pollution in its capital city. So they decided to pack their bags and move from New York to Ghazipur.” “Did you say Ghazipur?” “Yes, Ghazipur, in Delhi. Not far from the famous garbage dump.” Rihanna and Greta tried their best to dissuade them. But Jack and Jane were clear that they wanted to spend their final years filling their lungs with PM10 and PM2.5. Better option Rihanna even asked them, ‘Dad, Mom, why not move to Goa? You guys will find other white people there. It has lovely beaches, and lots of rain during the monsoons.’ ‘But what will we do in Goa?’ asked Jane. ‘Collect rain water in the basins of your collar bones,’ said Greta. ‘Listen to the baritone of the storm,’ said Rihanna. ‘Walk barefoot in tea-coloured puddles,’ said Greta. ‘But I was never a desert in my past life,’ Jack said. ‘Rain and I are not ancient lovers,’ Jane said. So Ghazipur it was. But within a month of shifting to Ghazipur, Jack’s lungs collapsed. He was rushed to a hospital and put on ventilator. But he died. Jane was heart-broken. She was 67, healthy, and had never been with another man in her life. To take her mind away from the grief, she busied herself with preparations for the funeral. Since her in-laws were in New York, she had to arrange for them to fly at short notice to Delhi. She had never organised a funeral before for her husband, that too in a new city. So she had a tough time dealing with various people trying to make money off her. What more? “Excuse me,” I said. “Where is this going? Is this even a joke?” My wife held up a hand to silence me, then continued. “But Jane was a resourceful woman. Though they were far from home, Jack’s bank had a big branch in Delhi. She pulled some strings and eventually managed to organise an A-class funeral. Lots of important people showed up, and one after another, they all heaped praises on Jack, who, it turned out, had been a role model for bankers all over the world.” Finally, after about three dozen people had paid their homage, a gentleman in a black coat and top hat approached Jane and asked her permission to go up and say something about Jack. Jane had never seen him before. She was mystified, but told him to go ahead. The man went to the front of the gathering, looked hard at Jane, and said just one word, ‘Plethora.’ Jane’s eyes welled up. ‘Thank you,’ she said. ‘It means a lot.’  ‘But what will we do in Goa?’ asked Jane. ‘Collect rain water in the basins of your collar bones,’ said Greta. ‘Listen to the baritone of the storm,’ said Rihanna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/can-i-tell-you-a-joke/article33833398.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The man, the country, the community||Narayan Hegde’s recent translation of U.R. Ananthamurthy’s novel, Avasthe, gives us the opportunity to revisit the work, easily among the finest in Kannada. An earlier translation of the novel — Awasthe: The Condition (Allied Publishers, 1995) — was by Kannada writer Shantinath Desai, URA’s contemporary.  Avasthe is often categorised as a political novel. Playwright and thinker K.V. Subbanna sees Avasthe as the third instalment in what he calls a trilogy written in a period of 13 years: Samskara, Bharathipura and Avasthe . The novels capture the life of India between 1945 and 1975. Set in post-independent, post-Emergency India, Avasthe is informed by the political climate of the times. It discusses various shades of politics — ideological to opportunistic — and, in the process, sets up a confrontation among Gandhi, Marx and Ram Manohar Lohia, the three abiding forces of URA’s intellectual life. The novel is at once poetic, passionate and searing — a piece of writing that outlives its time and surpasses its historical setting. The story involves the journey of a political leader, the novel’s protagonist, Krishnappa. Much of the novel takes place in his mind, explaining its non-linearity. It is reminiscent of Tolstoy’s novella, The Death of Ivan Ilyich , where the protagonist recasts his entire life as he lies ill in bed. Dichotomies dissolve URA, with his extraordinary creative vision, transforms what could have been a mere biography or a newspaper report into a great work of art. The real, the allegorical and the metaphysical are blended into a story of individuals and communities. Using the theory of sadharanikarana (social universalisation) of Sanskrit poetics, URA turns an individual quest into an eternal quest of the self, examining apparent contradictions such as tradition-modernity, social-personal, happiness-misery, love-lust, decadent-subliminal, body-soul, antaranga-bahiranga , and more. These dichotomies dissolve, merge, separate — URA writes a novel of complex textures.  Avasthe is the human condition, which is layered and constantly in a state of flux. URA seems to suggest that we are determined by our ecosystem or social forces. (He said in an interview that individuals hardly matter to the flow of history.) This is depicted in the life of the deeply ethical Krishnappa, who moves from sensations of love and warmth as a village boy to pain-anger-resilience in his growing-up years to opportunism-hedonism as he gains in strength and power. URA is interested not only in the transformations of his personal-political self but also in the evolution of Krishnappa’s gendered identity as a man in relationship with women. Missing power In his essay, ‘Five Decades of My Writing,’ URA says that it was women who taught him the art of storytelling. He writes about the women who congregated in the backyard of his home for a chat with his mother, saying that they taught him the difference between appearance and reality. How do the identities of women come into being in Avasthe , or in any of his novels? Only, ironically, the signs of change are more apparent than real. A note on the translation. A good translation, as Chomsky says, needs to grasp both the surface structure and the deep structure of the original ( akam and puram, in A.K. Ramanujan’s terminology). Sadly, this one pays attention neither to the linguistic power nor to the soul power of the original novel. Replete with clumsy summaries and glaring errors, the translation is a lost opportunity.  Avasthe  U.R. Ananthamurthy, trs Narayan Hegde Harper Perennial India  Rs. 499    Avastheis the human condition, which is layered and constantly in a state of flux.Ananthamurthyseems to suggest that we are determined by our ecosystem or social forces||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-man-the-country-the-community/article33833373.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Tracking the China of yesterday, today and tomorrow||The historian, Michael Wood, is best known here for his spectacular television series, The Story of India . Now, with his latest book The Story of China , a follow-up on his engrossing eponymous documentary, he has outdone himself. In a little over 600 pages, Wood walks us through China’s history from the Shang dynasty (from around 1600 to 1046 BCE) to the Qing (1644-1912) and onward to today. He even covers the outbreak of COVID-19 in China and its aggressive posturing in the South China Sea and with India. “To touch on the deep past, we must move beyond the beaten track,” Wood observes, and he takes detours “to provide close-ups, homing in on particular places, moments and individual lives, voices high and low.” Historical, literary past Throughout history, Wood tells us, the Chinese have been curious and creative. They have much to show for that —the magnetic compass, gunpowder, the periodic census, examination-based meritocratic appointment of civil servants among several others. They have also produced some of the greatest philosophical, literary and historical works in the world, such as the Analects of Confucius, the poetry of Du Fu, the epic novel, Romance of the Three Kingdoms , by Luo Guanzhong, the disturbing classic The Book of Lord Shang , widely regarded as the world’s first totalitarian manual, and the great historian, Sima Qian’s Records of the Grand Historian . Wood takes particular care to highlight the achievements of Chinese women through history including the poet Fang Weiyi and the radical feminist He Zhen. The Chinese have long been receptive to new ideas. At least one Emperor allowed Christianity into his realm and another hailed the return of Chinese Buddhist monk Xuanzang from India. The Silk Road, much in the news today, was a Chinese construct. Between 1405 and 1433, China’s ‘master-mariner’, Zheng He, commanded massive fleets that reached West Asia and Africa. The only period China came under foreign sway under the Mongols (the Yuan Dynasty 1271 – 1368CE), it was the Chinese who made their conquerors accept their Confucian ways and buy into the concept of just rulership enshrined in the ‘Mandate of Heaven’. Terracota warriors Wood introduces us to recent archaeological finds, among them the terracotta warriors buried with China’s first emperor in 210 BCE. He marvels at how the idea of one-China has endured and prevailed over centuries. But this view is tempered. Wood believes that without the moderating influence of Confucius, China’s appalling human rights record would have been far worse. Even so, the 20-30 million killed in the Taiping rebellion, the 36 million who starved to death in Mao’s Great Leap Forward and the deaths at Tiananmen Square in 1989, have their precedents in China’s deeper past. Despite its spectacular successes in educating its people and eliminating absolute poverty, Wood feels that China’s further economic progress is by no means assured. He is deeply concerned about its seemingly unresolvable environmental problems and alarmed at the deep inequalities in Chinese society. Most worrying for Wood is China’s drift to one-man rule of the kind that brought it to its knees under Mao. There is no doubt that the West and Japan were responsible for China’s century of humiliation that ended with Mao and the Communists taking over the country in 1949. Wood does not gloss over this. But his book also brings out the deep respect and understanding China and the West have for each other. Without the support of the U.S., China could never have transformed itself so spectacularly over the last 40 years. India will do well to ponder over this.  The reviewer teaches at IISc, Bengaluru.  The Story of China – A Portrait of a Civilisation and Its People Michael Wood Simon & Schuster  Rs. 699||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/tracking-the-china-of-yesterday-today-and-tomorrow/article33833390.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1 Born on February 14, 1483, this ruler traced his lineage back to both Timur and Genghis Khan, and in 1526 defeated Ibrahim Lodi to establish the Mughal Empire in India. He is celebrated to this day in Uzbekistan and Kyrgyzstan, where his poems have become folk songs. Who was this history-making ruler? 2 On February 14, 1779, this English explorer was killed when he attempted to kidnap and ransom the King of Hawaii. Before meeting this unfortunate end, he had made three historically significant voyages that were among the first to go around the world. His expert map-making skills ensured that the maps he produced were used well into the 20th century. Who was this explorer who inspired NASA to name their space shuttles Discovery and Endeavour in his honour? 3 On February 14, 1876, Elisha Gray, an American inventor, applied for a caveat announcing his intention to file a claim for a patent. He had been using liquid transmitters in his experiments for more than two years, and he alleged that another engineer stole the idea from him. That engineer’s lawyers submitted a hastily rewritten application, and he eventually got the patent. This led to that engineer being credited with an invention that went on to change the world. Who was this other inventor and what invention was Elisha Gray technically responsible for? 4 Born on February 14, 1972, Jaan Tallinn is an Estonian computer programmer. After doing a thesis on travelling interstellar distances using warps in space-time, he founded Bluemoon, which eventually became the hit game Skyroads. He then worked on a P2P program that became Kazaa, which led to his role in another project. This was one of the first major video-chat/ voice call applications, and at one time had over 600 million users. What was this product that was bought by Microsoft in 2011? 5 On February 14, 1924, Thomas J. Watson renamed his company, which until then had been the Computing-Tabulating-Recording Company (CTR). It dealt with employee time-keeping systems, punched cards and other equipment. Since then, it has become one of the most important technology companies in the world, and holds the record for the most U.S. patents generated by a business for 28 consecutive years. The new name is pretty much a description of what they deal with. What was CTR renamed as? 6 On February 14, 1929, this gentleman started to research common staphylococcal bacteria. He left an uncovered Petri dish near an open window and it became contaminated with mould. He realised the bacteria near the mould were dying, and isolated it. He found the mould to be effective against all Gram-positive pathogens. Who was he and what did he discover that made the world a safer place? 7 Born on February 14, 1933, as Mumtaz Jehan Begum Dehlavi, this actor had a career spanning two decades. She suffered from a cardiac issue since birth and succumbed to it aged 36. By then, she had appeared in 73 films and was known as the Marilyn Monroe (who also died at 36) of Bollywood. How better do we know this legendary actor? 8 On February 14, 1989, the first of 24 satellites responsible for a then revolutionary system was placed into orbit. Each one is placed in a specific orbit at a specific altitude to ensure that four or five satellites are always within range from any point on the planet. This allowed the technology to pick up signals and give the user extremely valuable information, especially for travellers at sea. What technology is this that is now available at the touch of a finger? 9 On February 14, 1990, this spacecraft completed its primary mission and was leaving the Solar System. The great astronomer Carl Sagan then requested NASA to turn the camera around and take a picture of our planet earth from six billion kilometres away. This picture of a tiny dot against the vastness of space became known as the ‘Pale Blue Dot’. Which craft gave us this picture that gives us goosebumps just thinking about it? 10 On February 14, 2005, this online platform was launched by a group of college students. It is now the second biggest search engine on the Internet, with people spending 2.9 billion hours per month on it. It is now the largest media sharing website in the world and a major source for viral content. What site is this that gave us cats dancing to polka music, Trump dancing to YMCA and a parrot singing Led Zeppelin? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article33833406.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Magic pens and witching words||Recently, I sent out a call on Instagram for suggestions on good pens for callused hands of deathly grip (mine!). Based on the many helpful suggestions received, I splurged on a dozen different pens and they appeared one by one like so many magic wands at my desk. And so, I sat one day, all day, to test them one by careful one for comfort, flow and ease. By evening, my calluses had a life of their own, my wrists hurt and I felt the force of each word as it appeared on the page in inky resplendence. I also experienced greater resonance between thought and action and felt, for once, that I had done an honest day’s work. Many have waxed eloquent about the relationship between writers, the physical act of writing and writing instruments. Maria Popova at Brain Pickings has, as ever, curated a beautiful set of thoughts and examples of those attached to marks on paper as “our most human trails of thought”. From her, I heard about how the late neurologist and science writer Oliver Sacks wrote exclusively by hand, considering the act “an indispensable form of talking to [oneself]”. I also vowed to pick up John Steinbeck’s Working Days: The Journals of The Grapes of Wrath for just this line, “Oh! Lord, how good this paper feels under this pen. I can sit here writing and the words slipping out like grapes out of their skins and I feel so good doing it.” Auratic habits The habits of famous writers feel almost auratic in some ways and show up regularly on my reading list. In one of my favorite books, A Moveable Feast , Hemingway writes, “The blue-backed notebooks, the two pencils and the pencil sharpener (a pocket knife was too wasteful), the marble-topped tables, the smell of early morning, sweeping out and mopping, and luck were all you needed.” Susan Sontag wrote with a felt-tip pen. My brilliant mentor and friend, the academic, translator and author Martha Selby, writes every day on college-ruled yellow legal pads with Stabilo Point 88s. The anthropologists would call my efforts to track these habits my own bid at sympathetic magic. In other words, these are desperate measures to have the brilliance of other minds rub off on me via their habits and writing instruments of choice. But for this magic to work, one also has to be caught up in the worlds of writers, and care about words. If one is instead of the kind to throw them around carelessly as abetted by our online worlds of much action and relentless speed, then we are all wont to perform not magic, but what the late anthropologist Neville Whitehead might call witchcraft. (Due apologies for the gendered implications of the word.) For the words that assault us and that we send out to assault others over social media feeds, chat windows and Instagram stories are unable to bear material witness to thought and thoughtfulness. I think about such things as I read the tweets and messages of armies of celebrities, trolls and professional rabble-rousers (or shall we say anti-protestors?) sent into the aether seeking to magically cancel the bodily work of protest. Perhaps we would see less of such if they had to find a pen with the right thickness of nib tip, fill the cartridge with ink, write legibly, find suitable stamps and send missives out by post. I get that many of you might find all of the above the ramblings of a nostalgic Luddite, but let me then also tell you that most of those that sent me suggestions of Baokes, Cellos, Pilots and Lamys were in the age bracket of 20-30. So ha! As a closing thought I want to speak about the Chicana cultural, feminist and queer theorist Gloria Anzaldúa, who in the posthumously published work Light in the Dark speaks about writing as “a gesture of the body”, a deeply inhabited, bodily felt and bodily grounded act. And much as I struggle to feel my body as I type furiously, one of the acts that does make me feel the breathing, hurting, longing, gripping body is that of putting pen to paper.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/magic-pens-and-witching-words/article33833414.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Love in the time of corona||Just a reminder. COVID rhymes with horrid, sordid, morbid ... and god forbid. And romantic often rhymes with idiotic. So, all you incurable romantics out there, it’s better to accept the reality of COVID-19 and the new abnormal in romantic relationships. Be careful how you demo your love this Valentine’s Day, or that heart-stopping moment you’ve experienced in previous V-Days may well be for real, in these times. We’ve all been raised on classic stories that show that lovers have coped with similar crises before — and have learnt to take it in their stride. Social distancing only made the heart go fonder — as Juliet kept a safe six-foot-plus distance on her balcony whenever Romeo came calling. Quarantining was great for Rapunzel — it helped her grow and grow her hair, and that enabled her knight in full body armour to visit her secretly at the end of 14 days. Hand-washing was an obsession with Lady Macbeth — she never stopped till every damned spot and virus was out, out of her hands. Wearing masks only enhanced the allure of several superheroes — though Batman would do well to cover his entire face, not just the top, considering the embarrassment that his own relative, a bat, may have started the pandemic. I hear that several beautiful fairy tales are being rewritten and redrawn. Even the title is being modified from Grimms Fairy Tales to Grim Fairy Tales. Cautious beauty Sleeping Beauty is the cautious beauty who goes to sleep only after putting on a mask after hearing from her pals that never sleep without protection — because who knows where the Prince has been for the past 100 years before he kisses her awake? Little Red Riding Hood (also called Little PPE) sets a good example by wearing Personal Protective Equipment while venturing out, even if it’s only her grandmother she’s visiting. Three Little Pigs are similarly well protected ahead of the wolf who comes calling: who knows what viruses will float about after he huffs and puffs? I have some tips I’d like to share with the romantically inclined who are on the prowl, looking for love.  The appropriate V-Day mask: don’t wear a boring blue surgical mask on this festive day. Look for one with red hearts all over, or big red lips right across. Wear a mask that makes a statement. And that statement is: “I am lonely and desperate for love. Please notice me.” Sending home-delivery flowers: beware of potential sweethearts falling in love with the messenger. As said earlier, with a mask, some people look like superheroes, and these are desperate times... Zoom-romancing: do worry about your sweetheart zooming in on things in your room you don’t want him or her to see. Like a week of leftover pizzas, and your new temporary romantic interest, accidentally walking past behind you. indubee8@yahoo.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/love-in-the-time-of-corona/article33833357.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The snail mail saga||The yellow postcard and blue inland letter were once an integral part of life. But they have lost their popularity, largely in urban India, after the invasion of e-mail and instant messaging, robbing us of the charm of writing on paper. If communication means in India have grown by leaps and bounds over the years and become hi-tech, the humble postcard and the inland letter have played striking and substantial roles in our earlier lives, carrying a personal touch and helping develop emotional bonds. They instantly evoke strong feelings of the iconic red postboxes that were once close to our hearts and stood majestically on the streets, promptly displaying the time of clearance of the letters. Most of us cannot forget that often we used to rush to the postbox in our street and hand over letters to the postal assistants when they take letters to the post office in a gunny bag. Years ago, my wife and I participated in a television contest through a postcard, which won us a grand prize. And when I shared our joy with our novelist uncle, he promptly wrote back on a postcard, congratulating us. Needless to say, we still preserve that postcard as a memorabilia. Communication these days may be swift, yet they remain lifeless. But a handwritten postcard can be preserved. The postman those days was considered an extended member of the family, the bridge between two ends, delivering letters, money orders and registered mails. If someone cannot read, he, with a little prodding and promise of a few rupees, would read out the letter. Many would have read about Bhim Bahadur Tamang who trudges through metres of snow at a height of 14,000 feet to deliver mails across the border pass of Nathu La in Sikkim. On a lazy Sunday afternoon, as I write a letter to my friend in New Delhi, my memories fly back to the good olden days of the postman, short in size, frequently knocking on our door with his familiar voice calling, “Sir, post.” siva19kumar@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-snail-mail-saga/article33833363.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Mamma Mia Khalifa!||Dear Agony Akka,  Yesterday, when I logged onto our home computer, which I share with my (just-retired) husband and college-going son, I got a shock. A series of pornographic images tumbled out of the photo cache. The browser history also pointed to searches for ‘Mia Khalifa’. Now, I can understand that hormonal young adults sometimes do get carried away, although I wish they would learn a bit of discretion. But I was still disturbed and was going to write to you to ask how I should handle it. Then I was struck by an even more disturbing thought: what if our in-house porn connoisseur is not our son , but my husband ? Can it be that at an age when he should be preparing for vanaprastham, he has gone rogue? How do I find out who the naughty boy in the family is? And how do I handle it? It’s clear that I have to have an honest “conversation” with somebody, but with whom? — Mrs. XXX  Dear Mrs. XXX,  Thepseudonymous name you’ve written under — XXX — gives a graphic hint of the extent of explicitness of the images you’ve unwittingly been exposed to. Mia Khalifa isn’t what one might call a classical porn queen, but in her time (some would say it’s still her time) she could get male hormones gushing with more careless abandon than even Kangana Ranaut’s Twitter outbursts are capable of. Evidently some of Mamma Mia’s old magic still lingers, perhaps across generations, as the insight into your home life suggests. But let’s break this down. I say this not to make light of your situation or — as the occasional letter from inflamed feminists hectors me — to “normalise male patriarchy”. But as personal as it is, your problem is not yours alone. In just the past 10 days, it has become India’s problem. Going by Google search trends, Mia Khalifa, the Lebanese-American adult video star, is enjoying a “breakout” moment in India. The number of searches on her name has exceeded searches on Modi’s name, for instance, by three to one. (If it’s any consolation to you, a lot of IT cell managers are rather more distressed by this than you are.) So many households across India are waking up to the passions that can be roused by even so demure a vestment as the hijab . This eruption of interest in Mia memsaab among Indians came about, of course, after she posted social media messages of support for the protesting farmers (backed, as you know, by a few unemployed andolan jivi s). In other parts of the world, though, the learning flowed in the opposite direction: people who were already familiar with Mia’s high art learnt of the farmers’ protests for the first time. In that sense, she’s been truly educational. You could make that the starting point of your ‘investigation’. There are, of course, simple computer forensics methods of figuring out who’s been naughty, but I’d recommend another approach. Over dinner tonight, you could casually ask: “What is this I hear about a ‘foreign disruptive ideology’ to defame India over the farmers’ protests?” Observe both father and son to see which of them turns a beetroot shade when you bring up Mia Khalifa’s name. A woman’s instinct should let you figure out which of them is acting more shifty. For your sake, I hope it’s your son. Even in a world where the Pope’s official Instagram account ended up ‘liking’ pictures of skimpily clad models — twice in a matter of weeks — there’s something perverse not so much about a man in his 60s slyly looking up porn but his not knowing how to cover his tracks. (At least the Pope has an alibi: he doesn’t directly handle his social media accounts.) As for you, woman, get yourself a content filter software for your shared computer! You can’t cut off your boys’ access to salacious material, but at least it needn’t come into your orbit. — AA  agony.akka@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/mamma-mia-khalifa/article33833404.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||What’s the rush?||North would have made a control bid in spades if he could, so his jump to five diamonds must have been based on good trumps plus something in clubs. What else could he have? At least that is what South was thinking when he bid the grand slam. South ruffed the opening spade lead and drew trumps in three rounds. He then cashed the ace of clubs and led a club to dummy’s queen. He only had one trump left in dummy, so he could not ruff both a club and a heart and he drifted down one. South did run into some bad luck, but he should have done better. Can you spot how? Declarer should not have been in such a rush to start on clubs. What would it hurt to cash the ace and king of hearts and ruff a heart first? It would have given him a complete count on the hand. West would be known to have started with exactly two hearts and one diamond to go with his presumed six-card spade suit. West had to have four clubs! South could then cash the ace of clubs and confidently lead a club to dummy’s 10, bringing home his grand slam. Not so hard, was it?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/whats-the-rush/article33833409.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Lessons for a pandemic||“A lot of good work comes out of professors in Ahmedabad, Sir,” said MP Derek O’Brien in the Rajya Sabha on February 4, 2021. He was referring to a book on migration by IIM-Ahmedabad professor Chinmay Tumbe. That was Tumbe’s first book. His second is a remarkable history of disease outbreak between 1817 and 1920 over 200 pages. The project began with a question his eight-year-old son posed. The author was struck that the little boy, attempting to make sense of his world, already knew the word “pandemic”. In the century that this book covers, it is estimated that 40 million people in India died in three waves of pandemics — cholera, plague and influenza. Over 70 million died across the world. The epicentre India remained the epicentre of these outbreaks. Despite this, The Age of Pandemics is not steeped in historical records. His description of the influenza pandemic in India in 1918 stands out. While much has changed in 100 years, much still remains the same. The September 1919 issue of the Indian Medical Gazette carried an article by the commanding officer of the British Station Hospital in Calcutta, explaining the importance of eating healthy and getting enough exercise. Tumbe quotes: “Here I would like to discuss the value of the mask in the prevention of influenza... First of all, it cannot be worn at all times... Secondly, Leonard Hill’s researches show that the wearing of a mask is against the natural defensive mechanism of the mucous membrane of the respiratory tract... The warm moist atmosphere generated by wearing a mask is against this natural washing and immunizing defence.” Norman White, the colonial government’s sanitation commissioner, also noted the importance of diet: “Malnutrition did appear to be a factor of importance in determining a fatal issue. No drugs appear to have any specific curative value but given nourishing food in a readily assimilable form, and care and attention, it was surprising what apparently desperate cases ultimately recovered.” This is the sort of report the pharmaceutical industry would not easily allow authorities to write 100 years later, as the world deals with COVID-19. Public finances, health, agriculture, all came under scrutiny in colonial India too, a century ago, during the outbreak of the influenza pandemic which claimed 20 million lives. A speech by K.V. Rangaswamy Aiyyangar, Indian representative in the colonial legislative assembly in 1919, is quoted: “That the richest of agricultural countries should not be able to feed its own population is an irony of fate, a parallel to which would be hard to find. A slight delay in monsoon drives the people to death. And when is the government going to save and protect the population by prohibiting the export of foodstuffs?” A century ago, the colonial government, dealing with World War I, was sending food produced in India to troops abroad, keeping Indians famished and vulnerable to the pandemic; in 2018, Union commerce minister Suresh Prabhu announced that the government was aiming to double agricultural export to $60 billion by 2022. The FAO’s ‘State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2020’ report showed that over 189 million Indians were undernourished; that’s 15% of the country’s total population. More than half of women in the reproductive age range are anaemic, even as the government plans to boost export of agricultural produce. It’s striking how little we learn from history. There are nuggets strewn across this book that come as flashes of insight: Disposal of bodies had become a problem during the influenza outbreak. In Kumaon, bodies were thrown into the jungle. Tumbe quotes Jim Corbett, who held that this was what caused leopards to develop a taste for human flesh.  The Age of Pandemics Chinmay Tumbe HarperCollins  Rs. 599||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/lessons-for-a-pandemic/article33833386.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption||Stephen King  Hodder & Stoughton Rs. 350 Shawshank Redemptionbecame one of the most watched movies last year, perhaps because of its theme of unjust imprisonment and escape. The iconic novella was originally published in a collection in 1982. It is published as a standalone novel in this new edition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/rita-hayworth-and-shawshank-redemption/article33833370.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Only the Good Die Young||Akash Verma  Penguin Metro Reads Rs. 199 In this sequel toYou Never Know, Anuradha leaves Gurgaon when Dhruv chooses his family over her. She settles down in Mumbai thinking that the Dhruv chapter of her life is over. Then Dhruv comes back suddenly and horrible things start happening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/only-the-good-die-young/article33833378.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The Two Lost Mountains||Matthew Reilly  Orion Rs. 699 In this new instalment of the Jack West thrillers, West is still reeling from the loss which followed his discovery of the Three Secret Cities. But he must go back to one of the five iron mountains and perform a mysterious feat. Then a new player — a much-feared general — enters the race.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-two-lost-mountains/article33833380.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Sambhaji||Vishwas Patil, trs Vikrant Pande  Eka Rs. 899 Valorous, wise and with all the makings of a capable statesman, Shivaji’s eldest son, Sambhaji, is the true heir. But there are internal forces working against him. When Shivaji dies unexpectedly, it is time for Sambhaji to rise to the challenge. He must now fight Aurangzeb.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sambhaji/article33833382.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Susegad: The Goan Art of Contentment||Clyde D’Souza  Ebury Press/PRH  Rs. 399 For readers of Ikigai and Hygge comes a book on ‘Susegad’, a Konkani word used to convey the sense of contentment everyone associates with Goa. Through interviews, music and architecture, the writer showcases a Goan way of life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/susegad-the-goan-art-of-contentment/article33833392.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Indus Basin Uninterrupted||Uttam Kumar Sinha  Vintage/PRH  Rs. 799 On the 60th year of the Indus Water Treaty on the sharing of waters by India and Pakistan, this volume brings alive a meandering journey of peace, conflict and commerce on the Indus basin. Sinha talks about political identities, social churning and economic returns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/indus-basin-uninterrupted/article33833394.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Beyond COVID’s Shadow||Edited by Sanjaya Baru  Rupa  Rs. 595 The Indian economy was already dealing with a growth challenge when COVID-19 struck. A severe lockdown imposed in March last year led to a drastic contraction in economic activity. A host of eminent writers looks at the impact of the pandemic on growth and development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/beyond-covids-shadow/article33833396.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Farmers and Fresno||After Rihanna, Greta Thunberg and other international celebrities tweeted in support of the farmers’ protest, the Super Bowl aired a 30-second commercial on the agitation, which it described as the “largest protest in history”. Funded by the Sikh community of Fresno, California, the ad begins with a quote from Martin Luther King: “Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/farmers-and-fresno/article33833337.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Raid condemned||The ED raidedNewsClick, an independent news website, on charges of alleged money laundering. The Editors Guild of India, Press Club of India (PCI), and the Committee to Protect Journalists condemned the raids. PCI called it a bid to intimidate critical journalism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/raid-condemned/article33833339.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Arrests stayed||TheSupreme Court stayed the arrests of the MP, Shashi Tharoor, and several senior journalists for their tweets during the Republic Day violence in Delhi. The police had charged them for tweets that quoted farmers’ claims that protester Navreet Singh had died in police firing.The Court said it would hear the matter in two weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/arrests-stayed/article33833341.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Flash flood||At least 34 people were confirmed dead and 170 reported missing as a result of a flash flood in Uttarakhand. In a major disaster, a part of the Nanda Devi glacier broke away, causing the Rishiganga and Dhauliganga rivers to flood. A dam was completely washed away and two hydropower projects were severely impacted. Efforts were ongoing to rescue about 35 workers trapped in a tunnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/flash-flood/article33833343.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Myanmar uprising||Massive protests erupted in Myanmar against the recent military coup in which the elected government was overthrown and civilian leaders including State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi and President Win Myint imprisoned. The police responded violently, with rubber bullets and water cannons, but tens of thousands of protesters continued to take to the streets. U.S. President Joe Biden ordered sanctions against the military.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/myanmar-uprising/article33833345.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Second trial||Former President Donald Trump’s second impeachment trial in the U.S. Senate began with recordings of Trump riling up his followers on January 6, followed by their subsequent assault on the Capitol. The footage showed rioters declaring their intent to harm politicians including Vice President Mike Pence and Speaker Nancy Pelosi, and the narrow escapes of some. The Senate voted to go on with the trial, but a conviction is unlikely.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/second-trial/article33833347.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||COVID’s origins||It is “extremely unlikely” that the novel coronavirus leaked from a lab in Wuhan, said Peter Ben Embarek, a WHO scientist who led an expert team that visited the city, dismissing conspiracy theories. “Our initial findings suggest that the introduction through an intermediary host species is the most likely pathway,” he said. The virus was first detected in Wuhan and has since affected more than 106 million people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/covids-origins/article33833349.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Hacked||Rona Wilson, one of 16 activists detained for the Bhima Koregaon case, moved to quash the case against him, submitting a report by digital forensics firm Arsenal Consulting, which found that a hacker had placed incriminating letters in his computer implicating Wilson in a plot against the Prime Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/hacked/article33833351.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Border cool-down||Amid ongoing talks, India and China agreed to withdraw some forces in eastern Ladakh to pre-April 2020 positions. Chinese troops will vacate the Finger area on the north shore of Pangong Tso, while Indian forces will withdraw from their positions on the southern side.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/border-cool-down/article33833353.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Twitter war||After the Centre asked Twitter to remove nearly 1,200 accounts backing the farmers’ protest, the microblogging platform suspended over 500 accounts but left others up. In a blog post, Twitter said: “In keeping with our principles of defending protected speech and freedom of expression, we have not taken any action on accounts of news media entities, journalists, activists, and politicians.” The Centre expressed “deep disappointment”. Many supporters said they would move to Koo (above), an Indian microblogging site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/twitter-war/article33833355.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The Bengal Conundrum||Sambit Pal  Bloomsbury  Rs. 799 What explains the rise of the BJP in West Bengal? Why is a State, which was the citadel of Left power for over three decades, seeing a shift to the Right? A journalist pieces together the politics of a State on the cusp of Assembly elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-bengal-conundrum/article33833384.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Sunday RECIPE||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sunday-recipe/article33833335.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||With two vaccines already approved, can placebos be used in trials?||On February 3, 2021, the Subject Expert Committee of the Indian drug regulator approved Pune-based Serum Institute to conduct a phase-2/3 trial of CovoVax COVID-19 vaccine that was originally developed by Novavax Inc. headquartered in the U.S. Novavax’s vaccine was found to have over 89% efficacy in a phase-3 trial carried out in the U.K. In mid-January Dr. Reddy’s lab was allowed to carry out a phase-3 trial of Sputnik V vaccine. There are other vaccines which too will begin human clinical trials in India. In both cases, the SEC allowed the vaccine manufacturers to use a placebo in the control arm even as two vaccines – Covishield and Covaxin – have been granted restricted use approval. Though the two vaccines have only a restricted use approval, is it correct to test the efficacy of new COVID-19 vaccines by comparing them with a placebo and not use either Covishield or Covaxin in the control arm? “There are two ways to think about this,” Dr. Gagandeep Kang, Professor of Microbiology at CMC Vellore says in an email to The Hindu. “Usually, ‘restricted use’ or ‘emergency use’ is not considered as equivalent to licensure. Taking a regulatory point of view, if a product is not licensed and available for use, then the availability of a product for ‘restricted use’ does not preclude any standard study design, including the use of placebo.” Dr. Kang then adds: “We can also think about this from an ethical perspective. All persons in a control arm should receive, at a minimum, the standard of care. If the vaccine under ‘restricted use’ is considered the standard of care, then all controls will need to be given the ‘restricted use’ vaccine.” Dr. Anant Bhan, a Bhopal-based researcher in global health and bioethics, says in an email: “The regulator should have specified their criteria for allowing placebo-controlled trials to still be given permissions, and whether a revised standard of care will only apply when full licensure is given (and not just approved for restricted use). It circles back to the need for more transparency and clear detailed justifications with regards to regulatory decisions in the country.” No clear guidance But at the moment, we do not have any written guidance on the path that will be taken by the regulatory authorities, says Dr. Kang. But in the case of CovoVax, the drug regulator has allowed Serum Institute to use a placebo under the condition that the participants randomised to the placebo arm could be unblinded 60 days after the second dose upon request of the participant and offered the candidate vaccine. “Ethically, all clinical trial participants, both in the current trials and future studies have to be informed about the availability of vaccines for priority populations in the country after restricted use approval from the regulator,” emphasises Dr. Bhan. “What would be the ethical obligation to minimise risk in those receiving a placebo? What kind of information would be provided to them so that they make an informed decision about participation?” Dr. Kang sees one more reason why the drug regulator might not be wrong in allowing companies to use a placebo in the control group. “When the standard of care is available only to a section of the population, the ‘priority groups’ at the moment, then it is not standard of care for the rest of the population. Therefore, it is ethical to continue with a placebo in the population outside the priority groups, as long as that non-priority status is maintained,” she explains. Dr. Kang highlights further subtleties in this: “If the regulators had insisted on using any of the restricted use vaccines, that would create another complication — how would the company with the new vaccine get access to the ‘restricted use’ vaccine since it is not approved for sale in the open market?” she wonders. Difficult to recruit While the U.S., with less than one-fourth of India’s population, conducted at least six clinical trials with more than 30,000 participants each, Bharat Biotech faced difficulty in recruiting nearly 26,000 participants for the phase-3 trial of Covaxin. The use of a placebo in the control arm might make volunteer recruitment even more difficult especially when vaccination of the remaining priority groups — those older than 50 years, and younger people with comorbidities — begins soon. Given the larger sample size requirements when an approved vaccine is used in the control arm, and also because the concerns around seriousness of COVID-19 seems to have gone down in public perception given the falling number of COVID-19 cases in India, recruitment of the numbers required could be challenging. These trials could also take longer and be costlier, Dr, Bhan says. “I think volunteer recruitment might become more difficult unless younger people, who stand no chance of getting a vaccine in the near future, opt in,” says virologist Dr. Shahid Jameel Director of the Trivedi School of Biosciences at Ashoka University. “But that would raise the issue of the vaccine trial population skewed towards a younger population. Since younger people predominantly get asymptomatic infection, they may also not volunteer.” Role of communication Acknowledging the challenges faced by vaccine companies in recruiting volunteers even before restricted use approval was granted to the two vaccines, Dr. Kang is optimistic that volunteer recruitment is not insurmountable. “I think recruitment of volunteers is always about clear communication. With the right kind of communication, a lot of people are willing to participate in advancing science, as long as they understand the study process, risk and benefit and know that the study staff are always available to them,” she says. Testing the efficacy of a new vaccine by comparing it with an already approved vaccine in the control arm is called a non-inferiority trial. “If a comparator is to be used among vaccines with restricted use approval, it should be ideally the vaccine for which safety, immunogenicity and efficacy data is available, at least globally, if not in India,” says Dr. Bhan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/with-two-vaccines-already-approved-can-placebos-be-used-in-trials/article33833530.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Detailed genome map of malaria vector||Scientists have unveiled the detailed genome of the malaria mosquito vector, revealing thousands of new genes vital for the development of genetic control strategies of disease transmission. The researchers included those from Tata Institute for Genetics and Society (TIGS), and Institute of Bioinformatics and Applied Biotechnology, both in Bengaluru. In order to engineer advanced forms of defence against malaria transmission, including targeted CRISPR and gene drive–based strategies, scientists require intricate knowledge of the genomes of vector mosquitoes. CRISPR technology is a gene-editing tool which allows researchers to easily alter DNA sequences and modify gene function. Mahul Chakraborty, a project scientist at the University of California, Irvine (UCI) in the U.S. and colleagues produced a new reference genome for the Asian malaria vector mosquito Anopheles stephensi.  With the newly upgraded Anopheles stephensi genome, the team unearthed more than 3,000 genes that previously evaded scrutiny and which offer fresh gene-drive targets, play key roles in blood feeding and the metabolism of ingested blood meal, reproduction and immunity against microbial parasites. The research was published in BMC Biology.  “This reference genome and its excellent quality should help malaria biologists in India and the rest of the world, particularly in view of the national goal of malaria elimination in India by 2030,” said TIGS Global Director Suresh Subramani, a distinguished professor in the Division of Biological Sciences at UC San Diego. The discoveries include 29 formerly undetected genes that play crucial roles in resistance to chemical insecticides, a development that can help address the growing Asian and African An. stephensi populations with insecticide-resistant mutations, the researchers said.The findings also offer clues suggesting that the molecular basis of insecticide resistance may differ between sexes, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/detailed-genome-map-of-malaria-vector/article33833517.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Nanophotonics: Hyderabad scientists manipulate tiny crystals||Crystals are normally rigid, stiff structures, but researchers from University of Hyderabad have shown how crystals can be sliced and even bent using atomic force microscopy. Manipulating them with precision and control comes in very useful in the field of nanophotonics, a qualitative, emerging field where the aim is to go beyond electronics and build up circuits driven entirely by photons (light). If the technique can be successfully developed, this can achieve an unprecedented level of miniaturisation and pave the way to all-optical-technology such as pliable, wearable devices operated by light entirely. Bending light path Light, when left to itself moves along straight paths, so it is crucial to develop materials and technology that can cause its path to bend along what is required in the circuits. This is like using fibre optics, but at the nanoscale level using organic crystals. The Hyderabad group has demonstrated how such crystals can be lifted, bent, moved, transferred and sliced using atomic force microscopy. They add a crucial piece to the jigsaw puzzle of building an “organic photonic integrated circuit” or OPIC. Generally, millimetre- to centimetre-long crystals were bent using hand-held tweezers. This method lacks precision and control. Also, the crystals used were larger than what was required for miniaturisation. In 2014, for the first time, the group led by Rajadurai Chandrasekar of the Functional Molecular Nano/Micro Solids Laboratory in the School of Chemistry of University of Hyderabad, demonstrated that tiny crystals could be lifted and moved with precision and control using atomic force microscopy. They published the results in Angewandte Chemie. “We figured out that the atomic force microscopy (AFM) cantilever tip could be used to lift a crystal, as crystals tend to stick to the tip due to tip–crystal attractive forces. Subsequently, we demonstrated the real waveguiding character of the crystal lifted with a cantilever tip,” explains Prof. Chandrasekar in an email to The Hindu.  Microresonators Recently, the group has extended the atomic force microscopy technique to deliberately move, bend, slice or cleave and transfer (from one substrate to another) micro-sized waveguiding crystals, and the results were published in Angewandte Chemie. Not stopping with this, they have also shown how other crucial elements needed for nanophotonics can be developed using this technique. “Not only crystals but also polymer microcavities or microresonators (light-trapping elements) can be precisely manipulated to create photonic structures,” says Prof. Chandrasekar. The researchers have named this technique “mechanophotonics” as this method can be used to generate the basic elements needed to build up a photonic integrated circuit. Usually photonic integrated circuits are made using silicon, silicon-based and metallic materials using electron beam lithography. This group on the other hand uses organic materials and atomic force microscopy to manipulate them. The research collaboration extends to several countries: Germany, UAE, Spain and India. As Prof. Chandrasekar explains: “We receive the macro-sized samples from our collaborators, we grow microcrystals suitable for mechanical manipulation with atomic force microscopy, and investigate the photonic properties in our Hyderabad lab. We have also been making these crystals in our labs.” The field is in its infancy and the results are qualitative. The group next plans to fabricate high-density photonic circuits using organic passive, active and energy-transfer mechanisms. “We believe that this futuristic area will gain momentum with the arrival of new molecular materials with exciting mechanical and optical attributes and improvement of the micro-spectroscopy techniques,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/nanophotonics-hyderabad-scientists-manipulate-tiny-crystals/article33833523.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Plumbing the ‘dark’ genome for new genes||On June 26, 2000, former U.S. President, Bill Clinton, announced the completion of a draft sequence of the human genome, a historic landmark for genetic research. The Human Genome Project helped map our genes, strengthened the study of human diseases and aided new drug discovery. But even after two decades, the number of ‘known’ genes – encoding around 20,000 ‘known’ proteins - has remained constant. It is also a conundrum why only 1.5% of the entire human genome codes for proteins. A team from the University of Cambridge set out to find whether new genes emerge in the genome of living organisms, and if they do, how they do so.  In the last seven years, the team extensively studied the human genome and has now catalogued 1,94,000 novel regions. The results were published in Genome Research.  Novel regions “These ‘novel’ genomic regions cannot be defined by our current ‘definition’ of a gene. Hence, we call these novel regions – novel Open Reading Frames or as nORFs. We show that the mutations in nORFs do have physiological consequences and a majority of mutations that are often annotated as benign have to be re-interpreted,” explains lead author Sudhakaran Prabakaran from the Laboratory of Noncoding genome and Data Science at the University. When asked why we weren’t able to see or find these regions earlier, he added that in the last 10 years new technologies have helped look at the entire gene better. “For example, if you were to look at a mountain range from the top, you will only see the peaks. But as the resolution of the technology improves, you will see things that are present in the lower peaks and you can see the valleys. So, new genomic and proteomic technologies, algorithms have enabled us to see the complete landscape of everything that is being made from the human genome,” he explains. Connected to disease The team found that these regions are also broadly involved in diseases. The nORFs were seen as dysregulated in 22 cancer types. Dysregulated is a term which means that they could either be mutated, upregulated, or downregulated, or they could be uniquely present. A paper published last month by the team in npj Genomic Medicine noted that these regions were uniquely present in the cancer tissues and not present in the control tissue. They found that some nORF disruptions strongly correlated with the survival of patients. “More importantly, we show that nORFs proteins can form structures, can undergo biochemical regulation like known proteins and be targeted by drugs in case they are disrupted in diseases,” adds Dr. Prabakaran. The researchers also identified these nORFs in Plasmodium falciparum, the parasite which causes the deadliest form of malaria. The results were published last week in Malaria Journal.  This shows that there is an urgent need to redesign our existing drugs that target only the known proteins in the parasite.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/plumbing-the-dark-genome-for-new-genes/article33833516.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Elephant tail||Can tail hair reveal stress levels in elephants? The tuft of hair at the end of an elephant’s tail helps as a fly swatter to protect itself from insect bites. Researchers have now found that elephant tail hair can be used to study the health of elephants. In a paper published in a journal (PeerJ), researchers show that the tail hair can be used to assess stress in the life of the animal. The tail hair growth rate and levels of immunoreactive cortisol in hair (hC) were studied. The cortisol hormone has been previously studied in various animals to decode the ‘stressful’ past-events. Hair cortisol levels are considered to be an effective measure to understand the cumulative concentrations of systemic cortisol exposure over a longer period. The cortisol from the blood is assumed to enter the hair through passive diffusion from capillaries. It is also speculated that cortisol produced locally or contamination through sebaceous and sweat glands may contribute to hair cortisol levels. The tail hair samples from six captive Asian elephants from two zoos in Japan were studied and compared with the daily behavioural health records maintained by the zookeepers. The paper notes that these ‘observations open up the possibility of using the tail-hair as an alternative matrix to reconstruct the physiological history of elephants’. The team writes that by studying these hormones and other biomarkers in hair we can assess how various captive conditions such as housing, grouping, diet, disease have affected the animal. ‘Further, analysing hair cortisol levels along with other biomarkers (such as reproductive hormones) can facilitate more meaningful biological interpretations of an animal’s life’, concludes the paper.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/elephant-tail/article33833521.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Water vapour emanating from Mars||Researchers observed water vapour in the thin atmosphere of Mars, offering new clues as to whether it could have once hosted life. The traces of ancient valleys and river channels suggest liquid water once flowed across its surface. Today, the water is mostly locked up as ice. But some of it is vaporising, in the form of hydrogen leaking from the atmosphere, according to the study published in the journal Science Advances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/water-vapour-emanating-from-mars/article33833519.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Spotlight on dams after Chamoli disaster||The story so far: A snow avalanche triggered possibly by a landslide caused a flash flood in the Rishi Ganga river, a tributary of the Alaknanda in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand, on a sunny morning on February 7, washing away a functional small hydroelectric project and destroying the under-construction 520 MW Tapovan Vishnugad project of the NTPC on the Dhauli Ganga river. The death toll from the disaster was 38 as of Friday. Rescue teams were straining to locate scores of people who remained missing. These were mostly workers in the two power projects, besides some local residents. Why did it happen? Union Home Minister Amit Shah told Parliament that satellite imagery from Planet Labs indicated that the landslide-avalanche event at an altitude of 5,600 metres occurred in a glacier in the Rishi Ganga catchment, and covered an area of 14 sq. km, causing the flood. In the initial rescue, 12 people trapped in a tunnel in the NTPC project and 15 from the Rishi Ganga project were saved. While a fuller picture of the loss of life and destruction will emerge only after rescue operation and inquiry is complete, the disaster that struck Chamoli has turned the spotlight on several ongoing dam-based hydroelectric projects, rampant road building, tree felling for projects, and also construction practices in the State. Why is the Chamoli incident of concern? Uttarakhand, which gained a distinct identity in the year 2000 as a separate State carved out from Uttar Pradesh, is geologically unique. As a part of the lesser Himalaya, in the populated terrane — a region bounded by earth faults — it remains active in terms of deep movement of rock assemblages. In an article in Current Scien ce in 2014, geologist K.S. Valdiya pointed to the fragility of the entire landscape from a geological point of view: “As the northward moving peninsular India presses on, the lesser Himalaya rock assemblages are compressed and are pushed under the huge pile of the Great Himalayan rocks, the latter riding southwards onto and over the lesser Himalaya. The movement has been going on since the MCT [the Main Central Thrust] was formed 20-22 million years ago.” The MCT, running east-west along the Himalaya, is where the Indian and Eurasian plates connect. The result of these geological stresses, scientists say, is weakening of rocks, making the development of large dam projects in the region unwise. There are several researchers who refer to other characteristics that call into question the wisdom of committing vast resources to large dam-building in Uttarakhand. A key concern is the active nature of rock fractures, known as faults, which respond to earthquakes, creating enormous instability, especially along slopes. In an assessment of the proposed 315-metre-high India-Nepal Pancheshwar dam project across the Kali river in the Kumaon region, with a drainage area of 12,000 sq. km, Shubhra Sharma and colleagues wrote inCurrent Sciencein 2019 that the chosen site could witness a strong earthquake in the Nepal area from the Rangunkhola Fault, perhaps of a magnitude of 7.4, with a potentially serious fallout. Prof. Valdiya, who advocated small low-impact dams of less than 5 megawatts as an alternative, pointed out that investigations done along rivers Kali, Darma, Gori, Western Dhauli, Alaknanda, Mandakini and Bhagirathi, which offer the bounty of hydropower, have been found to be tectonically active in recent times across the area of the MCT. In fact, many locations in a 50-km area within the MCT zone have witnessed several earthquakes of varying intensity, including those with magnitudes of over 5. Although dam builders assert that their structures can withstand even high-intensity earthquakes, researchers say lessons from large structures, such as the Tehri dam, should also be studied, since there are concerns about induced seismic effects caused by the repeated filling and emptying of the reservoir, which may be deforming the area around the young dam. Moreover, the geology of mountains in many parts of Uttarakhand is such that the threat of landslides is high. Rocks here have been weakened by natural processes across time and are vulnerable to intense rainfall as well as human interference, in the form of house-building and road construction. The careless disposal of enormous debris from mining and construction projects has added to the problem, blocking flow paths and providing additional debris. In fact, researchers from IIT Roorkee writing in theIndian Geotechnical Journal (2018)estimate that various tourist locations such as Gopeshwar, Joshimath, and Badrinath fall within high-hazard and very high-hazard zones for landslides, as does Chamoli town, calling for preventive and protective measures. Should Uttarakhand worry about the effects of climate change? The IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) Special Report on the Ocean and Cryosphere in a Changing Climate found that in the Himalayan ranges, there could be variations in overall water availability, but floods, avalanches and landslides were all forecast to increase. Changes in monsoonal precipitation could also bring more frequent disasters. In 2013, catastrophic loss of lives was seen in the floods that swept Kedarnath. They were triggered by heavy rainfall over a short period in June, first destroying a river training wall, and then triggering a landslide that led to the breaching of the Chorabari moraine-dammed lake, devastating Kedarnath town. What this means is that aberrations in the Indian summer monsoon caused by changes to long-term climate could produce even greater damage, by bringing debris and silt down the river courses, destroying physical structures, reducing dam life, and causing enormous losses. These problems are also aggravated by the erosion of mountain slopes and the instability of glacial lakes in upper elevations. On the other hand, as the IPCC Special Report points out, the retreat of glaciers in the high mountains has produced a different kind of loss — of aesthetic and cultural values, declines in tourism and local agriculture. Are expensive hydroelectric projects worth the investment today? In reply to a question in the Lok Sabha in September 2020, the Power Ministry stated that in the 25 MW-plus category, there are projects with a combined capacity of 12,973.50 MW under installation. Of this, eight projects totalling 2,490 MW are in Uttarakhand, most of them by the Central government. The Ministry describes this source of power as “highly capital-intensive” but without recurring cost, renewable and cheaper compared to coal and gas plants. But a response it gave earlier this month in the Lok Sabha indicates that it has been offering incentives since March 2019 to make hydropower attractive. These include classification of large hydropower projects as Renewable Energy sources, creating a separate category for hydropower  within Non-Solar Renewable Purchase Obligation, tariff rationalisation to bring down tariff, and budgetary support for putting up enabling infrastructure such as roads and bridges. The International Renewable Energy Agency estimated that in 2019, the average levelised cost of electricity in India was $0.060 per kilowatt-hour (kWh) for small hydropower projects added over the last decade. In comparison, the global cost for solar power was $0.068 per kWh in 2019 for utility-scale projects. Though hydropower has been reliable where suitable dam capacity exists, in places such as Uttarakhand, the net benefit of big dams is controversial because of the collateral and unquantified damage in terms of loss of lives, livelihoods and destruction of ecology. Chipko movement activist Sunderlal Bahuguna argued that large dams with an expected life of about 100 years, that involve deforestation and destruction, massively and permanently alter the character and health of the hills.  The result of geological stresses, scientists say, is weakening of rocks, making the location of large dam projects in the region unwise. Large dams, according to environmentalists, will alter the ‘health of the hills’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/spotlight-on-dams-after-chamoli-disaster/article33833443.ece
14 February 2021||New Delhi,||Farmer unions for judicial inquiry into R-Day violence, ‘false’ cases||Protesting farmer unions on Saturday demanded a high-level judicial inquiry into the violence during the tractor rally in Delhi on January 26 and the alleged ‘false’ cases slapped on the protesters. Addressing a press conference at the Singhu border, Samyukt Kisan Morcha leaders asked farmers who are getting police notices not to appear before the force directly and instead approach the legal cell constituted by the unions for any assistance. Kuldeep Singh, a member of SKM’s legal cell, said that a retired judge of the Supreme Court or High Court should probe the incidents to unravel the “conspiracy” behind the January 26 violence and the alleged “false cases” against the farmers. According to SKM leaders, 16 farmers who had participated in the tractor parade are still untraceable. In the Republic Day violence, over 500 police personnel had been injured, while a protester had died. At the press conference, another leader Ravinder Singh said that 122 farmers had so far been arrested by Delhi Police in connection with 14 of the 44 FIRs, adding that the SKM will provide legal and financial aid to all the arrested farmers. The Morcha leaders claimed that “false” cases were being slapped on farmers charging them with serious offences like dacoity and attempt to murder to “harass” them. “Ten farmers have been granted bail so far and five bail applications have been filed. Priority is being given to those farmers who are not booked under Section 307 of the IPC or other serious offences,” the SKM said in a statement later. Provide expenses Mr. Singh said that the Morcha will provide Rs. 2,000 to every arrested farmer for spending in the prison canteen. A legal team of SKM had on Friday visited the Tihar jail where 112 farmers were currently lodged, he said. Appeal to AAP leader The union leaders have requested Delhi Jal Board vice-chairman and senior Aam Aadmi Party leader Raghav Chadha to ensure that farmers are kept in one jail. In the statement, the SKM demanded that its legal panel be allowed to meet the arrested farmers without any restrictions and its monetary help be disbursed to them. “The SKM legal panel has strongly condemned the Delhi government and the police for issuing notice under Section 160 CrPC to the farmers in order to rope them in false cases,” it stated. Under this section, an investigating officer, by order in writing, can direct any person to present before him or her if it appears appears that the person is acquainted with the facts and circumstances of the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/farmer-unions-for-judicial-inquiry-into-r-day-violence-false-cases/article33833760.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Probing the origins of the COVID-19 pandemic||The story so far: After several months of delay, concerns over access, and bickering between China and the U.S., a 17-member team from the World Health Organization began a field visit on January 29, 2021, to unearth the origin of the SARS-CoV-2 virus that has so far spread to over 108 million people and killed nearly 2.4 million people across the globe. According to the WHO, thefield visits includedthe Wuhan Institute of Virology, the Huanan market, and the Wuhan CDC (Center for Disease Control and Prevention) laboratory. It said the team was “limited to visits organised by Chinese hosts and had no contact with community members, because of health restrictions”, Reuters reported. What are the four scenarios of virus origin that were investigated? The WHO team undertook scientific investigations to look at four main scenarios for the origin of the virus. The first possibility is that a single individual had got infected with the virus through direct contact with bats and then spread it to others before the virus made its way to Wuhan. The second scenario is of the virus crossing the species barrier from bats to humans through an intermediary species, which has still not been found. The third possibility is that the virus originated outside China and spread to Wuhan through imported frozen food, and the last scenario is that the virus leaked from the Wuhan Institute of Virology, which has been studying coronaviruses. When and where did the outbreak begin in China? Though the first cluster of cases was reported from Wuhan in December, early data suggest that the virus could have been circulating in the Chinese city for several weeks before it was identified. According to the WHO, there have not been any large-scale outbreaks in the Chinese city or outside before December 2019. But the team has not ruled out the possibility of the virus circulating in other regions well before December 2019. What role did the Huanan wet market play? Though the first cluster of cases reported in Wuhan had links to the wet market, it soon became apparent that several infected people did not have any link to it. There is not enough evidence to determine how the virus entered the wet market, but there are two likely possibilities — the virus was introduced into the market either through one or more infected people or through frozen food. Has the possibility of a lab-leak been ruled out? The WHO fact-finding team had initially rejected the possibility of a lab-leak saying it is “extremely unlikely” and that further investigation into it was not required. However, at apress briefingon February 12, WHO Chief Tedros A. Ghebreyesus appeared to back-pedal, saying that upon discussing with a few team members “all hypotheses [including the lab-leak] remain open and require further analysis and studies”. Did the virus directly jump from bats to humans? The investigation by the WHO team strongly suggests that though bats were the reservoirs of the virus, it is unlikely that the virus jumped directly from bats to humans. The virus may have crossed from bats to another animal species and finally to humans. The direct spillover of the virus from bats to humans is unlikely as Wuhan is miles away from any natural bat habitat. The team has not been able to find the intermediary host. The role of an intermediary host gains currency as previous coronavirus outbreaks — SARS (severe acute respiratory syndrome) and MERS (Middle East respiratory syndrome) — have occurred through civets and camels, respectively. The SARS-CoV-2 virus, with its distinctive spike protein that allows it to bind to human receptors and enter cells, may have either evolved in the intermediate host itself, making the virus spread readily from one person to another, or it may have gained the ability for human-to-human transmission in humans after jumping from an intermediate host. In the latter case, the virus may have evolved certain characteristics in the intermediate host and then gained other features within a human host. The virus may have been silently spreading among humans in a limited fashion before gaining the ability to cause a large outbreak, and then the pandemic. What do the genome sequence data reveal about the virus origin? Based on the analysis of public genome sequence data from SARS-CoV-2 and related viruses, scientists have not found any evidence that the virus was made in a laboratory or engineered by humans. Dr. David Robertson, Professor, Viral Genomics and Bioinformatics at MRC-University of Glasgow Centre for Virus Research, in an email toThe Hindusays based on genome sequence data, there are no signatures of the virus being altered or manipulated in a lab. “Although showing differences in sequence similarity, SARS-CoV-2 looks very much like a natural virus transferred from the same horseshoe bat species as the first SARS virus, and is now evolving as would be expected in the human population,” Dr. Robertson writes. According to him, there is substantial proof that the virus has not been engineered in a lab. “First, if one was to engineer a SARS-like virus, you would copy SARS-CoV-1 more closely. This new virus is highly divergent to SARS-CoV-1. There are lots of these viruses in bats andevidence that some could use human cells. So, the emergence of this new virus isn’t all that surprising,” says Dr. Robertson. He also says genome sequencing would detect any genetic changes made to the virus. Dr. Koen Van Rompay from the California National Primate Research Center, University of California, toldThe Hindu: “Our understanding of how to manipulate certain gene sequences to change in vivo virulence and pathogenesis is still very limited, and would be mostly trial and error. It would be very difficult to predict the outcome especially when introducing multiple mutations that can interact with each other.” Dr. Rompay adds: “When viruses replicate in vivo and transmit, that is the most efficient way to get selection for more replication-competent mutants that can continue to evolve.”  The fact-finding team had initially rejected the possibility of a lab-leak, but later WHO Chief Tedros Ghebreyesus appeared to back-pedal saying that ‘all hypotheses [including the lab-leak] remain open and require further analysis and studies’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/probing-the-origins-of-the-covid-19-pandemic/article33833439.ece
14 February 2021||New Delhi,||3 more held over violence at Burari on R-Day||Three more men have been arrested in connection with the violence during the farmers’ tractor parade in north Delhi’s Burari on Republic day, the police said on Saturday. The accused — Sukhmeet Singh (35), Gundeep Singh (33) and Harvinder Singh (32) — were identified with the help of CCTV footage and technical investigation following which raids were conducted to nab them. Both Sukhmeet and Gundeep are residents of Hari Nagar in west Delhi while Harvinder is a resident of Libaspur area, the police said. The Special Investigation Team (SIT) of North District arrested the three men for their alleged role in the violence at Burari on Republic Day, a senior police officer said. With these arrests, the police have arrested 14 people so far in connection with the violence at Burari on January 26. Thousands of farmers, protesting the Centre’s new farm laws, had clashed with the police during their tractor parade on Republic Day. Their parade had dissolved into unprecedented scenes of anarchy as they fought with police, overturned vehicles and delivered a national insult hoisting a religious flag from the ramparts of the Red Fort, a privilege reserved for India’s tricolour. Over 500 police security personnel were injured while one protestors died during the Republic Day violence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/3-more-held-over-violence-at-burari-on-r-day/article33833758.ece
14 February 2021||February 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Bait, plant and control||The story so far: On Wednesday, activist Rona Wilson, who has been imprisoned since June 2018 in connection with the Bhima Koregaon violence case, filed a petition in the Bombay High Court seeking a stay on proceedings against him and others who are co-accused. His petition referred to a report brought out by Arsenal Consulting, a digital forensics consulting company based in Massachusetts, which was hired by Mr. Wilson’s defence team. The Arsenal Consulting report states that for 22 months, Mr. Wilson’s computer was controlled by an attacker whose goal was to deliver incriminating documents onto his computer, which formed the basis of the case against him. What was Arsenal Consulting’s analysis based on? Arsenal Consulting says its analysis was based “largely on a forensic image obtained from the Toshiba hard drive within Mr. Wilson’s Hewlett-Packard Pavilion dv5 Notebook computer and a thumb drive which has been attached to the computer”. A forensic image is often described as a bit-by-bit copy of any electronic device that can store memory. Such an image will include even deleted data or data that were inaccessible to the user. It is considered an important part of digital evidence-gathering during investigations. How was the computer infiltrated? What is being conveyed by the report is that Mr. Wilson’s computer got infiltrated by a malware that enabled his system to be remote-controlled. Over the course of 22 months, it says, the attacker not only created a hidden folder in his system, but also created incriminating documents inside that folder. These, it says, were never opened but ended up being used in the case against him and others. The report says his computer got compromised on June 13, 2016 after a series of “suspicious mails” from “someone using Varavara Rao’s email account”. Mr. Rao is a co-accused in the case. This person is said to have made repeated attempts to get Mr. Wilson to open a document, which he finally did. This was a bait, and it triggered the installation of the NetWire remote access trojan on his computer. The bait was delivered via an RAR file, which usually contains one or many files in a compressed format. The report says while “Mr. Wilson thought he was opening a link to Dropbox” in the email sent to him, he was actually opening a link to “a malicious command and control server”. Before we come to Netwire and command and control server, why were the mails from Mr. Rao’s accounts considered suspicious? How was his computer compromised? The first part is not clear from the report. But in its footnotes, Arsenal Consulting says the suspicious mails were recovered from Mr. Wilson’s computer. It also says, “Our understanding of how Varavara Rao was compromised will improve once we have access to Varavara Rao’s electronic devices and the contents of his online accounts.” What is NetWire? NetWire, which first surfaced in 2012, is a well-known malware. It is also one of the most active ones around. It is a remote access trojan, or RAT, which gives control of the infected system to an attacker. Such malware can log keystrokes and compromise passwords. Malware, according to cybersecurity experts, essentially do two things. One is data exfiltration, which means stealing data. Most anti-virus software are equipped to prevent this. The other involves infiltrating a system, and this has proven to be far more challenging for anti-virus software. NetWire is described as an off-the-shelf malware, while something like Pegasus, which used a bug in WhatsApp to infiltrate users’ phones in 2019, is custom-made and sold to nations. What is a command and control server? The commands emerging from this server is what the infected system will carry out. How did Arsenal Consulting figure out that the incriminating documents were never opened on Mr. Wilson’s computer? Arsenal Consulting says it reviewed the NTFS file system, which can be found on any Windows system. This is a system of storing and organising files. It keeps a log of the files — whether they are created, modified, or deleted. Object identifiers are assigned to files when they are either created or first opened. Arsenal Consulting says none of the “top ten documents” have any such identifiers. Also, it says, it studied the Windows Registry to check the version of Word program that Mr. Wilson had. It found that he had a 2007 version, but the incriminating documents were saved from the 2010 or 2013 version of Word. It also says that Mr. Wilson’s pen drive was also synchronised with the command and control server.  NetWire, which first surfaced in 2012, is a well-known malware and one of the most active ones around. It is a remote access trojan, or RAT, which gives an attacker control of the infected system||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bait-plant-and-control/article33833441.ece
14 February 2021||Ghaziabad,||Country’s interest lies in the interest of farmers, says Mahatma’s granddaughter||Tara Gandhi Bhattcharajee, granddaughter of Mahatma Gandhi and chairperson of the National Gandhi Museum on Saturday addressed the farmers at the Ghazipur protest site. She said she had come to pray for them and appealed to farmers to hold their protest peacefully. “I have not come as a representative of any political party. I am here for the farmers who have fed us all our lives. It is because of you that we are alive,” said the veteran Gandhian, striking an emotional chord with those present. She reminded western Uttar Pradesh is the land of revolution. “The first freedom movement started in Meerut in 1857. The farmers’ protest is also a unique movement. The hard work of farmers is not a secret and it is no secret that the country’s interest lies in the interest of farmers and our interest lies in the country’s interest. She said truth speaks in silence and appealed to farmers to stay on the course of non-violence. Earlier, BKU leader Rakesh Tikait welcomed Ms. Bhattacharjee by presenting her a shawl. Torch march In a related development, farmer leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha held a joint press conference at the Ghazipur protest site. Speaking to the media, Darshan Pal said a torch and candle march would be held on February 14 evening for an hour in the memory of 230 farmers who lost their lives during the protests and martyrs of Pulwama.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/countrys-interest-lies-in-the-interest-of-farmers-says-mahatmas-granddaughter/article33833756.ece
14 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man arrested on charges of abduction and murder||A 34-year-old man was arrested for allegedly kidnapping and killing a man and later calling his wife for ransom in North West Delhi’s Ashok Vihar, the police said on Saturday. DCP (North-West) Usha Rangnani said that the accused has been identified as Ranjeet Mehto, resident of Wazirpur village. The victim has been identified as Shyam Mohan Shukla. The police on February 7 received a call regarding kidnapping for ransom from one Nirmala Devi who told the police that she had received a call asking her to transfer Rs. 30,000 in a bank account. The accused allegedly told the police that a few days ago, he had a heated argument with Shyam after which he decided to take revenge. On February 6, he took the victim to a rented accommodation on the pretext of drinking where he stabbed him to death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-arrested-on-charges-of-abduction-and-murder/article33833757.ece
