16 February 2021||NEW DELHI/ MUMBAI,||Toolkit case: two seek anticipatory bail||The Delhi police on Monday said non-bailable warrants (NBWs) had been issued against Mumbai-based advocate Nikita Jacob and her associate Shantanu Muluk who, along with arrested climate activist Disha Ravi, allegedly created and shared the toolkit document being investigated by the police. Both Ms. Jacob and Mr. Muluk have sought transit anticipatory bails from the Bombay High Court. They will be heard on Tuesday. The toolkit, according to the police, is a document that has a section titled ‘prior action plan’ about digital strikes to be conducted through hashtags on and before January 26 and tweetstorms from January 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/toolkit-case-activists-seek-prior-bail/article33846499.ece
16 February 2021||KALABURAGI,||Mailaralinga festival to be a subdued affair this year||In compliance with the COVID-19 guidelines issued by State and Union governments, Ballari Deputy Commissioner Pavan Kumar Malapati has decided to restrict the participation of devotees in the annual Mailaralinga festival and Karnikotsava celebrations. During a meeting convened at his office on Monday for discussing the issue, Mr. Malapati made it clear that the entry of devotees other than the residents of Mailara village in Huvina Hadagali taluk will be barred during the festivities scheduled to be held between February 19 and March 2, 2021. Tens of thousands of people from Karnataka, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra and other States participate in the annual festivities conducted in Mailara village every year. Karnikotsava (prophecy) celebrations (in which a designated Gorava jumps from the top of a vertical poll after predicting an important event in the days to come and is caught by the devotees below) specifically attracts thousands of people. “The participation of the public, except for the native villagers, in the Mailara festivities will strictly be restricted. Only Mailara villagers will be allowed to hold the festivities in a simple manner. The Police Department should ensure that none from outside enters the village during the festival. The decision on the restrictions should be publicised across the State, especially in the neighbouring districts from where a considerable number of devotees are expected to come,” Mr. Malapati told the officers concerned. He directed the police to close all the entry points to Mailara village and take steps to suspend all commercial activities around the village during the festival. “The Mailara Jatre will be held as usual. All the amenities will be provided by the district administration. There will be no restrictions on rituals. The only thing is that they will be restricted to the villagers and no outsider will be allowed to participate in them,” Mr. Malapati said. Speaking on Karnikotsava, the Deputy Commissioner made it clear that the ritual will also be held under vigilance and directed the officials concerned to make microphones and loudspeaker arrangements so that the prophecy could be heard clearly. “Due to the restrictions this year, many people will not be able to participate in the Karnikotsava and hear the prophecy on their own. The officers should make arrangements to record the prophecy using modern recording equipment and release audio and video clips on social media so that those who are not able to attend the event could get it,” he said. He also directed the public transport authorities to cut down even regular bus services, leave alone operating special bus services, to Mailara during the festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mailaralinga-festival-to-be-a-subdued-affair-this-year/article33846620.ece
16 February 2021||Kozhikode,||1,300 title deeds disbursed in Kozhikode||The Revenue Department disbursed 1,300 title deeds to select families in Kozhikode district on Monday. Applications which had been pending for over 20 years were even considered in the mega adalat which was opened by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan through videoconferencing. In the inaugural address, Mr. Vijayan said the LDF government was very keen on attending to all the welfare issues of people in the State. “Like smart classrooms, we managed to convert many village offices into smart offices. Its benefits will be directly available to people,” he said. Revenue Minister E. Chandrasekharan said the State government had disbursed over 1.77 lakh title deeds to eligible persons so far. “Many projects are ongoing now. The creation of six new revenue divisions itself is a big achievement,” he said. A Pradeep Kumar, MLA, who opened the district-level title deed distribution at Kozhikode Town Hall, said Kerala was fortunate to have a government which was truly committed to ensuring a hunger-free State. “Disbursement of title deeds is also part of such efforts. Now, it is the responsibility of people to ensure the continuity of this administration,” he said. New offices As part of the title deed distribution, the inauguration of new village office buildings at Kayanna and Cheruvannur was also held. The Chief Minister also laid the foundation stone for the construction of smart village office buildings at Poolakkode, Koorachundu, Avittanallur, Eramala, Vavad, Kodenchery and Panangad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/1300-title-deeds-disbursed-in-kozhikode/article33846653.ece
16 February 2021||KALABURAGI,||Bullock cart rally taken out||Expressing solidarity with farmers protesting on the Delhi border, Congress leaders and farmers on Monday took out a rally in Kalaburagi. The protestors were led by Congress leader and former MLC Allamprabhu Patil and District Congress Committee president Jagdev Guddetar. The activists and farmers took out a bullock cart rally from Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Chowk to the Deputy Commissioner’s office and submitted a memorandum addressed to President Ramnath Kovind and Governor Vajubhai Vala demanding a repeal of the farm laws and reduction in fuel prices. The agitators demanded that the Central government call a special session of Parliament to discuss the new farm laws and to repeal them immediately. Prime Minister Narendra Modi should apologise to the families of farmers who have sacrificed themselves agitating against the farm laws, they said. They also slammed Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s remarks terming the agitating farmers as terrorists. Mr. Modi should personally speak with the delegation of farmers and all the 12,000 cases registered against farmers be unconditionally withdrawn. They demanded that the government should immediately announce the suspension of all three farm laws — The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation); The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance, and The Farm Services and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) — and bring in a fourth ordinance to provide a clear provision that if any agency buys crops from farmers below minimum support price (MSP), then legal action will be taken against it. The government must ensure that no procurement is made below MSP. Accusing the Centre of step-motherly treatment shown to Kalaburagi district and Kalyana Karnataka region, the agitators demanded that the Union government establish All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) in Kalaburagi. The other demands include setting up of the National Investment and Manufacturing Zone (NIMZ) and a Railway Divisional headquarters in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bullock-cart-rally-taken-out/article33846622.ece
16 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Anti-graft crusader from Karimangar passes away||The lone voice against corruption has gone silent with the passing away of local Lok Satta founder president N. Srinivas on Monday in Karimnagar. Sixty-six-year-old Naredla Srinivas, fondly called as ‘Seenanna’ succumbed to COVID-19 around 6 a.m. while undergoing treatment in a private hospital. Many people including Karimnagar Collector K. Shashanka lined up to pay tributes to the departed soul. While serving as manager of Union Bank of India and after retirement, Mr. Srinivas awas lways ready to help common man facing difficulties due to corruption or complicated bureaucratic procedures. “We cannot forget the courageous fight he launched supporting individuals whose properties were allegedly occupied by tainted police ASI Mohan Reddy,” recalls the crusader’s friend Holla Prakash. People used to knock on Lok Satta’s office doors for any grievance involving government offices directly or indirectly. Thanks to Srinivas’ multiple pleas, representations and correspondence, the government launched ACB investigation into allegations against the suspended police officer. He was also responsible for the recent crackdown on land grab of government properties worth hundreds of crores on Karimnagar outskirts. He would turn up at Lok Satta office every day and guide people who approached with different issues involving illegal occupation of their lands. “Seenanna would patiently explain which officer to approach, how to lodge complaints with police and help draft petitions,” recalled many. Mr. Srinivas was the founder president of Karimnagar Film Society and instrumental in establishing Karimnagar Consumer Council, a year ahead of Consumer Protection Act came into force in the country. The Council settled close to 10,000 disputes paving the way for compensation to consumers to the tune of Rs. 25 crore in the past several years. Mr. Srinivas is survived by his wife and two sons. His last rites were held in the evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/anti-graft-crusader-from-karimangar-passes-away/article33847021.ece
16 February 2021||Hyderabad,||3 of family drown in SRSP main canal||Three members of a family drowned in Sriramsagar Project (SRSP) main canal after the car they were travelling in plunged into it near Medipalli in Jagtial district in the early hours of Monday. The victims are advocate Katikaneni Amarender Rao (58), his wife Katikaneni Sirisha (52) and their daughter Katikaneni Shreya (27), a techie. Rao’s 19-year-old son Katikaneni Jayanth managed to escape from the waters, District Superintendent of Police Sindhu Sarma told The Hindu . She said that the accident took place around 5.40 a.m. on the outskirts of Medipalli when Rao lost control of the wheel, veered off the road and plunged into the canal. The irrigation officials closed the water flow to the canal to retrieve the bodies trapped in the car. Rao, a resident of Jagtial town, and their family were going to their native place Joginpalli in Korutla mandal to attend Sri Venkateswara Swamy Jatara. According to Ms. Sarma, the victims, distant relative of Jagtial MLA M. Sanjay Kumar, started from their residence at 5.05 a.m. and the accident took place at 5.40 a.m. Soon after the car plunged into the canal, they rolled down the window glasses and tried to get out. Mr. Jayanth had managed to come out from the car, and got hold of the motor pipe and climbed up, the officer said. Locals and passer-by informed the police and rushed to the spot to rescue them, but in vain. The car was pulled out from the water and their bodies were shifted to Government Hospital in Jagtial for autopsy. Later they were handed over to the family members. A similar accident had taken place in Warangal rural district in which a government teacher and two others drowned in SRSP canal after the car they were travelling in, plunged into it near Parvathagiri. The victims were Pasula Saraswathi, school assistant from Rangasaipet, Veerla Sridhar (38), a fertilizer shop owner from Hanmakonda, and his employee Bhairi Rakesh (28). Another occupant of the car, Vijay Bhaskar, sales manager at Sridhar’s store, managed to swim out, while others died on the spot.  Close shave  Former Minister Juvvadi Ratnakar Rao’s sons— Narsing Rao and Shekar Rao — had a lucky escape near Thimmapur of Jagtial district on February 15 morning. The duo were going to Dharmapuri to unveil their father’s statue when they swerved to left side of the road to avoid hitting an oncoming vehicle. Airbags in the vehicle were released during the crash and the duo escaped without any injuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-in-car-drown-in-srsp-main-canal/article33847016.ece
16 February 2021||Hassan,||Piyush Goyal says allocation for Railway works in Karnataka has gone up||Union Minister for Railways Piyush Goyal has said the Central government in its budget allocated nearly Rs. 4,000 crore for the railway works in Karnataka and that is four times more than what was allocated for the State in 2014. He addressed people of Shivamogga through a video-link in a programme to lay the foundation stone for construction of three Road overbridges (RoBs) on Monday. Mr. Piyush Goyal said in 2014, the State had got works worth only Rs. 1,000 crore. The funds had gone up by 400 per cent in seven years. The Railway Ministry had taken up the suburban railway project in Bengaluru as a joint venture with the State government. Bengaluru city deserved better transport facility. The suburban project should be completed on a mission mode, Mr. Goyal said. Regarding the works in Shivamogga, the Minister said the construction of three RoBs would ease the traffic movement and help the local public in reaching their places early. Tourists visiting places such as Jog in Shivamogga would also be benefited. The Minister also said whenever he heard the name of Shivamogga he was reminded of Malgudi Days, a popular serial based on R.K.Narayan’s stories shot in Shivamogga. “We have developed a Malgudu Museum in memory of the serial at Arasalu railway station”, he said. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, thanking the Union Minister for taking up construction of RoBs in Shivamogga, stressed the need for taking up the Shivamogga-Shikaripur-Ranebennur railway work at the earliest. “The State government will hand over the land required for the line between Shivamogga and Shikaripur within two months so that the railway line work could be taken up soon”, he said. Karnataka was the first State to share the cost of railway projects. The State government would provide land free of cost for the project, besides sharing 50 pc of the project cost. “We are taking up seven railway line works sharing the cost with the Railway Ministry”, he said. Shivamogga Lok Sabha member B.Y. Raghavendra thanked the Union Minister for the railway works in his constituency. Shivamogga ZP president Jyothi Kumar, legislators Hartal Halappa, Araga Jnanendra, Kumar Bangarappa, B.K.Sangameshwar, Ashok Naik, R. Prasanna Kumar, Ayanur Manjunath, Rudre Gowda, and Bharati Shetti and senior railway officers participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/piyush-goyal-says-allocation-for-railway-works-in-karnataka-has-gone-up/article33846741.ece
16 February 2021||MYSURU,||Mayoral polls scheduled for February 24||Elections to choose a new Mayor and Deputy Mayor for Mysuru will be held on February 24. Regional Commissioner, Mysuru, G.C. Prakash, who will hold the polls at the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) council hall, confirmed the date to The Hindu on Monday. The date for the mayoral polls has been fixed amid continuing uncertainty over political alliances in the hung 65-member House and the discontentment in sections of society over the reservation announced by the government. The BJP, which has 22 members in the House, is making a strong pitch to align with the JD(S) and hold the reins of power of the civic body. The JD (S), which has 18 members, had entered into an alliance three years ago with the Congress, which has 19 members in the council. The MCC has five Independents and one BSP member also. Though former Minister and Congress MLA Tanveer Sait claimed that the alliance with the JD (S) was intact and the two parties would continue to share power for the remainder of the MCC council’s term. The BJP MLA Nagendra told reporters in Mysuru on Monday that the saffron party would align with the JD (S) and make a bid for the Mayor’s post. Mr. Nagendra also claimed that the party’s State unit president Nalin Kumar Kateel had already held talks with JD (S) leaders in Bengaluru and expressed confidence that the BJP would have its first Mayor in Mysuru this time. The JD (S), however, has not made its stand clear yet. But party leaders said the party’s five councillors belonging to the minority community have reservations about going with the BJP. “They are demanding that the post of Mayor be retained with JD (S) if it is inevitable to go with BJP,” said a JD (S) leader.  Meanwhile, questions have been raised over the government’s decision to reserve the post of Mayor for woman from the general category this time. While members of the Naika community in Mysuru had held a demonstration condemning injustice to them on account of the government’s failure to reserve the post of Mayor for a candidate from the Scheduled Caste, K.V. Sridhar, an Independent representing Ward No. 3, has questioned the government’s decision to reserve the post of Mayor for a woman for the third consecutive year. Referring to the election of Pushpalatha Jagannath of the Congress and Tasneem of the JD (S) as Mayors during the previous two consecutive terms, Mr. Sridhar said the government’s decision to reserve the post for a woman again would amount to denying others an opportunity. Mr. Sridhar said he was in the process of obtaining legal opinion on the government’s reservation matrix during the last couple of years before taking a decision on questioning the same in the court. Meanwhile, Mr. Tanveer Sait too has described the reservation of the post of Mayor for a woman from the general category as “politically motivated”. Just two years ago, the post of Mayor was reserved for woman. It would be a setback to other categories if the reservation was extended to a woman again, he contended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mayoral-polls-scheduled-for-february-24/article33846743.ece
16 February 2021||GUNTUR,||Govt. will roll out low-cost housing plot scheme for middle class soon, says CM||Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy has said that the government will roll out a scheme to provide housing plots to the middle class at affordable prices. At a review meeting on Monday on solid waste management and urban housing at his camp office, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that the government was aiming at providing low-cost housing with premium features and clear title deeds. “I want the urban development and municipal authorities to work on the proposals on land procurement and create the infrastructure. Providing housing plots to the middle class should be a continuous process,” the Chief Minister said. He said a decision has been taken to create 18 layouts in 12 cities surrounding the ring roads. “Smart towns will be designed in the area ranging from 25 acres to 200 acres within 18 months,’’ said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy.  Waste management Reviewing the solid waste management, the Chief Minister said that a 100-day action plan would be readied with a slogan ‘Clean Andhra Pradesh (CLAP)’. The participation of people and NGOs will be encouraged. The Urban Local Bodies will be provided with 6,000 bins and 3,825 pick-up vans to collect garbage, said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Minister for Municipal Administration Botcha Satyanarayana, Solid and Liquid Waste Management Taskforce Chairman Alla Ayodhya Ramireddy, Municipal Administration Secretary Y. Srilakshmi, Municipal Administration Commissioner M.M Naik, CCLA Special Commissioner Bharath Gupta, Finance Secretary N. Gulzar, TIDCO Managing Director Ch. Sreedhar were present in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-will-roll-out-low-cost-housing-plot-scheme-for-middle-class-soon-says-cm/article33846490.ece
16 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Indians concerned about privacy: CJI||Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde on Monday said Indians have “grave apprehensions” about privacy from Facebook and WhatsApp. “People have grave apprehensions about loss of privacy. You may be a two or three trillion company, but people value their privacy more. It is our duty to protect people’s privacy,” Chief Justice Bobde, heading a three-judge Bench, addressed lawyers appearing for the social media/instant messaging giants. “We are telling you what we heard and read - people think that if A sends a WhatsApp message to B and B to C, the circuit of messages is revealed to Facebook,” he addressed senior advocates Kapil Sibal and Arvind Datar, for the companies. Companies’ denial Both lawyers vehemently denied this as “misinformation”. Chief Justice Bobde said, “Say that on oath. We are issuing notice. File a response.” Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, for the government, stated, “This is an apprehension of the nation... Privacy is part of our fundamental rights. They [WhatsApp and Facebook] cannot compromise our privacy... They cannot differentiate.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/indians-concerned-about-privacy-cji/article33846502.ece
16 February 2021||Kolkata,||Mamata launches Maa scheme to provide subsidised meals to poor||With an eye on the upcoming Assembly polls, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday launched “Maa” canteens for providing subsidised meals to the poor and the destitute at a nominal cost of Rs. 5 a plate. “This initiative is for the common people. Though we give free rations there is still a huge demand for cooked food. Therefore, we are starting these community kitchens,” she said. Ms. Banerjee said the government will give a subsidy of Rs. 15 and people will have to pay Rs. 5. The kitchens will be run by self-help groups. The canteens will be open from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. everyday. People will get a plate of rice, dal, a vegetable and egg curry. During the virtual launch, Ms. Banerjee interacted with the District Collectors and the beneficiaries. She asked the authorities to sort out the teething issues. Rs. 100 crore for scheme The Budget tabled by the Chief Minister earlier this month had allotted Rs. 100 crore for the scheme. Political observers said the scheme is one of the many initiatives launched by the State government ahead of the elections. The Chief Minister also launched four Information and Technology (IT) parks of Webel (West Bengal Electronics Industry Development Corporation Limited) and a 100-bed Mother and Child hub at the Chittaranjan Seva Sadan Hospital in Kolkata. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh said the need for providing subsidised kitchens highlights the distress in which the people of the State are in. “The CM had kept people hungry and the poor like beggars,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mamata-launches-maa-scheme-to-provide-subsidised-meals-to-poor/article33846780.ece
16 February 2021||Shoumojit Banerjee Pune,||15 labourers die in truck mishap||Fifteen people were killed and two others injured when a fruit-laden truck they were travelling in overturned in Jalgaon district in north Maharashtra early on Monday. According to the Jalgaon police, the accident occurred sometime after Sunday midnight when a papaya-laden tempo truck coming from neighbouring Dhule district overturned near Kingaon village. The accident took place near a temple in Kingaon village around 1 a.m. when the papaya-laden truck was on its way to Yawal tehsil in Jalgaon from Dhule, an official from Yawal police station said. The deceased included two children, aged 3 and 5 years, and a 15-year-old girl. A 14-year-old boy, who was sleeping on top of the truck, escaped unhurt, the official said. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray announced an ex gratia of Rs. 2 lakh to each of the families of the deceased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/15-labourers-die-in-truck-mishap/article33847079.ece
16 February 2021||MANGALURU,||Kulashekar second tunnel is through; track commissioning soon||The 600 m second tunnel at Kulashekar on Mangaluru Junction-Panambur/Surathkal railway line is through, while the Southern Railway is undertaking other works, including track and signalling works, on the stretch so as to commission it before the onset of monsoon. Running beneath the Mangaluru-Karkala National Highway 169, the tunnel has been a vital link on the Mangaluru-Mumbai rail line. The line branching out at Jokatte towards Panambur too has been a critical component for connectivity to New Mangalore Port. Work on the second tunnel commenced bout three years ago after the then Railway Minister D.V. Sadananda Gowda announced line doubling between Mangaluru Junction and Surathkal. Divisional Railway Manager of Palakkad Railway Division Trilok Kothari told The Hindu that tunnelling work was already completed for the second tunnel, which has become through now. Other works, including laying rails, drawing overhead power cables, laying signalling cables and other works are on. The track should be commissioned by May this year, he said. The work got slowed down last year forcing the construction wing of Southern Railway to change the contractor. Chief Engineer P.T. Benny had told The Hindu that the work would get speeded up after the change. Southern Railway has already electrified the Mangaluru Junction-Jokatte line and operated an empty goods rake hauled by an electric loco on the stretch this January. Doubling of the 21-km Mangaluru Junction-Panambur line too was almost complete except for a 4 km stretch, including the tunnel portion. The Konkan Railway line from Jokatte/Thokur till Karwar too is completely electrified. Mr. Kothari said that the double line between Netravathi Cabin and Mangaluru Central Railway Station, construction of two additional platforms, including a new pitline, at Mangaluru Central and the second tunnel at Kulashekar, should considerably ease operation of trains in the Mangaluru Railway region. The second tunnel would reduce congestion at Mangaluru Junction facilitating speedy train despatch and reception, the Divisional Railway Manager said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kulashekar-second-tunnel-is-through-track-commissioning-soon/article33847058.ece
16 February 2021||MYSURU,||Rapid action team for disasters in Chamarajanagar in the offing||Going a step ahead of the mandatory Disaster Management Plan, the Chamarajanagar district administration is all set to constitute a District Rapid Action Team (D-RAT) to cope with any emergencies. This will not only reduce the dependence on National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) or the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), but the intervention by way of conducting rescue and relief operations will be expedited. Reckoned to be the first of its kind for any district in the State, 50 youths will be trained under D-RAT to cope with any emergency situation so as to reach out to the victims at the fastest possible time, said M.R. Ravi, Deputy Commissioner, Chamarajanagar. Entailing the District Disaster Management Authority and Nehru Yuva Kendra, the D-RAT proposal would help rapid response and recovery besides mitigation in the event of any disaster, Mr. Ravi added. He said capacity building of the stakeholders was imperative to minimise the negative impact of any disaster and it was proposed to train NYC volunteers, youth clubs and mahila mandal members, NGOs, fire and emergency personnel, civil defence, Forest Department personnel, Health authorities and members of the police department etc. for the purpose. “The main objective is to train volunteers and provide them with basic disaster response skills, equipping individuals with knowledge about disaster preparedness for hazards that may impact the area,” Mr. Ravi added. There would be special focus on fire fighting as the district harbours Bandipur National Park, BRT Tiger Reserve and M.M. Hills Wildlife Sanctuary all of which are prone to fires during summer. What the authorities expect as the outcome of the initiative is the presence of a large number of trained volunteers at the disposal of the district administration in the event of any unforeseen disaster that needs quick response from the administration. At present, all the districts have a Disaster Management Plan but the local authorities are hamstrung in taking up rescue and relief operations inthe absence of a trained workforce. The project will prepare volunteers to deal with emergency situation arising out of vehicle accidents, fire and lightning, floods and torrential rains, drought, human-animal conflict situation, stampede, drought etc. “This is akin to an institutionalised training for volunteers and will help in building community capabilities,” said Mr. Ravi. To start with, 50 volunteers will be subjected to three-day residential training at Navodaya School at Hondarabalu in B.R. Hills There will be a series of lectures, practical training, group discussions apart from subjecting the volunteers to drills on responding to events in real time situation. In the event of a major disaster, the local authorities can tap on the trained volunteers while awaiting reinforcement from NDRF or SDRF so as to reduce the response time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rapid-action-team-for-disasters-in-chamarajanagar-in-the-offing/article33846745.ece
16 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||China pulls back from Finger 4||Chinese troops have started clearing the Finger 4 area on the North bank of the Pangong Tso lake and the ongoing disengagement on north and the south banks of the lake by both sides is likely to be completed within a week, a government official said on Monday. “The huge map of China, which was engraved on the ground near Finger 5 area by the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) troops, has been cleared by them,” the official said. The huge map was seen in satellite images during the height of the standoff. Chinese troops had built up heavy defences and structures between Finger 8 and Finger 4, including fortified gun positions on the ridgelines of Finger 4 overlooking Indian positions. The Indian Army had also set up positions around Finger 4 in end-August 2020. This took place amid action on the South bank of Pangong Tso, to gain tactical advantage. Stating that disengagement is going at a good pace and could be complete by end of this week, the official said it was a huge logistical task to transport all the equipment, the stocking that was done and dismantling the structures that were built as part of the massive build up by both sides. Once disengagement at Pangong lake is complete, Corps Commander talks would be held within 48 hrs, which is likely to happen next week to discuss the next phase which would focus on the friction points at Gogra and Hot Springs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/china-pulls-back-from-finger-4/article33846500.ece
16 February 2021||MANGALURU,||Sand art offers hope to children impacted by parental addiction||A sand art made by members of Sand Theme Udupi to offer hope to vulnerable children and teens impacted by parental addiction is attracting visitors on the Malpe Beach in Udupi. Artists Harish Saga, Jai Neralakatte and Prasad completed the art work on Sunday with a title, “You are not alone”. The art work was completed on the occasion of Children of Addiction Awareness (CoA) Week – 2021 being observed from February 14 to February 20 by A.V. Baliga Memorial Hospital, Udupi; Rotary Club, Udupi-Manipal and Udupi chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA). The art work depicts a child, a victim of parental addiction, shedding tears and looking for help, a girl sitting down in desperation, and on the other hand, stones symbolically depicting family, school, friends and society as a whole infusing confidence among such victims to overcome mental stress. It is to show that society is there to help such victims and they are not alone. The art work is 3.5 ft high and 7 ft wide.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sand-art-offers-hope-to-children-impacted-by-parental-addiction/article33847064.ece
16 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Heart transport by metro rail attracts global attention||Transportation of heart through Hyderabad Metro Rail (HMR) for a transplant surgery on February 2 has garnered international attention. HMR managing director N.V.S. Reddy said he has received calls from several countries in Europe, the Gulf and the US asking about the details. Green channel Usually, organs are transported through roadways by clearing traffic and creating a green channel. However, on February 2 afternoon, HMR arranged a special train for non-stop transportation of heart from Nagole to Jubilee Hills. The special train paced through a stretch of 21 km crossing 16 stations in less than 30 minutes. An ambulance was kept ready at Jubilee Hills to rush the beating heart to the hospital where transplantation was taken up. The organ was harvested from a 45-year-old male farmer from Aregudem in Nalgonda district who was admitted at Kamineni Hospital, L.B. Nagar. The recipient was a 44-year-old male cardiac patient at Apollo Hospitals, Jubilee Hills,who suffered from dilated cardiomyopathy and oblivious to how he got the organ, until Sunday night. Speaking at a press conference held at the Apollo Hospitals on Monday, the recipient said before undergoing the procedure, he suffered from breathlessness, had sleepless nights and had given up hope of survival. Around 12 days after the transplantation, the patient was ready to walk to home. He expressed gratitude to the donor’s family, doctors and Hyderabad Metro Rail officials. A.G.K. Gokhale, senior consultant, Heart and Lung Transplant Surgeon at Apollo Hospitals, said the idea of using metro rail came up since organ transportation would have taken longer by road and there are no helicopters to be used for the purpose. The team of doctors said every second was important to save the patient’s life. The hospital management coordinated with Hyderabad Metro Rail authorities and Hyderabad traffic police to pull off the first-of-its-kind green channel. Crucial decision K. Hari Prasad, president of Apollo Hospital Group, detailed the role that all the parties played and attributed the surgery success to the crucial decision taken by the donor’s family, Hyderabad Metro Rail which dedicated a special train, police for establishing a green channel, Dr Gokhale and his team, and the State government’s cadaver transplantation programme, Jeevandan. Additional Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Anil Kumar was present at the press meet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/heart-transportation-by-metro-rail-attracts-global-attention/article33847002.ece
16 February 2021||PALAKKAD,||A young scholar’s rare writing feat||Abdul Jaleel I., an Arabic postgraduate student from here, has won a record of sorts for his rare handwriting skill. He has bagged India Book of Records for writing India’s national anthem upside down in the Arabic language. He has done this rare achievement in two minutes and 48 seconds. Tahsildar of Mannarkkad N.N. Mohammed Rafi, who was the invigilator for the India Book of Records, was surprised at the rare skill displayed by Mr. Jaleel. It was the COVID-19 lockdown that prompted Mr. Jaleel to take up the rare practice of writing upside down. “We could see people doing a wide variety of things during the initial months of the lockdown. I too wanted to do something unique. So I started practising the art of writing upside down,” he told The Hindu . Unlike other languages, Arabic is written from right to left. Mr. Jaleel writes Arabic from left to right, that too in upside down format. If the page is held upside down, what he has written can be read easily from right to left. Rare skill “This is a rare skill. I have not seen anyone doing it, let alone bag a record for it,” said Nisaruddeen, an Arabic scholar from Muthalamada. “Such rare feats in any language should be encouraged,” he said. As a student of MA Arabic at Government College, Kasargod, Mr. Jaleel was constantly exposed to Arabic calligraphy. “Calligraphic skills are too common among the people in Kasaragod. I too naturally got attracted to it, though I did not go deep into it,” he explained. He said calligraphic practice too has helped him develop writing upside down. Unlike other language scripts, Arabic script has a rare charm in calligraphy. “It is this charm that gives it a clear edge over other world languages in calligraphy,” he said. Mr. Jaleel is planning to take up the challenge of writing Qatar’s national anthem upside down in Arabic, for which he is waiting for the COVID-19 threat to dissipate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-young-scholars-rare-writing-feat/article33846655.ece
16 February 2021||Vijayawada,||Govt. told to reconstitute SHRC without delay||A Division Bench of the High Court that consisted of Chief Justice Arup Kumar Goswami and C. Praveen Kumar directed the government to take immediate steps for the reconstitution of the State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) and posted the matter to March 22 while observing that there can’t be a debate whether it (SHRC) should be appointed. The judges asserted that the matter should not be prolonged further as SHRC is an important statutory body, and told the Advocate-General S. Sriram that they would like the process to be completed by the next date of hearing. In his reply, Mr. Sriram sought time till the third week of March and the matter has been posted to the above date. The court was hearing a contempt petition filed by A.P. Civil Liberties Association joint secretary B. Mohan Rao, who alleged wilful disobedience and deliberate violation of the order passed on October 30, 2019 by the then Chief Justice J.K. Maheswari and Justice K. Vijaya Lakshmi that the State government should reconstitute the SHRC in compliance with The Protection of Human Rights (Amendment) Act, 2019. The petitioner’s counsel P. Suresh Kumar stated in the contempt petition that the government had given an undertaking to reconstitute the SHRC within four months (from October 30, 2019) but no steps were taken by it thereafter. Since the Division Bench’s order is more than a year old, the government cannot drag its feet further lest thousands of aggrieved should be deprived of justice, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-told-to-reconstitute-shrc-without-delay/article33846487.ece
16 February 2021||GUNTUR,||12 corporations, 75 other ULBs to go to polls on March 10||The State Election Commission issued a notification on Monday to ‘continue the election process’, from the ‘stage of withdrawal’, in respect of 12 municipal corporations and 75 municipalities/ nagara panchayats in the State. According to the election schedule released by the SEC, elections will be held for all urban local bodies (ULBs) on March 10. According to a press release by the State Election Commissioner, N. Ramesh Kumar, the poll process set in motion on March 9, 2020 for conduct of ordinary elections to ULBs, had been completed up to the stage of scrutiny of nominations on March 14, 2020. The commission had stopped the process midway due to COVID-19 threat for six weeks and issued orders on May 6, 2020 postponing the process until further orders. The latest notification is for resuming the process from the stage where it was stopped.  Elections to all ULBs will simultaneously take place on March 10, and votes counted on March 14. The model code of conduct would come into force on Monday and remain in force until the completion of the election process. The municipal corporations of Vizianagaram, Greater Visakhapatnam, Eluru, Vijayawada, Machilipatnam, Guntur, Ongole, Chittoor, Tirupathi, Kadapa, Kurnool, and Anantapur would go to polls on same day.  Schedule   March 2 : Commencement of withdrawal of candidature   March 3: Last date for withdrawal   March 3: Publication of candidates’ list   March 10: Polling   March 13: Repoll, if any   March 14: Counting||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/polls-to-ap-urban-local-bodies-on-march-10/article33846426.ece
16 February 2021||CHENNAI,||T.N. poll officials to be included in priority group for vaccination||With Tamil Nadu all set to go to the polls in a few months, government officials involved in election work would now be included in the priority group of frontline workers for COVID-19 vaccination. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan on Monday said the officials who were to be deployed for election work would be regarded as frontline workers. Registrations this week “The National Expert Group on Vaccination Administration has issued an advisory for their registration, and we will start the registration of those who will be engaged in poll work this week. They will be vaccinated,” he told reporters at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH), where he received the second dose of Covaxin. A total of 2,47,372 persons had been vaccinated in the State till date, he said, adding, “On January 16 (the first day of vaccination), 3,126 persons were vaccinated. Of them, 1,154 received the second dose of the vaccine on Saturday.” He noted that vaccine hesitancy had declined gradually. “Starting with 3,126 persons on the first day, we managed to vaccinate 20,032 persons on Saturday, hitting the 20,000-mark for the first time,” he said. It had been suggested that the number of session sites be increased from 628 to nearly 1,000, he added. “Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai and Tiruchi have vaccinated more number of people. But we cannot consider these numbers alone. We should also look at how many people are waiting to get vaccinated,” he said, adding that there were a number of places where the vaccine coverage was low. Vellore and Tiruvarur had 25% coverage, while Tiruvannamalai and Tirunelveli had 28% and 27% coverage, respectively. Tiruvallur had 21% coverage. “The number is huge in Chennai. Though 30,000 people have been vaccinated, more need to be covered. A micro plan is being drafted for all districts,” he said. Many, including the elderly and people with co-morbidities, were willing to get vaccinated and had made inquiries, he said. “We have been reiterating this to the Centre. We have already written to them and have also spoken to them over the phone,” he added. In Tamil Nadu, over 35% of healthcare/frontline workers had taken the vaccine, Dr. Radhakrishnan said. Regarding the second dose, he said that as per the advisory issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), it should be taken on the 28th day. “We need to go by the basis of evidence and research…If there is any change, it would be communicated by ICMR and DCGI,” he said in reference to certain views and articles on the timing of the second dose. To a question on wastage of vaccine doses, he noted that the World Health Organisation and the National Vaccine Group had stated that up to 10% wastage in a session site was normal. “One vial has 10 doses, and if 98 persons come for vaccination, two doses of 0.5 ml may get wasted,” he said. “In each site, two to three doses may get wasted…All our deputy directors, joint directors and deans are making efforts to avoid wastage. A few other States have 15% to 20% wastage,” he noted. However, this was not the challenge, he said, adding, “Each session site has the capacity to vaccinate 100 persons a day. We receive 50 to 60 eligible persons a day. We feel time is being wasted, and have registered this with the Centre. They can open up the vaccination drive to persons who are willing to get inoculated. With the election around the corner, there are many meetings being held, and people are asking for vaccines. Those above 50 years of age and those aged below 50 with co-morbidities can be immunised. If the Centre gives us permission soon, we can achieve the day’s capacity of 100.” There were sporadic cases of dengue in the State, he said. “People should ensure that there is no mosquito breeding in sumps and water containers like drums, and should clear stagnant water. Check if the overhead tanks are closed. We need to stay alert even if we have only a few cases,” the Health Secretary added. Director of Medical Education R. Narayana Babu and RGGGH dean E. Theranirajan were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-poll-officials-to-be-included-in-priority-group-for-vaccination/article33846528.ece
16 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Second cluster found||Civic officials are on high alert after a second cluster of COVID-19 positive cases was reported on Monday, just days after 40 students of a nursing college in Kaval Byrasandra contracted the virus. Twenty-eight residents of SNN Raj Lakeview, an apartment complex in Bilekahalli, have tested positive, said N. Manjunath Prasad, BBMP Commissioner. According to civic officials, the clusters are isolated incidents but they have stepped up measures to contain the spread. The complex has nearly 1,000 residents who will be tested. Mr. Prasad plans to reach out to residents' welfare associations across Bengaluru to increase vigilance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/second-cluster-found/article33846926.ece
16 February 2021||MANGALURU,||Six arrested within hours of murder||A group of six persons is said to have murdered Naveen Naik (43), a resident of Hosuru near Brahmavar in Udupi district, on Sunday night. The police arrested all the six accused within three hours of the crime. The police said that Naik had questioned the main accused, Gautham (27), who worked in the Malpe Fisheries Harbour, why he was visiting the house of a woman who was Naik’s neighbour, now and then. He had objected to the main accused having an affair with the woman aged 35 and a mother of a child. The woman was living separately from her husband. The main accused had threatened Naik over the matter, the police said. On Sunday night, at about 8.15 p.m., when Naik was alone in his house as his wife and two sons had gone out, Gautham with the five others arrived at the house and attacked him with lethal weapons. As they hit Naik on his head, he collapsed and died on the spot, the police said. The police arrested Gautham and the five others within three hours of the crime. The accused persons have been charged under Sections 447 and 302 of IPC. The police gave the names of other arrested persons as Manoj Bhandary (30), Dhanush (27), Chethan Kumar (24), Tilak Raj (36), all from Malpe, and Siddharth (23) of Kadike. They have seized a car used in the crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/six-arrested-within-hours-of-murder/article33846625.ece
16 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Nod for regularising 151 temporary staff||Amidst the agitation by the Kerala PSC Rank Holders Associations and opposition from youth organisations backed by the United Democratic Front, a special Cabinet meeting on Monday decided to regularise 151 contract staff with more than 10 years of experience. The highest of 100 temporary staff in various categories with more than 10 years of experience to be regularised is in the State-owned KTDC. Another 37 contract staff of the Kerala State Youth Welfare Board will also be regularised. Fourteen contract staff of the Cooperative Academy of Professional Education with more than 10 years of experience will also be regularised. A communication from the Chief Minister’s Office said the government had not made regularisation for posts that are appointed through the Kerala Public Service Commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nod-for-regularising-151-temporary-staff/article33846649.ece
16 February 2021||Vijayawada,||HC stays SEC order on door delivery of ration||Justice D.V.S.S. Somayajulu of the High Court on Monday suspended the State Election Commission (SEC)’s order against the door delivery of ration in rural areas, till March 15. He asked the SEC not to restrain the government (Civil Supplies Department) from delivering essential commodities through mobile dispensing units (vans) till the above date. The court conceded the government’s plea to allow door delivery of ration, on which the SEC sought to impose curbs on the ground that the vans displayed photographs of the Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and their colours resembled that of the ruling party, both of which were violative of the Model Code of Conduct in force. The Civil Supplies Department had argued that the supply of ration was a continuous process and changing the colours on vans entailed a substantial expenditure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-stays-sec-order-on-door-delivery-of-ration/article33846422.ece
16 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Lawyers flag violation of norms in Disha arrest||The Delhi police have claimed that all norms and procedures were followed when they arrested 22-year-old climate activist Disha A. Ravi from her residence in Bengaluru on Saturday. However, several leading advocates and jurists have raised concerns over reported violations of norms and guidelines laid down by the Ministry of Home Affairs and multiple Delhi High Court and Supreme Court judgments. Ms. Ravi was arrested at her residence in north Bengaluru and immediately flown to the nation’s capital, where she was produced before the magistrate on Sunday afternoon. A group of lawyers have petitioned the Bengaluru police on Monday, citing the 2012 guidelines from the Ministry of Home Affairs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lawyers-flag-violation-of-norms-in-disha-arrest/article33846488.ece
16 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||State records lowest daily COVID tally in 7 months||The State reported one COVID death and 30 new cases in the 24 hours ending Monday morning. It was the lowest single-day tally since May 17 (25 cases) as samples tested in the past day at 18,834 was also the lowest in the past seven months. The lone death was reported in Krishna district which continues to top the State with the highest death rate of 1.39%. While the tally increased to 8,88,899, the toll reached 7,163  with a recovery rate of 99.12% and a death rate of 0.81%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-records-lowest-daily-covid-tally-in-7-months/article33846492.ece
16 February 2021||Hyderabad,||Three of family drown as car plunges into SRSP canal||Three members of a family drowned in Sriramsagar Project (SRSP) main canal after the car they were travelling in plunged into it near Medipalli in Jagtial district in the early hours of Monday. The victims are advocate Katikaneni Amarender Rao (58), his wife Katikaneni Sirisha (52) and their daughter Katikaneni Shreya (27), a techie. Rao’s 19-year-old son Katikaneni Jayanth managed to escape from the waters, District Superintendent of Police Sindhu Sarma told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-of-family-drown-as-car-plunges-into-srsp-canal/article33846998.ece
16 February 2021||New Delhi,||Tribunal suspends Gymkhana board, halts new membership||The National Company Law Appellate Tribunal on Monday ordered the appointme-nt of a Central government-nominated administrator for the Delhi Gymkhana Club after prima facie finding irregularities in the management of its affairs. The tribunal also ordered suspension of the General Committee of the 107-year-old club, located on 27 acres near the Prime Minister’s residence, along with a halt on acceptance of new members till further orders. The tribunal said the club has been “converted into a recreational club for a chosen few”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tribunal-orders-appointment-of-gymkhana-administrator/article33846781.ece
16 February 2021||MALAPPURAM,||Thangal to decide IUML candidates||The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) has entrusted its national chairman and State president Syed Hyderali Shihab Thangal to take a final decision on party’s candidates for the Assembly election as well as the Lok Sabha byelection. A State executive meeting of the party held here on Monday briefly touched upon various matters, including the selection of candidates for elections. Party general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty’s recent resignation from the Lok Sabha with the objective of leading the upcoming Assembly election will bring about a byelection in Malappuram Parliament constituency. The byelection is likely to be held along with the Assembly elections. Mr. Thangal presided over the meeting. IUML leaders, however, refused to comment about any matter discussed at the meeting. Mr. Kunhalikutty, party working secretary E.T. Mohammed Basheer, and State general secretary K.P.A. Majeed said the political environment in the State was conducive for the UDF to come back to power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/thangal-to-decide-iuml-candidates/article33846652.ece
16 February 2021||HUBBALLI,||CID probe sought into death of two UAS staff||Stating that there was some foul play and seeking CID inquiry into a road accident in which two female employees were killed, members of various Hindutva outfits staged a protest at University of Agricultural Sciences (UAS) in Dharwad on Monday. The members of Vishwa Hindu Parishat and other Hindutva outfits staged the protest in front of the office of the Vice-Chancellor of UAS Dharwad and sought inquiry by CID into the case. They said that two employees of the university Megha Singhanath and Rekha Kokatnur were killed in a road accident near Ankola last week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cid-probe-sought-into-death-of-two-uas-staff/article33846626.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Having a whale of a time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/having-a-whale-of-a-time/article33847060.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Smart City?||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/smart-city/article33846624.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Fuelling a protest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fuelling-a-protest/article33846657.ece
16 February 2021||Vijayawada,||Hearing on SEC order against Kodali tomorrow||The High Court adjourned the hearing on the restraint order issued by the State Election Commission (SEC) against Civil Supplies Minister Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao (Nani) to February 17. The court suggested that it would appoint an amicus curiae on the aspects of hate speech, the power of courts etc. It appointed senior counsel P. Raghu Ram as the amicus curiae and requested him to make his submissions on the limits of freedom of speech and report whether the public statements being made are within the ambit of free speech and fair criticism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hearing-on-sec-order-against-kodali-tomorrow/article33846486.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Work is worship||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/work-is-worship/article33846496.ece
16 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||New vaccines will be out in 90 days: Minister||In the coming two to three months, India would be all set to roll out more COVID-19 vaccines other than the two in use now, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Monday. The country had not seen a single vaccine-related death so far and negligible rate of hospitalisation following vaccination, he added. At a press conference on Budget allocation for the health sector, he said Rs. 35,000 crore had been allocated for vaccination. “We have anywhere between 18 and 19 vaccination candidates currently under various stages of development, and we are hopeful that we will be able to offer newer vaccines to India and the people of the world.’’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-vaccines-will-be-out-in-90-days-minister/article33846782.ece
16 February 2021||MANGALURU,||‘Samithi wanted Karwar train detained in one direction’||The Paschima Karavali Railway Yatri Abhivriddhi Samithi has said that it is upon the samithi's representation that MP Nalin Kumar Kateel wrote to South Western Railway seeking detention of Karwar-Bengaluru Express at Subrahmanya Road to ensure equal justice to patrons of Karwar and Mangaluru regions. Samithi president G. Hanumantha Kamath said that since the Mangaluru-Bengaluru train alone was being detained at Subrahmanya Road in both the directions to give way for Karwar trains, it demanded detaining the Karwar Express too in one direction. He was responding to a news article, “Chinks in Coastal Railway seen”, appearing in these columns on February 10. It was not that the MP wrote the letter “ostensibly at the behest of some office-bearers of the samithi”, but the letter was written on the samithi’s representation, Mr. Kamath said, owning up the letter. The samithi wanted that Mangaluru-Bengaluru trains run to their original schedule as before the lockdown. However, South Western Railway expressed its inability to do so but the proposed schedule for the service are unacceptable to the people of the region. The train leaves Bengaluru at 7.20 p.m. to reach Mangaluru at 6 a.m. and it leaves Mangaluru at 8.55 p.m. to reach Bengaluru at 7.20 a.m. four days a week via Kunigal. However, under the proposed schedule, the train will leave Bengaluru at 8.45 p.m. to reach Mangaluru at 7.40 a.m. and leave Mangaluru at 8.10 p.m. to reach Bengaluru at 6.55 a.m. on all days of the week via Kunigal. The proposed schedule are unacceptable to the people of Mangaluru, Mr. Kamath said. He said that the samithi made enough efforts with associations in Kundapur and Karwar to find amicable solutions to the issue. The samithi denies that it was hampering the prospects of the Karwar train, Mr Kamath said in the statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/samithi-wanted-karwar-train-detained-in-one-direction/article33847061.ece
16 February 2021||Kolkata,||DYFI member injured in march to Secretariat dies||A 31-year-old member of the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI), youth wing of the CPI(M), who had sustained injuries during the march to the Secretariat on February 11, died on Monday at a health facility here. Leaders of the Left parties alleged that Maidul Islam Mriddha, resident of Bankura district, died of the injuries sustained during police action. The body has been sent for post mortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dyfi-member-injured-in-march-to-secretariat-dies/article33846684.ece
16 February 2021||HUBBALLI,||Haveri to get DCC bank, milk union soon?||Cooperation Minister S.T. Somashekhar has said that soon a meeting will be held in connection with the demand for a district cooperative bank and a district milk union for Haveri. He was addressing a gathering after symbolically handing over cows to 86 beneficiaries of dairy farming scheme implemented under the sustainable farming programme at Haunsbhavi in Haveri district on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/haveri-to-get-dcc-bank-milk-union-soon/article33846628.ece
16 February 2021||Bengaluru,||60.56% of targeted workers take second dose||A total of 11,985 of the targeted 19,789 healthcare workers, who were due for the second dose of vaccination in the State, got inoculated on day one of the second dose drive that began on Monday. The second doses of Covishield and Covaxin are recommended to be administered four weeks apart, according to guidelines from the Drug Controller General of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/6056-of-targeted-workers-take-second-dose/article33846927.ece
16 February 2021||New Delhi,||Four more bodies found in Chamoli, death toll 55||The death toll in the aftermath of an avalanche in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli on February 7 has gone up to 55, with the recovery of four more bodies on Monday. Three bodies were recovered from the Tapovan hydel project tunnel, while another was found in Maithana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/four-more-bodies-found-in-chamoli-death-toll-55/article33846784.ece
16 February 2021||GURUGRAM,||Commuters rush to get FASTags as deadline ends||The Point of Sale of FASTags near the Kherki Daula toll plaza had an unusual rush of commuters on Monday. People were seen queuing up to get the tag installed on their vehicles as the NHAI has made digital payments though FASTags at toll plazas mandatory from February 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/commuters-rush-to-get-fastags-as-deadline-ends/article33846785.ece
16 February 2021||MANGALURU,||Shivaji sculpture in Basroor village||A six foot high sculpture of Chhatrapati Shivaji will be unveiled in Basroor village in Kundapur taluk of Udupi district during the Liberation Day of Basroor on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/shivaji-sculpture-in-basroor-village/article33847065.ece
16 February 2021||Bengaluru,||BPL cards: Katti backtracks after flak for comment||After receiving flak for asking families with televisions and two-wheelers to surrender their Below Poverty Line (BPL) cards before March 31 or face action, Food and Civil Supplies Minister Umesh Katti on Monday went into damage control mode by saying that none of the previous government orders have been modified either by him or the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bpl-cards-katti-backtracks-after-flak-for-comment/article33846747.ece
16 February 2021||Hassan,||‘Houses not donating for temple being marked’||Former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy has alleged that those raising funds for the construction of the Ram Mandir at Ayodhya were marking the houses of those who have not contributed, on the lines of the Nazis of Germany who had a marking system to identify the Jews. Speaking at a press conference in Shivamogga on Monday, Mr. Kumaraswamy said he came to know about this “system” recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/houses-not-donating-for-temple-being-marked/article33846748.ece
16 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Kerala journalist gets 5-day bail||The Supreme Court on Monday gave Kerala Union of Working Journalists secretary Sidhique Kappan, charged with sedition and in a Uttar Pradesh jail since October, five days to visit his mother on her deathbed in Kerala. Mr. Kappan was detained while travelling with some others to Hathras district in U.P., where a Dalit girl had died following alleged gang-rape. The Supreme Court said Mr. Kappan would be escorted under armed guard of the Uttar Pradesh police while visiting Kerala. The court barred Mr. Kappan from giving interviews, including on social media. He would not meet any members of the public except his relatives, doctors or others connected to his mother’s health. He would be back in prison by the end of the fifth day. The court instructed that Mr. Kappan’s police guard should not remain present when he meets his mother at their home. They would only guard the house. The Bench directed the Kerala police to cooperate with its U.P. counterpart.  ‘Magical emergency’ The U.P. government strongly objected to Mr. Kappan’s visit. It termed his plea to meet his 90-year-old mother a “magical emergency” projected to circumvent the law. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, for U.P., said the ground given by Mr. Kappan for a five-day furlough was “tempting” and it would be “unfair” to the State to allow him his plea. “This is not a question of temptation. It is about seeing his mother for the last time... We are willing to commit the error... If she is going to die, what will you do? We are allowing this on humanitarian grounds,” Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde replied.  Mr. Mehta said Mr. Kappan was arrested carrying material to incite caste violence. “He has the worst case on merits and he has nothing to do with journalism... He is a PFI [Popular Front of India] activist,” he said.  Mr. Mehta submitted: “He was given half-hour to chat with his mother on videoconferencing. She could not recognise him... There is no medical certificate to show his mother’s condition.” The CJI told Mr. Mehta, “We take it that, whoever the man, will not lie about the condition of his mother... .” Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, for the Kerala Union of Working Journalists, said the hospital had “given up” on the mother’s health and she may have only a few days more.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-journalist-gets-5-day-bail/article33846442.ece
16 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Grave implications for free speech’||Political leaders opposed to the ruling BJP have condemned the arrest of 22-year-old climate change activist Disha Ravi, saying it has grave implications for free speech and democracy. “Arrest of 21 yr old Disha Ravi is an unprecedented attack on Democracy. Supporting our farmers is not a crime,” said Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal in a tweet on Monday morning. DMK MP Kanimozhi tweeted with the hashtags #FreeDishaRavi and #IndiaBeingSilenced. “Arresting a young woman for retweeting a tweet supporting the farmers is undemocratic. I stand with Disha Ravi against this onslaught on freedom of expression,” she said. Posting news articles on Ms. Ravi’s arrest, as well as threats against journalists and Twitter employees, Congress leader and MP Rahul Gandhi tweeted a couplet in Hindi. “Your lips are free to speak/Say that the truth is still alive!” it said. “They are scared, not the country! India won't be silenced.” Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also tweeted a Hindi couplet. “Those with arms are scared of an unarmed girl/The light of courage has been spread by this unarmed girl,” she said. Rajya Sabha member and former Environment Minister Jairam Ramesh tweeted a news report on the non-bailable warrant issued against another activist as well. “Delhi Police on the rampage. After Disha Ravi, it is now the turn of another young woman, Nikita Jacob. More will no doubt follow...This is Tanashaahi [which means, dictatorship] in New India called Amit Shahi!” he said. The CPI(M) Polit Bureau issued an official statement condemning the arrest as an “atrocious action”. It noted that the charges of sedition and criminal conspiracy were made on the “absurd grounds” of forwarding a toolkit. “The paranoid Modi government has to forthwith end this persecution of young activists. The charges against Disha Ravi should be withdrawn and she has to be released from custody,” it said. Late on Sunday, Congress MP Shashi Tharoor tweeted a British newspaper’s article on Ms. Ravi’s arrest and warned of the international fallout. “DishaRavi’s arrest is the latest escalation in India’s crackdown on free expression & political dissent as it seeks [to] stifle the farmers’ mass protests, says the @dailytelegraph UK. Doesn’t GoI care about the damage it’s doing to its own global image?” he tweeted. ‘Act of suppression’ British MP Claudia Webbe was one of the first international figures to comment on the arrest. “A climate activist from India, she campaigns for clean air, clean water and a liveable planet. She is now facing state sanctioned violence for peacefully supporting farmers. Silence is not an option we must all condemn this act of suppression,” she tweeted. American lawyer Meena Harris, who is the niece of U.S. Vice-President Kamala Harris, tweeted in support of both Ms. Ravi, and Nodeep Kaur, a 23-year-old labour rights activist, who was arrested last month. She urged her followers to “ask why activists are being targeted and silenced by the government.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/grave-implications-for-free-speech/article33846451.ece
16 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||New COVID-19 vaccines in 90 days, says Minister||In the coming two to three months, India would be all set to roll out more COVID-19 vaccines other than the two in use now, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Monday. The country had not seen a single vaccine-related death so far and negligible rate of hospitalisation following vaccination, he added. At a press conference on Budget allocation for the health sector, he said Rs. 35,000 crore had been allocated for vaccination. “We have anywhere between 18 and 19 vaccination candidates currently under various stages of development, and we are hopeful that we will be able to offer newer vaccines to India and the people of the world. India is also set to start vaccination for those over 50 years of age soon,” he said. So far, 80-85% health and front line workers have been vaccinated but now more than ever before it was crucial that people continued to follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour, “which I call social vaccine, along with real vaccines”, the Minister said. In the Budget, provision had been made to ensure that India invested in preventive and promotive health care and remained prepared for unexpected health calamities. “COVID-19 has strengthened the country’s health potential. We turned a crisis into opportunity. From one lab, India has grown to 2,500 diagnostic labs, and genome sequencing, which is being talked about now, has been in Indian labs since May-June last year,” he noted. “Through this Budget, we have brought in the dream of ‘Health for All’. Our holistic approach, ancient medical wisdom, other health facilities and systems collectively will be a model for the world,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-covid-19-vaccines-will-be-out-in-90-days-says-minister/article33846459.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Bengaluru flat complex emerges as virus cluster||Days after 40 students of a nursing college in Kaval Byrasandra tested positive for COVID-19, another cluster has been found in Bommanahalli zone. As many as 28 residents of SNN Raj Lakeview, an apartment complex in Bilekahalli, coming under Bommanahalli zone, have tested positive, said N. Manjunath Prasad, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Commissioner, at a press conference here on Monday. Describing both clusters as “isolated incidents”, the civic chief said BBMP has put in place various measures, including isolating and quarantining those who had tested positive and intensifying contact tracing. Samples have been collected and sent for genome sequencing to the NIMHANS laboratory to ascertain the virus variant. Six testing teams “There are nearly 1,000 residents in the apartment complex, who will be tested. Around six testing teams had been stationed in the apartment complex for this purpose,” said Mr. Prasad. While the students of Manjushree College of Nursing may have contracted the virus while visiting their hometowns in Kerala, the residents of the apartment may have contracted it at a social gathering where protocols had not been followed, he added.  Mandatory testing An order, as per the recommendation of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), will be issued making it mandatory for anyone from Kerala coming into the city to possess a negative RT-PCR test report that is not older than 72 hours. Those who do not possess this will be made to undergo quarantine and allowed to move out only after they have been tested negative. “While there is no restriction in movement of persons from Kerala, it is the responsibility of the heads of institutions/colleges to ensure strict compliance, or else we will initiate action under the Disaster Management Act against them,” he said. While nearly 200 primary and secondary contacts of the nursing students of Manjushree College of Nursing had been identified, civic officials were in the process of identifying contacts of those who had tested positive from the apartment complex. The contacts have also been isolated and placed under quarantine.  Given that two ‘isolated incidents’ were detected within days, the civic body will continue with its stringent enforcement of mask wearing and social distancing protocols. “Marshals, who had been withdrawn from this duty, have once again been given the responsibility of enforcement,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengaluru-flat-complex-emerges-as-virus-cluster/article33846437.ece
16 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||RLD regains currency in U.P.||The Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) has thrown its force behind the ongoing farmers agitation over the three contentious farm laws, with its leader, former MP Jayant Chaudhary, declaring an extended programme of mahapanchayats across western Uttar Pradesh till the first week of March. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Chaudhary said the farmers’ agitation had legitimate grievances and the coming together of all communities in the area was also repairing some of the breaches in the social fabric that had occurred during the 2013 communal riots in the districts of western U.P. “These are questions of livelihood that are bringing people together now, the strongest glue that keeps society together. The social fabric that was rent in 2013, is repairing over these more fundamental questions,” he said. “In all the mahapanchayats and public meetings that are being held, people are turning up on their own. Elections are still a year away, there is no candidate hiring buses for crowds to be brought in. People are turning up because the issue affects them fundamentally,” he said. Mr. Chaudhary’s party, founded by his grandfather and former Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singh, had traditionally found its support base among both the Jat and Muslim peasantry in western U.P., with its politics hinging on agrarian issues. The 2013 communal riots in the area, however, polarised the two communities, with the RLD’s political fortunes being wiped out in the process. The BJP in fact did well in western Uttar Pradesh in the 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha elections as well as the 2017 Assembly election as it managed to capture the Jat vote. In the 2017 Assembly elections in fact, the BJP got 117 seats, with the Samajwadi Party (SP) getting just 20, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), which also had a traditional support base there, got three seats and the RLD just one. The farmers’ agitation has also been strong in western U.P., recalling the old socio-political alliances. With that of course has also risen the recall value of the iconic farm leader Chaudhary Charan Singh with even Prime Minister Modi quoting him in his speech in Parliament in the just-concluded first part of the Budget session. “I’m glad that Chaudhary Charan Singh’s legacy is being talked about. I would have preferred it if the government would walk that talk, and really do something to alleviate the situation of Indian farmers,” said Mr. Chaudhary. Whether the farmers’ agitation will prove a political inflection point in India’s most politically significant State, will, however, have to wait till the 2022 Assembly polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rld-regains-currency-in-up/article33846448.ece
16 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Farmers, politicians and public join hands||Several hundred people including farmers’ leaders, politicians and ordinary citizens took part in protests in support of environmental activist Disha A. Ravi, who was arrested on Saturday by the Delhi police in connection with the Greta Thunberg toolkit case. Hundreds gathered at the iconic Mysore Bank Circle on Monday demanding that she be released. Among the protesters was historian Ramachandra Guha, who held a placard ‘Free Disha Ravi’. Stating that it was sad that young people with ideas and passion were being persecuted for their views, Mr. Guha compared the situation to the Emergency imposed by Indira Gandhi in 1975. “I have lived through the Emergency — as a student and as a historian — and we are reaching that pass today. It is deeply disturbing,” Mr. Guha said. Farmers leader Badagalpura Nagendra of the Karnataka Rajya Raita Sangha strongly condemned Ms. Ravi’s arrest and saw it as a continuation of crackdown on protesting farmers. “We stand with Disha Ravi who has been fighting for us farmers. The moment we spoke up for our rights, even we have become anti-nationals,” he said. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah tweeted: “The arrest of Disha Ravi has exposed the cracks in Indian democracy under Narendra Modi. How can the act of supporting farmers be charged under sedition?” The Congress leader added that the arrest was a “politically motivated act”. Meanwhile, Ms Ravi’s friends launched a digital campaign #fingeronyourlips. Hundreds of users posted pictures with fingers on their lips, condemning her arrest and the persecution of two other activists, Nikita Jacob and Shantanu. Student-led organisations said the arrest was an attempt by the authorities to silence them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-politicians-and-public-join-hands/article33846445.ece
16 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Sharmila holds talks with YSR loyalists||Y.S.Sharmila, daughter of former CM Y.S.Rajasekhara Reddy and sister of AP CM Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy began her second round of consultation with her father’s admirers on Monday. Sources said former MLC Magam Ranga Reddy, a veteran editor of a vernacular daily, a large number of admirers of the late CM from Khammam district were among those, who met and held discussions with Ms. Sharmila. On February 20, Ms. Sharmila is scheduled to interact with leaders from Ranga Reddy and Hyderabad district. About 500 delegates are being invited for the meeting on that day, Konda Raghava Reddy, former YSRCP Telangana President and now sailing with Ms. Sharmila said. Originally, she was planning to visit Khammam on February 21 for an interaction with YSR loyalists in the district but had to defer the programme in wake of the Model Code of Conduct enforced on account of MLC election notification. According to the leaders, who had interaction with her, Ms. Sharmila intends to complete all the consultations before April 15 so that she could take a feedback on the proposed new political party. Even if the leader decides to announce her intentions to float a new political party it would take at least 45 days for her to formally launch it with fanfare at a public meeting, sources said. Her close confidantes, it is understood, are now drawing action plan on how to reach out to the people of Telangana. They are also listing out the issues that could be highlighted once she steps out of her house in Hyderabad to tour the districts. Leaders do not rule out Ms. Sharmila undertaking a padayatra in the near future. She might also call on the families of the farmers, hold select meetings in the districts and spend at least 20 days in a month in the districts to meet people. Leaders are preparing a road map on how the proposed party when launched would go ahead if Centre favours ‘one nation, one election’ or the State Assembly elections are held as per the original scheduled. Sources close to her maintain that there is only difference of opinion between her and Mr. Jaganmohan Reddy but not any rift in the family. She is very clear about pursuing a political career in Telangana on her own, sources said. Meanwhile in a statement issued here Mr. Konda Raghava Reddy dismissed reports in a section of the media about simmering differences between Ms. Sharmila and Mr. Jaganmohan Reddy. Stating that it was an attempt to create a rift in the family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sharmila-holds-talks-with-ysr-loyalists/article33846421.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Leatherback nesting sites could be overrun by Andamans development project||Proposals for tourism and port development in the Andaman and Nicobar (A&N) Islands have conservationists worried over the fate of some of the most important nesting populations of the Giant Leatherback turtle in this part of the Indian Ocean. The largest of the seven species of sea turtles on the planet and also the most long-ranging, Leatherbacks are found in all oceans except the Arctic and the Antarctic. Within the Indian Ocean, they nest only in Indonesia, Sri Lanka and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands and are also listed in Schedule I of India’s Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, according it the highest legal protection. Surveys conducted in the A&N Islands over the past three decades have shown that the populations here could be among the most important colonies of the Leatherback globally. There is concern now, however, that at least three key nesting beaches — two on Little Andaman Island and one on Great Nicobar Island — are under threat due to mega “development” plans announced in recent months. These include NITI Aayog’s ambitious tourism vision for Little Andaman and the proposal for a mega-shipment port at Galathea Bay on Great Nicobar Island. Little Andaman in focus The Little Andaman plan, which proposes phased growth of tourism on this virtually untouched island, has sought the de-reservation of over 200 sq km of pristine rainforest and also of about 140 sq km of the Onge Tribal Reserve. Two sites where key components of the tourism plan are to be implemented are both Leatherback nesting sites — South Bay along the southern coast of the island and West Bay along its western coast. South Bay is proposed to be part of the “Leisure Zone” where a film city, a residential district and a tourism special economic zone are to come up. West Bay is to be part of West Bay Nature Retreat with theme resorts, underwater resorts, beach hotels and high-end residential villas. The roughly 7-km-long beach at West Bay has been the site of ongoing marine turtle research projects. Set up post-2004 by the Andaman and Nicobar Environment Team (ANET), Dakshin Foundation, the Indian Institute of Science and the A&N Forest Department to monitor how turtle populations have responded after the devastating earthquake and tsunami, it has thrown up new information on turtles and their behaviour. Not only are the numbers of females nesting here significant, satellite telemetry has revealed hitherto unknown migration patterns. Satellite-tagged female turtles have been tracked swimming up to 13,000 km after nesting on West Bay, towards the western coast of Australia and southwest towards the eastern coast of Africa. One of the tagged turtles travelled to Madagascar, covering 12,328 km in 395 days while another travelled 13,237 km in 266 days to the Mozambique coast. Waning protection For the Leatherback, perhaps even more important is Great Nicobar Island, the southernmost of the A&N group. Large numbers have been recorded nesting here — mainly on the long and wide beaches at the mouth of the Dagmar and Alexandira rivers on the west coast and at the mouth of the Galathea river along its south eastern coast. Galathea Bay was, in fact, proposed as a wildlife sanctuary in 1997 for the protection of turtles and was also the site of a long-term monitoring programme. The monitoring was stopped after the tsunami devastation of 2004, but it provided the first systematic evidence of numbers and importance of these beaches. The A&N Islands are prominent in the National Marine Turtle Action Plan released on February 1, 2021, by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change. The plan notes that “India has identified all its important sea turtle nesting habitats as ‘Important Coastal and Marine Biodiversity Areas’ and included them in the Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) - 1”. South Bay and West Bay on Little Andaman and Galathea on Great Nicobar, along with other nesting beaches in the islands, find a specific mention here as “Important Marine Turtle Habitats in India” and the largest Leatherback nesting grounds in India. The plan identifies coastal development, including construction of ports, jetties, resorts and industries, as major threats to turtle populations. It also asks for assessments of the environmental impact of marine and coastal development that may affect marine turtle populations and their habitats. Developments in the A&N Islands indicate, however, that even as the action plan was being finalised, decisions were being made in violation of its basic concerns and premises. Not only has the mega-tourism plan in Little Andaman been pushed in spite of serious objections by the A&N Forest Department, a major decision was also made recently on the Galathea Bay Wildlife Sanctuary. The Standing Committee of the National Board for Wildlife, at its 60th meeting on January 5 under the chairmanship of the Environment Minister, agreed to its denotification for the “construction as well as operational phases of the International Shipment Project”. The A&N Port Management Board had in 2019 floated an expression of interest for the container transhipment terminal here, along with that for a free trade warehousing zone, and the Prime Minister announced in August 2020 that a transhipment project would come up here on an investment of Rs. 10,000 crore. The scale of the project and the investment proposed indicate it could signal the end of a crucial Giant Leatherback nesting site.  (Pankaj Sekhsaria has been researching issues of the A&N Islands for more than two decades and has authored ﬁve books on the islands.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/leatherback-nesting-sites-could-be-overrun-by-andamans-project/article33846455.ece
16 February 2021||New Delhi,||More students getting back to school||Two out of three Kendriya Vidyalaya (KV) students in Classes 10 and 12 are now attending physical classes, four months after their schools started gradually reopening their doors. However, Education Ministry data show that the attendance levels of Classes 9 and Class 11 students are still below the 50% mark. With the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) announcing its schedule for Board examinations starting in May, and practical examinations kicking off from March 1, students in Classes 10 and 12 have faced the most urgency in returning to a face-to-face teaching and learning process. According to data compiled from all KVs on February 11, an average of 65% of Class 10 and 67% of Class 12 students are attending physical classes. With regards to Class 11 students, 48% have returned to the classroom, while the attendance rate is 42% for those in Class 9. In some States, which have allowed lower grades to also reopen, the KVs have also started physical classes for Classes I to VIII. “However, for students who are not attending school, the provision of online classes is also running. Students are also in touch with their teachers through various digital platforms,” said an Education Ministry statement. For those attending classes, prior consent of parents and guardians is a must. Apart from the government’s standard operating procedure guidelines, all KVs are also being advised to follow staggered timings for students of various classes, said the statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/more-students-getting-back-to-school/article33846465.ece
16 February 2021||Washington DC,||‘Harris, family will uphold highest ethical standards’||Reacting to news reports including in the Los Angeles Times of growing concern over Vice-President Kamala Harris’ niece Meena Harris using her aunt’s name to promote her business and brand, the White House said the Vice-President and her family will uphold “the highest ethical standards”, adding that her name should not be used in any commercial activities to suggest an endorsement. “The Vice-President and her family will uphold the highest ethical standards and it’s the White House’s policy that the Vice-President’s name should not be used in connection with any commercial activities that could reasonably be understood to imply an endorsement or support,” Deputy Press Secretary for the Vice-President Sabrina Singh said in a statement to The Hindu . The LA Times had reported last week that a current White House official (whose name was withheld) was “taken aback” after watching a Meena Harris interview with former first daughter Jenna Bush Hager. “Somethings can’t be undone” but “behaviour needs to change,” the official is quoted as saying. The interview, aired five days before the presidential inauguration, featured photos of the Harris family and Meena Harris’ children’s book Ambitious Girl as well as T-shirts from her clothing brand, Phenomenal. Ms. Meena Harris, a 36-year-old Harvard educated lawyer and businesswoman, has used themes connected with her aunt, including a T-shirt that says, “I’m Speaking” — a reference to what Ms. Harris had said when interrupted by her opponent, former Vice-President Mike Pence during a pre-election debate. The LA Times story said the conflicts “do not rival” entanglements in the Trump presidency. Ms. Meena Harris has been in the news more recently after she tweeted in support of the farmers’ protests. On Monday, she retweeted an article on the arrest of 21-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi. “The White House does not have standing to interfere in what Ms. Harris says about the farmers’ protests. Ms. Harris has the same rights to free speech as any of her fellow citizens,” Presidential historian Jeffrey Engel told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/harris-family-will-uphold-highest-ethical-standards/article33846924.ece
16 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Focus is on developing Warangal, says Dayakar Rao||Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao follows Gandhian ideals and offers priority for rural development with Panchayat Raj, said Minister E Dayakar Rao on Monday. He addressed a programme in Warangal on the Growth Agenda organised the Excel India Magazine with planning commission deputy chairman B Vinod Kumar and local leaders. Grama swarajya is the key for achieving all round development and the government is giving adequate funds for improved facilities. About Rs. 300 crore is being spent to provide Rythu Kallams, Vaikunta Dhamams and other facilities in Warangal, he said, A textile park is planned to take shape soon, he hoped. Second big city The Chief Minister, and Municipal Minister KT Rama Rao have focussed on giving facelift to Warangal city, which is second big one in the State after Hyderabad, he said. He cited that the KCR regime has been implementing several welfare schemes which are not the case with other states. Women empowerment, development of community professionals, facilities and infrastructure are some of our government priorities he said. Rythu Vedikas are being built by spending Rs. 20 lakhs in all districts to support farmers reap benefits, he said. Mr. Vinod Kumar accused the Centre of failing to set up coach factory in Kazipet. Several appeals made by the State government for the central nod and funding are of no use, he said expressing displeasure. Our schemes are ideal and being emulated by the other States, he claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/focus-is-on-developing-warangal-says-dayakar-rao/article33846999.ece
16 February 2021||Bengaluru,||HC notice to Karnataka govt. on report about wakf property||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday ordered issue of notice to the State government on a PIL petition seeking directions to the government to implement the report on ‘Misuse and disposal of wakf properties’, and to conduct a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) based on the findings of the report. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum passed the order on the petition filed by 83-year-old S.K. Kantha, a former Minister. “The State has not taken any action against those named in the Commission’s report nor any investigation conducted against them as many of those named in the report are powerful politicians or influential persons across the political spectrum,” the petitioner alleged while seeking probe to be entrusted to the CBI under the court’s monitoring as the State government and its agencies are helpless in acting against those named in the report. The petitioner has pointed out that the Karnataka State Minorities Commission had submitted a special report on ‘Misuse of wakf properties and their illegal disposal and encroachment’ on March 26, 2012, but the report had remained confidential for several years. However, the report was tabled before the Houses of the Karnataka Legislature in September 2020 after the government unsuccessfully resisted before the High Court and the Supreme Court against the petitioner’s plea for tabling the report before the legislature, the petitioner pointed while seeking effective implementation of the recommendations made in the report. Pointing out that the government had referred the Commission’s report to the Karnataka Lokayukta for an enquiry, and the Lokayukta had way back in March 2016 had submitted the report, the petitioner said that the government did not act neither on the recommendations of the Commission’s report or the report of the Lokayukta. The petitioner has also sought a direction to the government to place the report of the Lokayukta before the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-notice-to-karnataka-govt-on-report-about-wakf-property/article33846930.ece
16 February 2021||Hassan,||‘Houses of those not donating for Ram Mandir being marked’||Former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy has alleged that those raising funds for the construction of the Ram Mandir at Ayodhya were marking the houses of those who have not contributed, on the lines of the Nazis of Germany who had a marking system to identify the Jews. Speaking at a press conference in Shivamogga on Monday, Mr. Kumaraswamy said he came to know about this “system” recently. “I don’t know where these developments will take us to. You all know what happened in Germany under the Nazi rule. Lakhs of people lost their lives in that country. The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh took birth in India at the same time when the Nazis came into existence in Germany. Many people are worried about the consequences if the Nazi model is emulated here,” he said. He also said people were beingdenied the right to express their opinions. The country is under an undeclared emergency. “Mediapersons don’t know what will happen to them if they raise their voice against the government. So imagine the plight of the common man,” he said. Regarding the BJP rule in the State, Mr. Kumaraswamy said it was not the BJP that was in power in Karnataka. “Actually, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s family is ruling the State,” he said. “The Chief Minister has enhanced the funds for his constituency, Shikaripur, to Rs. 1,000 crore, while I had allotted Rs. 285 crore when I was Chief Minister.” The JD(S) leader also said the State government had promised Rs. 5 lakh for those who lost their houses in the floods, but many have not got more than Rs. 1 lakh. “However, now the government has said that there were no applicants to take the money,” he said. To a query, Mr. Kumaraswamy said former MLA Madhu Bangarappa was still with the JD(S). “He has not said he will quit the JD(S). He is still my brother,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/houses-of-those-not-donating-for-ram-mandir-being-marked/article33846765.ece
16 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Naidu for protest to ‘protect Vizag plant’||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national President N. Chandrababu Naidu has exhorted his party leaders and cadres to stage a State-wide protest against the Central government’s proposal of privatisation of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) on February 18. In a statement on Monday, Mr. Naidu alleged that the ruling YSRCP was aware of the the proposed deal with the South Korean company POSCO, but ‘remained a mute spectator’. Dig at Jagan “A relentless agitation is needed to protect the steel plant. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is bent on handing over the steel plant to private hands to save himself from his illegal assets cases. He has apparently struck a secret deal with the POSCO to grab the surplus lands of the steel plant which have a very high value in the market,” alleged Mr. Naidu. The TDP president also deplored that having the privatisation plan in the sleeve, deliberate attempts were being made not to allocate captive mines to the plant. “The people of the State had achieved the industry after a prolonged struggle. Once again, the people of the State need to fight to save the steel plant,” he added.  The people of the State had achieved the industry after a prolonged struggle. Once again, the people of the State need to fight to save the steel plant N. Chandrababu Naidu TDP president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/naidu-for-protest-to-protect-vizag-plant/article33846434.ece
16 February 2021||KOTTAYAM,||NCP expels Kappan for anti-party stance||A day after Mani C. Kappan formally switched sides to the United Democratic Front (UDF), the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Monday expelled him from the party. “The honourable National President, Nationalist Congress Party, Shri Sharad Pawar, has expelled Mani C. Kappan, MLA, from the party with immediate effect for his anti-party activities,” read a statement issued by S.R. Kohli, permanent secretary, NCP. Mr. Kappan said he viewed it as a natural response from the party leadership. He, however, was determined to go ahead with the plans to float a new party ahead of the Assembly elections. Sources said the faction that broke away under Mr. Kappan on Tuesday held consultations with fence-sitters in the NCP State unit. Those who had jumped the ship continued to put in their papers from the posts allotted by the LDF government. A second round meeting of the party is slated to be held in Thiruvananthapuram on February 22. Committee A 10-member committee led by Mr. Kappan and Babu Karthikeyan, former State treasurer of the NCP, has already commenced working on the party constitution and its registration. Sources said a couple of regional outfits in central Kerala have approached the committee seeking the possibility of a merger. A decision will be taken at a later stage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ncp-expels-kappan-for-anti-party-stance/article33846710.ece
16 February 2021||New Delhi,||Geospatial data policy liberalised||In sweeping changes to the country’s mapping policy, the government on Monday announced liberalisation of norms governing the acquisition and production of geospatial data, a move to help boost innovation in the sector and create a level playing field for public and private entities. Under the new guidelines, the sector will be deregulated and aspects such as prior approvals for surveying, mapping and building applications based on that have been done away with, Department of Science and Technology Secretary Ashutosh Sharma said. For Indian entities, there will be complete deregulation with no prior approvals, security clearances and licences for the acquisition and production of geospatial data and geospatial data services, including maps, he said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the liberalisation of policies governing the acquisition and production of geospatial data was a “massive step in the government’s vision for an Aatmanirbhar Bharat”. The reform will benefit the country’s farmers, start-ups, the private sector, the public sector, and research institutions to drive innovations and build scalable solutions, he said. Generate employment Science and Technology Minister Harsh Vardhan in a press conference said the easing of norms will greatly help in several sectors that were suffering because of non-availability of high quality maps. The move will unlock tremendous opportunities for the country’s start-ups, private sector, public sector, and research institutions, to drive innovations and build scalable solutions. It will also generate employment and accelerate economic growth, he stressed. “India’s farmers will also be benefited by leveraging the potential of geospatial and remote sensing data,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/geospatial-data-policy-liberalised/article33846444.ece
16 February 2021||New Delhi,||Congress demands rollback of LPG prices||The Congress on Monday demanded a rollback of the increase in the price of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) cylinders, with former party chief Rahul Gandhi terming the hike “a loot from the public to help the development of only two persons”. On Sunday, the Centre had increased the price of cooking gas by Rs. 50 per cylinder. “Loot from the public. And development for only two,” tweeted Mr. Gandhi. He tagged a news report on how LPG prices had been hiked twice in a span of 10 days as the cost of a cylinder was increased by Rs. 25 on February 4. Congress communication chief Randeep Surjewala tweeted a throwback picture of June 2011 in which Union Minister Smriti Irani was seen protesting over a Rs. 50 hike in LPG prices. “Prices of cylinders have gone up Rs. 175 per cylinder. Will you say something now or prefer to keep quiet to enjoy the perks of power?” tweeted Mr. Surjewala. At the party’s official briefing, spokesperson Supriya Shrinate placed two cylinders on the podium during her press conference and called the repeated hikes in fuel and LPG prices as “proof of the Narendra Modi government’s insensitivity”. “If you look at the two increases of Rs. 50 each on LPG cylinders during the month of December, then the government has increased Rs. 175 per cylinder in the past two months,” Ms. Shrinate said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-demands-rollback-of-lpg-prices/article33846468.ece
16 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC puts off hearing on Kerala plea against privatising airport||The Supreme Court on Monday adjourned the hearing of a Kerala government petition against the Centre's “illegal” move to handover the Thiruvananthapuram airport to the Adani group. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde said the court would take up the case again for hearing on the Monday after a fortnight. The court disagreed when one of the lawyers said the case should slip into a limbo. “How can it be in limbo when we are seized of it,” Chief Justice Bobde asked. The State government has sought an interim stay of the Kerala High Court decision on October 19, allowing the Airports Authority of India let Adani Enterprises Limited take over the “operation, management and development” of Thiruvananthapuram International Airport. The State, in its petition, said the preference given by the Centre to a private concessionaire like Adani, which has no experience in the field of managing airports, smacks of arbitrariness. The High Court had favoured the handover of a vital facility to a private entity though it was not in the interest of better management of the airport. The entire proceeding was in violation of the provisions of the Airport Authority of India Act, 1994, the State said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-puts-off-hearing-on-kerala-plea-against-privatising-airport/article33846440.ece
16 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Accused in custodial death case sacked||The Kerala government on Monday decided to dismiss from service the police personnel responsible for the custodial death of a 49-year-old remand prisoner at a police station in Idukki district in July 2019. The government said it had accepted the K. Narayana Kurup Commission inquiry report on the custodial death of the prisoner, K. Rajkumar. It was the commission’s recommendation that the accused police personnel be dismissed. The Cabinet on Monday ordered their discharge from service as per Article 311(2) of the Constitution. The case related to the alleged torture of Rajkumar, a local chit fund operator, at the Nedunkandam police station purportedly to recover money he had received as deposits from the public. The financier died on June 21 at the Peerumedu taluk hospital during treatment. After a public outcry, the State government appointed the judicial commission to look into the case. Justice Kurup ordered exhuming of the body and a re- postmortem examination as he found several lapses in the first autopsy report. The second autopsy revealed new injuries. The CBI, probing the case, said nine police personnel subjected Rajkumar to prolonged torture and harsh questioning on the station house’s first floor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/accused-in-custodial-death-case-sacked/article33846432.ece
16 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Twitter keeps off Minister’s account||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij on Monday said anyone who nurtured the thought of opposing the country should be eradicated completely. He was commenting on the arrest of 22-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi. Having investigated a complaint against the Minister’s tweet on the subject, Twitter decided not to remove it. His tweet said, “Those who nurture the seed of opposing the nation [anti-national] in their mind, that has to be completely destroyed, be it Disha Ravi or anyone else.” On Sunday, Ms. Ravi was remanded in police custody for five days, and charged with sedition for editing and sharing a “toolkit” on the farmers’ protests. The public prosecutor claimed that the “toolkit” was created as part of a plan to revive pro-Khalistan groups in the country. According to a screenshot posted by the Minister, Twitter had initially alerted him that a complaint regarding his tweet had been received from Germany, under the country’s Network Enforcement Act. ‘Manipulating minds’ However, the social media platform later said it had “investigated the reported content and have found that it is not subject to removal under the Twitter rules or German law. Accordingly, we have not taken any action as a result of this specific report.” The BJP’s Information and Technology department head Amit Malviya accused Leftist politicians of manipulating young activists like Ms. Ravi. On activist’s age  “The Left has been using young impressionable minds as cannon fodder for their deranged politics. From JNU to Jamia, AMU to Nadwa and now Disha Ravi, are all part of their sinister plot... Unfortunately they are abandoned soon after they have served their purpose!” he tweeted. Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat took a dig at those pointing out Ms. Ravi’s young age. “If age is the criteria then Param Veer Chakra Second Lt Arun Khetarpal, martyred at 21 is who I am proud of. Not some #toolkit propagandists!” he tweeted.  Those who nurture the seed of opposing the nation in their mind, that has to be completely destroyed... Anil VijHaryana Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/twitter-keeps-off-on-ministers-account/article33846453.ece
16 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Tariff hike proposed by Bescom slammed||Burdened by the impact of the pandemic, citizens and industry bodies have slammed the move by the Bangalore Electricity Supply Company (Bescom), which proposed a hike in tariff for the upcoming financial year, at the public hearing organised by the Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission (KERC) here on Monday. Bescom has sought an average hike of Rs. 1.39 per unit for FY 2021-22. In November 2020, the KERC had announced an increase in tariff by an average 40 paise per unit, but decided to make the new tariffs applicable from November instead of April giventhe circumstances. Presenting its objections, KASSIA said the proposed revision would come within five months, ending up discouraging industries, and asked the KERC to continue with the existing tariff for another year. “The definition of fixed cost is the cost necessary to carry the investment and to replace the equipment when it is worn out. Fixed cost is based on the original cost of establishing the generating stations. The cost of machines reduces every year based on the depreciated cost of machines. Under any condition, the fixed cost should not be increased. Instead, it should be reduced based on the depreciation,” KASSIA has argued. Terming the hike sought as ‘unjustified’ for small scale industries, they argued that they are subjected to load shedding and unscheduled interruptions, resulting in loss of man hours and production. “There is considerable scope for reduction in costs and improving efficiencies to set off the proposed additional expenditure by Bescom. Therefore, the present tariff revision petition should be rejected,” the KASSIA said. FKCCI demanded for a separate special tariff category for MSME and said the KERC should not allow any increase in fixed charges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tariff-hike-proposed-by-bescom-slammed/article33846928.ece
16 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||NHAI drafts additional marshals at toll plazas||The National Highway Authorities of India (NHAI) Hyderabad regional office has on war-footing deputed additional marshals at all the 21 toll plazas to regulate vehicular movement and identify non-FASTag vehicles as all the lanes turn FASTag lanes after midnight. A senior NHAI official said that marshals have been instructed to stand a kilometre before the approaching toll plazas to identify non-FASTag vehicles and stop them to purchase the tags at specially arranged point of sales. “They will guide the motorists to the nearest POS and ensure they obtain the tags before continuing the journey,” the official said. The focus is on Panthangi toll plaza on NH-65 in Nalgonda district, Raikal plaza on NH-44 in Mahabubnagar district and Gudur plaza in Yadadri Bhuvanagiri district. All the three plazas witnesses heavy vehicular movement daily. “If we are able to regulate traffic at these plazas and ensure the motorists adhere to affixing FASTag stickers, it would be smooth ride at all other plazas,” the NHAI official remarked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nhai-drafts-additional-marshals/article33847027.ece
16 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Centre working on new CrPC, IPC: Kishan Reddy||Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy on Monday said the Centre is working on bringing out a new Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) and the Indian Penal Code (IPC) to make them in tune with the modern needs and help strengthen the laws for protection of women in the country. “The CrPC and IPC are archaic laws of the British times and need a total revamp. We have been only making amendments and changing the sections over the last 72 years but not wholesome changes based on the social-economic changes in the society keeping in mind the safety and security of women,” he observed. Home Minister Amit Shah had already written to the jurists, academicians, domain experts, senior officials, including serving and retired ones of the law enforcement departments, to suggest the necessary changes in the Codes. “We are going to put the draft out in the open and it will be shared with women groups, advocates, social activists and others seeking their respective inputs too,” he said. Mr. Reddy was addressing a gathering of intellectuals organised by women’s wing in support of party MLC candidate and senior leader N. Ramchander Rao for the Graduates Constituency. Praising Mr. Rao, also the sitting MLC, the Minister said he is not only a honest and hard-working member of the party, but is also a lawyer of repute and deserves to win again. The party has bright chances of bagging both the graduate seats in he forthcoming MLC elections to the Legislative Council since it had won the Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahabubnagar seat in 2014 when the TRS was quite strong, and lost another one narrowly. “The employed, educated and the youth have moved away from the TRS and are looking up to us so we have a very good chance of winning going by the recent electoral victories,” he claimed. Pvt. colleges warned In a separate development, party BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar warned corporate colleges that the party will be forced to take up an agitation in support of the lecturers denied salaries for the past few months under the guise of pandemic loss. Addressing a delegation of lecturers association, who called on him to represent their grievances, Mr. Sanjay Kumar charged the college managements of collecting hefty fee but unfairly denying salaries to teachers whose “hardwork has been earning them crores of profits each year”. He also criticised the government for keeping ‘mum’ on the issue instead of reading the riot act to the corporate college managements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-working-on-new-crpc-ipc/article33847024.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Lawyers flag violation of norms in Disha arrest||The practice of police arresting a person outside the State, but bringing them back and producing them before a magistrate in their own jurisdiction is not in accordance with law, the MHA guidelines said. Further, Section 80 of CrPC stipulates that the arrested person must be produced before the magistrate within the jurisdiction of arrest, which must be followed in every case, the guidelines said. However, this has not been followed in this case, the lawyers claim. “Being ‘arrested’ from Bengaluru, she should have been produced before the competent court in Bengaluru itself for obtaining transit remand since she is being moved between States, but was not. She also did not have an opportunity to seek legal counsel nor was one provided to her, in breach of Article 22. These actions of Delhi police have made a complete mockery of the “procedure established by law” in depriving Disha Ravi of her right to life and liberty,” said a statement from Campaign for Judicial Accountability and Reforms. However, a day after multiple sources in the Bengaluru City Police claimed they were not kept in loop, city police on Monday claimed that they were indeed kept in the loop about the arrest. This, despite sources telling The Hindu on Sunday that they learned of Ms. Ravi’s arrest only after she was escorted out of Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lawyers-flag-violation-of-norms-in-disha-arrest/article33846423.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Toolkit case: activists seek anticipatory bail||This was to be followed by physical action on January 26, and joining the farmers’ march into Delhi and back to the borders. Police said the unfolding of events, including the violence of January 26, was a copycat execution of the action plan. Joint Commissioner of Police (Cyber Crime) of the Delhi Police, Prem Nath, said NBWs have been issued against advocate Ms. Jacob, a resident of Goregaon, and Mr. Muluk, a native of Maharashtra’s Beed district who resides in Pune and an engineer by profession. Police claimed that evidence so far revealed that the toolkit was created by Ms. Jacob, Mr. Muluk and Ms. Ravi. The Special Cell is investigating. Mr. Nath said that after the case was registered to investigate the toolkit, it was found that it was created by alleged pro-Khalistani group ‘Poetic Justice Foundation’ (PJF) and people associated with it. During the probe, screenshots of the toolkit document, available on open source, were investigated and a search warrant was obtained on February 9 against Ms. Jacob, one of the alleged editors of the toolkit. “A team had gone to Mumbai and searches were conducted at her residence on February 11. Two laptops and one phone were found and several incriminating evidence was retrieved,” he said, adding that Ms. Jacob was then asked to remain available the next day but she wasn’t found when the police went.  According to the police, on January 11, Ms. Jacob and Mr. Muluk attended a Zoom meeting organised by PJF, in which the modalities of the “global day of action” were worked out, and based on the course of action decided during this meeting. “Nikita, Disha, Shantanu and others collaborated towards the drafts of the toolkit.” the police said. Police claimed that a team was also sent to Beed but Mr. Muluk wasn’t found.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/toolkit-case-activists-seek-prior-bail/article33846438.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,||China pulls back from Finger 4 heights||This took place amid action on the South bank , to gain tactical advantage. Stating that disengagement is going at a good pace and could be complete by end of this week, the official said it was a huge logistical task to transport all the equipment, the stocking that was done and dismantling the structures that were built as part of the massive build up by both sides. Once disengagement at Pangong lake is complete, Corps Commander talks would be held within 48 hours, which is likely to happen next week to discuss the next phase which would focus on the friction points at Gogra and Hot Springs. Two government officials observed that some disengagement has already been undertaken at Patrolling Points (PP) 15 and 17A and so it wouldn’t take much time to work out and complete the disengagement here. The bigger issue of contention between the two sides would be Depsang, especially as there have been developments there for several years now much before the standoff last year, one of the official added. Chinese troops have been blocking Indian Army patrols from patrolling up to the PPs 10 to 13 in the Depsang Plains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/china-pulls-back-from-finger-4-heights/article33846439.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Indians concerned about privacy, says CJI||The hearing concerned the new privacy policy introduced by WhatsApp on January 4. The allegation is that it scraps users’ ‘opt-out policy’. The user would have to, according to the policy, compulsorily consent to share their data with Facebook and its group, the petitioners have alleged. The policy deadline was February 8 initially, but it was extended to May 15. Mr. Sibal denied allegations that WhatsApp was treating Europeans and Indians differently. “Europe has a special law [General Data Protection Regulations], India doesn’t. As soon as India has the special law, we will follow. We will follow the law of Parliament,” he submitted. The new privacy policy was applicable to the rest of the world except Europe. Mr. Datar said the General Data Protection Regulations was followed by probably 20 countries in the world. Allegations of differential treatment being accorded to Indians were unfounded. Senior advocate Shyam Divan, for petitioner Karmanya Singh Sareen and others challenging the new privacy policy, said they were not on whether WhatsApp was encrypting messages or not. “We are on the point of sharing of meta data for profit,” he submitted. “There is a different set of rules for Europeans and different for Indians... Even the government has taken serious note and issued notices to the companies,” he said. He urged the court to ensure that no data is leaked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indians-concerned-about-privacy-cji/article33846443.ece
16 February 2021||Pune,||Justice Sawant, former SC judge, passes away||Former Supreme Court judge P.B. Sawant (90) passed away at his Pune residence on Monday. He had been ailing for a month. Justice Sawant had been active in public affairs since his retirement in 1995. His last rites would be performed on Tuesday, said sources who were close to him. He was in the news in recent years for being one of the chief organisers, along with his close friend and former Bombay High Court judge B.G. Kolse-Patil, of the original and controversial Elgaar Parishad held in December 2017 at Shaniwar Wada here. Justice Sawant has also served as chairman of the Press Council of India. Justice Kolse-Patil told The Hindu that Justice Sawant was a towering personality whose intense dedication to social justice was legendary. “He was exemplar of how one human being ought to behave towards another. In his long career, his court decisions not only aimed at ensuring political and social justice for the victims but economic justice as well. His energy towards social causes was unflagging, and he remained active and tireless to the very end. His strict sense of justice and conduct of public affairs was inspirational and an example to all of us,” he said. Justice Sawant, who started practising in the Bombay High Court in 1973, was appointed judge in the Supreme Court in 1989. In 2002, he, along with retired Bombay High Court Judge Hosbet Suresh, served on an Indian People’s Tribunal headed by justice V. R. Krishna Iyer to investigate the 2002 Gujarat riots. In 2003, Justice Sawant chaired a commission formed to investigate corruption charges against four Ministers in the then Congress-Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) government in Maharashtra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/justice-sawant-former-sc-judge-passes-away/article33846470.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Anti-graft crusader no more||He was also responsible for the recent crackdown on land grab of government properties worth hundreds of crores on Karimnagar outskirts. He would turn up at Lok Satta office every day and guide people on issues involving illegal occupation of their lands. Mr. Srinivas was the founder president of Karimnagar Film Society and instrumental in establishing Karimnagar Consumer Council, a year ahead of Consumer Protection Act came into force in the country. The Council settled close to 10,000 disputes paving the way for compensation to consumers worth Rs. 25 crore. His last rites were held in the evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/anti-graft-crusader-no-more/article33847127.ece
16 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||I.T. raids on Mumbai gutkha firm||The Income-Tax Department has detected unaccounted transactions amounting to Rs. 1,500 crore during searches on a Mumbai-based group that is into manufacturing gutkha and pan masala and hospitality services. “The search and seizure action has led to detection of foreign assets lying with a company registered in tax-haven British Virgin Islands (BVI) with an office in Dubai, and controlled and managed by the group chairman. The net worth of the BVI company is Rs. 830 crore created by siphoning off funds from India,” said the agency. The fund was round-tripped to India in the form of share premium worth Rs. 638 crore in the flagship group companies. It is alleged that the group availed bogus deductions to the extent of Rs. 398 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/it-raids-on-mumbai-gutkha-firm/article33846688.ece
16 February 2021||Bengaluru,||CBI arrests ED employee in Bengaluru for extortion bid||Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) officials have arrested a multi-tasking staff member working with the Enforcement Directorate, Bengaluru, for allegedly masquerading as an enforcement officer and attempting to extort Rs. 2 crore from a businessman by threatening to conduct raids on him. Based on a complaint filed bythe businessman, the police arrested the D. Chennakeshavulu and his associate Veeresh, and charged them under the Prevention ofCorruption Act. According to CBI officials, Chennakeshavulu met the complainant at a hotel in Bengaluru and introduced himself as an enforcement officer. “He informed him that he needed to search his house in the light of several complaints against him. He even carried out a ‘search’ at the complainant’s house and demanded Rs. 2 crore to close the complaints against him,” said a senior police official. The complainant gave Rs. 6 lakh to Veeresh as instructed by Channakeshavulu. However, he received a call the next day and was instructed to hand over the remaining money to Veeresh. Worried as he did not have the money with him, the complainant lodged a complaint with the CBI. Acting on the instructions of the police, he met with Veeresh the next day, but insisted that he meet the ED official also to settle the matter. “After much negotiation Channakeshavulu arrived, only to be trapped by CBI officials,” the police added. In custody Searches were conducted at the premises of both men, who were produced before the court, and remanded in five days police custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-arrests-ed-employee-in-bengaluru-for-extortion-bid/article33846931.ece
16 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||85 lakh given the shot so far||A total of 85,16,385 beneficiaries have been given COVID-19 vaccination till 6 p.m. on Monday, with no serious or severe adverse event or death attributable to vaccination till now, the Health Ministry said. It said 2,31,476 beneficiaries were vaccinated on Monday till 6 p.m., and Uttar Pradesh recorded the largest number of vaccinations. “Till date, India has reported a total of 35 hospitalisations after vaccination, of which 21 have been discharged. Three continue to be under treatment and 11 have died in the hospital. A new death, of a 53-year-old male from U.P., has been reported and a post-mortem report is awaited,” the Ministry’s statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/85-lakh-given-the-shot-so-far/article33846457.ece
16 February 2021||KOCHI,||Regularisation of Kerala Bank appointments stayed by HC||The decision to regularise the employment of temporary employees of Kerala Bank was stayed by a Single Judge of the Kerala High Court on Monday. The court stayed the move on a petition filed by P.R. Haridas of Kottayam, who was on the rank list prepared for direct recruitment to the post of clerk/cashier in the erstwhile Kottayam District Cooperative Bank. Incidentally, in an another petition, the State submitted before the court that there was no move to regularise Kerala Bank employees. It was while considering a writ petition by A. Lijith of Kannur that the State made its mind known. Detailed statements The court asked the State and Kerala Bank to file detailed statements. The court posted the case for March 3. In his petition, Mr. Haridas said the Kottayam bank had not duly reported the vacancies to the Kerala Public Services Commission. The bank had also recruited persons who were not included on the rank list. The petitioner contended that his claim for the employment was with Kerala Bank after the amalgamation of the erstwhile district cooperative banks to form Kerala Bank. All appointments to Kerala Bank have to be filled through direct recruitment as advised by the PSC. Kerala Bank cannot resort to any other method of recruitment to fill the vacancies, he contended. The petitioner contended that his right for appointment would be prejudiced if Kerala Bank resorted to mass regularisation of temporary employees as there would not be any vacancies left for his appointment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/regularisation-of-kerala-bank-appointments-stayed-by-hc/article33846709.ece
16 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Anti-cow slaughter Act notified||The controversial Karnataka Prevention of Cow Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Act, 2020, was notified on Monday after it received the Governor’s assent on February 12. The Act, whose preamble states that the aim is to provide for comprehensive legislation for the prevention of slaughter and preservation of cattle, had generated much political heat with the Congress and the Janata Dal (S) initially opposing it. However,the JD(S) came to the BJP government’s rescue by supporting it in the Legislative Council, where it was eventually passed. The Act will replace the Karnataka Prevention of Cow Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Act, 1964, which stands repealed. Meanwhile, Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chavan on Monday asked officials of his department to concentrate on the production of meat from sheep and chicken to meet the demand with the new law in force. “I am also aware that farmers are letting go of male calves. The department officials will convince farmers to look after the calves at least for three months before they can bring them to the cow shelters,” the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/anti-cow-slaughter-act-notified/article33846761.ece
16 February 2021||Belagavi,||Yediyurappa’s family taking bribes, alleges MLA Yatnal||Bharatiya Janata Party MLA and former Union Minister Basanagouda Patil Yatnal has yet again launched an attack on Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and his son B.Y. Vijayendra. Ahead of the State visit of BJP national general secretary and Karnataka in-charge Arun Singh, scheduled for Wednesday, Mr. Yatnal alleged that Mr. Yediyurappa’s family was engaged in “large-scale corruption”. “They are bringing a bad name to the State government and the BJP,” he said in Vijayapura on Monday. “Around 30 members of Yediyurappa’s family are living in Kaveri, the Chief Minister’s official residence. These relatives include his children and grandchildren. They are taking bribes to sanction projects and to transfer officials. The main person behind all this is B.Y. Vijayendra. Yediyurappa is helpless as he is old and weak. These relatives were nowhere to be seen when Yediyurappa was the Opposition leader and at other times. There was only a cook and an assistant with him in those days. These relatives have gathered around him only for power,” he said. Responding to a statement by Mr. Vijayendra that the Chief Minister was working in an environment surrounded by snakes and scorpions, Mr. Yatnal said such venomous creatures were in the Chief Minister’s house itself and not elsewhere. “Vijayendra is running the government virtually. MLAs who have met him complain that they have to stand before him as there is no second chair in his chamber. They are all keeping quiet as they are after power. I am not after power. I am not speaking against the CM or his family because I have not been made a Minister. Agitating against injustice is my nature,” he said. ‘Not received notice’ He also described himself as a follower of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, “who is against nepotism”, and former Prime Minister the late Atal Bihari Vajpayee, “who was against corruption all his life”. “I am following in their footsteps. The party cannot take any action against me as I have not violated any party discipline. Only the media is worried about reports of a notice issued to me and its implications. Some TV channels have claimed that the notice gave me a big shock. I am not shocked in any way. In fact, I have not got any notice till now,” he claimed. “When Yediyurappa toured Vijayapura in the past, I paid for his fuel expenses. We have built the party, but the Chief Minister’s family members are enjoying the power,” he said. Recategorisation He also said that Mr. Yediyurappa had announced in the campaign for the Kalaburagi byelection that he would ensure that Adi Banajiga and Panchamasali communities would be recategorised as 2A. “But he has forgotten his promise. If he announces that this will be done on a particular date, I will felicitate him,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/yediyurappas-family-taking-bribes-says-mla-yatnal/article33846424.ece
16 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||EPFO Board to meet in Srinagar||The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation’s (EPFO) Central Board of Trustees was scheduled to meet in Srinagar on March 4, according to an invitation sent to Board members by the EPFO on Monday. The Board members were informed that the 228th meeting of the EPF’s Central Board of Trustees was scheduled to be held in Srinagar, Jammu and Kashmir on March 4, and the exact time and venue would be decided later. The agenda for the meeting would be sent to the members soon, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/epfo-board-to-meet-in-srinagar/article33846446.ece
16 February 2021||Kolkata,||DYFI member injured during march dies||A 31-year-old member of the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI), youth wing of the CPI(M), who had sustained injuries during the march to the Secretariat on February 11, died on Monday at a health facility. Leaders of the Left parties alleged that Maidul Islam Mriddha, resident of Bankura district, died of the injuries sustained during police action. The body has been sent for post mortem. The Kolkata police have registered a case of unnatural death and officials said investigation is on. CPI(M) leader Fuad Halim said the activist’s condition started deteriorating on February 13 and the reason for the death could be “kidney failure following excessive assault on muscles”. Dr. Halim, in whose clinic the Left supporter was admitted, said there was “little doubt that he died because of the injuries sustained in the police action”. The death triggered protests not only in Kolkata but also in some parts of the State. Protesters blocked highways, roads and train movement and took out rallies and processions. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee called up CPI(M) MLA Sujan Chakraborty and offered all assistance to the family of the deceased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dyfi-member-injured-during-march-dies/article33846449.ece
16 February 2021||New Delhi,||Four more bodies found in Chamoli||The death toll in the aftermath of a snow avalanche in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli on February 7 has gone up to 55, with the recovery of four more bodies on Monday. Three bodies were recovered from the Tapovan hydel project tunnel, while another body was found in Maithana. The search teams have also recovered 22 body parts from different places so far. According to the Chamoli police, the identities of 29 bodies had been established. The DNA samples of unidentified bodies and 56 family members of missing persons have stored for matching. The Joshimath police station has registered a total of 179 missing persons report. The operation of removing slush from the Tapovan tunnel is still under way and about 140 metres have been cleared. Indo-Tibetan Border Police and the National Disaster Response Force personnel are carrying out searches at Raini village, close to the Rishiganga power project site. Relief works are also being carried out by various agencies in the affected villages. Over 460 families in various villages have been impacted. “Essential supplies have been restored in the villages which were cut off after a bridge had collapsed,” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/four-more-bodies-found-in-chamoli-death-toll-hits-55/article33846462.ece
16 February 2021||Pune,||Truck mishap kills 15 in Maharashtra||Fifteen people were killed and two others injured when a fruit-laden truck they were travelling in overturned in Jalgaon district in north Maharashtra on Monday. According to the Jalgaon police, the accident occurred sometime after Sunday midnight when a papaya-laden tempo truck coming from neighbouring Dhule district overturned near Kingaon village. Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted: “Heart-wrenching truck accident in Jalgaon, Maharashtra. Condolences to the bereaved families. May the injured recover at the earliest.” The Prime Minister’s Office further tweeted that Mr. Modi had approved “an ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh each from the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund for the next of kin of those who have lost their lives... Rs. 50,000 would be given to those seriously injured.” Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray announced an ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh to each of the families of the deceased from the Chief Minister’s Assistance Fund. “The Chief Minister has also directed the administration to treat the injured workers at the State government’s expense,” tweeted the Chief Minister’s Office. The police are investigating the precise cause of the accident. The deceased, who comprised members of four or five families, hailed from the villages of Abhoda, Kerhale, Vivare in the district’s Raver tehsil. The victims have been been identified as Ashok Jagan Wagh, 40, his wife Sangeeta, 35, and their three-year-old child Sagar, along with another relative Narendra Waman Wagh, 25; Kamalabai Ramesh More, 45, and her two children Ganesh, 5, and Sharada, 15; Sabnur Hussain Tadvi, 53, Dildar Hussain Tadvi, 20; Shaikh Hussain Shaikh, 30, and Sarfaraz Kasam Tadvi, 32; Digambar Madhav Sapkale, 55, Sandeep Bhalerao, 25, and his wife Durgabai, 20; and Samanabai Ingle, 24.  The Chief Minister has also directed the administration to treat the injured at the government’s expense Chief Minister’s Office||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/truck-mishap-kills-15-in-maharashtra/article33846472.ece
16 February 2021||Chandigarh,||More fast-track courts under POCSO Act||Nine more fast-track courts under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act will be set up in Punjab, the State government decided on Monday. The decision was taken in an inter-departmental meeting of the State government. The meeting decided on a slew of measures to strengthen investigation and prosecution machinery to handle criminal offences against women and children.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/more-fast-track-courts-under-pocso-act/article33846787.ece
16 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||PSC rankers’ strike intensifies||The Statewide protest by PSC rankers for government jobs intensified on Monday. The agitators stood on their knees in supplication in front of the Secretariat here. Their compatriots in Kannur and Kozhikode protested with begging bowls. Several collapsed from heatstroke. The agitators appeared to present a counter-narrative to the government’s pro-youth election propaganda. Their actions also seemed a pushback against the government’s decision to regularise temporary employees and daily wage workers with more than 10 years of service. The protesters also sought to work up public anger at reports of back-door appointments favouring Left leaders’ relatives in postings and non-reporting of job vacancies to the Public Service Commission. They also demanded that the government create more last-grade posts and extend the validity of the current list by six months. The government is yet to engage them in talks. An attempt by the Left Democratic Front to test the waters with some of their leaders for reconciliation had failed. Congress’ stand The Congress has attempted to capitalise on the perceived outrage at back-door appointments and the government’s ‘defiant’ attitude towards the ‘plight’ of persons who cleared the PSC test for State service. Congress legislators Shafi Parambil and K.S. Sabarinadhan were on an indefinite fast in front of the Secretariat. Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy and Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president Mullappally Ramachandran visited their lean-to adjacent to the PSC rankers. Mr. Ramachandran said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had behaved vengefully towards the PSC rank holders and cast them into an abyss of uncertainty. The All India Youth Federation urged the government to talk to the protesters. However, the Democratic Youth Federation of India struck a different tone. Its State president A. A. Rahim accused the Congress of plotting to infiltrate the PSC rankers’ agitation and incite violence in a bid to turn public opinion against the government. The CPI(M) had maintained that the government had done nothing to whittle down PSC jobs. The regularisation of daily wage earners had occurred in institutions whose postings were outside the PSC’s purview. The government had done so on compassionate grounds. No political consideration was in play.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/psc-rankers-strike-intensifies/article33846430.ece
16 February 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||BJD set for massive show of strength in Odisha||The Biju Janata Dal is set to display its massive strength in Sundargarh — a BJP stronghold in Odisha — as Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik participates in the foundation stone laying ceremony on Tuesday for India’s biggest hockey stadium coming up at Rourkela. Ministers will be present in each of the Blocks to mark the occasion. Giant TV screens have been installed in all panchayats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjd-set-for-massive-show-of-strength-in-odisha/article33846456.ece
16 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||27 tourism projects commissioned||Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran on Monday inaugurated via videoconferencing work on 27 projects at Rs. 187 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/27-tourism-projects-commissioned/article33846711.ece
16 February 2021||Thrissur,||Best novel award for S. Hareesh’s Meesha||The Kerala Sahitya Akademi fellowships and awards for 2019 were announced on Monday. Writers P. Valsala and N.V.P. Unithiri have been selected for the fellowship. The fellowship carries a cash award of Rs. 50,000, a gold locket of two sovereigns, citation and a certificate. Writers honoured for their overall contributions to the literary world are Dalit Bandhu N.K. Jose, U. Kalanadhan, C.P. Abubacker, Rose Mary, Palakkeezhu Narayanan, and P. Appukkuttan. Writers aged above 60 years have been selected for this award, which carries Rs. 30,000, a citation and certificate.  Rathri Panthrandarakkoru Tharat by P. Raman and Kothiyan by M.R Renukumar won the award for best poetry. S. Hareesh’s Meesha won the award for best novel.  Ramachi by Vinoy Thomas is the best short story. Other award winners are: Sajitha Madathil and Jisha Abhinaya (drama), K.M. Anil (literary criticism), G. Madhusudhanan and R.V.G. Menon (scholarly literature), M.G.S. Narayanan (autobiography/biography), Arun Ezhuthachan (travelogue), K. Aravindakshan (translation), K.R. Viswanathan (children’s literature), and Sathyan Anthikkad (humour). Winners of the various Endowment Awards are P. Madhavan, Bobby Jose Kottikkad, Sandeepananda Giri, D. Anil Kumar, Amal, C.S. Meenakshi, and E.M. Sooraja. BJP flays award decision BJP State president K. Surendran has slammed the akademi decision to give the best novel award to Meesha . Mr. Surendran said the akademi had insulted Hindus. Hareesh’s novel was replete with defamatory comments on the Hindu religion. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had used the award to denigrate the Hindus. He said the akademi was an appendage of the CPI(M). The government had populated it with “urban naxals and anti-nationals,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/best-novel-award-for-s-hareeshs-meesha/article33846429.ece
16 February 2021||New DelhiM,||MDL delivers 3rd Scorpene submarine to Navy||Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Limited (MDL) on Monday delivered the 3rd Scorpene class conventional submarine, which will subsequently to be commissioned into service as INS Karanj , to the Indian Navy. The acceptance document was signed by Vice Admiral Narayan Prasad (retd.), who is the Chairman of MDL, and Rear Admiral B. Sivakumar from the Western Naval Command.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mdl-delivers-3rd-scorpene-submarine-to-navy/article33846460.ece
16 February 2021||Ahmedabad,||Gujarat CM tests COVID-19 positive||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday, a day after he fainted on stage while addressing a municipal election rally in Vadodara. In a health bulletin, U.N. Mehta Hospital, where Mr. Rupani has been admitted, stated that his RT-PCR test had come back positive. He has mild symptoms. His health parameters were said to be normal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gujarat-cm-tests-covid-19-positive/article33846463.ece
16 February 2021||Kolkata,||Mamata launches Maa scheme to provide cooked meals for poor||With an eye on the upcoming Assembly polls, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday launched ‘Maa’ canteens to provide subsidised cooked meals for the poor at a nominal cost of Rs. 5. “This new initiative is for the common people. Though we give free rations there is still a huge demand for cooked food,” she said at the virtual launch of the canteens. Ms. Banerjee said the government will give a subsidy of Rs. 15 per plate and the kitchens will be run by self-help groups. The canteens will be open daily from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. Each plate will consist of rice, dal, a vegetable and an egg curry. Ms. Banerjee also interacted with District Collectors and beneficiaries. She asked the authorities to sort out any teething issues and said she will soon have lunch at one of the kitchens. The CM also launched four Information and Technology parks of Webel and a 100-bed mother and child hub at the Chittaranjan Seva Sadan hospital in Kolkata.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mamata-launches-maa-scheme-to-provide-cooked-meals-for-poor/article33846467.ece
16 February 2021||Mumbai,||HC quashes FIR against one of 2 sisters of Sushant||The Bombay High Court on Monday refused to quash the FIR against Priyanka, sister of the late actor Sushant Singh Rajput, but granted relief to Meetu Singh, another sister, in the case of alleged abetment to suicide. A Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and M.S. Karnik was hearing a plea filed by the sisters seeking to quash the FIR filed by actor Rhea Chakraborty at the Bandra police station. The court said, “We are of the considered opinion that the FIR against petitioner Meetu Singh does not survive. However, the FIR against petitioner Priyanka Singh is not quashed as we prima facie find that a case is made out,” the bench remarked. ‘No evidence’ Senior advocate Vikas Singh, for the sisters, had argued there was no evidence against them. He said the medicines referred to by Ms. Chakraborty could have been referred to by then doctors through tele-medicines as per the Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines. Advocate Satish Maneshinde, appearing for Ms. Chakraborty, contended that she knew of Sushant taking medicines and narcotic substances. After Ms. Chakraborty got to know that the medicines were prescribed by a doctor who Sushant had never consulted, she filed the complaint, he said. The seven-page complaint mentions, “On June 8, 2020, Sushant showed her text messages exchanged with his sister Ms Singh and she was shocked to read that Ms Singh had sent him a list of medications to take. She explained to him that going by the seriousness of his condition and that he has been prescribed medicines who have examined him he should not take any other medication least of all prescribed by his sister who has no medical degree.” They have been booked under sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 464 (making a false document, 465 (punishment for forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 474 (having possession of document) and 306 (abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code along with provisions of Narcotics Drugs Psychotropic Substances Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-quashes-fir-against-one-of-2-sisters-of-sushant/article33846471.ece
16 February 2021||Mumbai,||Saibaba sent back to anda cell at Nagpur jail||Professor G.N. Saibaba, who is 90% physically disabled and has tested positive for COVID-19, has been sent back to the anda cell (solitary confinement) at Nagpur Central Jail after being taken to the Government Medical College, Nagpur. He tested positive on February 12 along with four other convicts, including former gangster Arun Gawli. They were all taken to the hospital the same day. Prof. Saibaba had been lodged at the cell after being convicted for having Maoist links. Prof. Saibaba’s brother, Ramdevudu, who spoke to the jail authority, told The Hindu that some tests were performed on him. He said, “I am told Sai is fine. I was not allowed to talk to him as he is under quarantine inside the anda cell. I requested the official if they can provide him with some fruits and dry fruits sent by us for his quick recovery. But they refused. I have also requested him to allow us to speak to Sai and to share his medical reports with us.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/prof-saibaba-sent-back-to-anda-cell-in-nagpur-jail/article33846702.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,||in brief||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-brief/article33846690.ece
16 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK leader moves Madras HC seeking list of ‘absentee voters’||DMK principal secretary K.N. Nehru has moved the Madras High Court, seeking a direction to the Election Commission of India (ECI) and Tamil Nadu’s Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) to furnish an Assembly constituency-wise list of voters aged above 80 and physically challenged persons who had been categorised as ‘absentee voters’ and permitted to cast their votes through postal ballot. When the matter was listed for admission before Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and A.A. Nakkiran on Monday, the judges doubted whether the case should be listed before them as per the allotted portfolio. They said the High Court Registry, too, was unsure about this, and required a day’s time to ascertain the factual position. Therefore, they adjourned the matter to Wednesday for taking an appropriate decision.  Transparency essential Appearing on behalf of the writ petitioner, senior counsel R. Viduthalai, assisted by advocate S. Manuraj, told the court that transparency in the electoral list was a sine qua non, and that neither the CEO nor the ECI could refuse to disclose the list of absentee voters. He said all political parties were entitled to see the list of voters who had been given an exemption from casting their votes at the polling booths. Mr. Nehru submitted that the Representation of the People Act of 1950 and 1951, and the Conduct of Election Rules of 1961 were the three primary laws governing the conduct of elections in the country. The ECI had, on August 7, 2020, issued a letter to the CEOs of all States and Union Territories except those in Bihar, Haryana, Maharashtra, Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh. The communication insisted upon carrying out a special summary revision of photo electoral rolls to attain the ECI’s aspiration of ensuring that no voter is left behind. As per the letter, an integrated draft electoral roll should be published on November 16; claims and objections should be entertained till December 15 and the claims disposed of before January 5; and the final electoral roll should be published on January 20. Stating that the final electoral roll was published as per schedule, and it was also made available on the Tamil Nadu CEO’s website, the petitioner noted that an amendment to the Conduct of Election Rules in 2019 had introduced a special category called ‘absentee voters’. It included voters employed in essential services, those above 80 years of age and the physically challenged. Claiming to have made a representation to the CEO on November 18, 2020 to furnish a copy of the list of absentee voters, the petitioner said the CEO, in all fairness, should have furnished the list immediately. However, the officer, on November 27, told the petitioner that he had already written an official letter to the ECI, seeking its permission to accede to the request. “I submit that the CEO has widely abandoned the duties vested upon his office and acted merely like a post office transferring the communications to Respondent No.1 (ECI) herein. The powers and duties demarcated under the 1951 Act would amply show that the CEO has been entrusted with plenary powers to take all necessary actions in furtherance of the election process,” the petitioner added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-leader-moves-madras-hc-seeking-list-of-absentee-voters/article33846575.ece
16 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Perarivalan asks for copies of legal opinion||A.G. Perarivalan, one of the life convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, has sought copies of the legal opinion, if any, and the letter of the Governor forwarding his mercy petition to the Centre. Invoking provisions under the Right to Information Act, the petitioner, currently lodged in Puzhal central prison here, also requested the Raj Bhavan to provide “day by day” progress on his mercy petition in a flow chart manner as to which officer/authority was dealing with his application and for how long. Copy of letter Seeking a copy of the representation handed over by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to the Governor on January 29, reiterating the Cabinet’s decision to release the convicts in the former Prime Minister’s assassination case, Perarivalan wanted to know whether the Governor had sent a copy of the letter to the Union Government conveying his decision, and wanted to access the same. The life convict wanted to know whether the Governor had taken any legal opinion from the State government or its Law Department before deciding to send his mercy petition, dated December 30, 2015, under Article 161 of the Constitution along with the Cabinet decision to the Union Ministry of Home Affairs. Asking for a copy of such legal opinion, if obtained, the petitioner, who is in the 30th year of imprisonment in the case, requested for the information within 48 hours since the matter directly involved his “life and liberty”. Governor’s stand Earlier this month, Governor Banwarilal Purohit refrained from deciding on the plea for premature release of Perarivalan, saying the President was the “appropriate competent authority” to deal with the convict’s request for freedom. The Ministry of Home Affairs had informed the Supreme Court that the proposal received from the Governor would be processed in accordance with the law.  The petitioner requested the information within 48 hours since the matter directly involved his ‘life and liberty’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/perarivalan-asks-for-copies-of-legal-opinion-in-his-case/article33846568.ece
16 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Certified m-sand units’ capacity exceeds demand||With more m-sand manufacturing units across the State being approved for quality, the combined production capacity of the certified units now exceeds the daily demand, officials of the Public Works Department (PWD) have said. The PWD assessment committee met a few days ago and certified 87 m-sand units for quality, taking the total number of such units to 357. On average, the State needs about 16,200 truckloads of sand, including river sand, daily. This demand can now be met entirely by m-sand units, whose combined production capacity stands at 18,000 truckloads a day. Viable substitute According to the committee members, the objective to bring m-sand as a substitute to river sand has been achieved with more people opting for m-sand, which is also used extensively in government projects. This increase in production capacity has helped in stabilising the price. While m-sand costs Rs. 28-Rs. 32 per cubic foot in mofussil areas, it costs Rs. 40 per cubic foot in Chennai and a minimum of Rs. 10 would be charged as transportation charges, said the PWD officials. The assessment committee comprises engineers from various government agencies and representatives from IIT-Madras, Anna University, the Structural Engineering Research Centre, Taramani, and the Bureau of Indian Standards. The panel meets once in two months to review product certification and m-sand quality. Applications of nearly 17 units are under scrutiny. A minimum of 800 manufacturing units with or without stone crusher plants are yet to be brought under the ambit of PWD’s quality approval. The committee grants approval to units that produce p-sand (a fine grade plastering m-sand), which is used for wall plastering. Policy suggested Some committee members from BIS and IIT-Madras urged the PWD authorities to implement a m-sand policy soon to make quality approval mandatory. This would help the other units seek certification before sales, sources said. Moreover, complaints regarding m-sand are now handled by multiple agencies, including the police and revenue authorities. Once the policy is in place, it would empower the PWD to levy penalty on violators, the sources added.  While m-sand costs Rs. 28-Rs. 32 per cubic foot in mofussil areas, it costs Rs. 40 per cubic foot in Chennai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/certified-m-sand-units-capacity-exceeds-demand/article33846616.ece
16 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Now, enjoy a Metro ride by the seaside||Commuters travelling on the elevated section of the Metro will get a beautiful glimpse of the sea, in addition to being able to grab a bite and do shopping. From essential oils and jewellery to tea and milkshakes, commuters will see some eateries and shops as quite a few retail outlets of Indco Tea House, Tribes India store and Aavin have been opened in the new 9 km stretch from Washermenpet to Wimco Nagar. Aavin has opened one outlet at the Wimco Nagar Metro and plans to open parlours at the Central, Alandur and Nandanam stations too. “Once we get permission from Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL), we will begin work in the remaining stations,” a source said. The Nilgiris-based Industrial Cooperative Tea Federation has opened its Indco Tea House in five stations and has plans to expand. “Over the last year, we have curated 11 tea products, including Bedford and Honey Hill that are specific to the Nilgiris. We will soon introduce two mobile tea vandis in Chennai,” said Supriya Sahu, CEO, Tamil Nadu Tea Federation. CMRL officials said more such outlets would be opened soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/now-enjoy-a-metro-ride-by-the-seaside/article33846951.ece
16 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||LPG price increase shocks consumers||Cooking gas customers on Monday were shocked to see the sudden increase in the price of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) cylinders. In Chennai, the price of a non-subsidised domestic cylinder shot up from Rs. 735 to Rs. 785. The subsidy component remained Rs. 24.9 a cylinder. This is the second increase in LPG price this month. It was Rs. 735 for a domestic cylinder in the beginning of the month when it went up from last month’s price of Rs. 710. Ramakrishnan Ganeshh of Mylapore said that this hike was a burden on consumers. “In the last three-and-a-half months, it has gone up by Rs. 175 a cylinder and the increase has happened twice in the same month. There are homes that have stopped buying even essential medicines meant for diabetes and blood pressure and begun depending completely on rice issued by the public distribution system,” he said. “These people have stopped subscribing for cable TV, switched over to consuming water from taps instead of buying water cans and stopped newspapers just to manage within their reduced income or no income due to job losses amidst the pandemic,” he said. An oil industry observer said that LPG price is fixed based on international prices and accordingly, it should have gone up by Rs. 90 a cylinder in the beginning of the month itself. “However, they did not want to effect the full hike since Parliament was in session and they did not want to attract attention to it,” he said. A distributor said that bookings had been down this month. “When a cylinder was priced Rs. 800 the last time, the subsidy component was Rs. 340 per refill. However, now it is only Rs. 25, which is a dismal amount,” he said. J. Jayakumar, general secretary, Tamil Nadu Progressive Consumer Centre, said the oil companies should step in to help the consumers at such a point of time. “They are their customers after all. The government says the price is fixed by the public sector undertakings. In such a case, the companies should come forward and bear at least a portion of the hike to give some relief to consumers,” Mr. Jayakumar added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lpg-price-increase-shocks-consumers/article33846614.ece
16 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Clarify quota to be followed at Anna varsity, HC tells Centre||The Madras High Court on Monday directed the Department of Biotechnology (DBT), under the Union Ministry of Science and Technology, to explain on what basis it had been insisting that universities in the State follow the Central reservation policy for courses funded by it. The court sought to know this as the University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines permit varsities to follow the State government’s reservation policy. Justice B. Pugalendhi granted time till Wednesday for the Centre to explain its stand. He raised the query during the hearing of writ petitions filed by aspirants wanting to join M. Tech (Biotechnology) and M. Tech (Computational Biology) courses offered by Anna University, which had earlier decided not to conduct the courses for the academic year 2020-21 due to a dispute in following the reservation policy. Expressing strong displeasure over such a move, the judge told its counsel that at a time “when all universities have been starting new courses, Anna University alone appeared to be discontinuing courses that were in existence for nearly 25 years.” He wondered what the necessity for the varsity was to suddenly seek clarification from the State government this year on the quantum of reservation. In reply, university counsel Vijayakumar told the court that it had received a communication from DBT asking it to follow the Centre’s 49.5% reservation policy this year as well for the admission to the two PG courses. Hence, the university was constrained to seek a clarification from the State government, which insisted on following 69% reservation in admissions. A central government standing counsel told the court that the Centre was funding similar courses at the Madurai Kamaraj University, the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University in Coimbatore, the K.S. Rangasamy College of Technology in Tiruchengode and other institutions. All of them admitted students this year by following the Centre’s reservation policy. “Does that mean you are indirectly imposing the Centre’s reservation policy in Tamil Nadu?” the judge asked before Special Government Pleader E. Manoharan and petitioners’ counsel A. Saravanan said universities established by the State government must follow only the local quota policy since the infrastructure for conducting the courses was being provided by those universities. Mr. Manoharan also relied upon a few Supreme Court judgments and said the AICTE had no role to play in admissions to the two courses in question. The judge insisted that the officer, who had issued the communication, must clarify his stand within a day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/clarify-quota-to-be-followed-at-anna-varsity-hc-tells-centre/article33846540.ece
16 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||How Palaniswami consolidated power||Edappadi K. Palaniswami, who completed four years in office as Chief Minister on Monday, has surprised friends and critics alike by remaining in power and consolidating his grip over the government and the party. When Mr. Palaniswami assumed office on February 16, 2017, he was a less-known figure outside his home district of Salem or, at best, the “Kongu” belt of the western districts even though he was a Minister, a four-time MLA and one-time MP. Today, he has emerged as the face of the AIADMK, said P. Ramajayam, academician, adding that the Chief Minister has been able to “improve” his image in recent months. Politically, it was a “turbulent period” during which he became the Chief Minister, recalled a senior AIADMK functionary, who was then in the camp led by O. Panneerselvam, now Deputy Chief Minister and the party coordinator. At that time, Mr. Panneerselvam was carrying on his political battle separately against V.K. Sasikala. Yet, Mr. Palaniswami faced the situation “boldly,” the functionary said. His simplicity and ability to formulate welfare schemes and measures “at the right time” were among the “endearing qualities” of his personality, said T. Narayanan, spokesperson of BJP, an AIADMK ally. Handling of pandemic Appreciating Mr. Palaniswami’s district-wise review of the battle against COVID-19, he said, “Nearly for the last six months, he has been going around the State. I do not think any other Chief Minister has travelled as extensively as him,” Mr. Narayanan added. D. Jayakumar, Fisheries Minister, said that apart from implementing electoral promises made by Jayalalithaa in 2016, the Palaniswami regime had carried out steps that were not mentioned in the poll manifesto. The 7.5% horizontal quota in admissions to undergraduate medical courses for government school students, the Pongal cash support of Rs. 2,500 and the waiver of crop loans of Rs. 12,100 crore were some of them, he explained. A senior government official, privy to Mr. Palaniswami’s functioning, said “prompt and quick disposal” of files characterised his working style. The formation of six districts and the emphasis on projects such as Avinashi-Athikadavu were worth mentioning. However, Mr. Palaniswami’s track record has not impressed his critics. DMK senior leader K.N. Nehru said “certain situations” like the Centre’s support, priority attached to achieving success in a minimum number of Assembly constituencies that went to the by-polls in 2019 and the way the ruling party’s legislators have been kept in “good humour” have contributed to Mr. Palaniswami’s continuance in power. “For whatever work that they have claimed to have done, the credit should go to the bureaucracy,” he felt. Mr. Nehru contended that the recent measures, such as the crop loan waiver and the announcement of 24-hour three-phase power supply to farmers, were going to be of “no use to genuine farmers”. He alleged that the loan waiver would benefit only the “members of the ruling party”, unlike the scheme that was taken up during the DMK regime in 2006. As for the three-phase power supply, chronic problems plaguing the power sector, such as shortage of manpower in rural areas, have not been addressed. A. Gopanna, TNCC vice-president, accused Mr. Palaniswami, an example of “an accidental Chief Minister”, of practising the “politics of opportunism” by turning against Ms. Sasikala, who was responsible for making him the Chief Minister. He had also “compromised on the State’s rights and failed to secure adequate funds” from the Centre after cyclones hit the State, he said. But Mr. Jayakumar and V. Pugazhendhi, spokesperson and joint secretary of Amma Peravai, dismissed the criticism. The former termed the charges “malicious”. The latter said Mr. Palaniswami could not be found fault with on the count of loyalty, as Ms. Sasikala, in February 2017, appointed Mr. Dhinakaran the deputy general secretary of the party, even though he was expelled by Jayalalithaa in 2011 and had no contact with the party. The party’s senior functionary said Mr. Palaniswami chose to turn against Ms. Sasikala as he was a “sharp observer of people’s feelings”.  Apart from implementing the electoral promises made by Jayalalithaa in 2016, the Palaniswami regime has carried out steps that were not mentioned in the poll manifesto D. Jayakumar Fisheries Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/how-palaniswami-consolidated-power/article33846546.ece
16 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two districts record no fresh infection||Perambalur and Tiruvannamalai districts reported no new case of COVID-19, and 22 districts recorded fewer than 10 infections each on Monday. There were 455 fresh cases and six deaths in the State. Districts like Cuddalore, Namakkal, Thiruvarur, Villupuram and Virudhunagar clocked in fresh cases in single digits. A total of 143 persons tested positive for the infection in Chennai, followed by 46 in Coimbatore, 39 in Chengalpattu, 21 in Tiruvallur and 20 in Kancheepuram. The State’s tally stood at 8,45,575, even as 477 more persons were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 8,28,918. Of the deceased, two persons each died in Chennai and Tiruchi. Coimbatore and Tiruvallur recorded one death each. Till date, 12,425 persons have died in the State. A 49-year-old woman from Tiruchi, with diabetes, chronic kidney disease and systemic hypertension, was admitted to a private hospital with complaints of fever and difficulty in breathing on February 4. She tested positive for COVID-19 on February 5, and died on February 13 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. A 92-year-old man from Chennai, who had interstitial lung disease died at the Government Corona Hospital on February 14 due to COVID-19 pneumonia, among other causes. A total of 4,232 persons are presently under treatment in the State. This includes 1,568 persons in Chennai, 444 in Coimbatore and 314 in Chengalpattu. In the last 24 hours, 50,352 samples were tested, taking the total figure to 1,68,13,020. Vaccines were administered to 21,645 persons on Monday, taking the total figure to 2,69,017. A total of 15,717 healthcare workers, 3,309 frontline staff and 2,619 police personnel were inoculated. Of the 21,645 persons, 17,863 persons received the first dose, while the remaining 3,782 persons got the second dose. Authorities at the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital said C. Sylendra Babu, Director General of Police, Fire Services, along with around 10 fire services officers and 20 firemen, received vaccines on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-districts-record-no-fresh-infection/article33846549.ece
16 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TNERC rejects plea by two solar developers||The Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (TNERC) has rejected separate pleas by two solar energy developers for extension of commissioning date for their solar projects. Raasi Green Earth Energy Private Limited and VSR Solar Power Private Limited had sought extension of the commencing date by 15 months and 18 months respectively. Safeguard duty They cited the levy of safeguard duty by the Centre in 2018 on imports of solar modules from China, Taiwan and Malaysia as a change of law and aforce majeureevent. As per the agreement, Raasi’s 100 MW project should have come up in Kavanoor village, Paramakudi taluk, Ramanathapuram district by September 26, 2019, while VSR Solar’s 50 MW project at Vilathikulam, Thoothukudi, should have been commissioned by March 21, 2019. Both companies said the levy of safeguard duty had increased their project cost by 17% and sought an extension. The TNERC rejected their pleas stating that the clause in the power purchase agreements does not encompass either the levy of safeguard duty in specific nor change in law in general as one of theforce majeureevents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnerc-rejects-plea-by-two-solar-developers/article33846959.ece
16 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Four persons held for assaulting policeman||Personnel from the Neelankarai police station on Monday arrested four persons for allegedly assaulting a sub-inspector. The police said patrolling vehicle in-charge and sub-inspector Jayakumar, 58, and a police constable were on duty on Kuppam Road in Kottivakkam on Sunday. They saw four persons consuming liquor after parking their car on the beach side. The police personnel asked them to disperse from the spot but they refused and picked up a quarrel. One of them assaulted Mr. Jayakumar and abused him. Other police personnel reached the spot and arrested the accused, who were identified as S. Prabu, 26, and his brother Praveen, 24, of Arumbakkam, R. Bagath Pandian, 24, and Ananda Pandian, 22, of Kundrathur. A car was seized from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-persons-held-for-assaulting-policeman/article33847103.ece
16 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK, DMK and MNM call for applications from aspirants||The ruling AIADMK has called for applications from aspirants for contesting in the Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Kerala. The applications can be obtained from the party headquarters from February 24 and filled forms should be submitted on or before March 5, according to a release issued by Chief Minister-co-coordinator Edappadi K Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister-coordinator O. Panneerselvam on Monday. DMK application fee The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam on Monday invited applications from aspirants to contest in the coming Assembly polls in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. Party general secretary Duraimurugan said applications should be submitted between February 17 and 24. The application fee is Rs. 25,000 for general constituencies. The application fee for women aspirants and reserved constituencies is Rs. 15,000. “The application can be collected from the party office by paying Rs. 1,000. If a constituency is allotted to alliance partners, the amount paid by the aspirants will be returned,” Mr Duraimurugan said. Apply online: MNM Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Monday said that party cadres and members of the public aspiring to contest on the party’s ticket in the coming Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry and in the parliamentary byelections in Kanniyakumari could apply on the party’s website (www.maiam.com) from February 21 onwards. The applicants will have to pay a non-refundable amount of Rs. 25,000 to apply for a single constituency. In a statement, Mr. Haasan said that aspiring candidates could apply for several constituencies and the public could also nominate others. “Non-party members can also apply. Those who do not have access to the internet can apply in person at the party headquarters,” he said. Mr. Haasan added that the non-refundable amount would be used for party expenses. “This money will not be returned whether your application is selected or not. This amount will be your contribution towards honest politics,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-dmk-and-mnm-call-for-applications-from-aspirants/article33846971.ece
16 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||On day 1, 1.4 lakh take north Chennai Metro||On day one of the opening of Chennai Metro Rail’s phase I extension project from Washermenpet to Wimco Nagar, 1.4 lakh passengers travelled across the city. One of the primary reasons for such a surge in traffic is that Chennai Metro Rail Ltd (CMRL) announced free rides for passengers from 2 p.m. till 11 p.m. According to CMRL officials, about 55,000-56,000 passengers have been travelling on weekdays of late and from this week, they estimate there may be an increase of another 5,000 as the 9 km stretch has become operational. “We gave free services to give commuters an idea of how comfortable the system is. We are hoping to see more patronage in the coming weeks,” an official said. Sources said the fares had to be brought down as soon as possible so that the working class could also afford to travel with ease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/on-day-1-14-lakh-take-north-chennai-metro/article33846954.ece
16 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Jobs in welfare board||The Tamil Nadu Construction Workers Welfare Board has called for application for 37 vacancies. Candidates can apply online or through the employment exchange. Interviews will be held in person between February 24 and 27. Candidates can register from February 17. Once registered, candidates will receive notifications via email and SMS, the release said. The call letters must be taken by the candidates for their interviews. Details can be had fromhttps://tnuwwb.tn.gov.in/orhttps://labour.tn.gov.in/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jobs-in-welfare-board/article33846955.ece
16 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Youth outfits flay arrest of activist Disha Ravi||More than 15 youth organisations have come together and condemned the arrest of Disha Ravi, a young environmental activist. They demanded that she be released immediately. On Saturday, the Delhi police arrested the 21-year-old activist for allegedly sharing the toolkit related to the farmers’ protests against the Centre’s farm laws on social media. Joint statement Radhika Ganesh, of Young People for Politics; Poongkhulali, advocate of Madras High Court; M. Yuvan, of Fridays for Future and Chennai Climate Action Group; and Prabhakaran Veerarasu, of Poovulagin Nanbargal youth wing, addressed mediapersons here on Monday. “We condemn the arrest of Ms. Ravi, who acted out of her love for the land. A toolkit is the most ordinary and commonplace of resources used by companies, political parties and organisations to help direct focused action. We believe Ms. Ravi and youngsters like her ought to be celebrated not harassed and demonised. We call upon the Government of India to stop the witchhunt of young activists and instead engage with the issue,” Ms. Radhika said. Ms. Poonguzhali said the arrest of Ms. Ravi was totally unwarranted and the charges of sedition levelled against her was the government’s way of scaring young people into silence. Mr. Yuvan said this move by the government was the latest in a series of tactics meant to distract attention from real environmental issues. Mr. Prabhakaran said, “We want her to be released from prison immediately. Otherwise, we will consult other like-minded groups and decide on a further course of action.” Stalin’s tweet DMK president M.K. Stalin on Monday said he was shocked by the arrest of Ms. Ravi on sedition charges. He tweeted saying that she had been arrested on flimsy charges. “Silencing critics of the government through authoritarian means is not the rule of law. I urge the BJP government to desist from taking such punitive action and instead listen to the voices of dissent from young persons,” Mr. Stalin said.  We call upon the Government of India to stop the witchhunt of young activists and instead engage with the issue Radhika Ganesh Young People for Politics||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-organisations-condemn-arrest-of-activist/article33846612.ece
16 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Seven arrested for GST credit fraud||Enforcement and Compliance Management (ECM) unit of the Chennai Outer CGST Commissionerate has busted GST fraud by a seven-member gang, including a tax consultant from Chennai. According to a release, the accused were involved in floating 24 fictitious companies. They issued fake invoices to the tune of Rs. 299 crore from these companies and allegedly passed on illegal and unlawful Input Tax Credit to the extent of Rs. 53.35 crore to other companies, it added. The accused were arrested on February 13 and all of them have reportedly admitted to committing the fraud, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seven-arrested-for-gst-credit-fraud-of-rs-5335-cr/article33846963.ece
16 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man held for killing wife||Personnel from the Madhavaram Milk Colony police station on Monday arrested a 50-year-old man on charges of murdering his wife after suspecting her fidelity. Police identified the victim as Sorrow Varshiny, 41, and the accused as Edward Lawrence. Two months ago, they separated due to frequent quarrels and Varshiny moved to Mathur, MMDA, with her daughters. On Saturday, Edward met Varshiny and they argued, culminating in him stabbing her. She succumbed to her injuries on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-killing-wife/article33846958.ece
16 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State to sign 28 MoUs worth Rs. 28,000 crore||The State government will sign 28 memoranda of understanding (MoU) on Tuesday for projects envisaging investments around Rs. 28,000 crore. Among the projects is one by Tata Electronics, envisaging an investment of around Rs. 5,300 crore in Krishnagiri district and generation of employment opportunities for 18,250 persons. It pertains to the manufacture of mobile phone components. The Pegatron Corporation of Taiwan will set up a mobile phone manufacturing unit in Chengalpattu district on an investment of Rs. 1,100 crore in the first phase, and create about 14,000 jobs. Another phase has also been proposed. The MoUs will be signed in the presence of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami. The event will also feature the inauguration of 13 projects, such as the TICEL Park in Coimbatore and the laying of foundation for industrial estates. Policy documents will be unveiled on the occasion for major industries and micro, small and medium enterprises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-to-sign-28-mous-worth-rs-28000-crore/article33846968.ece
16 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two-year RI for RTO official||A special court in Chennai convicted a Motor Vehicle Inspector (MVI) and sentenced him to undergo two-year rigorous imprisonment for receiving Rs. 1,200 bribe from an autorickshaw owner. According to the prosecution, R. Chinnakannu, a Motor Vehicle Inspector, demanded Rs. 1,200 from P. Kumar, an autorickshaw driver. Unwilling to give the bribe, Mr. Kumar preferred a complaint with the police. Following this, the Department of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption caught the MVI red-handed while receiving the bribe. At the conclusion of trial, J. Omprakash, special judge for cases under the Prevention of Corruption Act, held Chinnakannu guilty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-year-ri-for-rto-official/article33846957.ece
16 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kamal calls for applications from aspiring candidates||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Monday said that party cadres and members of the public aspiring to contest on the party’s ticket in the coming Assembly election in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry and in the parliamentary byelections in Kanniyakumari can apply on the party’s website (www.maiam.com) from February 21 onwards. The applicants will have to pay a non-refundable amount of Rs. 25,000 to apply for a single constituency. In a statement, Mr. Haasan said that aspiring candidates could apply for several constituencies and the public could also nominate others. “Non-party members can also apply. Those who do not have access to the internet can apply in person at the party headquarters,” he said. Non-refundable Mr. Haasan added that the non-refundable amount would be used for party expenses. “This money will not be returned whether your application is selected or not. This amount will be your contribution towards honest politics,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kamal-calls-for-applications-from-aspiring-candidates/article33847108.ece
16 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Significance of Modi’s gesture||Prime Minister Narendra Modi holding up the hands of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam at an official event on Sunday has prompted a discussion over the political message. A. Gopanna, TNCC vice-president, wonders why Mr. Panneerselvam was left out of the meeting that Mr. Palaniswami held with Mr. Modi. But Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar brushed aside the criticism and said the Chief Minister represented the entire State. “One has to keep in mind other engagements of the Prime Minister and the time factor. But what was more important was Mr. Modi’s gesture, which signified happiness of the people, the party [AIADMK] and the State government,” he said. BJP spokesperson T. Narayanan said what the Prime Minister sought to convey was that “the BJP and the AIADMK would remain one...”  Modi’s gesture signified the happiness of the people, the party [AIADMK] and the State government||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/significance-of-modis-gesture/article33846543.ece
16 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Promise AD tag for 60 castes, VCK urges DMK||Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi general secretary and MP D. Ravikumar has demanded that Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam president M.K. Stalin include the promise that it would bring the remaining 60 Scheduled Castes — except castes that are classified as Devendrakula Velalars and Arundhathiyars –— under the Adi Dravidar identity in their election manifesto. The demand comes in the wake of the Centre moving a Bill in Parliament to rename seven SC communities as Devendrakula Velalars. While the demand for recognition of identity was not new in the case of Devendrakula Velalars and dated back many decades, the pressure exerted by community leaders and political parties in the last few years was instrumental in achieving it. Mr. Ravikumar urged the DMK to bring two other demands as a part of its election manifesto. “Provide reservation proportionate to the Adi Dravida population in the 2011 Census after bringing 60 castes under the same category. Increase SC reservation to 20% based on the 2011 Census and distribute the 2.5 lakh acre panchami lands identified by the committee to Dalits,” he said. Secular identity Mr. Ravikumar said VCK supports a secular identity for Dalits in Tamil Nadu but nevertheless supported the seven SC communities’ demand to rename themselves. “Renaming is good. Everybody has the right to choose their name,” he said. “We are not for caste identity. We are followers of Dr. Ambedkar’s ideology of annhilation of castes,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/promise-ad-tag-for-60-castes-vck-urges-dmk/article33846613.ece
16 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rahul to tour southern T.N.||Congress MP Rahul Gandhi will visit Tamil Nadu at the end of February, his third visit to the State in two months, ahead of the Assembly election. Mr. Gandhi will visit the State on February 27, 28 and March 1 and will tour Kanniyakumari, Tirunelveli, Tenkasi, Thoothukudi and Virudhunagar districts, Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri said on Monday. To meet farmers Mr. Alagiri said Mr. Gandhi will meet farmers, industrialists, micro, small and medium enterprise entrepreneurs, fisherfolk and students during the tour. He will address public rallies during the visit, he said. On BJP State president L. Murugan’s comment that the upcoming election will be a fight between patriots and anti-nationals, Mr. Alagiri asked: “Who are the anti-nationals? Who are the patriots? From 1885, Indian National Congress leaders, led by Mahatma Gandhi, fought against the British and got Independence for our country. Did the Hindu Mahasabha or the RSS do even a small bit in this fight for Independence?” Mr. Alagiri questioned if any of the Jan Sangh or BJP leaders had taken part even in one protest against the Britishers and gone to jail for that. An insult He said it was an insult to those who had endured untold pain and misery while fighting for Independence that the BJP was ruling the country today. The BJP had no authority to talk about patriotism, he added. The TNCC president further said unlike Mr. Gandhi who is mingling with the people, Prime Minister Narendra Modi was not visible to the common public during his visit on February 14 and was stuck behind his security cordon and stayed inside his vehicle. Mr. Alagiri also condemned the hike in the price of cooking gas that has now touched Rs. 785 per cylinder. “In the last eight months, the price of one cylinder has been increased by Rs. 220. Due to this, lakhs of women in households are going to suffer. The price of all commodities and essentials will go up,” he said. He further pointed out that in 2014, under the UPA regime, the price of one cylinder was Rs. 412 and had since risen by Rs. 373 in the last six years. He said the Congress’ demand for the inclusion of the seven sub-sects of the Devendrakula Vellalar community under one name was finally victorious, though delayed. He alleged that the farm loan waiver announced by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami was done in a biased manner.  In the last eight months, the price of one cylinder has been increased by Rs. 220 K.S. Alagiri, TNCC president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rahul-to-tour-southern-tn/article33846566.ece
16 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Maintain dignity in public’||Actor Ajith Kumar has urged his fans to maintain dignity and discipline in public after multiple videos of fans asking politicians, sportspersons and others for updates on his next film Valimai went viral. In a statement, Mr. Ajith said he was saddened by these instances. “Updates on Valimai will be decided by me in consultation with the film’s producer. Until then, please be patient,” he said. “Films are entertainment for you. It is my profession. The decisions I take are related to my profession and society. Only our actions will increase our worth and respect in the society,” Mr. Ajith added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ajith-tells-fans-to-maintain-dignity-in-public/article33846952.ece
16 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK is the only party that fulfils its promises: Palaniswami||The AIADMK is the only party that fulfils all promises made in its election manifesto, said AIADMK co-coordinator and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami in Coimbatore on Monday. He, along with AIADMK coordinator and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, participated in a mass wedding organised by the party at Perur Chettipalayam to mark the upcoming 73rd birth anniversary of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa. Mr. Palaniswami said promises made by the DMK would “fly off in the air”, adding that the DMK’s poll promise of assigning two acres of land to landless families in 2006 was never fulfilled. Noting that weddings of 123 couples from different religions were solemnised as per their respective rituals, he said the event showcased that the AIADMK was “beyond caste and religion”. Listing out the various schemes and projects introduced in the State during his tenure, he said the Tamil Nadu government had received various awards from the Central government for its achievements. Mr. Panneerselvam, in his address, said the Kongu region was the AIADMK’s “fort of steel”. The AIADMK government had brought 11 medical colleges to the State in three-and-a-half years, he said. “Our schemes and achievements have reached every single household,” he said. Minister for Municipal Administration S.P. Velumani described the mass wedding as a “victory conference” and said Mr. Palaniswami would return as the Chief Minister in the upcoming election, with the support of Mr. Panneerselvam. Long-standing demands of farmers, such as crop loan waiver and uninterrupted three-phase power supply for agricultural pumps, had been fulfilled by the government, he said. AIADMK deputy coordinator K.P. Munusamy, Deputy Speaker of Assembly Pollachi V. Jayaraman and Ministers K.A. Sengottaiyan, Dindigul C. Sreenivasan, P. Thangamani, K.P. Anbalagan, Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan, C. Vijayabaskar and M.R. Vijayabhaskar were present. Later, Mr. Palaniswami and Mr. Velumani attended the State conference of the Tamil Nadu Christian Democratic Federation at the CODISSIA Trade Fair Complex. Reiterating his stance that the AIADMK’s alliance for election was different from its ideology, the Chief Minister said the party’s leaders would participate in events of all religions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-is-the-only-party-that-fulfils-its-promises-palaniswami/article33846542.ece
16 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Water supply improvement work to proceed at a slow pace until election||In the next few months or until election, the 24x7 drinking water supply augmentation project is likely to proceed at a slow pace. Sources involved with the project execution said the Coimbatore Corporation authorities had asked the company executing the project, Suez Projects Pvt. Ltd., to go slow so that it did not have to dig roads ahead of election. The company is executing the Rs. 2,972.16 crore project to revamp the water distribution network and take care of maintenance of the revamped distribution lines for 21 years in the old city area of 60 wards. The sources said the logic offered for going slow and not digging roads was to not inconvenience the public, which could perhaps show the anger of having to drive on bad roads at polling booth. The Corporation’s verbal instruction to the company came at a time when it had mobilised labourers after the COVID-19 lockdown to improve the pace of execution, the sources said. As of February 2020, when the company is in the second year of the four-year execution period, it had completed only 10% work. Even in R.S. Puram, where the company had first started the work over two years ago, it was left with at least a couple of hundred house service connections. It had completed laying the main distribution line work in SIHS Colony, Singanallur, Ukkadam, Telugupalayam and a couple of other areas. Or in other words, it had completed most of the work in around 10 of the 100 district metering areas in the 60 wards. The Corporation and the company had divided the 60 wards in to district metering zones as a part of its execution plan. The sources also said that when the company accelerates the pace of work after electionin May, it would have a window period of a month or two before the South West Monsoon sets in and thereafter the North East Monsoon. This invariably meant that the company would not be in a position to complete work within the stipulated four-year period, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-supply-improvement-work-to-proceed-at-a-slow-pace-until-election/article33846979.ece
16 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Wall painting contest under way in govt. middle schools||A wall painting competition organised by Samagra Shiksha, as part of its community mobilisation programme, is under way at 235 government middle schools in the district. The competitions began at the schools last week for the students of Classes 1 to 8. Since the schools have not reopened for these classes, the students were told to participate in the contest in the presence of their parents, by adhering to COVID-19 guidelines, Samagra Shiksha officials said. Students have to paint on the walls for their schools and the topics include right to education, health and personal hygiene. The paintings are aimed at generating awareness among the students, teachers and the public and to beautify the school walls. The headmasters of these schools will award cash prizes for the best paintings. The first prize will carry a cash award of Rs. 600, second prize Rs. 500 and third prize Rs. 400. The competitions will conclude by February 20, according to the officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wall-painting-contest-under-way-in-govt-middle-schools/article33846985.ece
16 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Modi to visit Coimbatore on Feb. 25, says Murugan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Coimbatore on February 25 and address a public meeting, said BJP State president L. Murugan on Monday. Speaking to mediapersons here, he said the Prime Minister would attend a government event and then participate in the meeting organised by the State BJP. Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh would arrive in Salem to address the BJP youth wing’s conference on February 21, he said, noting that more national leaders were planning to visit the State henceforth. Mr. Murugan asserted that the BJP members would be “sitting in the Assembly in double digits” after the election. The seat-sharing talks with the AIADMK would commence in a few days, he said. On the remarks made by AIADMK co-coordinator and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami that alliance and ideology were two different things, the BJP president said that every party would have its own ideology. Common agenda “When it comes to an alliance, there will be a common agenda,” he said. On Mr. Palaniswami not explicitly mentioning the AIADMK’s alliance with the BJP during his recent interactions with minority communities, Mr. Murugan replied that the BJP is “a party for all people”. Vel Yatra The “success” of the ‘Vetrivel Yatra’ recently carried out by the party had forced DMK president M.K. Stalin to pose with a ‘vel’ (holy spear associated with Lord Muruga), he claimed. He accused the DMK of being “in favour of corruption” but evaded a question on the corruption charges against former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, saying that it would not be right to comment on a person who is no more. The Central government was monitoring the hike in fuel prices and LPG cylinders, he said, adding that the State BJP would take the concerns of the public forward regarding this issue.  Seat-sharing talks between AIADMK and BJP will begin in a few days||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/modi-to-visit-coimbatore-on-feb-25-says-murugan/article33846585.ece
16 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||MDMK will continue in DMK alliance to stop Hindutva onslaught: Vaiko||Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam would continue in the DMK-led alliance and face the Assembly election as a constituent to stop the onslaught of Hindutva, its leader Vaiko told party cadre at a meeting held here on Monday. “The party [MDMK] faced the 2019 Parliamentary election as a part of the DMK-led alliance. It will continue to do so to halt the Hindutva onslaught. Joining hands with the DMK was also based on ideology as it wanted to protect the Dravidian ideology.” The MDMK was a pioneer in championing environmental causes and was unlike parties that recently set up environment wings, Mr. Vaiko said and claimed that the party was leading the struggle against methane and hydrocarbon extraction and Sterlite protest. The party had always fought for protecting Tamil interest and the reflection of it was the mobilisation of donation worth Rs. 80.88 lakh in Coimbatore and Tirppur districts.  Dependent on donations His party, Mr. Vaiko said, was perhaps the only one that was still dependent on donations from the public to run its affairs. Not even the Communists depended on donations any more, he said and added that several parties sat on piles of cash which they splurged during elections, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mdmk-will-continue-in-dmk-alliance-to-stop-hindutva-onslaught-vaiko/article33846591.ece
16 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||TNSTC accused of overcharging passengers||Veera Hindu Seva on Monday petitioned the district administration to complain against the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation, Coimbatore, for overcharging passengers who travelled from Sulur to Coimbatore. In its petition, the organisation said though the Collector and Regional Transport Officer, Coimbatore South, had fixed Rs. 31 as the fare, a few TNSTC buses overcharged the passengers. After a complaint was lodged in this regard, the Transport Department officials did take action against two conductors in two buses, but the violation continued. The district administration should act against the officials, conductors and as per the Motor Vehicles Act ensure that every bus had the fare and route charts displayed prominently, the organisation said. Construction workers demand free land  Construction workers and those in other unorganised sector on Monday urged the Coimbatore district administration to forward to the State Government their demand for allotment of free land. The workers affiliated to the Kattida Thozhilalar Madhdhiya Sangam said though they had petitioned several times in the past, the State Government was yet to heed to their request. Therefore the administration should forward their demand for free land to the Government and also take steps to ensure that their demand was met.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnstc-accused-of-overcharging-passengers/article33846980.ece
16 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||480 NCC cadets appear for ‘A’ certificate examination||As many as 480 cadets from the National Cadet Corps (NCC) appeared for the ‘A’ certificate examination for Junior Division and Junior Wing held at a private school on Avinashi Road here on Monday. 19 schools The cadets were from 19 schools across Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts and the examination was organised by 2 Tamil Nadu Air Squadron NCC, officials said. The ‘A’ certificate examination comprised a written examination for 350 marks and practical examination for 150 marks. This certificate will help the cadets in being recruited to the Armed Forces. The examination was conducted under the leadership of Wing Commander Nithin, Commanding Officer of 2 Tamil Nadu Air Squadron NCC, according to the officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/480-ncc-cadets-appear-for-a-certificate-examination/article33846981.ece
16 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man dies in road accident||A 25-year-old man died and his wife and child suffered injuries in a collision involving a Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) bus and a motorcycle near Sirumugai on Sunday. Police said that the bus driver allegedly drove the vehicle in a rash manner from Irumporai to Puliyampatti and collided with the bike rode by R. Sajeev. While Sajeev died on the spot, his 23-year-old wife and five-year-old son sustained injuries. The injured were admitted to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. Sirumugai police have registered a case against the bus driver. Further inquiry is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-dies-in-road-accident/article33846975.ece
16 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||IRCTC tour package||The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) has announced a tour package from Coimbatore that will cover Jaipur, Agra and Delhi. A release said that the ‘five-nights and six-days’ package will start from Coimbatore Junction on April 10 and will cover locations including Jaipur palace, Fatehpur Sikri, Taj Mahal, Red Fort and Qutb Minar. The package starts at Rs. 25,880 and those interested shall contact IRCTC, Coimbatore, at 82879 31965 and 90031 40655 for bookings and for further details.   The Coimbatore Productivity Council announced an online quiz competition for school students studying in Classes 6 to 9 on February 16 at 2 p.m. The quiz is organised as part of the Productivity Week celebrations under the theme ‘Udyog Manthan for Productivity’, a release said. Those interested may register using the linkhttps://tinyurl.com/15yy9201and the Google Meet link for the quiz ismeet.google.com/rzf-eadn-mda.   Siruvani branch of Chinmaya Organisation for Rural Development (CORD) organised an awareness event for the farmers in Thennamanallur village in Thondamuthur panchayat union on Friday. Organised by CORD Siruvani branch’s Director Meera Krishna, the event involved two agriculture students R. Vijay Prasanth and C. Saravanan explaining the benefits of organic farming and water management during summer season to the farmers, a release said.   Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami recently presented the Best Coach award to karate instructor Karthikeyan from the city. A release said that Mr. Karthikeyan, a resident of Nanjundapuram, has been teaching karate to students for the last 34 years and around 65 athletes who trained under him have participated in national-level competitions.   A poetry book authored by Versha Chaudhary, a college student, was recently released during an event on Race Course Road in the city. The book ‘Untold Paths of Life’ was launched by public speaker and columnist Srividya Sivakumar, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/irctc-tour-package/article33846982.ece
16 February 2021||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||BJP is fighting proxy polls through AIADMK in State, says Kanimozhi||Unlike the elections of the past where the DMK faced either the AIADMK or its local ally, this time around, the party will be facing the BJP, for whom, the AIADMK is only a front for fighting proxy elections, DMK MP Kanimozhi said. Speaking to the booth-level committee members as part of the campaign trail, Ms. Kanimozhi said this election was not just about victory of the DMK, but about self-respect, social justice and the Dravidian movement, all of which was antithetical to the divisive politics of the BJP. “This was an election fought at the level of principle and ideology, election that would be fought in the name of Karunanidhi, Anna and Periyar, who stood for social justice and fraternity. They will bring forth all kinds of divisive politics of caste, community, religion – but do not sway,” Ms.Kanimozhi said. To fight this election, Ms. Kanimozhi called for unity of purpose among the cadre to forge solidarity and ensure victory for the candidate chosen by DMK president M.K. Stalin, setting aside petty differences. Later, speaking at the Gram Sabha in Thoppur, Ms. Kanimozhi termed the grievances redress number announced by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami as farce. “They ruled for 10 years and now suddenly he is asking people to reach out on a number to redress their complaints. The election is less than three months away and the government had not fulfilled anything for people,” Ms. Kanimozhi said. “The government led by Modi froze the funds of the MPs during COVID-19, when the public needed help from their Parliament representatives. That is the kind of government at the Centre, which has now aligned with the AIADMK,” Ms. Kanimozhi said. According to Ms. Kanimozhi, there was a huge trust deficit in the State and the public do not want to trust this Chief Minister. The DMK leader also took a swipe at Higher Education Minister K.P. Anbalagan. “This is a district that has the Higher Education Minister. But this very district is educationally backward with literacy rate less than the State average,” Ms. Kanimozhi said. Earlier, she participated in a consultation meeting with the persons with disabilities here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-is-fighting-proxy-polls-through-aiadmk-in-state-says-kanimozhi/article33846609.ece
16 February 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||BJP fighting a proxy election, says Kanimozhi||Unlike the elections of the past, where the DMK faced either the AIADMK or its local ally, this time around, the party will be facing the might of the Centre and its coercive police led by the BJP for whom the AIADMK is only a front for fighting proxy elections, DMK MP Kanimozhi said. Speaking to booth-level committee members, Ms. Kanimozhi underlined the nature of the election that the party would be facing this time. This election was not just about victory of the DMK but about self-respect, social justice and the Dravidian movement, all of which were antithetical to the divisive politics of the BJP. “This is an election that will be fought at the level of principle and ideology. It will be fought in the name of Karunanidhi, Anna and Periyar, who stood for social justice and fraternity. They [BJP-AIADMK] will bring forth all kinds of divisive politics of caste, community, religion — but do not sway,” Ms. Kanimozhi said. According to her, the AIADMK had completely pledged itself at the feet of the BJP and given up the rights of the State. To fight this election, Ms. Kanimozhi called for unity among the cadre and ensure the victory of the candidate chosen by DMK leader M.K. Stalin. Later, speaking at the gram sabha in Thoppur, she mocked the announcement made by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to redress complaints. “They ruled for 10 years and now suddenly he is asking people to reach out on a number to redress their complaints. The election is less than 3 months away and the government had not fulfilled anything for the people,” Ms. Kanimozhi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-fighting-a-proxy-election-says-kanimozhi/article33846967.ece
16 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Erode Outer Ring Road project to be inaugurated soon||With major works being completed in the much-delayed third phase of the Erode Outer Ring Road project, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami is expected to inaugurate the project soon. The 14.8-km project to connect Kokkarayanpettai in Namakkal district with Thindal Medu in Erode was sanctioned at Rs. 85 crore in 2006 and was planned to be executed in three phases. The first phase from Kokkarayanpettai to Lakkapuram, including the bridge across River Cauvery, and the second phase from Lakkapuram to Anakalpalayam, were completed and opened for traffic. Delay in land acquisition However, land acquisition for 815 m in the Anakalpalayam - Thindal Medu stretch of 7.2 km was delayed for over six years as many land owners moved the court. All the cases were settled and work resumed in September, 2020. M. Murugesan, Chief Engineer (Highways), Projects, who inspected the works, recently said that major works were completed in the project and it would be formally inaugurated by the Chief Minister. He said the road would reduce traffic congestion in the city and also the travel time. Likewise, widening of 8.4 km stretch from Thindal to Kanirowther Kulam through Villarasampatti at Rs. 20.85 crore was also being carried out and would be completed on time, he added. Once the project was completed, vehicles from Karur and Namakkal proceeding towards Perundurai and Chithode need not enter the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-outer-ring-road-project-to-be-inaugurated-soon/article33846603.ece
16 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Residents stage protest||Residents of Mohan Thottam in Vendipalayam staged a road roko here on Monday seeking action against miscreants who consume liquor near the Kalingarayan Canal here. The residents said the miscreants, particularly youth, consumed liquor near the canal and threw empty bottles on the road. Their speeding vehicle caused frequent accidents in the area. During weekends, more than 30 to 50 youngsters created nuisance in the area. Petitions They said that they feared for safety when the unidentified youth were in their area. The residents said they had submitted petitions to the district police and at the Collectorate many times, but no action had been taken so far. The police held talks with the protesters and assured them that patrolling would be intensified in the area during weekends and also asked them to alert the police if they faced the problem again. Later, the protest was withdrawn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-stage-protest/article33846601.ece
16 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Protect livelihood of power loom workers: AITUC||With power looms halting production for 11 days resulting in job loss to workers, members of Erode District Power Looms and General Workers Union, affiliated to AITUC, have urged the Chief Minister to intervene and resolve their problems so that the livelihood of thousands of workers are protected. In an email sent to the Chief Minister and Chief Secretary, its general secretary S. Chinnasamy said over 30,000 units involved in producing rayon fabrics halted production from February 11 to 21 against the frequent hike in yarn price.  Yarn price The price of yarn had increased from Rs. 150 a kg in November, 2020, to Rs. 230 a kg now whereas the cost of finished rayon fabrics that was sent to Maharashtra and Gujarat remained the same. Thousands of workers were involved in the power loom units, both directly and indirectly, who were jobless during the 11 days, forcing them to borrow at exorbitant interest rates for their survival. Mr. Chinnasamy urged the State government to take up the issue with the Central government and ensure that rayon yarn was not sold at a higher price in the market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protect-livelihood-of-power-loom-workers-aituc/article33846593.ece
16 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Couple ends life||Unhappy over her husband’s addiction to alcohol, a 30-year-old woman ended her life while her husband, who was upset over her death, also ended his life. Police said Sundarraj (35) and Barathi were working at power looms and had nine-year-old and four-year-old sons. Sundarraj, in inebriated condition, used to quarrel with her frequently. On February 10, a dispute broke between the couple and Barathi took the extreme step. She was given first-aid at a private hospital and later admitted to the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital where she died on February 13. In her dying declaration, she told the police that she took the decision in anger and asked the police not to initiate action against her husband. Learning about his wife’s declaration, Sundarraj too ended his life in front of the Salem GH on Sunday.  Assistance to overcome suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/couple-ends-life/article33846596.ece
16 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Hindi in name boards at Erode Railway Junction condemned||Condemning the imposition of Hindi in name boards at the Erode Railway Junction, K.N. Basha, vice- president of the Erode District Congress Minority Wing and former member of Zonal Railway User’s Consultative Committee, questioned whether name boards in other States would have Tamil words. In a letter to the Railways Minister, he said all the name boards at the junction were in Tamil and English so far. However, ahead of the Southern Railway General Manager’s inspection to the junction recently, the name boards at parking stands, entrance and offices were replaced with new ones in Hindi, Tamil and English. “It is nothing but imposition of Hindi in the State,” the letter said. “If it is for the benefit of passengers, will the name boards installed at junctions in Bengaluru, Mysuru, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Mumbai, Delhi and Gujarat will also have Tamil letters,” he questioned. He wanted the newly installed name boards replaced with boards in Tamil and English. “If not, we will blacken the Hindi text with paint,” the letter said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hindi-in-name-boards-at-erode-railway-junction-condemned/article33846599.ece
16 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Farmers’ grievances redress meeting||The monthly farmers’ grievances redress meeting will be held at 10 a.m. on February 19 at the Collectorate. A release from Collector C. Kathiravan said farmers could submit their petitions from 10 a.m. to 11.30 a.m. and could air their grievances during the meeting scheduled to be held from 11.30 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. Officials would give explanations from 12.30 p.m. to 1.30 p.m., the release added.     Due to works by the Highways Department in the Mettukadai line, power supply will be disrupted on February 17 in the following areas:  Pungambadi line, 12 p.m. to 3 p.m.: Mettukadai, Perundurai Road, Veppam palayam, Salapalayam Medu, Salapalayam, Ara Vilakku Mettupalayam and Nathakattu Palayam.  Power House line, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m.: Water House areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-grievances-redress-meeting/article33846597.ece
16 February 2021||Karaikudi,TAMIL NADU||Modernise fireworks units: Karti||Demanding that the Centre and the State government help entrepreneurs in Sivakasi and other towns in Virudhunagar district to modernise their fireworks units, Congress MP Karti Chidambaram said more funds should be earmarked for this purpose. Speaking to reporters after inaugurating a ration shop building constructed under the MPLAD scheme, he said many fireworks units needed to be modernised and safety standards had to be enhanced. Except for a few units, they were functioning using old methods. For cottage units, technology and funds should be provided, he said. Workers engaged in the fireworks units should be insured for a high value and the premium should be borne by the government, he said. Attacking the Centre for increasing petrol price, he said that the common man would be deeply affected. By lowering the excise duty and increasing the cess, the Centre's methodology was sure to rock the economy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/modernise-fireworks-units-karti/article33846587.ece
16 February 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Visually-challenged persons demand free smartphones||A group of visually-challenged persons from Sakkimangalam on Monday complained that they were not given smartphones by the district administration. The State government proposed to give smart mobile phones to the differently abled persons to enable them to communicate with others using sign language through video-calling facility and for higher education purpose. The free smartphones with special software to guide them through voice-assistance would be of great benefit to the visually challenged persons, they said and worried about being left out. “We came to the Collectorate seeking the phones on Friday. After waiting under the hot sun from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. we were told that they would again start distribution upon getting fresh stocks,” said P. Subbuthai (42), a woman who makes a living by selling agarbathis, pens and pencils. “We believed their words that they had run out of stock, but they gave the phones to some others the very next day,” she alleged. Her husband A. Pitchai was visually challenged. The couple would earn Rs. 200 to Rs. 300 a day by going around the city and sometimes to other districts, selling small articles. “I go out only for three days a week as I have to take care of my two children,” she said. On Monday, the differently abled persons were not allowed to give a petition to the Collector. “Police denied us permission and instead took us to the Revenue Divisional Officer, Madurai. He has promised to get fresh stocks from Chennai,” Ms. Subbuthai said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/visually-challenged-persons-demand-free-smartphones/article33847052.ece
16 February 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK combine will win Assembly poll, says Vasan||The AIADMK-led alliance would definitely win the upcoming Assembly election, said Tamil Maanila Congress (TMC) leader G.K. Vasan here on Monday. Addressing the mediapersons, he said many development projects were undertaken across the State by the Union and State governments. The Central government had assigned more number of projects for Tamil Nadu than for other State. But, the Opposition parties here were not trying to see these achievements, he said. The TMC would strive to ensure that Tamil was taught at Kendriya Vidyalayas. The government must hold talks with the Sri Lankan government to ensure the safety of Indian fishermen. The TMC urged the government to give time extension for vehicle users to obtain FASTags that were used at electronic toll plazas across the country, said Mr. Vasan. The TMC leader stressed that steps must be taken to prevent deaths caused by manual scavenging. The farmers’ protest in Delhi must end as a few vested interests were instigating the farmers to protest, he added. Although the State government had worked for constructing flyovers, laying roads and setting up of AIIMS in Madurai, the Opposition parties were criticising the government. The loan agreement with the government of Japan would be signed soon to get funds from Japan International Cooperation Agency, he said. When asked about seat-sharing among the AIADMK combine for the Assembly election, Mr. Vasan said a decision would be made only after convening a meeting with the AIADMK leaders. He said the death of B.S. Gnanadesikan, senior vice-president of the TMC, was a huge loss for the party. He said Gnanadesikan was a loyal leader who worked hard towards the upliftment of the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-combine-will-win-assembly-poll-vasan/article33846572.ece
16 February 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Farmers seek waiver of outstanding crop loans||A group of farmers from Valandhur in Usilampatti block petitioned the Collector here on Monday, demanding waiver of outstanding crop loans that the farmers of the village had taken from 2006 to 2009. Around 150 farmers from the village had got crop loans from the primary agricultural cooperative society from 2006 to 2009 by mortgaging agricultural lands. M. Thirumurugan, one among the petitioners, said when they obtained loans the secretary of the cooperative society had allegedly been involved in mishandling of records and an investigation was under way. “Hence, the outstanding crop loans of our farmers were not waived when the ruling party in 2011 had announced waiver of outstanding crop loans,” he said, adding the investigation had not yet been completed. “The agricultural lands mortgaged by the farmers are currently under the name of the cooperative society. So, the farmers are struggling without being able to sell their lands. They are also not able to procure additional crop loans,” he said. Since Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had now announced waiver of crop loans outstanding with agricultural societies, the district administration must take steps to ensure that the outstanding crop loans of the farmers of Valandhur were waived this time, Mr. Thirumurugan added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-seek-waiver-of-outstanding-crop-loans/article33847049.ece
16 February 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Former CPI(M) MLA seeks house||N. Nanmaran, a two-time former MLA from the CPI (M) along with his wife, submitted a petition at the Collectorate here on Monday seeking allotment of a house at Rajakoor under PMAY (Urban) Housing for All Scheme. The former MLA from Madurai East Assembly constituency currently resides with his wife N. Shanmugavalli (60) in a rented house at Ponnagaram Broadway. He had actively led many protests to ensure the rights of workers. In compliance with the guidelines of the CPI (M), Mr. Nanmaran gives away his monthly pension to the party. In turn, he receives Rs. 12,000 every month as monthly allowance from the party. Monthly rent “I have to pay Rs. 6,000 as monthly rent for the house. As I am aged above 70, I want to ensure that my wife lives in her own house,” he said. The couple have submitted a petition to Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board seeking to consider their application for a house in the ground floor at Rajakoor. “From my earlier years, I have followed the teachings of my father, who has told me not to use politics to earn wealth,” Mr. Nanmaran added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-cpi-m-mla-seeks-house-under-scheme/article33846570.ece
16 February 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court closes suo motu petition||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court which had initiated suo motu proceedings on a letter written to the HC Registry by a woman seeking financial assistance, closed the petition, taking cognisance of the fact that relief was given to her. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi closed the petition. The woman from Kanniyakumari district had wrotten a letter to the HC seeking financial help to provide medical treatment to her mother who was in coma since 2000. Tamil Nadu State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission had awarded her Rs. 18 lakh for medical negligence by the staff of Kanniyakumari District Co-operative Society Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-closes-suo-motu-petition/article33847050.ece
16 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Three held for stealing railway signal cable||Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel have arrested three persons and seized over 1,000 metres of railway signal copper cable wire worth Rs. 3 lakh that was stolen from the railway premises between Andipatti and Bodi. According to RPF sources, the team, led by Madurai RPF Inspector Mukesh Kumar, kept a vigil on the railway premises in Andipatti, Theni and Bodi. They arrested G. Rajamanickam (60) of Tiruppattur and K. Muthukumaran (40) of Vellore when they were burning the copper cable near the railway bridge across Vaigai river on Friday night. The duo were in possession of burnt copper cable for about 71 metres. Based on their confession, the team got a search warrant from Theni Judicial Magistrate Court and searched an iron scrap shop at Sakkampatti and found 151 kg of copper ingot and two pieces of signal copper cable totally measuring nine metres and some burnt cables. Shop owner M. Thangapandi (31) was also arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-held-for-stealing-railway-signal-cable/article33847054.ece
16 February 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||‘Veeran Pollan’s birth anniversary a State event’||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday announced that Veeran Pollan’s birth anniversary would be celebrated as a State event. A manimandapam would be constructed in honour of the freedom fighter, he said. Participating in a conference organised by Athitamizhar Munnetra Kazhagam in Namakkal, he said former Chief Minister M.G. Ramachandran first recognised the Arunthathiyar community through his film Madurai Veeran . He listed various schemes and allocations for the community. He promised that members for the Sanitary Workers’ Welfare Board would be appointed soon. Mr. Palaniswami said when he was the Highways Minister, his office assistant, who belonged to the community, had full freedom in his house. The AIADMK was a party beyond caste and religion, he said. He said while Rs. 8,000 crore were provided as loans for self-help groups during the erstwhile DMK regime, an amount of Rs. 82,000 crore had been provided by the AIADMK government. Measures were being taken to provide 55,000 pattas to beneficiaries and concrete houses would be constructed for the homeless, he said. Mr. Palaniswami said he was a Chief Minister from the region and anybody could have easy access to him. Later, at a job fair organised by the AIADMK, Mr. Palaniswami recalled in detail how the State attracted huge investments during the pandemic. On Tuesday, he would be signing MoUs with 27 firms, attracting investments to the tune of Rs. 28,000 crore, through which 35,000 persons would get jobs. Ministers P. Thangamani, V. Saroja, K.C. Karupannan, M.R. Vijayabhaskar and AIADMK legislators attended the conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/veeran-pollans-birth-anniversary-a-state-event/article33846545.ece
16 February 2021||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||Devendrakula Velalar community will not be de-listed, says Ministry||The Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry on Monday said seven Scheduled Caste (SC) communities would be categorised into Devendrakula Velalar, which would remain in the SC list. The Ministry said in a statement that the Cabinet had approved the categorisation of seven communities a Devendrakula Velalar, which would be in the SC list of Tamil Nadu as well. The communities would not be de-listed from the SC list and made OBCs, the Ministry said, responding to some media reports. “The Ministry has further clarified that a Bill for categorising seven SC communities into Devendrakula Velalar under the SC list to Tamil Nadu had already been introduced in the Lok Sabha,” the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/devendrakula-velalar-community-will-not-be-de-listed-says-ministry/article33846618.ece
16 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Centre trying to make Puducherry a U.T. without legislature, says CM||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Monday reiterated his charge against the Centre of trying to make Puducherry a Union Territory without a Legislative Assembly. “Step by step, the powers of the elected government are being taken away. The Lt. Governor deliberately delays and forwards files to the Centre. It gives an impression that the Centre is trying to make Puducherry, a Union Territory without a legislature, like Ladakh or merge the territory with Tamil Nadu. Otherwise, why should an elected government be denied the right to open a renovated building,” the Chief Minister said at a press conference to announce the tour of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to Puducherry on February 17. “The government had every right to decide on the date of inaugural of Mairie Building. But the Lt. Governor ordered postponement of the inaugural citing the list of invitees for the event did not contain the name of Central government representatives,” he said. The renovation of the building was taken up with funds sanctioned by the World Bank, he added. “An elected government has every right to conduct the inauguration of a building renovated using funds from the World Bank,” he said. ‘Promises fulfilled’ Despite the efforts of the Centre and the Lt. Governor, the government was able to fulfil many of its promises and provide relief to the people during the pandemic time, he said. The Chief Minister said that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi would make a tour of Puducherry on Wednesday. He would interact with the students of Bharathidasan Government College for Women, fishermen, party workers and address a public meeting at the Anglo French Textiles. AICC secretary in-charge for the Union Territory Sanjay Dutt said Mr. Gandhi’s visit to Puducherry should be considered as Congress leader’s commitment to protect the interests of the Tamil speaking people. “Mr. Gandhi has emphatically stated from New Delhi that he will not allow the BJP to disrespect the Tamil people. His visit re-emphasises this commitment,” he added. Minister for Revenue M.O.H.F Shahjahan, Member of Parliament (Lok Sabha) V. Vaithilingam and PCC chief A. V. Subramanian were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-trying-to-make-puducherry-a-ut-without-legislature-says-cm/article33847106.ece
16 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Nesting of Olive Ridleys picks up||With their traditional migration season delayed possibly due to changes in climatic conditions caused by the influence of successive Cyclones Nivar and Burevi that swept through the eastern seaboard late last year, female Olive Ridley turtles have been leaving hundreds of eggs at nesting spots in the region over the past few weeks. Teams of volunteers led by the Forest Department have been engaged in collecting eggs by fanning across the coastline between Nallavadu and Moorthykuppam. The Puducherry coastline falls on the migratory route to Odisha used by these turtles listed under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. The Olive Ridley is one of only two species of sea turtles that engage in “arribada” nesting (Spanish for mass migration), where large groups of females assemble at a nesting site on the beach. According to Kannadassin, a staff with the Forest Department, the nesting season which usually begins in November was delayed by a few weeks this year. A seven-member team of Forest Department officials led by Vanjulavalli Karthik, Deputy Conservator, has been patrolling the coastline in the early hours on a daily basis for weeks — the survey happens usually from 3 a.m. to 8 a.m. The team has also been sensitising fishermen in coastal settlements such as Nallavadu, Pannithittu, Narambai, Moorthykuppam and Pudukuppam to the importance of protecting the eggs of the turtle species which are endangered due to over exploitation for meat. 4,000 eggs “We have so far collected over 4,000 eggs and taken them to properly fenced hatcheries,” the staff said. The team expects this year’s nesting cycle to continue at least till April. It is estimated that an adult female at a time lays approximately 100 to 200 eggs, which hatch after a 48-day period. The volunteers have been releasing hatchlings back into the sea and the process could extend till June.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nesting-of-olive-ridleys-picks-up/article33847111.ece
16 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Virus toll in U.T. rises to 658||The Union Territory recorded one more COVID-19 death on Monday, taking the cumulative coronavirus toll to 658. With the death of an 82-year-old man, who had diabetes mellitus and coronary artery disease as co-morbid conditions, at Jipmer here, the toll in the capital went up to 537, followed by Karaikal (66), Yanam (45) and Mahe (10). The Union Territory also saw 20 new cases (from 1,400 tests) spread out in Puducherry (16) and Karaikal and Mahe two each. No cases were reported in Yanam, where the curve appears to have flattened. The test positivity rate was 1.42%, case fatality rate 1.67% and recovery rate 97.73%. With 41 patients discharged in the last 24 hours, the number of active cases in the Union Territory stood at 236. Of this, 111 patients are in hospitals and 125 in home isolation. Overall tally The overall case tally is 39,468 with 38,574 patients recovered. Meanwhile, the number of healthcare and frontline workers who underwent Covid vaccination stood at 5,953.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/with-one-more-death-virus-toll-in-union-territory-rises-to-658/article33847102.ece
16 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. Health Minister takes to Twitter to announce resignation||Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao took to Twitter on Monday to announce his resignation from the post of MLA in the Puducherry Assembly. The Minister announced the resignation through a post on his Twitter handle stating “Herewith I tender my resignation with immediate effect” and also attached an image of his letter addressed to Assembly Speaker V. P. Sivakolundhu. The letter posted on Twitter read, “I hereby tender my resignation of my seat in the House with effect from 15-02-2021.” When contacted, Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said, “I have not seen any written papers on his resignation.” The Speaker’s office said it had not received any communication about the Minister’s resignation, he said. Sources in the Assembly Secretariat also confirmed that no communication, handed over by messenger or through fax, had been received on the resignation yet. Mr. Malladi Krishna Rao, who was recently felicitated on completing 25 years as legislator representing Yanam, had stated his intention to stay away from politics and not contest the upcoming Assembly election to “devote time for his family”. Mr. Rao could not be reached for comment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-health-minister-takes-to-twitter-to-announce-resignation/article33846970.ece
16 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||12-hour bandh postponed||The Secular Democratic Progressive Alliance has decided to postpone the 12-hour bandh called by the parties seeking the recall of the Lt. Governor on Tuesday. The decision to postpone the bandh was announced by Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy at a press conference on Monday. The Chief Minister said several trade organisations had asked for a postponement of the bandh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/12-hour-bandh-postponed/article33847104.ece
16 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||DMK iterates demand on nominated MLAs issue||The DMK has reiterated the demand to either scrap the appointment of nominated legislators to the Puducherry Legislative Assembly or delegate the power to appoint such MLAs to the elected government. In a statement, DMK leader in Assembly and party convener (South) R. Siva said the entire electoral process would be defeated if power to appoint nominated legislators was vested with the Centre. Even a candidate of a political party defeated in the elections could be appointed as a nominated legislator. A person appointed in such a manner as nominated MLA could even decide the fate of an elected government, he said. The nominated legislators could also decide who would represent the people of the Union Territory in the Rajya Sabha, he said. Hence Mr. Siva said the Centre should either ban the appointment of nominated legislators to the Assembly or give the power of appointment to the elected government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-iterates-demand-on-nominated-mlas-issue/article33847109.ece
16 February 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||CM lying about implementing poll promises, claims Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Monday accused the AIADMK government of having failed to implement several promises it made in the run-up to the 2011 and 2016 Assembly elections. Terming Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami's claim that the AIADMK government had implemented all of its poll promises as a “Himalayan lie”, Mr. Stalin claimed that speaking whimsically was Mr. Palaniswami's wont. It was habitual for the Chief Minister to keep changing his stance to suit the situation, the DMK leader alleged at the ‘Ungal Thoguthiyil Stalin’ (Stalin in your constituency) outreach event at Oonaiyur village near Tirumayam in Pudukottai district. Recalling some of the promises made by the AIADMK in its 2011 poll manifesto, Mr. Stalin said the current regime had neither ushered in the second green revolution nor doubled the income of farmers. Likewise, it had not kept its promise of distributing farm equipment and drip irrigation systems to all farmers, free of cost. Referring to promises made by the AIADMK in its 2016 election manifesto, Mr. Stalin said it had not provided free cell phones to all ration card holders. The Amma Banking Card and free Wi-Fi in public places were yet to be provided. The ruling party had not waived education loans either, he added. Alleging that there had been no industrial development or investment in the State in the last 10 years, he said the Chief Minister was still publicising Tamil Nadu as a State that was marching ahead victoriously. Hitting out at Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar, a native of Pudukottai district, Mr. Stalin alleged that he had indulged in corrupt practices, taking advantage of even the COVID-19 pandemic. The DMK had prepared the second report pertaining to corruption among Ministers, and would soon hand it over to the Governor, he said. Assuring that action would be taken against graft once the DMK comes to power, he claimed that Ministers of the current regime would be put behind bars.  ‘Sense of fear’ Campaigning at Kollapuram village in Ariyalur district, Mr. Stalin claimed that a sense of fear prevailed across all sections of society under the AIADMK government. Farmers were fearful of the newly-enacted Central farm laws, and were wondering whether their lands would be protected and whether benefits like free electricity would continue. Weavers feared whether they would get free power and a remunerative price for their produce. Government employees were apprehensive as they were being threatened and cases were being booked against those agitating against the denial of benefits to them, he claimed. Alleging that irregularities had arisen in government appointments, the DMK leader said eligible candidates were being ignored and educated youth were unable to secure employment as no new job opportunities had been created in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-lying-about-implementing-poll-promises-claims-stalin/article33846538.ece
16 February 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||‘15,000 tonnes of dry fish lying in warehouses’||Fishermen have appealed to the Centre to hold talks with Sri Lankan authorities and help lift the ban imposed on dry fish exports from India to the island nation as nearly 15,000 tonnes of dry fish valued at Rs. 500 crore was lying in warehouses since November last. AITUC fishermen association State president S. Muruganandam told The Hindu on Monday that the Sri Lankan government banned import of dry fish from India since November. Almost 20% to 25% of the fish caught by the fishermen in coastal districts of Tamil Nadu was bought by exporters, who exported them as dry fish to Sri Lanka and other countries. Among the dry fish, ‘maasi’, ‘katta’ and ‘nethili’ were the most sought after varieties in Sri Lanka. However, the island nation’s ban had crippled exports since November last and the goods were lying in Thoothukudi warehouses, he said. Though no reasons were assigned by officials for the ban, Mr. Muruganandam claimed that dry fish was being exported by Pakistan and the Maldives to Sri Lanka. Before November 2020, the Sri Lankan government had imposed additional taxes on imports of dry fish from India and subsequently banned it. “It is almost 100 days now and our goods are lying in the warehouses,” he added. As a result, many fishermen were yet to get their wages and some of the exporters too had been unable to keep up their financial commitments with the banks, he said and hoped that the Centre would intervene and get the ban lifted. Moreover, the fishermen also expected the State to give them adequate space in warehouses to stock the dry fish without imposing charges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/15000-tonnes-of-dry-fish-lying-in-warehouses/article33847178.ece
16 February 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Public demand construction of housing complex||Residents of Pavendher Street protested in front of the Collectorate here on Monday demanding construction of multi-storey housing building in accordance with Madras High Court order. Around 50 residents of Pavendher Street raised slogans demanding measures to construct the multi-storey housing building on 1.5 acre near the street. They said that based on a litigation between the residents of Pavendher Street and Lee Bazaar here, the Madras High Court directed officials from Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board to construct a housing Complex for the residents of Pavendher Street. Despite the court orders, no measures had been taken for the building construction, they said and added that their petition to the Chief Minister yielded no result. The residents tried to hand over their ration card and aadhar card to the authorities. However, the authorities pacified them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/public-demand-construction-of-housing-complex/article33846604.ece
16 February 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Urban forest set up||Salem Corporation along with Salem Midtown Rotary Club began works to set up an urban forest at Valluvar Colony here on Sunday. Corporation Commissioner N. Ravichandran launched the works on the miyawaki forest on 6,000 sq.ft., a release said. Corporation officials said the common well had been renovated for public use and benches would be set up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/urban-forest-set-up/article33846605.ece
16 February 2021||Sattur,TAMIL NADU||Compensation given to fire accident victims, kin||Minister for Dairy Development, K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji, on Monday distributed compensation to the kin of the deceased and to the workers injured in the Friday’s fire accident at Sree Mariyammal Fireworks unit at Achchankulam. Accompanied by Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan, and Sattur MLA, M.S.R. Rajavarman, the Minister distributed cheques for Rs. 3 lakh each to legal heirs of 17 workers (out of 20) from the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund. Similarly, the Minister gave away Rs. 1 lakh each to 19 workers who were injured in the accident. District Revenue Officer, R. Mangalaramasubramanian, Project Director (District Rural Development Agency), V. Jayakumar, Sattur Revenue Divisional Officer, Kasi Selvi, were among those who were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fireworks-unit-accident-compensation-given-to-victims/article33846577.ece
16 February 2021||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||‘Interim budget alone should be presented in election year’||With election to the Legislative Assembly fast approaching, it was not fair on the part of the AIADMK government to present a full-fledged budget, said senior Congress leader and former Finance Minister P. Chidambaram here on Sunday. Speaking at a booth committee meeting of Congress workers, he said the AIADMK government had remained in ‘silent’ mode for four years and nine months. Now, at the fag end of its tenure, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had been announcing schemes after schemes and waiving loans and offering sops. The government had to explain where were the funds coming from. It looked like the entire exercise was being done with the elections in mind, Mr. Chidambaram said, adding as per tradition, the government should present an interim budget ahead of election and the new government alone would present a full-fledged budget. There were reports that the AIADMK government had planned to present the budget in the Assembly session prior to the election. In such an event, the opposition would strongly oppose, he warned. Taking a dig at the Centre and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he said there was no tangible allocation of funds for Tamil Nadu in the Union Budget. However, the Central government had chosen to allocate funds for Tamil Nadu and Kerala, which faced elections this year. “The nation’s economy was going down over the last two years. The government neither has the tactfulness nor the brains to set it right,” he charged. When there were issues and differences of opinion reported between Mr. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, a third player (AMMK leader T.T.V. Dhinakaran) was trying to create confusion in the AIADMK. With the election dates drawing closer, the confusion in the ruling party was set to increase as they all (different camps) might claim the rights over the portrait of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa. In such an event, the Congress combine would sweep the polls, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/interim-budget-alone-should-be-presented-in-election-year/article33847056.ece
16 February 2021||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||‘Focus on safety, not closing fireworks industry’||Focus of the State and Centre should be to make fireworks industry safer and not to close down the industry that employs lakhs of workers, said Virudhunagar M.P., B. Manickam Tagore. After a consultative meeting with officials of Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO) and fireworks manufacturers at the PESO office here on Monday, Mr. Tagore said that Sivakasi’s fireworks industry was 100 years old and is the pride of the nation. “We should make it safer and tap the export potential of the industry,” he added. After the worst accident at Muthalipatti in 2012 in which over 40 persons were killed, the number of accidents has come down in the last nine years “Achchankulam accident is a major one after nine years. We have to find out the anomalies in following safety protocols and try to eradicate them rather than talking about closing down the industry,” Mr. Tagore said. When pointed out that the PESO did not have adequate number of officials to inspect the 900-odd fireworks units, the MP said that he would take up the issue with the Centre. Mr. Tagore said that Deputy Chief Controller of Explosives, K. Sundaresan, told him that the State and Centre were exploring different means to bring down the number of accidents in the industry. Virudhunagar district Congress party would take the responsibility of meeting the educational needs of B. Nandini (12) who lost her parents in the accident on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/focus-on-safety-not-closing-fireworks-industry/article33846583.ece
16 February 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Monkeys trapped||Officials of the Forest Department have trapped 20 monkeys that were found roaming around in Thanjavur town. The move comes two days after Thanjavur West Police received a complaint that an infant was killed by the animals in West Rampart area. Cages were placed at about half-a-dozen places along the moat in Thanjavur Corporation limits to capture the monkeys. A couple residing in the area had alleged that one of their eight-day-old twin daughters was killed after monkeys took the infant from their house and threw it in the moat. The trapped monkeys would be released in Pachamalai area in Tiruchi district, the Forest officials added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/monkeys-trapped/article33846556.ece
16 February 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||20 monkeys trapped in Thanjavur||The Forest Department officials have trapped 20 monkeys in Thanjavur two days after the police received a complaint that an infant was killed by them in the west rampart area. Cages were placed at about half-a-dozen places along the moat in the Thanjavur corporation limits to capture the monkeys. A couple residing in the area had alleged that one of their eight-day-old twin daughters was killed after monkeys entered the house by removing the roof tiles and took away the infant and threw it in the moat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/20-monkeys-trapped-in-thanjavur/article33846586.ece
16 February 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Pineapples become more affordable||Fruit traders in Peravurani area have started selling pineapples at Rs. 20 per piece or Rs. 100 per kg following arrival of the fruit in large quantities from neighbouring Kerala. Local wholesale dealers, who used to procure pineapple from farmers in Kanyakumari district, received information this year that pineapple production in Pathinamthitta, Ernakulam, Kozhikode, Malapuram and Moovatrupuzha in the neighbouring State has peaked, leading to a fall in their wholesale price.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pineapples-become-more-affordable/article33846553.ece
16 February 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Mausoleum being dismantled, says INTAC||The Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTAC), Thanjavur Unit, has expressed concern over dismantling of a mausoleum in Thanjavur and using the bricks for construction of a dwelling unit near Raja Ghori area in the town. In a statement issued here on Monday, its secretary S. Muthukumar said some persons residing near “Kailash Mahal” complex, also known as “Raja Gori”, an exclusive burial ground of Maratha rulers and their lineage, were dismantling a mausoleum in the complex and collecting the bricks for construction of a dwelling unit in the same area. Pointing out that a project to renovate the mausoleum complex taken up by a private trust recently was launched by Collector M. Govinda Rao, Mr. Muthukumar called upon officials concerned to prevent the mausoleum from being razed down for personal use by a group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mausoleum-being-dismantled-says-intac/article33846554.ece
16 February 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||DMK wins Periyakulam union chairman post||The DMK candidate won the chairman’s post in the Periyakulam Union here on Monday with the support of AMMK and DMDK ward councillors. This has sent shock waves among the ruling AIADMK party cadre. The elections to the local bodies were held in Tamil Nadu in 2019 after which the ward councillors elected the chairman and vice-chairman through indirect election. In the Periyakulam union, there are 16 wards and the DMK bagged 8 seats, AIADMK 6 and AMMK and DMDK bagged one each. Though the officials announced dates for the conduct of the indirect election as per the laws, the polling could not take place thrice for want of quorum or other reasons, officials said. Meanwhile, a DMK councillor, Selvam (ward 8) switched his loyalty to the AIADMK. Hence, the number of DMK councillors stood at 7. Under such circumstances, Thangavel, a DMK councillor, approached the Madras High Court Bench at Madurai seeking intervention, following which the Bench directed the authorities to conduct the election by February 15. As per the court directive, when the councillors were present, the officials held the indirect election and declared that Mr. Thangavel had been elected the union chairman. Of the 16 votes, he polled nine, including the AMMK and the DMDK councillor's votes, officials said and added that the vice-chairperson’s post was bagged by the lone AMMK councillor. As the news spread about the DMK candidate emerging victorious in the district, the home town of Deputy Chief Minister and AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam, the AIADMK functionaries were shocked over the development. The lone councillor Packiam (DMDK) and Maruthaiammal (AMMK) told reporters that their decision had approval from their party high commands. Requesting anonymity, a close aide of the AIADMK coordinator told The Hindu that the “development need not be seen as a setback to us... But, with the Assembly election approaching, we will find out what went wrong.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-wins-periyakulam-union-chairman-post/article33846617.ece
16 February 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||DMK wins Periyakulam union chairman post||A DMK candidate won the post of chairman of Periyakulam Union on Monday, with the support of the AMMK and DMDK ward councillors. This has sent shock waves among the ruling party cadres. Elections to the local bodies were held in 2019 after which the ward councillors elected the chairman and vice-chairman through indirect election. In Periyakulam union, there are 16 wards and the DMK had bagged eight seats, the AIADMK six, the AMMK and the DMDK one each. Though the officials announced dates for conduct of the indirect election as per the law, the polling could not take place thrice for want of quorum and other reasons, officials said. Meanwhile, a DMK councillor, Selvam (ward 8), switched his loyalty to the AIADMK. Hence, the number of DMK councillors went down to seven. Subsequently, Thangavel, a DMK councillor, approached the Madras High Court Bench at Madurai seeking legal remedy. Following this, the High Court directed the authorities to conduct the election by February 15. After the councillors gathered as per the court directive, the officials held the indirect election and declared that Mr. Thangavel had been elected as union chairman. He polled nine votes, including the votes of lone AMMK and the DMDK councillors, officials said, and added that the vice-chairperson post was bagged by the lone AMMK councillor.  As the news spread about the DMK candidate emerging victorious in the district, the home turf of Deputy Chief Minister and AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam, the party functionaries here were shocked. The lone DMDK councillor Packiam and Maruthaiammal AMMK told reporters that their decision to vote for the DMK candidate had the approval of their high command. Requesting anonymity, a close aide of the AIADMK coordinator told The Hindu that the “development need not be seen as a setback to us... But, with the Assembly election approaching, we will assess what went wrong and where.” A senior functionary of the AMMK said that this was “just a beginning and many more such surprises will follow soon for the AIADMK”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-wins-periyakulam-union-chairman-post/article33846578.ece
16 February 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||‘Vetri’ helps trace ganja hidden underground||‘Vetri’, a police sniffer dog helped in the seizure of eight kilograms of ganja in Singarajapuram village in Varushanadu near Theni on Sunday. Following specific information, a special team had taken ‘Vetri’ to a dwelling and the dog was able to pick up the scent precisely. The police dug the spot amd ganja stashed in a bag kept it in a drum and hidden underneath the ground. The police arrested Velu and seized the narcotics, which was valued at Rs. 10,000 per kg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vetri-helps-trace-ganja-hidden-underground/article33846580.ece
16 February 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Policemen get body-worn cameras||Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar handed over 27 body-worn cameras, worth about Rs. 3.78 lakh, to various police stations in the district on Monday. Since the policemen on duty can easily wear this camera, they can record the happenings around them, especially during patrolling, vehicle checking, traffic regulation, inquiry on petitions, crowd controlling etc. These cameras are being supplied by the State Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/policemen-get-body-worn-cameras/article33847171.ece
16 February 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Farmers get compensation||Around 13,000 rain-hit farmers, who suffered extensive crop loss due to unseasonal rains in the southern parts of Tamil Nadu, have received relief to the tune of Rs. 16.48 crore in the first phase, District Collector K. Senthilraj has said. Speaking to reporters here on Monday, Dr. Senthil Raj said the district lost crops cultivated on 1.21 lakh hectares – agricultural crops raised on 1.04 lakh hectares and horticultural crops on 17,000 hectares – in the unseasonal rains in mid-January and the district administration submitted a detailed report to the Tamil Nadu Government seeking crop loss compensation. The Government, having agreed to give relief to the affected farmers in phases, had started paying the compensation directly to the bank accounts of the agriculturists concerned. While Rs. 16.48 crore was paid to the accounts of 12,984 affected farmers on last Saturday in the first phase, all the affected agriculturists would receive the relief in phases soon. Of the 1,642 petitions received during the past 3 months during the weekly grievances redressal meet, 1,385 grievances had been resolved and 257 petitions are under scrutiny. Similarly, 582 of 924 petitions sent to the Chief Minister’s Special Cell had been settled as the remaining 342 applications were under examination. On the incidence of dengue in a few parts of the district, Dr. Senthil Raj said the local bodies had been instructed to intensify the operations to destroy the larva by ensuring clean premises and the surrounding of every house, public offices etc. Moreover, the civic bodies, which were collecting the exact number of dengue patients in their areas, had been told to ensure regular drinking water supply which would avert storage of drinking water in the houses, the prime reason behind the incidence of dengue. Construction sites were being inspected to avert breeding of larvae. When asked about COVID-19, the Collector said Thoothukudi, one of the five districts having least number of patients with this viral infection rate of just 0.30%, was gradually inching back to normalcy. “Of the 1,000 persons being screened for COVID-19 everyday, just one or two persons test positive for the viral infection. However, I appeal to everyone to wear mask and keep physical distancing besides cleaning the hands with sanitiser to be guarded from the infection,” Dr. Senthil Raj said. Dr. Senthil Raj also handed over free house sites, worth about Rs. 19.82 lakh, sewing machines and iron boxes to beneficiaries. District Revenue Officer Kannpiraan, Project Director, District Rural Development Agency, Dhanapathi and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/around-13000-farmers-receive-rs-1648-crore-as-crop-loss-compensation/article33846589.ece
16 February 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Irregularity alleged||Alleging scam in crop loan waiver by the Singathaakurichi Primary Agriculture Cooperative Society, a group of farmers submitted petition to Collector K. Senthil Raj on Monday seeking comprehensive probe into the irregularity. Led by the district secretary of Tamil Nadu Vivasaayigal Sangam K.P. Arumugam, the farmers, who handed over a petition to the Collector, said the administrators of the society had fudged loan documents in favour of a few farmers while others had been left out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/irregularity-alleged/article33847170.ece
16 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Healthcare workers get second dose||Healthcare workers, who took the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine 28 days ago, got the booster shot here on Monday. Both vaccines — Covishield and Covaxin — being used in the exercise require a two-dose schedule to be administered four weeks apart. The vaccination of healthcare workers started on January 16 and frontline workers from the first week of February. “On the first day, only about eight doctors took the vaccine at our session site. However, there were many on the second day. Today, they have all come to get the booster shot,” K. Vanitha, Dean, Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, said. Doctors from the Indian Medical Association-Tiruchi branch, who took the first dose along with Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, also took the booster dose on Monday. At Tiruchi MGMGH, 90% of healthcare workers who took the vaccine 28 days ago had been inoculated, they said. “Around 60 of them took it on the first two days. So far, we have inoculated at least 50. The remaining will come in the next couple of days,” a senior nurse said. All healthcare workers who completed the two-dose course were given a card with their name, age and other details to identify completion of their vaccination. Dr. Vanitha urged healthcare workers to take the second dose. “It is important to finish the course of any vaccine. Vaccination is the only way to beat COVID-19,” she said. Frontline workers, including police personnel, had begun actively participating in the drive. At least 50 police personnel were given the vaccine per day, she added. Meanwhile, the session site at Tiruchi MGMGH was shifted to the ground floor of the super-speciality block this week. “What was being used as a waiting room for COVID-19 patients is now a vaccination session site. It was constructed as an out-patient observation room, but is now being used for this purpose,” a nurse said. Of the total 25,000 healthcare workers registered in Tiruchi district, 10,823 have taken the first dose. On the second day of administration of the second dose, 157 healthcare workers completed the vaccination quota. Thirty-three took Covaxin and the remaining Covishield. 41 cases, two deaths The central region on Monday reported 41 fresh cases of COVID-19. Two deaths were reported in the region, both in Tiruchi, according to the bulletin issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. A 49-year-old woman with a history of chronic kidney disease and an 85-year-old man with co-morbidities, including hypertension, succumbed to the infection. Tiruchi reported 12 fresh cases and Tiruvarur 10. Three patients who were undergoing treatment at MGMGH were discharged on Monday.The other districts in the region reported less than 10 cases each. Seven patients tested positive in Tiruvarur and five in Karur. Pudukottai reported four fresh cases and two. In Ariyalur, one patient tested positive while no case was reported in Perambalur for the second consecutive day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/healthcare-workers-get-second-dose/article33846532.ece
16 February 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Public flout COVID-19 norms and authorities look the other way||A large number of city residents seem to be throwing caution to the wind by failing to wear face masks, an important protective measure against the spread of COVID-19. Many leave their masks at home or keep them in their bags, instead of wearing them. The public has no fear of contracting the viral infection, or of paying up a fine any more, a traffic policeman said. Earlier, officials of Tiruchi Corporation and city police had been clamping down on those flouting COVID-19 norms, especially for not wearing masks or maintaining personal distance. However, it has now become common to see people travelling without masks, or pulling it down to their chin as authorities have begun to look the other way, many say. Despite awareness drives on COVID-19, many seem to believe that since the number of cases was coming down in the State, they will not contract the infection, said P. Marimuthu, a resident. “Many youngsters are seen around the city without masks. While they may contract the infection and even if they do, they will recover quickly but they will be putting elders at their homes at risk,” he said. The State government had announced that a fine of Rs. 5,000 would be imposed on those violating the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued for commercial establishments and other public places. Those not wearing a face mask in public places will have to pay Rs. 200. A traffic policeman stationed near the Gandhi Market said that they had received no instructions on imposing fine for flouting mask-wearing over the last month. “We had been insisting that the public wear it, but now, we have been instructed to collect fines from those not wearing helmets,” he said. Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian said that the public believe that there is a low risk of contracting the infection. However, some clusters have been identified in some places and so, mask-wearing was important, he insisted. “We will further intensify checking and will impose fines in crowded areas,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/public-flout-covid-19-norms-and-authorities-look-the-other-way/article33846559.ece
16 February 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||College heads wonder how to manage physical distancing in hostels||College heads have no clue as to how students could be accommodated in hostels, now that the State government has given the green signal for start of regular classes for all undergraduate and post graduate students. The Standard Operating Procedure published by the University Grants Commission specifies that only one person per hostel room could be accommodated. Hostels may be opened only in such cases where it is necessary while strictly observing the safety and health preventive measures. However, sharing of rooms may not be allowed in hostels. Symptomatic students should not be permitted to stay in the hostels under any circumstances, the safety guidelines issued by the UGC states. Having admitted students from far-off places, colleges feel stranded now. “Leave alone paucity of so many rooms in the hostel, it is simply difficult to keep students apart in hostels,” a principal of a prominent college in Tiruchi said. For over a month now, the institutions could manage the situation since the conduct of regular classes was limited to science programmes for final year UG students and for PG students. The colleges can ill-afford to ignore the UGC’s SOP since it is vetted by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and approved by Ministries of Home and Education. “It is indeed possible to comply with physical distancing in classrooms, and to prevail upon students to use face covers and mask and wash their hands frequently with soap, and to use alcohol-based sanitisers every now and then. The UGC, in fact, expects colleges to come up with stricter provisions and guidelines, if they feel it necessary, to ensure the safety and health of students, faculty and staff”, another principal said, while stating that it was impracticable to enforce the safety protocol in hostels. As per the safety guidelines, there should be no crowding in hostel areas, and their numbers must be limited appropriately. The college heads say they feel helpless as students cannot be prevented from converging in small groups in the dining halls, common rooms and playing areas in the hostels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/college-heads-wonder-how-to-manage-physical-distancing-in-hostels/article33846550.ece
16 February 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||NIT-T takes measured steps to bring back students to campus||National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi (NIT-T) is not in a hurry to bring back students in large numbers into the campus even though the number of COVID-19 cases are on the decline in Tiruchi. Being a fully residential institution, NIT-T has taken measured steps in this direction, starting off with permitting Ph.D. scholars inside the campus in the recent months. Over the next two months, the institution will be looking at the possibility of bringing back final year PG and final year UG students, NIT-T Director Mini Shaji Thomas said. In any case, conduct of online classes and examination has been a smooth process for students of all levels. A faculty team is in constant touch with the district administration to keep the officials updated on the graded measures being taken by the institution. The institution has permitted about 50 B.Tech students from across the country for whom online connectivity was a serious issue. Besides them, there were already about 100 students from across the country who chose to stay in the hostel right through the COVID-19 lockdown from March 2020. Be it Ph.D. scholars or B.Tech students, all have to go through the mandatory quarantine process. The district administration, it is learnt, has advised the institution to take the necessary precautions to prevent occurrence of a COVID cluster similar to the incident in IIT-Madras last December. Food is being sent to the rooms of students, to rule out overcrowding in the mess, which was stated to be one of the main causes for formation of the COVID cluster at IIT-Madras. In its latest guidelines, the UGC has specified that heads of centrally-funded higher educational institutions can decide on opening of physical classes after satisfying themselves of the feasibility. The phased opening at NIT-T, faculty members said, will be ideal to make students adhere to the social distancing norms, enforce wearing of face masks, and other safety parameters Even in the event of permitting entry of final-year students inside the campus over the next couple of months, NIT-T will be required to ensure that not more than 50% of the total students should be present at any point of time, on a rotational basis. The UGC has permitted extension of teaching hours in a day; and adoption of a six-day schedule in a week for conduct of classes in phases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nit-t-takes-measured-steps-to-bring-back-students-to-campus/article33846557.ece
16 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||NIT-T’s IGNITTE Club to start mock test series for JEE Mains on Feb. 20||The IGNITTE Club of National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi (NIT-T) that is run by students will be starting its free-of-cost mock test series online for JEE Mains later this month. The mock test of three-hour duration will be conducted with 75 questions each for Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics, on February 20 and 21. There will be 20 Multiple-Choice-Questions and five numerical questions for each subject. Further tests will be conducted based on the response to the initiative, Faculty Advisor of IGNITTE Club M. Venkata Krithiga said. Earlier this month, the IGNITE Club chose about 26 Plus One students from government schools based on a screening test for conduct of year-long free online training for JEE Mains and NEET. There is also a group of government school students in Plus Two for whom a crash course has been designed in view of time constraints, Prof. Venkata Krithiga said. In 2020, four students cleared JEE Mains 2020 and two were allotted seats in NIT-T.One student bagged an MBBS seat in Stanely Medical College. Through the free coaching initiative, the IGNITE Club has been making its presence felt in Tiruchi and neighbouring districts over the last few years. During 2017, thirteen out of 20 beneficiary students of government schools in Perambalur district cleared NEET and two among them were offered seats in government medical colleges. The success rate of students in the JEE Mains and NEET has been maintained well since then. The IGNITTE Club consisting of about 45 students mostly in their first and second years conduct the free online coaching. A non-government organisation has supported the government school students by providing them with smart phones to attend the classes from their respective places. The Club has reached out to schools by providing their email id: support@ignitte.org with a promise to provide guidance to enable students avail themselves of the utility of the free mock test series.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nit-ts-ignitte-club-to-start-mock-test-series-for-jee-mains-on-feb-20/article33846562.ece
16 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Techno gym commissioned at NIT-T||A Techno Gym featuring state-of-the-art fitness equipment was commissioned on Monday at National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi as a key support-system to enhance performance of students in sports and games. As reigning champion for volleyball (women),swimming, badminton, powerlifting and athletics in inter-NIT sports championship, the institute already has a well-equipped sports center, swimming pool, indoor badminton courts, volley-ball and basket-ball courts, football ground and athletic tracks. The Techno Gym set up at the cost of Rs. 35 lakhs would enable students to achieve national heights in the fields of sports and games, NIT-T Director Mini Shaji Thomas said after commissioning the facility in the presence of M. Umapathy, Registrar (i/c). N. Kumaresan, Dean (Students Welfare), and M.Duraiselvam Dean (Planning and Development) exuded hope that the facility will enhance focus on fitness among the campus community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/techno-gym-commissioned-at-nit-t/article33846563.ece
16 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||50-year-old man killed at Siruganur||A 50-year-old man was murdered in Siruganur police station limit in the district on Sunday. Police identified the deceased as P. Muthu of Irur in Perambalur district. Muthu was returning back homeon a two-wheeler after attending a birthday function of his wife's relative near C.R. Palayam when the incident occured. Police sources said Muthu was accosted and attacked near a grove along Siruganur - C.R. Palayam road with sharp weapons eventually leading to his death. He was declared brought dead at the Srirangam Government Hospital. Siruganur Police are conducting inquiries with a few persons including the victim’s wife in connection with the murder. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/50-year-old-man-killed-at-siruganur/article33846565.ece
16 February 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Give us jobs, say labourers||A group of labourers, who were once engaged under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) and rendered jobless now, submitted a petition to Collector V. Vishnu on Monday seeking regular hiring under the scheme. The petitioners from Vadakku Salaipudur, Ramakrishnapuram, Pallivasal and Seevalaperi said for the past six months they have been left jobless. As their livelihood has been wiped-out, most of them were starving. Not ‘encroachers’ A group of villagers from 15th ward of Vickramasingapuram municipality submitted a petition accusing HR&CE Department of attempting to chase them away from their houses. The petitioners said they were living in houses built by their ancestors ‘after purchasing the land legally’, but they received a notice from Papanasa Swami Temple authorities in July last saying they should leave the place as they were living in houses built on the land belonging to Vadakkuvai Selvi Amman Temple, being administered by the Executive Officer of Papanasa Swami Temple. It also asked the residents to execute separate tenant agreements with the temple management and pay rent. Otherwise, the houses would be demolished, the notice warned. Another group of villagers from Krishnaperi near here said they had received eviction notice from the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) for reportedly staying on the land belonging to the Board. They have been asked to give their consent to move to the TNSCB apartments. “Our children are studying in the neighbourhood school and we take our cattle to graze in the nearby area, how can we move to an apartment? ,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/give-us-jobs-say-labourers/article33847175.ece
16 February 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Corruption charges against Executive Officer||Levelling corruption charges against the Executive Officer (EO) of Sankar Nagar Town Panchayat, members of Sankar Nagar Welfare Committee submitted a petition to Collector V. Vishnu on Monday seeking action against the officer. The petitioners, led by S. Peer Mohideen, secretary, Sankar Nagar Welfare Committee, said that 500 of the 1,100 domestic drinking water connections were found to be illegal. Against this backdrop, Ms. Thamarai, the EO, was transferred to Pattamadai Town Panchayat and former EO of Sankar Nagar Rajeshwaran assumed office on Monday. When contacted, Mr. Vishnu said “minor misappropriation of funds” was unearthed during a probe and hence she was transferred.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corruption-charges-against-executive-officer/article33847176.ece
16 February 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Spotted deer fatally knocked down||A 3-year-old female spotted deer was knocked down by a speeding vehicle when it tried to cross the Tirunelveli – Tenkasi highway on Monday. The deer, which had strayed out of the Gangaikondan Spotted Deer Sanctuary, had apparently reached forest areas close to Manonmaniam Sundaranar University. When it tried to cross the highway, it was fatally knocked down .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/spotted-deer-fatally-knocked-down/article33847173.ece
16 February 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||DMK will fight legally to scrap NEET: Udhayanidhi||The DMK will fight legally to scrap the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for the State, asserted DMK youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin in Kangeyam on Monday. He was here to take part in the Kangeyam cattle festival organised by the DMK’s environment wing and Senaapathy Kangayam Cattle Research Foundation. Speaking to reporters, he gave the example of how the 2017 pro-jallikattu protests resulted in the Central government allowing the conduct of the sport. “After we [DMK] come to power, my first protest will be for scrapping of NEET. I cannot do it now,” he said, adding that DMK president M.K. Stalin has assured that the NEET will not be conducted in the State after the DMK comes to power. Mr. Udhayanidhi accused the AIADMK government of lying to the people for not disclosing that the President had rejected the two Bills adopted by the State Assembly seeking an exemption from NEET for the State. On allegations of nepotism made by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, he replied that the people will decide. Announcements regarding DMK’s alliance for the upcoming Assembly election will be decided by Mr. Stalin, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-will-fight-legally-to-scrap-neet-udhayanidhi/article33846592.ece
16 February 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Committee reviews projects in Tiruppur||The estimates committee of the State Legislative Assembly recently reviewed implementation of projects in Tiruppur district. The committee’s president and Perundurai MLA Thoppu N.D. Venkatachalam said that works under the Smart Cities Mission, construction of Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital and the Athikadavu-Avinashi scheme are progressing well, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/committee-reviews-projects-in-tiruppur/article33846974.ece
16 February 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Injured elephant calf dies||A three-month-old male elephant calf that was found injured and abandoned by its herd died shortly after being taken into the protection of the Forest Department in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) on Monday. The forest department said that the elephant was found in the Kargudi range on Monday with a deep wound on its forehead. It was most likely abandoned by its herd. The department took immediate efforts to treat the animal and attempted to reunite it with the herd. However, the animal died from its injuries on Monday evening. A postmortem is set to be conducted on the remains of the elephant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/injured-elephant-calf-dies/article33846611.ece
16 February 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||‘Incubation centres’ to introduce children to wildlife conservation||A grassroots movement to get children and youth interested in wildlife conservation is set to be pioneered in government schools and eventually colleges in the Nilgiris. SADP funds With funds from the Special Area Development Programme (SADP), two “incubation centres,” also to be called as “nature discovery centres” are to be set up in two government schools in the district soon. The centres will have information about four cornerstone wildlife species – the Asian elephant, the tiger, gaur and the Nilgiri tahr. The idea to set up the “incubation centres” came about during an interaction between the district administration, the forest department and the SADP, said Ms. Supriya Sahu, Monitoring Officer for the Nilgiris and Principal Secretary to the Tamil Nadu government. “These centres will serve as a repository of information about the four animals, their population, distribution, their behaviour, social structure and even their migratory routes,” said Ms. Sahu. The schools where the centres are to be set up will be responsible for holding competitions and engaging experts to speak to the children about wildlife. Other school students from across the district can visit these schools and take part in the competitions and campaigns, said Ms. Sahu. Field Director of the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve K.K. Kaushal, who was part of the meeting of district officials that brainstormed the idea to form the discovery centres, said that Nilgiris residents were already conscious about living alongside wildlife. Awareness “These centres can further spread awareness among youngsters and spread the conservation message much wider,” he said. Initially, the number of the centres will be restricted to two, and expanded to four. Efforts are being taken to identify the schools and colleges in the Nilgiris where they can be set up. “It will be a wonderful contribution of these centres if even a small percentage of the students who have positive experiences about wildlife in these centres grow up to become conservationists and find careers that will lead them to working with and protecting wildlife,” said Ms. Sahu.  The centres will serve as a repository of information about the Asian elephant, the tiger, gaur and the Nilgiri tahr Supriya Sahu Monitoring Officer for the Nilgiris||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/incubation-centres-to-introduce-children-to-wildlife-conservation/article33846610.ece
16 February 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Two new Aavin parlours opened||Minister for Dairy Development, K. T. Rajenthra Bhalaji, on Monday inaugurated two new modern Aavin parlours. The parlours at the cost of Rs. 25 lakh have been come up at Kariyapatti and Palavanatham. Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan, Aavin vice-chairperson K. Kannan, were among those who were present. Farmers meet After nearly a year, farmers’ grievances meet would be held at the District Development Council meeting hall with physical presence of farmers, on February 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-new-aavin-parlours-opened/article33846581.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district reports one death, 46 cases||Coimbatore district reported one COVID-19 death and 46 new cases on Monday, taking the overall tally to 55,200. The death of a 63-year-old man who was under treatment for COVID-19 took the district’s toll to 679. The district saw 54,077 total recoveries and has 444 active cases. A total of 57 patients were discharged from various treatment centres in the district on Monday. Tiruppur district reported 18 fresh cases on Monday, and the tally rose to 18,162. No deaths were reported in the district. As many as 17,817 patients have recovered and 123 were active cases. The district has so far reported 222 deaths. On Monday, 19 patients were discharged from various treatment centres. In the Nilgiris, five persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stood at 8,281. A total of 41 persons are under treatment. 10 cases in Salem Salem district reported 10 positive cases on Monday. According to health officials, four cases were indigenous and six persons had returned from Dharmapuri and Namakkal. Namakkal reported nine indigenous cases. 13 cases in Erode Erode district reported 13 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 14,624. While 15 persons were discharged, 134 persons continue to be under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district-reports-one-death-46-cases/article33846983.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||13 new cases in Erode district||Erode district reported 13 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 14,624. While 15 persons were discharged, 134 persons continue to be under treatment. In Salem, 10 positive cases were reported, four of which were indigenous. Six persons returned from Dharmapuri and Namakkal. In Namakkal, nine indigenous cases were reported. Coimbatore district reported one COVID-19 death and 46 new cases on Monday, taking the overall tally to 55,200. The death of a 63-year-old man took the district’s toll to 679. The district saw 54,077 total recoveries and has 444 active cases. A total of 57 patients were discharged from various treatment centres in the district on Monday. Tiruppur district reported 18 fresh cases on Monday, and the tally rose to 18,162. No deaths were reported in the district. As many as 17,817 patients have recovered and 123 were active cases. The district has so far reported 222 deaths overall. On Monday, 19 patients were discharged. In the Nilgiris, five persons tested positive and the total number of confirmed cases in the district stood at 8,281. A total of 41 persons are under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/13-new-cases-in-erode-district/article33846595.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Concern over drug dispensation at Siddha clinic||Distribution of Siddha and Ayurvedic drugs wrapped in newspapers at District Headquarters Siddha Hospital, functioning at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital complex here, has raised concern among patients. There has been increase rise in number of patients seeking treatment under the Indian medicine systems at the District Headquarters Hospital. About 700 to 800 patients come to the hospital for treatment a day. Until a few years ago, the figure was just around 300 a day. Besides seeking remedy for common ailments such as fever, body aches, cold and cough, patients receive medicines for thyroid, sugar, hypertension, skin diseases and other ailments. Tamil Nadu Medical Plant Farms and Herbal Medicine Corporation Limited (TAMPCOL), a State-owned company, procures, produces and supplies Indian traditional medicines to Siddha hospitals and clinics across the State. Patients, after meeting the doctors, will have to get medicines at the pharmacy. Barring a few medicines, pharmacist issues Siddha and Ayurvedic drugs by wrapping them in old newspapers, thereby raising concern over the unhealthy distribution practice. Depending upon the quantum of medicines prescribed by the doctors, the pharmacist collects the powder drugs from containers and hands over the medicine to patients by folding them in newspaper. Old newspapers are kept ready for the purpose. “Traditional Indian medicines are issued to patients like grocery items in small stores. It is baffling to note the practice in government hospitals, which are supposed to ensure clean, hygienic and healthy practices,” says N. Jamaludeen, a consumer activist. Pointing to the healthy practices being followed in private Siddha hospitals and pharmacies, he says the government should set an example on distribution of medicines through neatly packed materials and containers. When the practice was brought to the notice of S. Ganesh, Director of Indian Medicine, he said he would study the issue in detail. Steps would be taken to ensure proper packing of the traditional medicines before being issued to patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/concern-over-drug-dispensation-at-siddha-clinic/article33846552.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N. poll officials to be included in priority group for vaccination||A total of 2,47,372 persons had been vaccinated in the State till date, he said, adding, “On January 16 (the first day of vaccination), 3,126 persons were vaccinated. Of them, 1,154 received the second dose of the vaccine on Saturday.” He noted that vaccine hesitancy had declined gradually. “Starting with 3,126 persons on the first day, we managed to vaccinate 20,032 persons on Saturday, hitting the 20,000-mark for the first time,” he said. It had been suggested that the number of session sites be increased from 628 to nearly 1,000, he added. “Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai and Tiruchi have vaccinated more number of people. But we cannot consider these numbers alone. We should also look at how many people are waiting to get vaccinated,” he said, adding that there were a number of places where the vaccine coverage was low. Vellore and Tiruvarur had 25% coverage, while Tiruvannamalai and Tirunelveli had 28% and 27% coverage, respectively. Tiruvallur had 21% coverage. “The number is huge in Chennai. Though 30,000 people have been vaccinated, more need to be covered. A micro plan is being drafted for all districts,” he said. Many, including the elderly and people with co-morbidities, were willing to get vaccinated and had made inquiries, he said. “We have been reiterating this to the Centre. We have already written to them and have also spoken to them over the phone,” he added. On the second dose When asked if the turnout was low for the second dose of the vaccines, he said that in Tamil Nadu, over 35% had taken the vaccines. As per the advisory issued by ICMR and the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), the second dose should be taken on the 28th day. “We need to go by the basis of evidence and research… If there is any change, it would be communicated by ICMR and DCGI,” he said in reference to views and articles on the timing of the second dose. To a question on wastage of vaccine doses, he noted that WHO and the National Vaccine Group had stated that up to 10% wastage in a session site was normal. “One vial has 10 doses, and if 98 persons come for vaccination, two doses of 0.5 ml may get wasted,” he said. “In each site, two to three doses may get wasted… All our Deputy Directors, Joint Directors and deans are making efforts to avoid wastage. A few other States have 15%-20% wastage,” he said. However, this was not the challenge, he said, adding, “Each session site has the capacity to vaccinate 100 persons a day. We receive 50 to 60 eligible persons a day. We feel time is being wasted, and have registered this with the Centre. They can open up the vaccination drive to persons who are willing to get inoculated. With the election around the corner, there are many meetings being held, and people are asking for vaccines. Those above 50 years of age and those aged below 50 with co-morbidities can be immunised. If the Centre gives us permission soon, we can achieve the day’s capacity of 100.” Director of Medical Education R. Narayana Babu and RGGGH dean E. Theranirajan were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-poll-officials-to-be-included-in-priority-group-for-vaccination/article33846536.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Mini marathon held to create road safety awareness||Over 500 persons took part in a mini marathon organised by the city police here on Sunday as part of the 32nd Road Safety Awareness Month. The event was organised to create awareness among people of the need to wear helmet while riding a two-wheeler and use seat belt while driving and travelling in a car besides adhering to road rules to ensure safety. Collector S. Sivarasu and Commissioner of Police J. Loganathan flagged off the five-km mini marathon at Thennur Uzhavar Sandhai grounds in the morning and took part in the event to encourage participants. The marathon concluded at the roundabout on Race Course Road via Bharathidasan Salai, Head Post Office roundabout and TVS Tollgate. A police press release said the event was organised in adherence to COVID-19 guidelines stipulated by the government. Prizes were given to those who bagged the first six places in male and female categories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mini-marathon-held-to-create-road-safety-awareness/article33846561.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||DPR sanctioned for new Kudamuritti bridge||The State government has sanctioned preparation of detailed project report (DPR) for the much-awaited new overbridge across the Kudamuritti on Tiruchi-Karur Highway. The department, a couple years ago, planned to build a new bridge across the river as part of a project to strengthen the Tiruchi-Thindukarai stretch of the highway now under way. However, the proposal was later de-linked from the project to be taken up separately. But with the road widening project on the section nearing completion, residents of the suburbs have been clamouring for early construction of the bridge. The bridge across the river, close to its confluence point with the Cauvery in the city, has grown weak over the years. Built by the British in 1924, the narrow structure has been unable to cater to rising traffic. Some years ago, the Highways Department placed a signboard prominently asking motorists to ‘go slow as the bridge is in disrepair.’ After the recent rain, the road surface was heavily eroded and cracks and potholes appeared at several places on the bridge, forcing the Highways Department to take up temporary repairs. Traffic snarls are a frequent occurrence as a police check-post and a town bus halt are located close to the bridge. Sources in the Highways Department have indicated that preparation of the DPR was sanctioned recently by the government. The Department would call for tenders soon to identify a consultant to prepare the DPR and the project is likely to take off in the next financial year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dpr-sanctioned-for-new-kudamuritti-bridge/article33846534.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rail users’ association reiterates demands||Celebrating the commencement of 145 years of existence of the railway station at Kumbakonam, the Thanjavur District Rail Users’ Association has reiterated its demand for a new rail link between Needamangalam and Virudhachalam through Kumbakonam and doubling of Thanjavur-Villupuram section. Pointing out that the train services through Kumbakonam began on February 15, 1877, Association secretary A.Giri says that more than 5,000 commuters have utilised the 36 services operated via Kumbakonam every day prior to the lockdown imposed due to the pandemic last year. The annual revenue generation through the sale of train tickets at the station crossed the Rs. 20-crore mark annually prior to the pandemic. Hence, regular train services must be restarted at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rail-users-association-reiterates-demands/article33846573.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||IRCTC tour package||The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) has announced a tour package from Coimbatore. A release said the ‘five nights and six days’ tour will start from Coimbatore Junction on April 10 and will cover locations including Jaipur palace, Fatehpur Sikri, Taj Mahal, Red Fort and Qutb Minar. The package starts at Rs. 25,880 and those interested shall contact IRCTC, Coimbatore at 82879 31965 and 90031 40655.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/irctc-tour-package/article33846607.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Bridge works begin at five places in Peravurani||Peravurani MLA M. Govindarasu has said that works relating to construction of bridges at five places at a total cost of Rs. 27.37 crore in the Assembly constituency have begun. Disclosing this to the media at Peravurani recently, he said tenders had been finalised for construction of the bridges across the Mudiyanaru river on Perumagalur-Athaani Road, the Mathruthankudi river, the Poonaikuththi river and at two places across the Ambuliyaru river on Kalagam Aavudaiyar Kovil Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bridge-works-begin-at-five-places-in-peravurani/article33846529.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Boy dies in freak incident at house||In a freak incident, a nine-year-old boy died on Saturday after adupattareportedly got entangled in his neck while he was using the piece of cloth tied to the window as a swing. Police gave the name of the deceased as M. Prabhakaran of Jailpettai. The incident occured in the afternoon in the house of the boy when his mother, a labourer, was away. The boy had tied his sister’sdupattato the window and used it for swinging when the cloth suddenly entangled in his neck leading to his death. Gandhi Market police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/boy-dies-in-freak-incident-at-house/article33846564.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||coimbatore today||Koniamman Temple: Special pujas ahead of Car Festival, Big Bazaar Street, 7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-today/article33846976.ece
16 February 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Training course for IAF pilots concludes||Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Training Command, Air Marshal R.D. Mathur visited the Indian Air Force Station in Bidar on Sunday. He presided over the passing out parade of pilots and trainees of Weapons Systems Operators course. Air Commodore Nikhilesh Gautam briefed him about the operational administrative and maintenance preparedness at the base. The visit came following the culmination of the 52-week training course for 18 pilots and two Weapons Systems Operators on fighter aircraft. Flying Officer Samarth Shukla won the trophy for standing first in the overall order of merit in the pilots course. Guests handed over trophies and certificates to successful candidates during the valedictory, according to a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/training-course-for-iaf-pilots-concludes/article33846632.ece
16 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Disha arrest: ‘We will not be silenced’||Support has been pouring in for arrested 22-year-old climate change activist Disha A. Ravi in the city. Hundreds of students, farmers, writers and activists staged a protest at Mysore Bank Circle on Monday demanding that she be released. Several students from Disha’s alma mater Mount Carmel College and environmental activists who have worked with her also participated in it. Farmers’ leader Badagalpura Nagendra, of Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha, strongly condemned the arrest of Disha and saw it as a continuation of the crackdown on protesting farmers. Leo Saldanha, of Environment Support Group, said it was shocking that the Union government was so insecure and paranoid. “Our country is stable and strong. It will definitely not collapse over a toolkit,” he said. Most protesters saw the arrest as only the latest in a series of attacks on dissenters in the country and particularly in the State. Rhea Mukherjee, a writer said the city had seen a series of unfortunate arrests, booking people for sedition, ever since the anti-CAA protests in the city in 2019. “A false narrative is being created that all dissenters are a threat to the nation. But there is no option but to stand up to this,” she said. Two students Amulya Leona Noronha and Ardra Narayanan were booked for sedition and arrested during anti-CAA protests in the city, over slogans they raised. The Opposition Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party also supported Disha, and their representatives, including Jayanagar Congress MLA Soumya Reddy, were part of the protest. Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah came out in support on social media. “Narendra Modi, who says girls must be educated, will jail them when they question him,” he said on Twitter. Other Congress leaders also rallied in support of Disha on Twitter. #fingeronyourlips Disha Ravi has been trending on social media, with her friends launching a unique digital campaign #fingeronyourlips, to show how the incumbent regime was gagging people. Hundreds of users posted pictures with fingers on their lips, condemning the arrest of Disha and the persecution of two other activists from Maharashtra – Nikita Jacob and Shantanu. Multiplechange.orgpetitions have condemned the arrest, pointed out procedural lapses in her arrest and have demanded her immediate release.  A false narrative is being created that all dissenters are a threat to the nation. There is no option but to stand up to this. Rhea Mukherjee Writer   Our country is stable and strong. It will definitely not collapse over a toolkit. Leo Saldanha Environment Support Group   I have lived through the Emergency, as a student and as a historian, and we are reaching that pass today. It is deeply disturbing. Ramachandra Guha Historian||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/disha-arrest-we-will-not-be-silenced/article33846936.ece
16 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Katti backtracks after receiving flak for comment on BPL cards||After receiving widespread flak for asking families with televisions and two-wheelers to surrender their Below Poverty Line (BPL) cards before March 31 or face action, Food and Civil Supplies Minister Umesh Katti on Monday went into damage control mode by saying that none of the previous government orders have been modified either by him or the government. His earlier statement on returning BPL cards was criticised by many leaders, including some of his party colleagues. In a bid to clarify his position, Mr. Katti sent out a statement detailing the three earlier orders with respect to the parameters for receiving Above Poverty Line (APL) card, BPL card, and the Antyodaya card that is given to extremely poor families. “No orders have been issued after the BJP government came to power. I have not issued any order after taking over as Minister either,” he said. It was also stated in the note that the government had received information that many people had remained beneficiaries by violating the existing parameters to secure these cards. The Minister urged such families to voluntarily surrender the cards before March 31 or face action. The Minister also told the media that about 4.36 crore people out of the 6.5 crore population in the State, or about 75% of Karnataka’s population, had BPL cards. “Many people would have started earning in the private sector. Those earning above Rs. 1.2 lakh per annum are not eligible to hold the BPL card. The poor need not worry,” he said. Backlash However, by the time he read out his clarification before the cameras in Belagavi, several leaders, including former Chief Ministers Siddaramaiah and H.D. Kumaraswamy, had taken exception to the move. Mr. Katti’s party colleague and Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilizers D.V. Sadananda Gowda said in Bengaluru that though he too wanted only those with eligibility to receive the ration benefit, a widespread consultation was required before taking any decision on who was to receive the benefit and who was not. “The ineligible people should not get it BPL benefits. It is normal for every household these days to have a TV and refrigerator. Some may buy two-wheelers for the convenience of commute. He [Minister Katti] may have spoken about the merits for eligibility orally. This matter requires widespread consultation.” BJP legislator G. Somashekar Reddy also said that TV was a common thing now and such government decisions would affect the poor. Meanwhile, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa refused to comment on the issue, saying he would do so after reading through Mr. Katti’s statement. Meanwhile, former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy told reporters in Shivamogga, “The decision of asking farmers with five acres to surrender BPL card is immature as well as anti-people. Does the Minister know what the situation of farmers who own five acres is? It is a bad decision.”  No orders have been issued after the BJP government came to power. I have not issued any order after taking over as Minister either Umesh Katti, Minister for Food and Civil Supplies||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/katti-backtracks-after-receiving-flak-for-comment-on-bpl-cards/article33846766.ece
16 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||60.56% of targeted healthcare workers take second dose of COVID-19 vaccination||A total of 11,985 of the targeted 19,789 healthcare workers, who were due for the second dose of vaccination in the State, got inoculated on day one of the second dose drive that began on Monday. The second doses of Covishield and Covaxin are recommended to be administered four weeks apart, according to guidelines from the Drug Controller General of India. While some international studies and an expert panel from WHO suggested that the vaccines can be more effective when given apart even in a 6-12 week window, India’s current policy does not recommend such a wide spacing. COVID-19 experts in the State have also suggested that giving the second dose after eight weeks not only provides higher efficacy but will also give ample time to plan and cover more people. Following this, there were reports that most healthcare workers in Karnataka are reluctant to take the second dose. However, on the first day, 60.56% of the targeted workers for the day got inoculated and this is a good sign, said officials. There was confusion over the beginning of second dose in private hospitals on the first day. Vaccination officers in private hospitals said they had not received the list of beneficiaries scheduled for second dose of vaccination.  However, State Deputy Director (Immunisation) Rajani Nageshrao said the second dose drive had started only in government hospitals as of now. “In the initial days after the vaccine was rolled out, we had the vaccination drive first in government hospitals and medical colleges,” she said. “The second dose will be scheduled in private hospitals too in a day or two,” she said. According to data shared by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, Vijayapura recorded the highest number (2,277) of healthcare workers who took the second dose. Mandya (1,179) and Kodagu (1,145) followed Vijayapura in reporting the next highest coverage. While Belagavi reported zero coverage, Bidar recorded 26%. Meanwhile, as on Monday, a total of 4,10,953 of the targeted 8,21,939 healthcare workers and 89,938 of the targeted 2,88,441 frontline workers have been administered the first dose of vaccine registering a coverage of 50% and 31% respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/6056-of-targeted-healthcare-workers-take-second-dose-of-covid-19-vaccination/article33846942.ece
16 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC quashes RGUHS’ ordinance governing valuation of MBBS course answer scripts||The problem of valuation and revaluation of answer scripts seems to be returning repeatedly for Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS), in spite of many verdicts, the High Court of Karnataka observed while quashing yet another new norm governing valuation of answer scripts of MBBS students. “The manner in which the ‘Amendment to Ordinance Governing Valuation of Answer Scripts of MBBS Course (RS-3 Scheme) dated October 10, 2020’, was issued without seeking the opinion of an expert body like the Advisory Council, does not augur well for the future of medical education,” the HC observed. Justice R. Devdas passed the order while allowing a batch of petitions filed by Basanth K.B. and several other MBBS students. “While framing policies, opinions of experts should be sought and grievances of the student community should be heard. A policy with a broad vision would be least susceptible to challenge. Therefore, this court takes this opportunity to once again remind the University and the National Medical Commission to ponder over the observations and come up with a policy that is in the best interest of medical education,” it observed while noticing earlier directions issued on the issue of RGUHS’s ordinances governing valuation of answer scripts.  Fifth valuation The HC also directed the RGUHS to apply, for the MBBS students, the formula as provided in the ordinance governing the PG students, and identify all instances where there is a difference of 15% or more in the four valuations and send them for the fifth valuation in cases of all the students who have failed while following varsity’s October 2020 ordinance. The result of all such students must be announced after the fifth valuation and the entire exercise must be completed well before the start of next year’s exams, to be commenced in March, it said. The petitioners had pointed out that even after the High Court on earlier occasion had set several ordinances governing valuation/revaluation on the ground of arbitrariness and discriminatory nature between UG and PG courses, the RGUHS again promulgated the ordinance that was discriminatory when compared to the ordinance of PG courses as there was no provision for fifth valuation in cases of difference of 15% or more marks in the first four valuations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-quashes-rguhs-ordinance-governing-valuation-of-mbbs-course-answer-scripts/article33846644.ece
16 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ongoing reservation movements causing harm: Sadananda Gowda||In the backdrop of the demand for reservation coming from various communities across the State, Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilizers D.V. Sadananda Gowda on Monday said the recent reservation movements were causing more harm than good to society and the government. “Politically motivated reservation is not good for any society. I am for reservation to those who are economically backward,” he told presspersons. Mr. Gowda’s comments were sought in light of several communities asking for reservation or change in status of reservation in the State. Two big movements are taking place at present. While the Panchamshalis are seeking Category 2A status under the Backward Classes reservation quota, the Kurubas, who are currently in the Backward Classes quota, are seeking inclusion of the Scheduled Tribes list. Several other smaller communities, including the Banajigas, Vysyas, and Kunchitigas, are also seeking changes in their categorisation. Incidentally, State Ministers from the Kuruba community, including K.S. Eshwarappa, B.A. Basavaraj, R. Shankar, and N. Nagaraj (MTB), have been at the forefront of this movement — a matter that has been questioned by former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah. The Union Minister said that the Centre, which has already introduced 10% reservation for those belonging to economically weaker sections of society, was taking the reservation issue to the “logical end”. Caste-based movements can harm society and the government, Mr. Gowda reiterated. ‘Anxious about clashes’ In Shivamogga, former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy said that already, several communities had started taking out padayatras seeking reservation or change in their status. “We do not know how many more communities will come out to streets. I am anxious about clashes erupting between communities. Leaders should be sensitive about these issues and should not weaken the harmony in society,” he said, adding that the Ministers participating in protests have the power to find solutions to reservation issues in the Cabinet.  Politically motivated reservation is not good for any society. I am for reservation to those who are economically backward D.V. Sadananda Gowda, Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilizers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ongoing-reservation-movements-causing-harm-sadananda-gowda/article33846763.ece
16 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||February 23 to be observed as Fire Awareness and Prevention Day||The State government has decided to observe February 23 as ‘Fire Awareness and Prevention Day’ in memory of those who lost their lives in the Carlton Towers tragedy. The blaze in the high-rise in the city on that day in 2010 claimed nine lives and left over 60 injured. After the tragedy, survivors and family members of the victims initiated the ‘Beyond Carlton’ movement to raise awareness on fire safety protocols and engage with the government to bring in necessary policy changes. It was also suggested to the DGP of Karnataka Fire and Emergency Services Department to observe February 23 as Fire Awareness and Prevention Day. In its February 4 order, the Home Department stated that the recommendation made by ‘Beyond Carlton’ is very apt as precious lives and assets are lost in fire incidents and there is a need to avert Carlton Tower-like fire incidents by creating awareness among the public. The order also said that Fire and Emergency Service Department would conduct awareness programme across the State on February 23 every year. Mr. Uday Vijayan, Managing Trustee and President of ‘Beyond Carlton’, said the order is a matter of great satisfaction for the families who lost their dear ones in the fire tragedy. “For us, it’s just one more effort from ‘Beyond Carlton’ in our long journey to make the country safe from fires,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/february-23-to-be-observed-as-fire-awareness-and-prevention-day/article33846641.ece
16 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||DC told to identify land for colleges||The government is keen to set up university constituent graduate colleges across Bengaluru and the Deputy Commissioner has been asked to identify land and hand it over to the Higher Education Department, Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said on Monday. The setting up of university constituent graduate colleges is being thought about as Bengaluru, with a population of nearly 1.5 crore, has a shortage of government-run colleges as per the population ratio, he said after holding a review meeting of the department here. He said that as per the new National Education Policy, a multidisciplinary approach needs to be encouraged with large campuses to accommodate different departments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dc-told-to-identify-land-for-colleges/article33846760.ece
16 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Vishwanath wants to contest Legislative Council polls||Former Minister and BJP MLC A.H. Vishwanath, who has been barred by the Supreme Court from being made a Minister unless he becomes an elected member, on Monday met Home Minister Amit Shah’s confidant and BJP national general secretary Bhupendra Yadav in Delhi to discuss how he could get a ministerial berth. Soon after the meeting, Mr. Vishwanath told reporters that he had offered to quit the current nominated MLC post so that he could become the party’s candidate to contest for the MLC seat to be elected from the Legislative Assembly. The seat has fallen vacant after the death of S.L. Dharme Gowda of the JD(S). Mr. Vishwanath, who was elected as a legislator from Hunsur on JD(S) ticket, switched to the BJP and resigned from his legislator’s seat. He was among 17 Congress and JD(S) legislators who resigned, resulting in the collapse of the H.D. Kumaraswamy-led coalition government in July 2019. The Supreme Court, which heard the anti-defection case filed in this regard, said that Mr. Vishwanath could only hold the post after getting elected while the BJP nominated him as MLC. Mr. Vishwanath explained that the current MLC seat has a tenure of five and a half years, while the seat that has fallen vacant because of Dharme Gowda’s death has three and a half years’ tenure left. The MLC sought Mr. Yadav’s help in becoming a Cabinet Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vishwanath-wants-to-contest-legislative-council-polls/article33846769.ece
16 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||368 new COVID-19 cases||Karnataka on Monday reported 368 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 9,45,638. With two deaths, the toll rose to 12,267. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 430 persons were discharged on Monday, taking the total recoveries to 9,27,580. Of the remaining 5,772 active patients, 128 are being monitored in the ICU. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.87%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 0.54%. As many as 42,245 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 40,517 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 1,79,98,276. Bengaluru Urban reported 196 new cases taking the total number of cases to 4,02,212. Both the deaths reported on Monday are from Bengaluru Urban and with this the toll in this district rose to 4,430.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/368-new-covid-19-cases/article33846637.ece
16 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||ISD probes 19 apps in cell phone loan scam||As many as 19 mobile apps have come under the scanner of the Internal Security Division (ISD) for allegedly running a loan racket and levying exorbitant interests on customers. The mobile app firms have been charged under various sections of the IT Act and also under Section 385 of IPC. The probe was launched after one customer approached the police on Thursday. In his complaint, the client said he had received a message for an instant loan from a mobile phone app in 2018. As he was in need of money, he took up the offer of Rs. 5,000 instant loan. After completing the formalities, he received Rs. 3,500, and was reportedly told that the remaining Rs. 1,500 was deducted towards various processing fees. “The victim said that he was told to repay the loan within a week, failing which he would have to pay a penalty of Rs. 500 to Rs. 700 as interest per day,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/isd-probes-19-apps-in-cell-phone-loan-scam/article33846642.ece
16 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||38% healthcare workers volunteer for vaccination||Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) chief N. Manjunath Prasad announced on Monday that of the 2.43 lakh healthcare and frontline workers, around 93,000 (38%) had volunteered for the vaccination. He said the State government had directed the BBMP to finish administering the vaccine to healthcare workers by February 25 and to frontline workers by the first week of March. He also said that March end was the deadline for administering the second dose for all healthcare and frontline workers in the city. In the first phase, the civic body had identified 1.83 lakh healthcare workers. However, after weeding out repetitions, the number had come down to 1.4 lakh, including nursing, dental and medical students. A total of 60,000 frontline workers have been identified for the second phase, including officials from BBMP and other departments, such as revenue and police. Mr. Prasad said the survey to identify beneficiaries for the third phase will be taken up next week and completed by the end of March. Under the third phase, citizens above 50 years and those below 50 years with co-morbid conditions would be vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/38-healthcare-workers-volunteer-for-vaccination/article33846943.ece
16 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Fake Twitter accounts surface||There has been a profusion of fake Twitter handles claiming to be that of Disha Ravi, ever since her arrest. At last count, there were at least eight of them. Of these fake handles, two of them claimed they were run by Disha’s sister and friend, and claimed only they were genuine and appealed to report other handles. However, sources close to the family of Disha said nobody from either family or friends were running a Twitter handle in her name.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fake-twitter-accounts-surface/article33846932.ece
16 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP workers stumble upon skeleton||Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike workers got a scare when they stumbled upon a skeleton while cleaning a storm water drain near Kamakshipalya police station on Monday afternoon, around 12.30 p.m. “We removed the stone slab in front of HVR Kalyana Mantapa and saw it,” said a worker. A senior police officer said the skeleton appeared to be male. Sanjeev M. Patil, DCP, said they have sent the skeleton along with the mud surrounding it to Forensic Science laboratory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-workers-stumble-upon-skeleton/article33846944.ece
16 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah to meet Rahul Gandhi today||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah is scheduled to meet former Congress national president Rahul Gandhi in Delhi on Tuesday, more than a year after their previous meeting. According to sources in the former Chief Minister’s camp, the two had met on January 18 last year and the COVID-19 situation had prevented any further meeting between the two. While speculation over the meeting within the party pertained to a planned AHINDAconvention using the Kuruba Sangha platform, sources said that such a convention was opposed by several leaders within the Congress. “As the Congress Legislature Party leader, he cannot get into a convention like that,” a source said. Sources close to Mr. Siddaramaiah said there was no specific meeting agenda and it was only a courtesy call. When asked if the issue of confusion in the Youth Congress polls could crop up, the source said, “Since there is no agenda for discussion, anything could crop up for discussion.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/siddaramaiah-to-meet-rahul-gandhi-today/article33846767.ece
16 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Treat kirana workers as frontline warriors’||METRO Cash & Carry India made a proposal to the State government to include the Kirana community under the frontline vaccination programme. Arvind Mediratta, MD of the German wholesale chain in India, had a meeting with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Tuesday. He said there are close to 12 million kiranas in the country and 90% of India’s $700 billion annual food and grocery market is dominated by these small retailers and kiranas. After agriculture, kiranas are the largest source of employment and livelihood for millions of local entrepreneurs. “During the lockdown, it was these neighborhood stores that stood out with their supply of essentials to every household. They were the only ones that stayed open throughout the lockdown when the rest of the country had come to a standstill,” he told the CM. He told him that neither e-commerce players nor modern trade could match the competency of kiranas in last-mile delivery, and have been in true sense COVID-19 frontline warriors. “Therefore, it is pertinent to consider them frontline warriors and ensure safety of the most vulnerable populace who are majorly in the informal and unorganised sector,” he urged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/treat-kirana-workers-as-frontline-warriors/article33846646.ece
16 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Bright student’||Teachers at Mount Carmel College said Disha was a bright and “extremely obedient” student. The student union said they will decide on a course of action after gathering more facts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bright-student/article33846937.ece
16 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Darshan is Agriculture Dept. ambassador||Actor Darshan Toogudeepa has been appointed as the ambassador of Agriculture Department to popularise programmes meant for farmers’ welfare. A release said that Mr. Darshan agreed to work for the department without remuneration. His work would involve creating awareness among farmers about the programmes taken up by the department and also to inspire farmers. Incidentally, Mr. Darshan is also the ambassador for the Forest Department. It said that Mr. Darshan had expressed his willingness to become the ambassador for the department during a meeting with Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil following which the government issued an order in this regard on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/darshan-is-agriculture-dept-ambassador/article33846645.ece
16 February 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Airport in Vijayapura will boost tourism: CM||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has said an airport in Vijayapura will boost the tourism sector and offer jobs to local youths of the district. He spoke after inaugurating the programme to lay the foundation stone for construction of an airport in Vijayapura, in a virtual meeting in Shivamogga on Monday. Vijayapura has been known for tourist places and horticulture products, which have demand worldwide. The State government has taken up construction of the airport at a cost of Rs. 220 crore in two phases in 727 acres of land at Bharanapura and Madabhavi villages. The airport would help tourists reach the place and the farmers would get a wider market for their produces, the CM said. As of now, the airport being constructed with the participation of private partners would operate ATR-72 aircraft. Later, it would be upgraded to operate Airbus-320 flights as well, he said. Shivamogga Lok Sabha member B.Y. Raghavendra, Rudre Gowda, MLC, Araga Jnanendra, MLA, and senior officers were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/airport-in-vijayapura-will-boost-tourism-cm/article33846638.ece
16 February 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Elephant menace: review meeting today||People of Sakleshpur and Alur taluks, who have been badly hit by elephant menace in the last two decades, are expecting that the meeting convened by Forest Minister Aravind Limbavali in Sakleshpur on Tuesday will offer them some relief. As many as 61 people have died in Hassan district in elephant attacks since 2001, on an average of three persons a year. The State government has paid compensation of Rs. 15.99 crore towards damage caused to crops by the movement of elephants. The residents of affected villages in Alur, Sakaeshpur and Belur taluks have been demanding a permanent solution to the problem. They want all the elephants relocated. Roaming herds More than 60 elephants, spread over three-four herds, have been roaming in the taluks. The people are afraid of coming out of their houses in the early mornings and evenings as lone tuskers are known for taking a stroll in the human habitats. Last week, an agriculture labourer died while he was returning home from the estate around 6.30 pm at Halasulige in Sakleshpur taluk. Following the death, the residents staged a protest keeping his body in front of the Deputy Commissioner’s office in Hassan. In response to the protest, Deputy Commissioner R. Girish consulted Minister for Excise K.Gopalaiah, who is also Minister in charge of the district, and fixed a meeting on this issue in Sakaleshpur on Tuesday. The elected representatives, officers of the Revenue Department, Forest Department and farmers would be attending the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/elephant-menace-review-meeting-today/article33846749.ece
16 February 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||ACB raid on RTO office||The Anti-Corruption Bureau police conducted raids on the office of the RTO and nearby shops at Katihalli on the outskirts of Hassan and seized many documents and cash on Monday. The raids were conducted following information that the officers of RTO were taking bribe from the public with the help of middlemen. The ACB staff, during the search operation, till late in the evening recovered Rs. 1.14 lakh, vehicle documents and various permits from the middlemen and shops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/acb-raid-on-rto-office/article33846750.ece
16 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Haveri to get DCC bank, milk union?||Cooperation Minister S.T. Somashekhar has said that soon a meeting will be held in connection with the demand for a district cooperative bank and a district milk union for Haveri. He was addressing a gathering after symbolically handing over cows to 86 beneficiaries of dairy farming scheme implemented under the sustainable farming programme at Haunsbhavi in Haveri district on Monday. Mr. Somashekhar said that at present the Karnataka Central Cooperative Bank covered three districts of Dharwad, Haveri and Gadag and a meeting regarding creating a district cooperative bank will be held in consultation with Ministers and MLAs of the three districts, including the Home Minister. He said that creating district milk unions will help in further increase in milk production and soon a meeting will be held in this regard also. The Minister said that following the village stay programme of the Agriculture Minister, several new issues have come to light and these will be incorporated while making the Budget. “On these lines, our government has chalked out a programme to solve people’s problems. Under the programme, the Deputy Commissioners are being asked to conduct village stays. In the coming days, the Revenue Minister will be staying in villages in a bid to address citizens grievances,” he said. Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil, Chairman of Karnataka State Wharehousing Corporation U.B. Banakar and others were present. Earlier, the Minister, along with Mr. Patil, inaugurated the new helipad at Basarihalli in Hirekerur taluk of Haveri district. Both the Ministers arrived in a helicopter at the village and inaugurated the helipad by cutting the ribbon. The helipad has been constructed at a total cost of Rs. 38.10 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/haveri-to-get-dcc-bank-milk-union/article33846635.ece
16 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||CID inquiry sought into death of two female UAS staff||Stating that there was some foul play and seeking CID inquiry into a road accident in which two female employees were killed, members of various Hindutva outfits staged a protest at University of Agricultural Sciences (UAS) in Dharwad on Monday. The members of Vishwa Hindu Parishat and other Hindutva outfits staged the protest in front of the office of the Vice-Chancellor of UAS Dharwad and sought inquiry by CID into the case. They said that two employees of the university Megha Singhanath and Rekha Kokatnur were killed in a road accident near Ankola last week. They were accompanied by Personal Assistant to Vice-Chancellor Mansur Mulla. The protestors accused the Vice-Chancellor’s Personal Assistant of threatening the female staff and forcibly taking them in a private car. They said that both the victims had left their houses after conveying to their family members that they were proceeding to Bagalkot on official work, while the accident occurred near Ankola. As there was a lot of loose ends in the case, it should be investigated by the CID, they demanded. They also sought employment on compassionate grounds to the family members of the deceased. Meanwhile, responding to the development, Vice-Chancellor of UAS Dharwad M.B. Chetti said that his Personal Assistant and the two female employees were working on a project for which they had to travel outside and that they had not taken the official vehicle.  The Vice-Chancellor’s Personal Assistant is accused of threatening the female staff and forcibly taking them in a private car The victims had left their houses after conveying to their family members that they were proceeding to Bagalkot on official work, while the accident occurred near Ankola||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cid-inquiry-sought-into-death-of-two-female-uas-staff/article33846634.ece
16 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||There is no information on BPL card cancellation: Somashekhar||Cooperation Minister S.T. Somashekhar has said that he did not have much information on the move to cancel BPL ration card if the beneficiaries were found owning motorcycles and television sets. Speaking to presspersons after inaugurating the new helipad at Basarihalli in Hirekerur taluk of Haveri district on Monday, Mr. Somashekhar said that there were certain conditions for availing of BPL card facilities and Minister Umesh Katti might have said that those violating the conditions would lose the benefits. “I don’t have much information on the issue. There seems to be no proposal to cancel BPL card for having a motorcycle or a television set. There have been complaints regarding BPL card holders being in possession of three-four motorcycles. May be Mr. Katti has spoken about taking action in such cases,” he said. Regarding the fuel price hike, Mr. Somashekhar said that because of the lockdown, additional cess has been levied on petroleum products. He said that as the fuel prices keep changing, the general public should also cooperate with the government. Regarding his praise of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s son Vijayendra, Mr. Somashekhar clarified that Mr. Yediyurappa became the Chief Minister of the State after experiencing several ups and downs in his political career of 40 years. “Like his father, Mr. Vijayendra is also likely to receive blows, see ups and downs and he should tolerate those blows to emerge as a beautiful statue,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/there-is-no-information-on-bpl-card-cancellation-somashekhar/article33846633.ece
16 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Protest plan dropped as free passage for locals continues||Various organisations opposing toll collection from local vehicles at NITK-Surathkal toll plaza on National Highway 66 on Monday decided to intensify their agitation seeking complete closure of the toll plaza. They, however, dropped the protest plan as personnel manning the toll plaza said local vehicles could cross the plaza without paying toll fee as in the past. This was despite personnel manning the toll plaza informing the organisations that they have not received any direction to collect toll from local vehicles. Members of the organisations assembled at the toll plaza on Monday morning following Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highway’s diktat for making FASTag compulsory for all vehicles to pay toll fee. Toll Gate Virodhi Horata Samithi, Surathkal, and Mulki Nagarika Abhivriddhi Samithi were among the organisations that are involved in the struggle. Toll plaza personnel informed the leaders that the carriageway kept for movement of local vehicles would remain FASTag-free. Local vehicles as well as those with passes could move through this lane, they said. The leaders said that their proposal to lay a siege to the plaza will temporarily be withdrawn and said that they will do so if toll fee was collected from local vehicles. Toll Virodhi Horata Samithi convener Muneer Katipalla said in a statement that MP Nalin Kumar Kateel’s meeting with Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari seeking abolition of the Surathkal toll plaza might not yield any result. While the organisations were raising their voice against continuation of the toll plaza, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) called for tender to manage the plaza for one year in January. Hitherto, the tender was being given for three months with the assurance of closing the toll plaza. It could not be said that Mr. Kateel was unaware of these developments and hence, the organisations will intensify their agitation seeking closure of the plaza. He also sought support from the general public. Mulki samithi president Harish Puthran, former Deputy Mayor Purushottam Chitrapura and other leaders were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protest-plan-dropped-as-free-passage-for-locals-continues/article33847069.ece
16 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Shivaji’s sculpture to be unveiled in Basroor to mark Liberation Day||A six-foot-high sculpture of Chhatrapati Shivaji will be unveiled in Basroor village in Kundapur taluk of Udupi district during the Liberation Day of Basroor on Sunday. Addressing presspersons in Udupi on Monday, Niranjan Tallur, convener of Basroor Liberation Day programme, said that the village will celebrate February 21 as the Liberation Day to commemorate the sea expedition of Maratha King Chhatrapati Shivaji who liberated the Port Town of Basroor from the Portuguese 356 years ago. Basroor town has been celebrating Liberation Day for the past four years. He said that the Yuva Brigade organisation will organise an event in Basroor beginning with a procession at 4 p.m. followed by a stage programme. Seer of Udupi Pejawar Mutt Vishwaprasanna Tirtha, National General Secretary of BJP B.L. Santhosh and others will attend the stage programme, he said. He said that Basroor was a trade hub and it has a historic link to the Maratha ruler. Shivaji won against Portuguese at Basroor Port on February 13, 1665. It was Shivaji’s first ever naval expedition with his Swadeshi Navy with which he liberated the region from the mighty Portuguese and hoisted the Bhagwa Flag. Mr. Tallur said that historian Jadunath Sarkar in his book, Shivaji and his times, has mentioned about Shivaji’s naval expedition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shivajis-sculpture-to-be-unveiled-in-basroor-to-mark-liberation-day/article33847070.ece
16 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Nitte institute launches programme for family-managed businesses||K.S. Hegde Institute of Management, Nitte in Udupi district, has launched a family managed business programme. Speaking at the launch of K. Ullas Kamath Centre for Family Managed Business here on Monday, K. Ullas Kamath, Joint Managing Director of the Mumbai-based Jyothy Labs, said that the institute has launched the centre to catalyse the continued prosperity of family-run micro, small and medium enterprises in the country. He said that it will work with micro, small and medium-sized family businesses to provide them with the necessary tool kit to grow in stature in the years to come. This centre will form a part of KSHIM and its Director K. Sankaran will serve as the Programme Director. Mr. Kamath will serve as the Programme Chair for the Centre. The programme will begin with its first cohort in June and registrations are open. There will be two to four cohorts every year. The programme will be exclusive, and cohorts will be well balanced to ensure the maximum learning for the participants, he said. The four-day intensive residential programme will be conducted on campus at Nitte and it will feature prominent guest speakers and seasoned practitioners from the industry. He said that family businesses are one of the oldest and most prevalent forms of business owners anywhere in the world and form the backbone of any country’s prosperity and economy. Globally, businesses owned and managed by a single extended family account for about 90 % of all entrepreneurial ventures. However, only a third of these family businesses survive to the second generation and a mere 10 % survive to the third generation. Studies have shown that a lack of preparedness and inability to adapt to change contribute to the lack of continuity of family businesses. Mr. Kamath said that business ownership within a family is a deeply rooted practice for ages in the country. And, underlying each family business, irrespective of its size or where it is on its growth trajectory, is a commitment to its values, sense of purpose and vision. K. Sankaran, Director of KSHIM, and Vishal Hegde, Pro-Chancellor of Nitte (deemed to be university), were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nitte-institute-launches-programme-for-family-managed-businesses/article33847072.ece
16 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Childhood cancer is curable if treated early’||The dean of Kasturba Medical College, Manipal Sharath K. Rao said on Monday that childhood cancer is completely curable if treated at an early stage. He was speaking at the International Childhood Cancer Day programme organised by the Division of Paediatric Haematology and Oncology at Kasturba Hospital in Manipal. Dr. Rao said that nearly three lakh children are diagnosed with cancer every year in the world. In India, the number is 40,000 to 45,000. “If diagnosed and treated at the right time, child cancer can be cured completely. In Western countries the cure rate is 80 to 90%. In India, it is within 50% due to delays in the diagnosis, myths in the people’s minds, and a limited number of paediatrics cancer care centres,” the dean said. The Medical Superintendent of Manipal Hospital Avinash Shetty said that the World Health Organization (WHO) recognises paediatric cancers as a major disease, and aims to increase cure rate 60 % to 65% in low middle income countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/childhood-cancer-is-curable-if-treated-early/article33847077.ece
16 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||ESI facilities resume at Kasturba||Employees State Insurance Scheme (ESIS) facilities resumed at Kasturba Hospital, Manipal, on Monday. All super-specialty and general speciality medical services are now available under the scheme, according to Medical Superintendent of the hospital Avinash Shetty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/esi-facilities-resume-at-kasturba/article33847076.ece
16 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Award for Asare||Asare, a joint project of Archana Trust and Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE), Manipal, has been recognised as an outstanding institution by the State Department for Empowerment of Differently Abled and Senior Citizens for its service to the differently abled children. Asare is a home for the differently challenged. Minister for Women and Child Welfare Jolle Shashikala Anna Saheb felicitated Asare at a function in Bengaluru on February 11, a release from MAHE said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/asare-receives-award/article33846636.ece
16 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Mass marriage in Dharmasthala||The 49th annual free mass marriage organised by Shree Kshetra Dharmasthala will be held in Dharmasthala at 6.48 p.m. on April 29. The registration office of the marriage was opened near the bus stand in Dharmasthala on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mass-marriage-in-dharmasthala/article33847075.ece
16 February 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Protest against fuel price hike||A protest was held in Mysuru on Monday against the continuing rise in prices of petrol, diesel and LPG. The protest comes on the day the prices of LPG were hiked by Rs. 50 while the prices of petrol and diesel continued to rise. Former MLA M.K. Somashekar, who led the snap protest at RTO Circle in the city, said the price of petrol and diesel, which had been constantly increasing, went up by 25 paise and 35 paise respectively while the increase in LPG cylinder price by Rs. 50 on Monday adds to the Rs. 25 already increased about 10 days ago, making a cylinder dearer by Rs. 75. He lamented that the price of petrol had reached Rs. 92 per litre under the BJP government at the Centre led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He recalled that the price of petrol was around Rs. 65 per litre when the Manmohan Singh-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) was in power even though the prices of crude in the international market hovered around $ 110 to $120 per barrel. Despite the prices of crude remaining at $45 per barrel, the BJP government at the Centre has not brought down the prices, he bemoaned. ‘Huge difference’ Mr. Somashekar also sought to point out that the price of a LPG cylinder, which used to be available at Rs. 350, now costs Rs. 774. This difference between the LPG cylinder available during the UPA regime and BJP regime is more than Rs. 400, he said. The runaway trend in the prices of fuel will impose an additional financial burden of Rs. 1,500 to Rs. 2,000 per month on each family, he regretted.  MCC corporators Shobha Sunil and J. Gopi, besides Congress leader Veena, Srinath Babu, K.S. Shivaram and a host of others participated in the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protest-against-fuel-price-hike/article33846757.ece
16 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Cow shelters for all districts: Minister||Minister for Animal Husbandry Prabhu Chavan on Monday told his department officials to lay emphasis on increasing the production of chicken and mutton in the wake of ban on cow slaughter in the State. Speaking at a meeting to review the progress in the Department of Animal Husbandry in Mandya, the Minister, who took the officers to task over evading duties/services citing staff scarcity, directed the officials to work towards improving the production of chicken and mutton to meet the demand for the meat. Mr. Chavan asked the Mandya deputy commissioner to take steps in establishing cow shelters following enforcement of the anti-cow slaughter law. On the reports of farmers abandoning bulls in cattle fairs, he said the department staff should look into the matter and convince the farmers to look after the animals for at least three months until the cow shelters come up across all the districts. Mr .Chavan said Karnataka has taken an important step in tightening the laws for preventing cruelty against animals by setting up the Karnataka Animal Welfare Board. The government will be issuing guidelines on the steps to be taken for preventing animal cruelties. Giving the State-wise numbers of the livestock and domesticated animals in the State, Mr. Chavan said Karnataka has 86.22 lakh cattle, 29.98 lakh buffaloes, 110.91 lakh sheep, 61.96 lakh goats, 3.26 lakh pigs and 617 lakh poultry birds. More than 4,214 veterinary agencies/institutions were working in the State in welfare and vet services, he said, adding that construction of animal shelters and water containers for quenching the thirst of livestock would be encouraged.  Helpline  A helpline 1962 will facilitate veterinary emergency services and 15 districts already have the state-of-the-art mobile veterinary care ambulance. The ambulances will come to the rescue whenever there is an emergency, as a part of the initiative of taking vet care to the doorsteps of the farmers. Each ambulance is equipped with a lab, an OT, scanning and an emergency unit with surgical gears. Earlier, the Minister told the officials that there was a shortage of staff in the department and this has also come to his knowledge. “We have the challenge of providing services with the available resources. A lot of farming families are dependent on cattle rearing in our farming-dominated country. The vets have the strength of understanding the plight of animals and treat them accordingly.” Deputy Commissioner Ashwathi, SP Parashuram and Deputy Director of Animal Husbandry Manjunath were among the officials present.  Karnataka has 86.22 lakh cattle, 29.98 lakh buffaloes, 110.91 lakh sheep, 61.96 lakh goats, 3.26 lakh pigs and 617 lakh poultry birds  More than 4,214 veterinary agencies/institutions were working in the State||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cow-shelters-for-all-districts-minister/article33846753.ece
16 February 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||BEML staff oppose privatisation plan||Employees of the public sector unit BEML staged a demonstration here on Monday opposing the proposed privatisation moves. The agitating workers said BEML was among the profit-making units since its inception in 1964 and has been contributing to the defence sector and aerospace industry apart from mining. The BEML Employees’ Association said it was also into manufacturing world-class rakes for metro at a fraction of the cost compared to other players. The cost of manufacturing a metro coach by the private players was around Rs. 15 crore but the same was being manufactured by BEML at Rs. 8 crore. The association said that the government’s ongoing move to disinvest in BEML and reduce its holdings from 54 per cent and opting to sell 26 per cent of its stakes was a step towards privatisation. This will imperil the cause of social justice as appointments based on reservation will be diluted and also affect job security, according to the association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/beml-staff-oppose-privatisation-plan/article33846752.ece
16 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Cow shelter model comes for praise||Minister for Animal Husbandry Prabhu Chavan on Monday visited a cow shelter being run by an NGO at Doddabederahalli in Pandavapura taluk where nearly 760 cattle had been sheltered in about 3.5 acre of land. The Chaitra cow shelter is run by Dhan Foundation and majority of the cattle sheltered were those rescued from illegal transportation. The NGO has been running 35 cow shelters across the country, sheltering nearly 40 lakh cattle. It runs two cow shelters in the State, including the one in Pandavapura taluk. Call for replication The Minister, after his visit, wanted replication of the model of this cow shelter that has introduced some products to sustain itself and appreciated the way the cattle are being looked after with over 170 calves being milk-fed by the volunteers. Milk yielding Gir cows had been procured from Rajasthan for collecting milk to feed the calves.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cow-shelter-model-comes-for-praise/article33846755.ece
16 February 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||KERC public hearing tomorrow||The Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission (KERC) will conduct a public hearing on the revised tariff petition of Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation for the financial year 2021-22, on February 17, Wednesday. The hearing will be held at the Court Hall of the Deputy Commissioner’s office in the city at 11 a.m. Interested persons and stakeholders may attend the public hearing and submit their suggestions verbally or in writing to the KERC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kerc-public-hearing-tomorrow/article33846758.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Worried parents urge children to ‘tone down’ social media posts||The arrest of 22-year-old climate change activist Disha A. Ravi by the Delhi police in connection with the Greta Thunberg toolkit case has left students, teachers, and parents shaken and angry. The way Disha was arrested, allegedly without due procedure being followed, has parents worried. Many young students that The Hindu spoke to said their parents have advised them to stay away from public glare and “tone down” dissenting messages on social media platforms. “My parents are extremely liberal and have always encouraged me to speak out, whether at home or oppression by the government. But now, they have asked me to delete all my social media accounts,” said a student of Mount Carmel College, who actively participated in the anti-CAA protests in the city. Other students, too, said their parents had given them similar advice. The last thing any parent wants is for the police to knock on their doors, arrest their child, and take them to another State. Student-led organisations, who mobilise hundreds of youth to speak out on a range of issues ranging from the National Register of Citizens and the Citizenship Amendment Act to protecting the environment, feel this is an attempt by authorities to silence them. Organisations like the Students’ Federation of India are planning to stage protests across the State demanding the immediate release of Disha. Amaresh Kadagada, SFI State president, said it was an attempt by the government to suppress the voice of anyone with an opposing view. Ajay Kamath, Karnataka State secretary, All India Democratic Students’ Organisation, said the recent arrests were an attempt at smothering student voices and creating fear among those talking against the government. “In a democratic country like ours, the government must not fear opposing views. Rather, it should encourage free thinking and nurture young minds so that people can speak up for what they feel is right, or for the betterment of society without fear,” he said. Others feel that Disha’s arrest will jolt the student establishment out of complacency. “It will strengthen the voice of students who continue to question the government and the police for taking up such autocratic measures. The aim of the government is to curtail the freedom of expression of the youth and scare us away so that we do not dissent. But the more the government attempts to silence us, the stronger our voices will grow,” said Zeeshan Aaqil, State executive committee member, Students’ Islamic Organisation of India.  We have educated our children about democracy, civics, and history. But, it looks like these concepts will remain in textbooks and we will have to tell our children to be silent. Parent of a B.A. student from MCC||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/worried-parents-urge-children-to-tone-down-social-media-posts/article33846938.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Make In India’ lion statue at Windsor Square||The ‘Make In India’ lion statue will soon have a pride of place in the city. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) will be installing the statue of the roaring lion at Windsor Square, a stone’s throw from the official residence of the Chief Minister. BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad told reporters on Monday that the statue will be installed this week. The statue weighs 1,140 kg and is made of fibre reinforced plastic. It is 23 ft long, 4.5 ft wide, and 10 ft high. It was sculpted in Ghaziabad, part of the National Capital Region of Delhi, and transported to the city. “For the statue, including transportation, we paid around Rs. 7.56 lakh,” Mr. Prasad said. He said the statue will rotate in all directions. “Landscaping and beautification work is being undertaken at Windsor Square. Once completed, the statue will be installed,” Mr. Prasad added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/make-in-india-lion-statue-at-windsor-square/article33846940.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Traditional dance||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/traditional-dance/article33846771.ece
16 February 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Coir expo begins today||Coir Kerala 2021, an expo on coir and natural fibre products, will begin on Tuesday. It will be inaugurated online by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan at 11.30 a.m. Due to COVID-19 restrictions, the ninth edition of the expo will be organised largely on virtual platform with Camelot Convention Centre at Pathirappally being the main venue of the event. 200 virtual stalls Two-hundred virtual stalls have been arranged from across the country. Besides, seminars, debates, and workshops on various topics will be organised. The expo will be broadcast online (www.coirfest.com, vexhibit.coirfest.com). The event aims to explore and expand the international market for coir products from Kerala. More than 100 buyers from India and abroad are expected to attend the event. The expo will end on February 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/coir-expo-begins-today/article33846715.ece
16 February 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Youth dies in freak accident||Albin, 20, died when the portion of a stone cross fell on him after a church festival at Adimaly here. The festival of Assisi Church at Machiplavu was celebrated on Saturday and Sunday, as part of which the cross was covered with lights and garlands. Albin was removing the lights after the festival when a block of the cross fell on him. He was rushed to a private hospital where he died on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-dies-in-freak-accident/article33846718.ece
16 February 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||1,657 grievances settled||Revenue Minister E. Chandrashekharan has said that the long-pending issues of the people would be solved through “Santhwana Sparsham”, an adalat of the State government to ensure a speedy help to people in distress. Speaking after inaugurating the programme at Panamaram in the district on Monday, Mr. Chandrashekharan said that all the issues of the public could not be solved at once in the adalat, but the issues would be followed up through the departments concerned. However, the grievances of all the people who attended the programme would be considered for resolution, Mr. Chandrashekharan said. As many as 1,657 grievances from Mananthavady and Panamaram block panchayats were settled on the first day of the adalat and Rs. 7,26,500 was granted to them from the relief fund of the Chief Minister. Those grievances that were not settled in the adalat would be sent for the consideration of the government. The complaints were related to distribution of pension, ration card, and welfare funds. Heads of various departments dealt with the grievances. As many as 339 persons got title deeds for their land on the day. Excise Minister T.P. Ramakrishnan and Port Minister Kadannappally Ramachandran also attended the programme. The adalat will continue at the SKMJ High School here at 9 a.m. on Tuesday for people from Sulthan Bathery and Kalpetta block panchayats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1657-grievances-settled/article33846667.ece
16 February 2021||Kannur,KERALA||UDF conspiring to create violent protests, says Vijayaraghavan||CPI(M) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan has said that the United Democratic Front (UDF) is conspiring to create violent protests in the State. Speaking to reporters here on the sidelines of the Vikasana Munnetta Yatra, which entered Kannur district on Monday, he alleged that the UDF was unleashing a violent agitation in the State in the name of PSC rank holders. He added that those in the rank list cannot be appointed to posts that are not vacant. The regularisation of temporary staff was made on humanitarian grounds, he said. He made it clear that no temporary workers have been appointed to any of the posts, which has to be filled through PSC, during the tenure of the LDF government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-conspiring-to-create-violent-protests-says-vijayaraghavan/article33846668.ece
16 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||40% fall in use of drugs for TB||The consumption of tuberculosis drugs in the State fell by around 40% in 2019 when compared to the figures from 2015, indicating a fall in the TB case burden, according to a recent report of the State TB Officer and the State Drugs Control Department. Recording commercial drug sale data helps estimate the disease burden outside public health facilities which may go undetected in the “absence of 100% reporting of surveillance data on privately treated patients”, it says. The report records the sale of rifampicin, a key drug that is part of the TB treatment regimen. While the drug may be used in some cases to treat infections or conditions such as leprosy, in 90% of the cases it is used against tuberculosis, says P.S. Rakesh, World Health Organization consultant for TB elimination for Kerala and Lakshadweep. The sale of the drug in the private sector fell by around 70% in 2019 when compared to figures in 2015, while anti-TB drug consumption under the National Tuberculosis Elimination Programme (NTEP), which provides free medication at government facilities, fell by around 20%. A fall in drug consumption both in the government and private sectors indicates a real decline in TB incidence in the State, says M. Sunilkumar, State TB Officer. “There is an increased uptake of NTEP drugs among patients diagnosed at private hospitals. Under the State government’s STEPS (System for TB Elimination in the Private Sector) initiative, patients being treated at private hospitals can avail themselves of NTEP drugs while continuing treatment at private facilities itself,” he says, explaining the greater dip in private sector drug sales. Patient months To determine a trend, the rifampicin units sold are converted into “patient months”, which is the requirement of rifampicin units for a single patient for 28 days. The State has been using figures from 2015, 2017, and 2019 so far to determine the fall in sales. In terms of patient months, rifampicin sales fell from 91,498 months in the private sector in 2015 to 28,072 in 2019. Revised National TB Control Programme (RNTCP) drug consumption in terms of patient months fell from 1,34,227 in 2015 to 1,08,377 in 2019. Since rifampicin is a Schedule H1 drug, which means that its sale is regulated and it can be purchased only with a prescription and details of the patient will be noted in registers at the pharmacies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/40-fall-in-use-of-drugs-for-tb/article33847169.ece
16 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Corpn. to seek nod to appoint sanitation workers||The Kochi Corporation will write to the State government for permission to appoint additional sanitation workers for waste collection and transport on a daily wage basis. Around 400 additional workers would be required since the existing staff strength did not match the city’s population and needs, said Mayor M. Anilkumar. Around 750 sanitation workers were permanent corporation employees, said T.K. Ashraf, health standing committee chairman. Over 1,000 people had been employed nearly 10 years ago, but vacancies that came up later were never filled, he added. The decision was taken at a special council meeting held to discuss an idea that Mr. Anilkumar had floated to make the city cleaner. He had named it HEAL Kochi – Health, Environment, Agriculture and Livelihood. The health standing committee, which was tasked with preparing a plan for the implementation of the idea, presented a draft proposal before the council on Monday. Targeting “sustainable development”, the draft five-year plan presents existing ideas in a new proposal, and has not yet been approved by the council. Objectives include reducing the volume of waste, waste segregation and scientific treatment, creating more jobs in the process and increasing the income of corporation’s sanitation workers, and encouraging organic farming at home and on vacant plots of land. The plan involves collection of waste from all households, with the corporation council fixing a fee that each household will pay for collection. Where residents are willing to treat biodegradable waste at home, the corporation will provide technical help, while non-biodegradable waste will be collected from all households once a week. Facilities will be set up at the ward level for segregation of non-biodegradable waste, including e-waste and construction waste. Waste collection and transportation to Brahmapuram will take place at night. Opposition councillors slammed the proposal on the grounds that it was half-baked and vague, with some councillors calling it fanciful and impractical. While the plan as a whole was not opposed, it has been sent back to the health committee to incorporate details. “A detailed project report and a complete road map are necessary before the proposal can be approved,” said United Democratic Front councillor V.K. Minimol. The plan also hopes to ensure “scientific treatment of waste at Brahmapuram” and the setting up of a greenbelt around the dumping yard. Since the plan contained no details on how that was to be achieved, the Mayor has tasked the health committee with preparing a master plan for the facility at Brahmapuram. The committee will also decide on the equipment needed for decentralised waste treatment, vehicles for transport and the formation of a project implementation unit at the corporation which will execute the plan once the details are worked out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-to-seek-nod-to-appoint-sanitation-workers/article33847038.ece
16 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Water metro turns a reality||The Rs. 747-crore Water Metro project of Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) would emulate the Kochi Metro as yet another innovative and sustainable mode of urban commuting in Kochi, providing an eco-friendly and accessible transportation mode, especially for people living on 10 islands off the mainland, said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan after inaugurating online the first route (Vyttila-Kakkanad) of the project on Monday. The twenty-three 100-passenger capacity, battery-powered, disabled friendly, AC ferries that will be introduced in the project’s first phase will boost the tourism prospects of the islands. Sixteen of the 38 terminals will be completed in Phase I, of which the Vyttila and Kakkanad terminals are ready. The ferries would thereafter be extended up to Infopark and Smart City, aimed mainly at IT professionals, the Chief Minister added. The German development assistance agency KfW will provide a soft loan of Rs. 579 crore for the project. Panamkutty bridge Mr. Vijayan also inaugurated the Panamkutty bridge that connects Pettah and Thripunithura across the Poorna river, built by KMRL as part of widening the Pettah-S.N. Junction corridor into a four-lane road. “This is as part of the preparatory works of Kochi Metro’s Thripunithura extension. The 250-meter bridge was constructed at a cost of Rs. 17.2 crore in 15 months, as against the 22-month deadline. This shows the professionalism of the metro agency,” he said. In his address, Walter J. Lindner, German Ambassador to India, who was special guest on the occasion, said the first ferry of the Water Metro was expected to begin service in another five weeks. “KfW’s is a soft loan for the project. The State’s eco-friendly nature begins as one lands at Cochin International Airport, the sole fully-solar-powered airport in the entire planet,” he said. Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta said Kerala’s waterways held massive untapped potential to ferry passengers and cargo. Water Resources Minister K. Krishnankutty presided over the function, while Kochi Mayor M. Anilkumar and KMRL Managing Director Alkesh Kumar Sharma were among those who spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/water-metro-turns-a-reality/article33846723.ece
16 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Celebrating cinema, IFFK reaches Kochi||Movie buffs will come together to celebrate the magic of cinema as curtains on the Kochi leg of the 25th edition of the International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK) go up here on Wednesday. The five-day film festival has an impressive line-up under eight categories. Bosnian director Jasmila Zbanic’s Quo Vadis, Aida? , which focuses on the Srebrenica massacre in 1995, is the opening film. Some of the films to watch out for in the International Cinema Competition section include Andrea Martinez Crowther’s Birdwatching, Bahman Tavoosi’s The Names of the Flowers and Alejandro Telemaco Tarraf’s Piedra Sola . Malayalam cinema will be represented by Lijo Jose Pellissery’s Churuli and Jayaraj’s Hasyam in the international competition category. Mohit Priyadarshi’s Kosa and Akshay Indikar’s Chronicle of Space are also part of the category.  Seven films to be screened under the Indian Cinema Now section will showcase bold and meaningful attempts to redefine storytelling on screen. The collection includes Barah by Barah by Gaurav Madan; Balcony T Bhogawan by Biswajeet Bora; Kuthiraivaal by Manoj Jahson and Shyam Sunder; Nasir by Arun Karthick; Seththumaan by Thamizh; Laila Aur Satt Geet by Pushpendra Singh; and Pinki Elli? by Prithvi Konanur. The Malayalam Cinema Today category opens a window to the growing number of young filmmakers ready to take up exciting ventures matching national and international standards. The list includes Sanal Kumar Sasidharan’s A’hr ; Jithin Issac Thomas’s Attention Please ; Don Palathara’s Santhoshathinte Onnam Rahasyam ; and Mahesh Narayanan’s C U Soon . Other categories include Kaleidoscope, Godard’s films, a retrospective for South Korean director Lee Chang-dong and homage to nine film personalities. COVID protocol The films will be screened at Saritha, Savitha, Sangeetha, Sridhar, Kavitha and Padma Screen 1 cinemas. The protocols prescribed by the Health Department will be in place at all the venues. Only 50% occupancy will be permitted in each theatre. Delegates should submit a COVID-19 negative certificate to collect their passes. There will be four screenings each at the venues daily. Seating will be arranged through reservation. Those who wish to attend the festival should book their seats online, a day in advance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/celebrating-cinema-from-all-over-iffk-reaches-kochi/article33846651.ece
16 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||More power for youth, says MP||Older people are making decisions for a young majority in the country, Shashi Tharoor, MP, has said. “India is already 51% under the age of 25. This is your country. You are the majority. But do you get a say in what is actually done to rule the country,” he asked students of St. Teresa’s College at an interactive session on Monday. Mr. Tharoor pointed out that the country held the world record for the average age of the population at 27, and the average age of the cabinet at 63. “There is no country with a bigger gap,” he said. On the increasing need to involve the youth in decision-making process, Mr. Tharoor recommended enhanced support for women entrepreneurs. “Women are actually in many ways capable than men in the vast number of tasks that entrepreneurs require. We have to provide possibilities, guidance, education and incentives to the young entrepreneurs. The earlier concept of secure government jobs is over as the mentality of the youth has changed. The governments are also not in a position to offer secure jobs,” he said. Stating that “we have allowed ourselves to be complacent with the old Kerala model”, Mr. Tharoor said there had been an excessive satisfaction of how well the State was doing. The remittance-dependent Kerala economy had been laid bare with the fading of the Gulf boom and the return of the expatriates, he added. The Congress leader also suggested the need to have gender awareness from an early age and improved facilities for the differently abled communities. “Be prepared for some resistance as we have to carefully work out your views into the State policy,” said Mr. Tharoor, while referring to the enthusiastic responses from the students. ‘People’s manifesto’ Later, people from various walks of life shared their views with the MP as part of the proposed ‘people’s manifesto’ of the United Democratic Front (UDF) for the upcoming Assembly election. Mr. Tharoor, who is part of the 10-member election strategy and management committee of the Congress, has been given the task of meeting people from across the society and to incorporate their views while preparing the front’s manifesto.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mp-for-bigger-role-for-youth-in-decision-making/article33847037.ece
16 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Rs. 60 lakh sanctioned at ‘Santhwana-sparsham’||A total of Rs. 60 lakh has been released from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund under “Santhwana-sparsham 2021” in Ernakulam district. The money has been released to meet the demands from 324 petitions received from the Kochi and Kanyannur taluks in the districts, said a communications from the State public relations department. Relief funds The relief funds have gone to those who sought support in medical treatment and these included 154 pleas from residents in Kochi taluk and 170 pleas from Kanayannur taluk, said the communication. Meanwhile, the Civil Supplies Department has come out with remedial action to process applications for ration cards received as part of the “Santhwana Sparsham” programme. All the 294 applications received from residents in the Kanayannur taluk had been processed, the pressnote said. The most number of complaints were received at the Kochi taluk level and all the 232 complaints had been attended to, said the communication. Forty-seven families were issued priority ration cards on the basis of the applications received. More applications are being processed by the department. Ministers E. P. Jayarajan, V. S. Sunilkumar, and G. Sudhakaran led the proceedings at the Ernakulam Town Hall, where the petitions were considered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-60-lakh-sanctioned-at-santhwana-sparsham/article33847044.ece
16 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||High Court stays tender floated by KSEB for 8-m electric poles||The Kerala High Court on Monday stayed the tenders floated by the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) to procure electric poles of 8 m length and a working load of 140 kg. It was on a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking to quash the tender notification that the court issued the order. The KSEB invited competitive bids for the manufacture and supply of 8 m and 9 m poles for various electrical circles in the southern, central, northern and north Malabar regions for a period of two years. The total contract was for Rs. 254 crore. The petitioners contended that the tender conditions were against the specifications prescribed by the Rural Electrification Corporation of India and the orders passed by the KSEB regarding the working load of poles. They contended that the tender notifications jeopardised the safety and lives of people. The Safety Commissioner of the KSEB had earlier reported that accidents due to the breakage of poles were increasing at an alarming rate in the State, they submitted. They submitted that the Rural Electrification Corporation of India had specified that a working load of 200 kg was required for an electric pole of 8 m length. All States, except Kerala, were following the revised specifications while installing 8-m poles, they submitted. The court issued orders for issuing notices to the State government and the KSEB.  According to petitioners, all States, except Kerala, were following the revised specifications while installing 8-m poles||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/high-court-stays-tender-floated-by-kseb-for-8-m-electric-poles/article33847045.ece
16 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Vaccination Phase 2 on slow mode in district||The district recorded 393 new COVID-19 cases on Monday when 4,008 samples were sent for testing. The source of infection could not be traced in 12 cases. Thrikkakara saw 26 new cases, Kothamangalam 17, and Edappally and Fort Kochi 11 each. Three health workers were infected. While 502 people tested negative on Monday, the active case load is at 9,725. A majority (8,159 people) of people with the infection continue to recover at home. At the Government Medical College Hospital, 47 people are admitted, 68 patients are recovering at PVS Hospital. So far, 403 people have succumbed to the infection in the district. Only around 28% of around 16,000 registered frontline workers have taken the first Covishield shot, since the second phase of vaccination (for police officers, officials of local self governments, and revenue department officials) began on February 11. Registration under way Registration is still under way for officials from local bodies. The second phase has been progressing at a snail’s pace since officers, particularly among the police, are on duty, said Dr. M.G. Sivadas, who is in charge of vaccination. The second dose of the vaccine for health workers who took the first one last month, might be administered from February 20 onwards, Dr. Sivadas said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccination-phase-2-on-slow-mode-in-district/article33847042.ece
16 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Rejuvenation work on six Kochi canals begins||Referring to the Rs. 1,528-crore Integrated Urban Regeneration and Water Transport System (IURWTS) project funded by the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB), the work on which he launched here on Monday, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said dredging and making navigable a total of six canals in the city would bring about connectivity between the canals and waterbodies that surround Kochi. A total of 280 families that would be relocated as part of the project would be rehabilitated and their socio-economic well-being ensured, he said. Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) will execute the project, in which 34.75 km of canals will be made navigable. The canals part of the project are Edappally canal (11.15 km); Chilavannoor canal (11.23 km); Thevara-Perandoor canal (9.84 km); Thevara canal (1.41 km); Market canal (0.66 km) and Konthuruthy canal (0.67 km). They will be widened to 16.50 m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rejuvenation-work-on-six-canals-launched/article33847041.ece
16 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||PCB to serve notice on HMT, municipality||The State Pollution Control Board (PCB) will serve notice on HMT Machine Tools at Kalamassery, asking why action should not be taken against it for waste dumping on its sprawling land in violation of the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. The board will also issue notice to the Kalamassery municipality authorities as the area comes under its jurisdiction. A team representing the board visited the HMT land on Monday to assess the situation. The burning of heaps of waste had caused health concerns among the nearby residents. The company had earlier said that it was not responsible for the dumping of waste by the public and that it was beyond its control to check the practice. The board officials found that several sacks of human hair waste were dumped and burnt in the open in violation of the norms under the proper storage and disposal of such waste. The absence of CCTV had helped the violators go scot free even as the residents and nature lovers had complained of increasing instances of illegal waste dumping, especially during the night. The disposal of human hair waste remains a serious problem for beauty parlours and salons. The board officials said that it had to be stored and disposed of as done in the case of biomedical waste. The managements of the beauty salons and parlours often hand over the human hair waste to persons engaged in dumping it in violation of the norms. The team representing the board also found that waste dumping had spiked in the open land. The personnel of the Department of Fire and Rescue Services were on their toes on several occasions following fire breakouts in the refuse dumped on the HMT land. The board said that the municipality, which is already facing flak for violation of the SWM Rules, need to step up its action against the waste dumping under its jurisdiction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pcb-to-serve-notice-on-hmt-municipality/article33847043.ece
16 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC issues notice to officials||The Kerala High Court has issued notices to the State Chief Secretary and the Secretaries of the Revenue and Local Self Government Departments on a petition seeking to initiate contempt of court proceedings against the officials. Mary Joseph, the petitioner, submitted that the officials had failed to implement the High Court directive to take steps for preventing commercial constructions on assigned land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-issues-notice-to-officials/article33847035.ece
16 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Solar case: HC quashes govt. decision||The State government decision rejecting the plea of industrialist Mallelil Sreedharan Nair to appoint a special prosecutor to conduct the solar scam case was quashed by the Kerala High Court on Mnday. The court directed the State to reconsider the plea and to take a decision within three weeks. When the case came up before the court, the State submitted that the solar scam was a dispute between two private individuals. It argued that the petitioner could not insist on the appointment of a special prosecutor. The court said the State had not responded properly to the grounds raised by the petitioner .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/solar-case-hc-quashes-govt-decision/article33847034.ece
16 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Police rule out foul play in nun’s death||The cause of death of a middle-aged nun from St. Thomas Convent in Vazhakkala, who was found dead at a nearby quarry on Sunday evening, could be ascertained only after a chemical examination report was obtained, said the Thrikkakara police. A post mortem examination done on Monday on the body of Sr. Jessina Thomas, 44, from Idukki, suggests that she had died due to drowning in the quarry. There were no external injuries suggesting foul play. Samples will be sent for examination at the regional chemical lab here to ascertain the cause of death. The body was handed over to her relatives on Monday, the police said. They added that it had been confirmed that the nun was under treatment for psychological problems since 2011 and was under mental distress recently. The DST Congregation to which the nun belonged released an official statement on Monday saying that the nun had begun showing psychological problems after she witnessed the death of another nun in a road accident in 2004. She also had shown suicidal tendencies on two occasions and her parents were called to the convents where she was staying. She was undergoing treatment for mental health problems at a hospital in Kakkanad for the past 10 years. The Joint Christian Council has sought a comprehensive probe into the nun’s death. Similar incidents had occurred in many convents in the past. The nun’s parents had said that she was normal when she telephoned them a day or two before the incident, said its president Felix Pulloden. Teenager’s death Meanwhile, the Maradu police have ruled out any foul play in the death of a 17-year-old girl who was found dead at her house in Maradu on Sunday. A post mortem was conducted on Monday and all evidence pointed to suicide. This was backed by a suicide note she left behind and the fact that her room was locked from the inside. People with suicidal tendencies or are in distress may contact Maitri at 0484-2540530 or Disha at 1056.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-rule-out-foul-play-in-nuns-death/article33847040.ece
16 February 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Complaints abound at adalats||Santhwana Sparsham, a complaint redressal adalat of the State government, began in Kottayam and Pathanamthitta on Monday. Minister for Civil Supplies P. Thilothaman and Minister for Higher Education K.T. Jaleel led the event in Kottayam while the adalat in Pathanamthitta was led by Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma and A.C. Moideen, Minister for Local Self-Governments. Complaints from Kottayam and Meenachil taluks were taken up in Kottayam on Monday. Among the complaints were the demand for raising the scholarship for aurally challenged students, treatment aid for patients, and conversion of ration cards. The adalat for the remaining taluks in Kottayam will be held in the next two days. In Pathanamthitta, complaints from the Kozhencherry taluk were taken up in the morning, and those from Adoor taluk in the afternoon. Among the cases were denial of rent to a COVID-19 treatment centre in Kozhencherry, conversion of ration cards, and treatment aid. The adalat for Konni and Ranni will be on Tuesday. The adalat for Thiruvalla and Mallapally taluks will be held at Thiruvalla on February 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/complaints-abound-at-adalats/article33846720.ece
16 February 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||289 cases in Kottayam||As many as 289 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Monday. Of the new cases, 285 contracted the virus through local contact. With 489 recoveries on the day, the district has 4,941 active cases. Alappuzha logged 254 COVID-19 cases and 353 recoveries on Monday. The source of infection of two persons remains unknown. The active COVID-19 caseload stands at 4,501. 107 in Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 107 persons tested positive, of which 103 persons contracted the virus through local transmission. The district reported 589 recoveries, and has 5,856 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/289-cases-in-kottayam/article33846716.ece
16 February 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||UDF will not implement CAA in State: Chennithala||Asserting that the United Democratic Front will not implement the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) in Kerala if it comes to power, Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Monday urged the State government to withdraw the case booked against anti-CAA protesters and those who attended Namajapaghoshayatras. Addressing the media in Kottayam, Mr. Chennithala said thousands of cases were pending in the State against those who staged protests against the CAA. ‘Secular fabric at stake’ Holding that the Act would weaken the country’s secular fabric, he pointed out that it was the Leader of the Opposition who had invited the Chief Minister for a joint protest against the CAA. The other day, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi too had declared the party’s stance against implementing the Act in Assam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-will-not-implement-caa-in-state-chennithala/article33846719.ece
16 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Unauthorised lorry parking issue comes to the fore again||The unauthorised lorry parking on South Beach once again dominated the Kozhikode Corporation council meeting as Indian Union Muslim League councillor K. Moideen Koya brought the issue to the council’s notice through a submission on Monday. Mr. Koya cited the problems created by the parking of lorries including four deaths and injury to many in road accidents on the stretch due to the traffic congestion caused by lorries. He recalled the promise of former Mayor Thottathil Raveendran that the issue would be sorted out at the earliest, which was never fulfilled and alleged the involvement of Left trade unions in causing hurdles before the corporation. “It is not just lorries that bring load to Valiyangadi that park at the South Beach. Lorries coming to all parts of the district are among them. We need to find an alternative parking space for lorries immediately or the situation will have serious consequences,” Mr. Koya said. CPI(M) councillor C.P. Sulaiman questioned Mr. Koya’s remarks on trade unions and maintained that lorries were being parked on the South Beach for over half a century and that it was not easy to shift the parking space. However, Mayor Beena Philip agreed to the grievance put forth by Mr. Koya on behalf of the residents of the region. “Even if lorries are being parked there for a hundred years, it is high time we found a solution to this problem. We are a growing city. We need to modify certain aspects with time,” she said and agreed to convene a meeting of trade unions and local people to derive a solution to the issue. The Kozhikode Corporation had made several efforts to move the lorry parking out of South Beach over the past few years, but in vain. Once the regular inspections were relaxed, lorries always came back to the South Beach despite providing them alternative parking facilities. Other issues Congress councillor Alphonsa Mathew brought to the corporation’s attention an alleged encroachment of corporation property at East Nadakavu. The Mayor said that the issue would be looked into at the earliest. Councillor Premalatha sought the corporation’s intervention in clearing the algae from the Kolathara wetlands, which was a hindrance to a proposed tourism project in the area. Councillor V.P. Manoj demanded a proper bus shelter at Puthiyappa for buses heading to Beypore and Marad. Earlier, the Mayor rejected permission for an adjournment motion proposed by Congress councillor K.C. Shobhita on the State government move to give permanent jobs to several contract employees in various departments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/unauthorised-lorry-parking-issue-comes-to-the-fore-again/article33846663.ece
16 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Youth Congress march turns violent||A march taken out by Youth Congress workers to the Kozhikode Collectorate to protest against the alleged backdoor appointments by the State government turned violent on Monday. Congress leaders, including T. Siddique, and Kerala Students Union State president K.M. Abhijith sustained injuries in the clash. The police resorted to lathicharge as protesters tried to cross the barricade and destroy it. Water cannons were also used twice to disperse them. Resisting the police action, Youth Congress workers continued the sit-in, blocking the road in front of the Civil Station. Two protesters who sustained serious injuries in the lathicharge were admitted to a private hospital in the city. Youth Congress district president V.T. Nihal and Rajesh Menon, photojournalist with the Mangalam daily, also sustained injuries. Youth Congress leaders alleged that the police were creating a provocative ambiance against the peaceful protest which exposed the State government’s alleged attempt to make the Public Service Commission a scarecrow and facilitate illegal appointments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-congress-march-turns-violent/article33846662.ece
16 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Row over Niravu in council||The Kozhikode Municipal Corporation’s move to extend the services of Niravu Zero Waste Management for another one-and-a-half months met with stiff opposition from the opposition councillors who claimed that the agency under the Haritha Keralam Mission did not live up to expectations. Congress councillor K.C. Shobhita pointed out that Niravu was supposed to provide training to members of the Haritha Karma Sena (HKS) in all wards over the past six months and to equip them to carry out their task of waste collection in each ward. However, the agency has failed to meet the target. “Now, they are asking for an extension, which would bring additional expense to the corporation as the monthly fee of the agency is Rs. 1.62 lakh,” she said. Indian Union Muslim League councillor K. Moideen Koya alleged that the corporation had a soft corner to Niravu despite it being under the scanner for allegedly cheating the corporation by mixing sand with plastic rejects that were to be cleared from the corporation’s plastic treatment plant at West Hill, which is managed by the agency. ‘HKS not active’ Health Officer R.S. Gopakumar said that the HKS was not active in around 16 wards of the corporation and that the members need to be trained to carry out their task in these wards at the earliest. As the health inspectors in these wards were busy with COVID duties, the service of Niravu was necessary for at least a few months. CPI(M) councillor M.C. Anil Kumar said that the councillors will soon be busy with election campaigns that they will not have time to get involved in matters of waste management. So the service of Niravu has been enlisted only till the end of the Assembly election process. New agency Meanwhile, the corporation’s contract with Niravu for the management of the plastic recycling unit at West Hill has expired. Based on fresh negotiations, the expression of interest put forth by Konari Advanced Polymers has been approved by the council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/row-over-niravu-in-council/article33846664.ece
16 February 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Senators seek probe into CU recruitments||UDF Senators’ Forum, a group of Senate members of Calicut University aligned to the United Democratic Front, on Monday sought a judicial probe into the ongoing appointment of faculty members to various departments. Backlog posts M. Rajan, P. Rasheed Ahammed, T. Mohammedali, Ali Noufal, and K. Praveen Kumar, functionaries of the forum, told the media that applicants from backward communities had lost around 50 posts because the university Syndicate decided against backlog posts in reservation category. Despite many requests, the authorities refused to publish the reservation roster, detailing which post was reserved for which category, when the notification for the recruitment was issued. Mr. Ahammed, who is a Syndicate member as well, said that a meeting of the body recently approved the reservation roster. However, his request for a copy of the roster was turned down. “The university also manipulated the reservation roster for differently abled persons.” Mr. Ahammed alleged that there was large-scale corruption in the appointments and money was changing hands. ‘Vacancies not reported’ The university was not reporting vacancies in the last grade posts to the Kerala Public Service Commission. It was also trying to regularise the services of those who had put in 10 years as temporary staff. “We are planning to approach the Supreme Court against all these,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-senators-seek-judicial-probe-into-varsity-recruitments/article33846658.ece
16 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Policemen attacked at Kuttiyadi||A group of suspected Communist Party of India (Marxist) workers on Sunday night unleashed an attack against the police to release a party worker who was taken into custody in connection with a political clash in Kuttiyadi. Three policemen and a Home Guard from the Kuttiyadi station who took the man into custody sustained injuries in the attack and were admitted to a government hospital. Police sources said CPI(M) worker A.P. Asokan was taken into custody as the court had issued an arrest warrant against him. The police said a Sub Inspector from the station was also roughed up by the gang.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/policemen-attacked-at-kuttiyadi/article33846660.ece
16 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Award for college magazine||Sshhh…, the college magazine brought out by Government Medical College, Kozhikode, has won the Basheer Award instituted by Bankmens Club, Kozhikode. P.C. Arjun, who edited the magazine, was adjudged the best student editor.  05/8/2019 of Thunchath Ezhuthachan Malayalam University was named the second best magazine. Peru of S.E.S. College, Sreekantapuram, Kannur, and Athyunnathangalil Dhikarathinu Sthuthi by Government Brennen College, Thalassery, Kannur, were the third best magazines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/basheer-award-for-magazine/article33846665.ece
16 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Policeman hospitalised||A policeman, who took Covaxin in Kozhikode district on Monday, was admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital after he complained of uneasiness. According to sources, he took the vaccine from the community health centre, Narikkuni. Soon after, the policeman fainted. Though he was given medical care and sent to the police quarters, his condition did not improve. Later, he was admitted to the medical college hospital where he is under observation. His condition is now reported to be stable. 292 test positive A drop in the number of lab tests led to a subsequent fall in the fresh COVID-19 cases in Kozhikode on Monday when only 292 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. A release quoting the District Medical Officer said that there were 286 locally acquired infections and the source of infection of three others was not known. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 67 cases of local transmission, followed by Peruvayal (22), and Narippatta (18). As many as 4,129 samples were tested and the daily test positivity rate is 7.07%. There were 336 recoveries and the active case load is 6,823. Meanwhile, 1,211 people got vaccinated at 28 centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/policeman-hospitalised-after-covid-vaccination/article33846659.ece
16 February 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||KSU, BJYM marches turn violent in Palakkad||The Collectorate here witnessed protests and violence on Monday when the workers of the KSU and the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) took out marches in protest against the alleged back-door appointments by the government. Police caned the protesters and used water cannons to disperse them when they tried to barge into the PSC office by breaking the police cordon. Several BJYM and KSU workers were injured in the action. BJYM State vice president E.P. Nandakumar inaugurated the Yuva Morcha march. District president Prasant Sivan presided. Vice president K.M. Pratheesh, district secretaries Naveen Vadakkanthara and Prasant Vadavannur, and district treasurer Ajay Varma led the march. KSU leaders alleged that the police used water cannons on them even before the inauguration without any provocation. Police arrested seven KSU workers, including its district president, for barging into the PSC Office. Youth Congress State general secretary Sobha Subin inaugurated the march. KSU district president K.S. Jayaghosh presided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksu-bjym-marches-turn-violent-in-palakkad/article33847100.ece
16 February 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||MVD control room opened in Palakkad||The District Enforcement Control Room of the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) was inaugurated here on Monday as part of the Safe Kerala Project. Minister for Transport A.K. Saseendran inaugurated the control room. V.S. Achuthanandan, MLA of Malampuzha, presided over the function held through online mode. V.K. Sreekandan, MP, was the chief guest. District Panchayat president K. Binumol, Marutha Road grama panchayat president Unni Krishnan, block panchayat members Raja Lakshmi and Sobhana, and panchayat members Radha Krishnan and Deepa spoke at the function. Regional Transport Officer P. Sivakumar welcomed the gathering. Regional Transport Officer (Enforcement) V.A. Sahadevan proposed a vote of thanks. Apart from a State control room, enforcement control rooms are being set up in all districts with the objective of reducing road accidents by increasing the law enforcement. Dozens of cameras with artificial intelligence facilities are being installed along the highways to prevent helmetless bike riding, riding of bikes with more than one person in the pillion, driving without seat belts, use of mobile phones while driving and illegal parking. Apart from speeding, red light violation and travelling without wearing seat-belt will be inspected with the help of those cameras. First State Mr. Sahadevan said that Kerala would be the first State to enforce traffic laws with the help of cameras having artificial intelligence facilities.  Control rooms are being set up in all districts to reduce road accidents by increasing the law enforcement||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mvd-control-room-opened-in-palakkad/article33847168.ece
16 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||City to have new, cleaner public toilets||The city Corporation is set to address the issue of lack of enough clean public toilets with the opening of new toilets as well as implementation of a mechanism for regular upkeep of the existing ones. Maintenance Quite a few of the public toilets in the city are in need of maintenance and some of them are also not cleaned on a regular basis, making it an ordeal for the public to make use of them. Speaking to The Hindu , Mayor Arya Rajendran said that the new public toilets would be constructed under the Take a Break programme that the State government had announced last year, under which thousands of toilets would be opened across the State. “The State government is allotting us funds for the project. The Corporation will be identifying the land and carrying out the work on the ground. At present, we have identified four locations for the Take a Break centres—at Peroorkada, Pappanamcode, Fort, and Vikas Bhavan. Out of these, work has already begun at Peroorkada and Fort. Discussions are on with the KSRTC for the proposed centres at Pappanamcode and Vikas Bhavan, as the areas are under the KSRTC. We are allowed to build any number of such facilities as required. There is a need for more of these in public places where large crowds gather,” said the Mayor. She said that the Take a Break centres were modelled as relaxation points for visitors to the city or travellers. Along with the public toilets would be other amenities including charging points and seating facilities. In need of cleaning The Mayor also sought a list of all the existing public toilets in the city, which were in need of cleaning. She said that some of the toilets had fallen into disuse due to lack of cleaning. The Corporation would form a team for the regular upkeep of these toilets. Contractors Some of the existing public toilets were being maintained by contractors. The functioning of these too would be reviewed. The State government had last year asked the local bodies across the State to identify suitable pieces of land for the setting up of Take a Break centres. The Suchitwa Mission would be the nodal agency for the project.  Along with the public toilets, other amenities, including charging points and seating facilities, will be set up as part of the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/city-to-have-new-cleaner-public-toilets/article33847150.ece
16 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CM opens two plants at TTP in Kochuveli||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday inaugurated a copperas recovery plant and the renovated sulphuric acid plant at the Travancore Titanium Products Ltd (TTP) at Kochuveli. The Chief Minister also kicked off the 75th anniversary celebrations of the company and inaugurated a guest house constructed as part of the anniversary. Copperas plant The copperas recovery plant is capable of producing 165 tonnes of iron sulphate, or copperas, daily. This comes as a byproduct of titanium dioxide produced at TTP. “The recovery of copperas will help TTP to come out with iron sulfate as a value-added product. Additionally, the quality of titanium dioxide produced at TTP too will improve,” TTP managing director Georgee Ninan said here. The plant was constructed at a cost of Rs. 34 crore, including Rs. 15.5 crore sanctioned by the present LDF government. The copperas recovery plant would also help TTP cut down pollution, company officials said. The sulphuric acid plant has been renovated at a cost of Rs. 10 crore. Established in 1995, the plant’s production capacity had eroded over the years. TTP was incorporated on December 18, 1946, in collaboration with British Titan Products, UK. History The company started production of Titanium Dioxide through sulphate Route in 1951. Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan presided. Mayor Arya Rajendran, former MLA Anathalavattam Anandan, TTP chairman A.A. Rasheed and managing director George Ninan were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-opens-two-plants-at-ttp-in-kochuveli/article33847163.ece
16 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Emotional outbursts at stir venue||The vicinity of the Secretariat witnessed an outpouring of grief with the agitating Kerala Public Service Commission (PSC) rank holders ‘begging’ for jobs by crawling on their knees on the scorching hot pavement on M.G. Road here Monday. The scenes unfolded shortly after the Cabinet decided against accepting their demands, including creation of posts to accommodate rank-holders and an extension of validity of rank lists that neared their end. Collapsed in heat Many protesters collapsed in the heat and two were rushed to General Hospital. “At this age, we can no longer apply for jobs through the PSC. All of us had pinned our hopes on a favourable decision by the government,” an emotional Satheesh from Idukki said. Rank holders from districts as far as Palakkad and Malappuram have been joining the protest. The protesters claimed that appointments to last grade servants’ posts had dipped in the past three years. While 12,959 and 11,395 people were appointed during 2012-15 and 2015-18, only around 6,000 were employed from 2018. Laya Rajesh, who has been in the forefront of the agitation, said their demand to implement a court order to fix the working hours of watchman and other posts at 8 hours (instead of the existing 12) so as to create more posts was not heeded so as to benefit those engaged on contract. Referring to criticism that the demonstration has acquired a political tinge, she said the protesters had not invited any forums to join them. Both the Youth Congress and the DYFI were welcome to be part of the agitation, she said. A group of rank holders on the civil police officers’ list fell on former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy’s feet and wept when he called on them. The veteran Congress leader appealed to the government to adopt a compassionate stance. A few activists were arrested when they attempted to wave black flags at Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The Muslim Youth League and Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha also held demonstrations. The stir received support from members of the higher secondary rank holders association as well as a group of National Games medal-winning sportspersons who have also been protesting for various demands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/emotional-outbursts-at-stir-venue/article33847156.ece
16 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||310-km waterway opened||The project to make the 633-km West Coast Canal (WCC) from Kovalam to Kasaragod navigable has got a fillip with the commissioning of the 310-km stretch of the inland waterway from Veli to Chavakkad by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday. The project is being taken up as per the National Waterways specifications at Rs. 2,300 crore. At a simple function at the boat jetty of the Veli tourist village, Mr. Vijayan commissioned the rejuvenated 62 km of State Waterways from Veli to Kollam and 168 km of the National Waterways from Kollam to Kottappuram and 80 km from Kottappuram to Chavakkad. Later, the Chief Minister took a short cruise from Veli to Poundukadavu in the Veli-Kadinamkulam stretch of the Parvathy Puthanar on a 24-seater solar boat  All works, except that on 1.5 km on either side of the the 722-m Sivagiri tunnel and the 350-m Chilakoor tunnel, had been completed. Boats can move along the two tunnels as they have a diameter of 4.7 m. The remaining works will be completed by the Inland Navigation Department this month. Already, the 168-km Kollam-Kottappuram stretch of the 633 km West Coast Canal — the main arterial waterway traversing through 11 districts — developed as National Waterway III is navigable. The plan is to make the waterway from north to south navigable by 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/310-km-waterway-opened/article33846730.ece
16 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||2,884 new cases||The dip in testing over the weekend reflected in the COVID-19 case figures of the State on Monday. Kerala reported 2,884 new cases on the day when testing done over 24 hours fell to 39,463. However, the test positivity rate remained more or less constant at 7.31%. The State’s cumulative case burden rose to 10,07,019 cases. With the State reporting 5,073 recoveries on Monday, the active case pool, which has been dropping steadily, now has 61,281 persons. On Monday,13 more deaths were added to the official list. Thrissur and Kollam reported three deaths each, Kannur two, while Thiruvananthapuram, Alappuzha, Ernakulam, Malappuram and Wayanad reported one death each. Among districts, Malappuram reported the maximum number of new cases with 560 cases, followed by Ernakulam 393, Kozhikode 292, Kottayam 289, Alappuzha 254, Thiruvananthapuram 248, Kollam 192, Thrissur 173, Kannur 135, Pathanamthitta 107, Palakkad 83, Wayanad 70, Idukki 44,and Kasaragod 44. Two more travellers from the U.K. tested positive for COVID-19 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2884-new-cases/article33846733.ece
16 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||K-FON to boost State’s bid to be a knowledge economy: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said the realisation of the Kerala Fire Optic Network (K-FON) project will provide an impetus to the State’s push towards becoming a knowledge economy and information technology (IT) hub. Inaugurating the first phase of the government’s flagship project aimed at providing high-speed Internet here on Monday, Mr. Vijayan said it would pave the way for revolutionary changes in various avenues, including education, entrepreneurship and industry. “Designed with the prime intention of improving digital infrastructure, K-FON will establish a robust optical fibre network across the State to ensure the availability of high-bandwidth Internet connectivity for government institutions and private individuals. The endeavour will go a long way in addressing the inadequacies that have hindered the progress in setting up infrastructure for nurturing futuristic technologies such as artificial intelligence,” he said. Urban-rural divide According to him, only less than 10% of government offices were currently linked to the existing wide area network, while fewer had optical fibre cable connectivity. While Internet availability was mostly confined to urban areas, the network infrastructure has been limited elsewhere. IT parks, airports and seaports are expected to benefit from connectivity at speed ranging from 10 mbps to 1 gbps. While 30,000 government offices, schools and hospitals will be linked to the K-FON network in the first phase, 20 lakh economically backward households will be provided with connectivity free of charge in the next phase. While connection had been provided to 1,000 offices in seven districts already, steps were afoot to extend the coverage to 5,700 government institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/k-fon-to-boost-states-bid-to-be-a-knowledge-economy-cm/article33846735.ece
16 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Youth held for burglary||The Nemom police have arrested a youth in connection with a burglary reported from a petrol pump at the Pazhaye Karakkamandapam junction on January 17. Jayakumar, 21, of Melamcode in Nemom was arrested by the police on Monday for allegedly breaking into the office at the petrol pump and stealing a laptop, monitor and cash to the tune of Rs. 6,640. While he was subsequently identified by the police on the basis of CCTV visuals, the accused had been on the run until his arrest. He has been involved in six cases registered in Karamana, Nemom and Karunagappally police stations. The accused was remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-held-for-burglary/article33847157.ece
16 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Work on offshore breakwater to start||The construction of an offshore breakwater using geotubing will kick off at Poonthura on Tuesday. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the project via a video conference at 5 p.m. Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma will preside. The project involves the deployment of geotubes filled with sand for a total length of 700 metres. In all, there will be seven units, each having a length of 100 metres. The Breakwater units will be deployed 125 metres away from the shore at a depth of six metres and 50 metres apart from each other. The breakwater will reduce the intensity of the waves lashing the shore, prevent coastal erosion, and enhance the beach. The cost of the project, Rs. 19.57 crore, is being met through the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). By using geotubes, the use of rocks could be avoided in breakwater construction, the Minister said. The project is being implemented with support of the National Institute of Ocean Technology (NIOT).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/work-on-offshore-breakwater-to-start/article33847164.ece
16 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Molestation: man arrested||The Valiyamala police arrested a 45-year-old man on Monday for an alleged attempt to sexually harass a minor girl. Biju of Irumbu in Aruvikkara was apprehended in connection with the incident that had purportedly occurred on January 29. The motorcycle-borne accused waylaid the victim and allegedly molested the girl. Caught on the basis of a CCTV visual, the accused was booked under provision of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/molestation-man-arrested/article33847162.ece
16 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Probation policy to rehabilitate criminals||The government has decided to formulate a probation policy aimed at rehabilitating criminals who have not committed serious offences and bringing them back into the mainstream of social life. The State Cabinet on Monday approved a draft policy document prepared by the Social Justice Department. The proposed probation system seeks to reduce recidivism, address the issue of overcrowding in prisons, and increase the efficiency of the criminal justice system. It proposes steps to reform the offender by allowing him to reintegrate with his family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/probation-policy-to-rehabilitate-criminals/article33847151.ece
16 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||248 new cases, 302 recoveries||The active COVID-19 caseload in Thiruvananthapuram district fell marginally to 4,243 on Monday as 248 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 while 302 people recovered from the illness during the last 24 hours. While almost all of the cases have been attributed to local transmission of the infection, six health care workers are among those who were diagnosed with COVID-19. The death toll rose to 797 when two recent deaths were attributed to the disease on Sunday. The deceased included two men, who were aged 94 and 60. The district administration placed 1,723 people under quarantine, while 1,869 people were permitted to conclude quarantine after completing the mandated period in isolation. There were 26,437 people quarantined in their homes. The Thiruvananthapuram City police initiated legal steps against 68 people who violated COVID-19 protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/248-new-cases-302-recoveries/article33847154.ece
16 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rs. 2,613.38-cr. projects get KIIFB nod||As many as 77 projects estimated to cost Rs. 2,613.38 crore were given the nod by the executive and governing body of the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) here on Monday. With this, the KIIFB funds for projects has risen to Rs. 63,250.66 crore. The KIIFB has given the nod for the upgrade of 147 schools at Rs. 433.46 crore and Rs. 175.12 crore for the infrastructure development of the Universities of Kerala, Kozhikode and Kannur and revamp of the College of Arts and Science, Thazava.  A sum of Rs. 1,106.51 crore has been provided for development of hospitals, including the Thrissur Government Medical College Hospital, Malabar Cancer Centre and General Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-261338-cr-projects-get-kiifb-nod/article33846731.ece
16 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Class 10 exams: PTA meetings to be held||Meetings of school parent-teacher associations (PTA), class PTAs, and mother PTAs will be held to remove apprehensions of parents regarding the arrangements for the public examinations for Classes 10 and 12 next month. A decision regarding this issue was taken at a meeting of the Quality Improvement Programme (QIP) monitoring committee presided over by Director of General Education Jeevan Babu K. here on Monday. Students of Class 10 and 12 will be allowed to come to school on March 10 to peruse the answer scripts of the model exams from March 1 to 5. The meeting also recommended that students of Class 9 be allowed to come to school on March 6, 8, and 9 so that they can be given worksheets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/class-10-exams-pta-meetings-to-be-held/article33847149.ece
16 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Registration for equivalency courses||The registration for the Class 10 and higher secondary equivalency courses being organised by the Public Education Department and the Saksharatha Mission Authority has begun. The registration can be done at the Saksharatha Mission wing in the city Corporation. For more information, contact - 8075015525, 9446325703.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/registration-for-equivalency-courses/article33847158.ece
16 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||ICU block for COVID-19 treatment||Health Minister K.K. Shylaja will on Tuesday inaugurate a special Intensive Care Unit (ICU) block for COVID-19 treatment at the General Hospital here. The hospital has been since last August functioning as an exclusive COVID-19 treatment centre, with 300 beds set aside for category B and C COVID-19 patients. With the opening of the 25-bed ICU block at a cost of Rs. 34.22 lakh, even those with serious COVID-19 conditions can be treated here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/icu-block-for-covid-19-treatment/article33847160.ece
16 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Aerobic bin units inaugurated||Mayor Arya Rajendran on Monday inaugurated new aerobic bin units at the Peroorkada market. A total of 35 aerobic bin units at a cost of Rs. 44 lakh have been installed in the market. Health Standing Committee Chairperson P. Jameela Sreedharan presided over the function, while V.K. Prasanth, MLA, was the chief guest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aerobic-bin-units-inaugurated/article33847159.ece
16 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Judicial service exam on Feb. 28||The Kerala Judicial Service (Preliminary) examination will be held on February 28. Candidates can download the admission ticket fromwww.hckrecruitment.nic.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/judicial-service-exam-on-feb-28/article33847161.ece
16 February 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||173 cases in Thrissur||A total of 173 COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Monday while 477 people recovered from the disease. There are 4,117 active cases in the district and 100 people from the district are undergoing treatment in hospitals in other districts. So far 93,986 COVID-19 cases have been reported from the district and 89,225 people have recovered. According to official statistics, 168 people, including one health worker, contracted the disease through local contact on Monday. Of them, 28 people are above the age of 60 and eight children are below the age of 10. In all, 3,027 people are under home care. A total of 81 people were admitted to hospital for treatment of the COVID-19 on Monday. Around 5,073 samples were collected for the test on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/173-cases-in-thrissur/article33847097.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Nod for regularising 151 temporary staff||It is learnt that more regularisations of contract staff, including those in Kerala Bank, will come up before the weekly Cabinet on Wednesday. The special Cabinet meeting, chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, did not take up the extension of the PSC rank list for the last grade staff. The rank holders are on a stir in front of the Secretariat. The meeting decided to create 140 posts, including 115 teaching posts, for the commencement of the Government Medical College in Wayanad. Fifty-five posts, including 16 upper division clerk and 17 lower division clerks, will be created in the Kerala Coir Workers Welfare Fund and another six posts in the entry cadre in the Malabar Devaswom Board. The Advocate General’s office in Kochi will get 60 new posts and 23 of them will be for assistants. Meanwhile, the Personnel and Administrative Reforms Department has issued orders to report vacancies in the government departments and institutions without fail and promptly to the PSC. A committee has been set up to ensure the reporting of the vacancies and to prioritise the steps in 10 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nod-for-regularising-151-temporary-staff/article33846737.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Title deed distribution||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/title-deed-distribution/article33847167.ece
16 February 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Not a single unanimous election in Naidu’s home turf||Even as many panchayats in Chittoor district have gone for unanimous elections, all the 86 panchayats in Kuppam, the home constituency of TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu, are going to the polls on February 17. During the last one and a half years, Panchayat Raj Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy has paid half a dozen visits to Kuppam and boosted the morale of the YSRCP cadres. The TDP cadres too have galvanised themselves in advance and are leaving no stone unturned to face the elections. Nominations have been filed in all 86 panchayats.  Trend reversal in Punganur In contrast, the panchayats in five mandals in Punganur Assembly constituency, which is considered the fortress of Mr. Ramachandra Reddy, have gone for unanimous elections. After filing the nominations, the campaign by the TDP-supported candidates took the backseat, while their opponents covered panchayats after panchayats. A senior TDP leader observed that filing of cases against a close associate of Mr. Naidu in Kuppam demoralised the cadres. The lower-rung functionaries of the party maintained that though they had been toiled for the last 20 months after the debacle in 2019 general elections, there was no encouragement from the higher echelon of the party. “However, we have stood by the party till now and no panchayat went for unanimous poll,” said a senior party leader in Shantipuram mandal. Mr. Naidu won Kuppam with a margin of over 30,000 votes in 2019 elections when compared to the 48,000 in 2014. The TDP cadres admit that they are not sure of a big win in the panchayat polls. Meanwhile, the YSRCP camp is confident of a majority in the panchayat elections in the constituency. Three days prior to the polls, Mr. Ramachandra Reddy, during his tour to the constituency, claimed that the YSRCP supported candidates would sweep the polls. The disappointment among the TDP cadres is visible that no prominent leader from the party has paid a visit to the area yet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/not-a-single-unanimous-election-in-naidus-home-turf/article33846631.ece
16 February 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||15 lakh beneficiaries got ration at doorstep||The door delivery of ration through dispensing vehicles has gathered steam as more than 15 lakh beneficiaries have been provided quality rice during the last 15 days. The authorities say that around 27 lakh beneficiaries living in urban areas are targeted to be covered under the scheme and the mobile dispensing units (MDUs) are set to reach out to rest of the beneficiaries in the next week. Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy recently launched the scheme as part of which 9,260 vehicles have been deployed to supply quality rice at the door step of the beneficiaries. “We are happy that we have overcome the teething problems. The coordinating committees at the mandal, division, and district levels are monitoring the distribution through 2,067 custom-made vehicles,’’ says Civil Supplies Commissioner Kona Sasidhar. Now, the drivers are collecting bags of rice from the dealer at 7 a.m. and are available in the streets for its distribution by 8 a.m. Loudspeaker announcement will be made and the ration will be supplied to every door. Authentication process “Every vehicle has a key register which conveys the time of the delivery to the respective ward/village volunteers. The cards which are yet to be mapped will be included in the common pool so that beneficiaries can collect ration from any vehicle. In case the authentication of beneficiaries fails, ration can be distributed through the fusion finger process of the e-pass machines. We are also using e-KYC system to supply ration after obtaining the fingerprints of beneficiaries,” explains Mr. Sasidhar. The Civil Supplies Department has also introduced an offline method to distribute dry ration in areas which do not have cellphone connectivity. The department ensured that stocks are kept at the village/ward secretariats and the beneficiaries can collect the ration between 6 p.m. and 7 p.m. For migrant labourers, the department has allowed portability system to get ration from their nearest ration shop after 7 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/15-lakh-beneficiaries-got-ration-at-doorstep/article33846504.ece
16 February 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Poster released on Good Samaritan Law||District Collector Vivek Yadav unveiled a wallpaper on Good Samaritan Law at the Collectorate VC Hall on the occasion of the 32nd National Highway Safety Month here in Guntur on Monday. The Collector said that accident victims can be saved if proper medical treatment is given to them within the first hour (Golden Hour) of the road accident. He said the law would provide full protection to those who take accident victims to a nearby hospital. For this, Section 134-A of the Motor Vehicles Act 1988 and the Center Motor Vehicles Rules 168 & 169 were incorporated, he said. He said the law came into force on September 1, 2020. Mr. Vivek Yadav said the law would provide free assistance to accident victims and ensure that there would be no police inquiry without their permission and they would not have to pay any hospital bill or medical bill. Hospitals were asked to admit accident survivors brought to them, and to provide appropriate medical services. He said that those who have brought the survivors to the hospital will not be forced to give their details. He warned that cases would be registered against those who violated the law and appropriate action would be taken. Urban SP Ammi Reddy, Rural SP Vishal Gunni, Deputy Transport Commissioner Meera Prasad, Motor Vehicle Inspector Ravikumar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/poster-released-on-good-samaritan-law/article33847183.ece
16 February 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘VSP divestment plan made during TDP rule’||Taking strong exception to the comments made by TDP leader Nara Lokesh that the State government had failed to protect the interests of teh Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, YSRCP general secretary Lella Appireddy said that despite Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy doing all things possible to prevent the move, the TDP was trying to derive political mileage out of the issue. “TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu and his son Mr. Lokesh are resorting to mud-slinging against the YSRCP government irrespective of the issue. It was Mr. Naidu’s tenure when the privatisation plan of the VSP was conceded,” Mr. Appireddy told the media at teh YSRCP central office at Tadepalli. ‘No right to protest’ “The process was started during the TDP term in 2017, when former Finance Minister Arun Jaitley had released the papers pertaining to the privatisation of VSP. The TDP had maintained a stoic silence then, despite being an alliance partner of the NDA government at the Centre. The TDP has no moral right to call for protests on this issue,” he said. He also alleged that the TDP was trying to distort the panchayat poll results.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vsp-divestment-plan-made-during-tdp-rule/article33847089.ece
16 February 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sarpanch candidates getting veiled threats from YSRCP camp: TDP MLC||TDP MLC M. Ravindranath Reddy has alleged that YSRCP activists destroyed sweet lime orchards of many sarpanch candidates backed by rival political parties in Pulivendula Assembly constituency, which is being represented by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Several sweet lime orchards have allegedly been damaged in Pydipalem, Mallela, Duggannagaripalle, Pedda Juturu and Gurajala panchayats where the polls are scheduled to be held on February 17. Police protection sought The issue came to light with Mr. Ravindranath Reddy, who is TDP’s Pulivendula constituency in-charge, along with the victims, met Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan on Monday. The MLC sought police protection for the candidates in view of the ‘perceived threat’. The SP assured to look into the issue. “Influential leaders owing allegiance to the YSRCP damaged the contours of the orchard belonging to M. Sivanjanamma, a sarpanch candidate for Pydipalem panchayat in Simhadripuram mandal. This is a veiled threat to her that she would lose her entire orchard if she contested the election,” Mr. Ravindranath Reddy told The Hindu over telephone. He also alleged that Mahesh Reddy, a TDP-supported candidate in Duggannagaripalle panchayat in Vemula mandal, was summoned and made to sit in a police station. “Murali Yadav contesting from Gurajala panchayat was also threatened that the water pipeline to his field would be damaged if he remained in the fray,” alleged the TDP MLC. “With unanimous elections in many panchayats, the TDP-supported candidates are in the fray only in 25%-30% of the seats. Does the Chief Minister think these seats must go uncontested just because it is Pulivendula?” he asked and accused YSRCP leaders of threatening rival candidates with dire consequences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sarpanch-candidates-getting-veiled-threats-from-ysrcp-camp-tdp-mlc/article33847091.ece
16 February 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Council polls in two Godavari districts soon||The East and West Godavari district officials and police on Monday began the exercise to conduct the MLC elections to the East and West Godavari Teachers’ Constituency, in which 17,285 voters will exercise their franchise. As many as 9,560 voters are in East Godavari district and 7,725 voters in West Godavari district. In a meeting held here with representatives from all political parties and officials, MLC election Returning Officer and East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy said, “The MLC election notification will be issued on February 16 and nominations will be accepted till February 23 on the Collectorate campus in Kakinada.” The candidates can withdraw the nomination on or before February 26. Polling will be conducted in the 116 polling centres in the two districts. West Godavari Joint Collector K.Venkata Ramana is the Assistant Returning Officer of the election. East Godavari Superintendent of Police Adnan Nayeem Asmi and Rajamahendravaram Urban SP Shemushi Bajpayee were present. The new voters can enroll till February 23. B. Venkatesh Naidu (Congress), A. Venkata Ramana (BJP), G. Saibabu (TDP) and R. Venkata Rao (YSRCP) represented their respective parties in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/council-polls-in-two-godavari-districts-soon/article33847116.ece
16 February 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 held in corporator murder case||Two persons, including a minor, were arrested on Monday in connection with the murder of a 47-year-old YSRCP Corporator, Kampara Ramesh, on the outskirts of Kakinada in the early hours of February 12. Prime accused Addressing mediapersons, Kakinada Deputy Superintendent of Police(DSP) V. Bheema Rao on Monday said: “The prime accused, Gurajana Veera Venkata Satyanarayana (Chinna) and a 17-year-old boy, have been taken into custody for mauling the Ramesh to death.” On February 12, the accused reportedly ran his car over Kampara Ramesh, 9th Ward Corporator of the Kakinada Municipal Corporation, following an argument over financial matters.  Juvenile Justice Board The minor has been produced before the Juvenile Justice Board. Mr. Satyanarayana, who had been absconding, was caught in Pithapuram, the DSP said. “Exact reason for the murder is yet to be ascertained. The investigation will focus on all the alleged angles, including rivalry over financial matters. There is no clue available to establish the role of any persons with political affiliations,” the DSP clarified. Case registered A case has been registered against the accused, who was produced before the local court after the arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-held-in-ysrcp-corporator-murder-case-in-kakinada/article33847117.ece
16 February 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hindupur MP slams TDP for ‘mala fide’ campaign||Member of Parliament (Hindupur) Gorantla Madhav said that the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) tried to send a wrong message to the public by running a ‘mala fide campaign’ on the social media. Addressing mediapersons here on Monday, he slammed a slew of posts going viral that a TDP candidate had won from Madhav’s native village Pasupula. He clarified that the villagers had sat together to elect the YSRC candidate, Madhu, unanimously, not only by considering his service rendered to the village, but also in view of his wife’s contribution to the region as the ZPTC member in the past. This, he said, was done in the presence of all villagers and with the consent of the local MLA, after the other candidates were asked to withdraw to facilitate his unanimous election. “Since it is only a formal announcement, I went to Delhi, only to find the malicious campaign that the candidate won with the support of TDP. I rushed back only to assert that the candidate is very much with the YSR Congress and the TDP’s social media campaign is nothing but mischievous”, he snapped. Mr. Madhav wondered how president N. Chandrababu Naidu could stoop to such a low through false claims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hindupur-mp-slams-tdp-for-mala-fide-campaign/article33846509.ece
16 February 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Extend scheme to parentless children also’||YSR Congress leader Dharmana Rammanohar Naidu on Monday urged the State government to extend the benefits of Amma Vodi scheme also to those children who do not have parents. He pointed out that such children were not included in the list of beneficiaries. An elderly woman, K. Mallamma, submitted a petition to Mr. Naidu to look into the issue as her grandson, who lost his parents, was deemed ineligible for availing the benefits. He assured her that the issue will be brought to the notice of the Chief Minister soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/extend-scheme-to-parentless-children-also/article33847118.ece
16 February 2021||SRIKAKULAM/VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP eyeing panchayats in Srikakulam, Vizianagaram||With a tough competition from the candidates backed by the YSRCP and The TDP, the Bharatiya Janata Party is hopeful that the aspirants supported by it would win a few selected panchayats in the third and fourth phase of the elections in Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts. The BJP disitrict functionaries are hopeful to win at least 20 panchayats, claming that the party has a significant strength in Etcherla, Rajam, Narasannapeta, Palasa and other Assembly constituencies. The BJP-backed candidates have started high-pitch campaign in Bantupalli, Tirupati Palem, Kovvada, and other panchayats. N. Rajani, who is contesting in Bantupalli panchayats wit the support of the BJP, is assuring jobs to the local youth in the nearby industries in the Pydibhimavaram industrial zone. BJP State executive member Nadukuditi Eswara Rao told media that the panchayat elections had provided them an opportunity to improve the party’s strength in villages. “The Narendra Modi government is allocating huge funds for rural development. We are explaining such schemes to the voters during campaign. This elections is our first step to prove that the BJP has the support in rural areas too,” said Nadukuditi Eswara Rao. In Vizianagaram district, the BJP and the Jana Sena Party are putting in efforts to win a respectable number of sarpanch seats. BJP MLC P.V.N. Madhav toured several mandals to instill confidence among the candidates. Meanwhile, both the district administrations have laid their focus on the sensitive panchayats. Srikakulam SP Amit Bardar and his Vizianagaram counterpart B. Rajakumari are visiting the sensitive panchayats regularly to take stock of the situation. Sensitive panchayats The police have deployed additional forces in Nimmada, the native of TDP leader K. Atchannaidu, Togaram, Kothavalasa, Singannapalem, Latchayyapeta, Vanjangi and other panchayats. “The personnel have been instructed to take stringent action if liquor and money are found to be distributed among the voters,” said Mr. Bardar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-eyeing-panchayats-in-srikakulam-vizianagaram/article33847120.ece
16 February 2021||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||Parties get into civic poll mode||Immediately after State Election Commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar announced the dates for 12 municipal corporations, including Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation, and 75 municipalities and nagar panchayats, on Monday morning, the city got into election mode and hectic activity was seen. Party workers were seen assembling outside the houses of senior party leaders to discuss the election strategy. For the GVMC, the election gathers importance, as it is being held after a gap of almost 14 years. The last election was held on February 18, 2007, for 72 wards and the council’s term ended on February 26, 2012. Since then the number of wards also has increased from 72 to 98, with Bheemunipatnam and Anakapalle coming into the GVMC’s fold and merger of 32 peripheral villages, into the corporation. The increase in wards is also attributed to the delimitation process. In 2007, the Congress had won the elections with 38 seats, including independents and TDP had won around 34 seats. Pulusu Janardhan Rao from Congress was elected as the Mayor. Since 2007, at least two major political parties have emerged in the State and this brings in a twist to the area of vote sharing and enhances the keenness in the contest. In 2007, there were at least three major political parties, the TDP, Congress and the BJP, apart from the Left parties of CPI and CPI (M). But now there are two more political parties — YSR Congress Party and the Jana Sena Party. And this time the contest is primarily expected to be between the YSRCP and the TDP. While being the ruling party, many feel that YSRCP may have an edge, but with the recent developments, the TDP is expected to give a tough fight and may spring a few surprises. Out of eight Assembly Constituencies under the GVMC, the TDP had won in four and YSRC in the other four, in the 2019 Assembly election. The TDP might feel the absence of at least two standing MLAs to lead the show. Visakhapatnam (South) MLA Vasupalli Ganesh has already joined the YSRCP and Visakhapatnam (North) MLA Ganta Srinivasa Rao has recently tendered his resignation from the MLA post, though he still continues to be in the party. The BJP is entering the fray with its political ally JSP and the seats are being shared almost equally. The SEC had stopped the election process for GVMC and other ULBs on March 15, 2020, after the COVID-19 pandemic broke out. The process was completed up to the state of scrutiny of nominations and as per the SEC’s order, the process shall begin from there. The district administration has been asked to go ahead with the March 2020 voters list. In total, as per the list there are 17.52 lakh voters, including 8.73 lakh women and 126 third gender people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/parties-get-into-civic-poll-mode/article33847192.ece
16 February 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD to develop Veda Patasala at Keesaragutta||TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy on Monday urged engineering officials to prepare proposals and estimates for taking up various developmental activities at the Veda Patasala in Keesaragutta in Telangana. Principal of the Vedic school Malikarjuna Avadhani appraised Mr. Reddy about the need for construction of additional classrooms and hostel blocks as the total strength of the inmates has shot up to 120 students. He also pitched for the construction of a compound wall to prevent wild animals from straying into the campus. Mr. Reddy, who visited the classrooms, hostel building, prayer hall and dining hall within the campus, also paid a visit to the temple of Ramalingeswara Swamy. When the students brought to his notice that the certificates issued by TTD after the completion of their studies was not being honoured by the endowments of Telangana during recruitments, Mr. Reddy assured them that he would table the issue before the board of trustees at a meeting scheduled for February 27. Later, he also inspected an information centre, a kalyana mandapam, guest house and dining hall under renovation besides the SVBC studio and HDPP office and interacted with the employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-to-develop-veda-patasala-at-keesaragutta/article33846427.ece
16 February 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirupati all set to go to polls after two decades||The Municipal Corporation of Tirupati (MCT) is all set to go to polls after a gap of nearly two decades and for the first time after becoming a corporation. The temple city remained without an elected body for the last 19 years under the control of official machinery, headed by a Special Officer. It was in 2002 that the last elections were held to the then Tirupati Municipal Council, the term of which ended by 2007. Though it was upgraded to a corporation later, elections continued to remain elusive as it was mired in a series of controversies over reservation to the post of Mayor, merger of adjoining panchayats and revision of voter list and so on. Announcing the clamping of Model Code of Conduct (MCC) in the city on Monday, MCT Commissioner P.S. Gireesha said the process would resume from where it was halted in February last year. At least 324 nominations had already been received in the past when the process was set in motion. Those who filed nominations then will continue to be in the fray. Unwilling candidates can withdraw their nominations on March 2 and 3, and the final list would be published by 3 p.m. on March 3. Dates Polling will be held on March 10, re-poll, if necessitated, on March 13 and counting of votes will be held on March 14 to announce the results by the end of day. The 2.66 lakh voters have, at last, got an opportunity to get their fingers marked with the indelible ink and select the candidate for their local body. Of the fifty divisions, 14 were allotted for General (Women), thirteen for General, eight for BC (Women), nine for BC, three for SC, two for SC (Women) and one for ST categories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tirupati-all-set-to-go-to-polls-after-two-decades/article33846510.ece
16 February 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Construction worker electrocuted||A middle-aged construction worker died after he was electrocuted at work on Monday. S. Neelakantam (40) was working at a construction site near Vaikuntapuram arch in Muthyala Reddy Palle in the city, when he suffered electric shock. He was rushed to the SVR Ruia Government General Hospital, where he died. He was a resident of Arunodaya colony in Jeevakona, a suburban locality. The MR Palle police, who have launched an investigation into the case, also announced to probe into negligence, if any, on the part of the site owner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/construction-worker-electrocuted/article33846507.ece
16 February 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman ‘ends life’||A woman reportedly ended her life by hanging from the ceiling of her house at Nehru Nagar in Tirupati on Monday. Rama Devi(27)’s parents attributed the death to harassment by her husband and in-laws. Tirupati West Police Sub-Inspector K.Chalapathi said that a case had been registered based on a complaint by the victim’s mother, in which six persons are named as accused. Those having suicidal tendency can dial 100 for counselling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-ends-life/article33846511.ece
16 February 2021||VELERUPADU (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Kondareddy tribals to vote for first time in inaccessible hamlets||Hundreds of Kondareddy and Koya tribes are waiting with bated breath to vote for the first time in their own hamlets of Perantallapalli, Kakisanuru and Tekupalli in Koida gram panchayat of West Godavari Agency area, on February 17. For the last 50 years, the tribes used to trek hillocks and cross the Godavari and reach Koida village to exercise their franchise. Thanks to the State Election Commission (SEC) and the District Election Officer (DEO), Revu Mutyalaraju, who is the District Collector, who decided to conduct polling in the third phase of local body polls in the inaccessible hamlets of Perantallapalli, Kakisanuru and Tekupalli, which were also declared as extremist-affected areas. “For many decades, we used to cast our votes during Assembly, MPTC and ZPTC and gram panchayat elections in Koida panchayat, under the jurisdiction of Khammam district. Now, for the first time, we will cast our votes in our villages during the ongoing gram panchayat elections,” the tribals said. 600 voters K.R. Puram Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) Project Officer R.V. Suryanarayana said that about 600 voters are there in the inaccessible as well as extremist-affected polling stations. Tribals of the border villagers have to spend a day to exercise their franchise at Koida. Instead of troubling the villagers, arrangements have been made to shift about 50 election staff and polling material to the villages, said Polavaram DSP K. Latha Kumari. Mr. Suryanarayana, along with Ms. Latha Kumari, Velerupadu MRO Challanna Dora, MPDO Srihari, Tribal Welfare APO Srinivas Rao and other officers visited the polling booths and enquired about the facilities in Peraltallapalli village on Monday. “After discussing the issue with the ITDA, the SEC and the District Collector, decided to conduct elections in Perantallapalli, Kakisanuru and Tekupalli villages by making necessary arrangements to the polling staff in the habitations,” the ITDA PO told The Hindu on Monday. Forces deployed West Godavari Superintendent of Police (SP) K. Narayan Naik said security has been beefed up along the A.P.-Telangana borders in coordination with the police of the neighbouring State. Area domination, CRPF companies and APSP platoons have been deployed, the SP said. “Police took the inaccessible habitations into their control and villagers can exercise their franchise without any fear. All arrangements have been made for counting at Koida village,” Mr. Narayan Naik said. “Hitherto, hundreds of Kondareddy and Koya tribes have to travel about 35 km on the Godavari, along with children to exercise their ‘right to vote’ in Koida. They used to return at midnight by crossing dangerous spots in the river. Now, they will vote in their own hamlet,” said a tribal woman Madakam Sonu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kondareddy-tribals-to-vote-for-first-time-in-inaccessible-hamlets/article33847095.ece
16 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||VSP issue: BJP delegation meets Union Steel Minister||A delegation of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders led by the party’s State president Somu Veerraju submitted a memorandum to Union Minister for Steel Dharmendra Pradhan in New Delhi on Monday, requesting him to withdraw the decision to sell away the Central government’s stake in the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP). The BJP delegation wanted the Union Minister to not look at the steel plant only in terms of profit and loss, but consider the sentiment the people of Andhra Pradesh (AP) have for it. Prolonged struggle The BJP leaders also pointed out that privatisation of the VSP would result in massive retrenchment of employees and that the plant was set up after a prolonged struggle in which 32 persons had laid down their lives. BJP national general secretary and former Union Minister Daggubati Purandeswari, MLC P.V.N. Madhav, and party leaders P. Vishnu Kumar Raju and Ch. Adinarayana Reddy were the part of the delegation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/steel-plant-bjp-delegation-meets-union-steel-minister/article33847030.ece
16 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pilot project soon for unmanned substations||AP-Transco is gearing up to set up unmanned substations (132KV & 220KV) and upgrade the existing ones to automated stations wherever possible, in a phased manner starting with Vizianagaram district on a pilot basis, for which a scheme has already been prepared. The main aim of the project is to perform all operational activities (monitoring and control) from a common control centre, source said. The project has been approved by the CMD of AP-Transco and a circular in this regard was sent to all the chief engineers concerned with an instruction to take necessary action.  While steps are being taken by the transmission utility for implementing the project, employees are opposing it on technical as well as some other grounds. An office-bearer of APSEB Engineers’ Association told The Hindu that no State Transco has such unmanned substations and that only the Power Grid Corporation of India Limited is operating new unmanned substations at 400 KV and 765 KV levels where problems like tripping are less. He observed that unmanned substations require trained personnel and automation will result in up to 16 outsourced employees losing their jobs. Besides, there will be financial implications for the utilities which are struggling with shoe-string budgets and operational inefficiencies which are partly due to certain extraneous factors. Funding of the automation project is, therefore, to be duly taken into account while automation is expected to bring down the maintenance costs appreciably. It may be remembered that Fuji Electric of Japan had ventured to set up a Smart Grid project in Amaravati more than five years ago but it failed to make any headway for various reasons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pilot-project-soon-for-unmanned-substations/article33847085.ece
16 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Parties gearing up for municipal polls||Political parties are gearing up to campaign for municipal elections as the State Election Commission announced the poll schedule on Monday.  Campaigning begins Expecting the announcement in line with the gram panchayat elections, several candidates have already begun campaigning and were making door-to-door visits in their respective municipal wards. Vijayawada MP Kesineni Srinivas took part in a campaign in municipal ward 41 along with Telugu Desam Party contestant Pathi Nageswara Rao. As part of the campaign, he met locals and visited a dargha. As on March 14, 2020 the Eection Cmmission received 801 nominations from various party candidates and independents and 733 were declared valid by the authorities. After nomination withdrawal by dummy candidates, not more than 350 candidates will be in the final fray in the 64 municipal wards. The ruling YSR Congress Party was the only party to contest from all 64 wards while Telugu Desam Party and Communist Party of India and Bharatiya Janata Party and Jana Sena Party have tied up to contest together. TDP will contest in 58 wards and six wards were allocated to CPI. As per the new schedule, candidates can withdraw nominations before 3 p.m. on March 3 and the final list will be published the same evening. Polls will be conducted on March 10 and counting will be done on March 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/parties-gearing-up-for-municipal-polls/article33846505.ece
16 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State sees lowest COVID daily tally in 7 months||The State reported one COVID death and 30 new infections in the 24 hours ending Monday morning. It was the lowest single-day tally since May 17 (25 cases) as the number of samples tested in the past day at 18,834 was also the lowest in the past seven months. The lone death was reported in Krishna district which continues to top the State with the highest death rate of 1.39%. While the tally increased to 8,88,899, the toll reached 7,163. In the last 24 hours, 69 patients have recovered taking the number of recoveries to 8,81,041. With this, the number of active cases came down to 695, with Chittoor accounting for most of them (142) followed by Krishna with 111 cases. The positivity rate of the samples tested in the past day was 0.16%. Four districts reported no new cases while the remaining reported infections in single-digits: Kadapa(7), Guntur (5), Chittoor (4), Nellore (4), East Godavari (3), Anantapur (2), Krishna (2), Visakhapatnam (2) and West Godavari (1). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,24,363), West Godavari (94,287), Chittoor (87,213), Guntur (75,620), Anantapur (67,697), Nellore (62,402), Prakasam (62,193), Kurnool (60,847), Visakhapatnam (59,926), Kadapa (55,323), Krishna (48,822), Srikakulam (46,162) and Vizianagaram (41,149).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-sees-lowest-covid-daily-tally-in-7-months/article33847086.ece
16 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Evict troublemakers from Kuppam’||TDP national president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu has urged the State Election Commission (SEC) to take necessary steps to drive out troublemakers and miscreants from the villages in Kuppam Assembly constituency in order to ensure a free and fair panchayat election. In a letter sent to the SEC on Monday, Mr. Naidu said that on February 14, an attempt to murder was made against District Congress Committee (DCC) president Suresh Babu at Pacharlapalli village in Gudupalle mandal by a miscreant with knife. “Four other persons were also attacked when they were trying to protect Mr. Suresh Babu. Opposition leaders are being attacked with an ulterior plan to demoralise them in the panchayat elections,” he alleged. “Many such anti-social elements were present in the villages in Kuppam Assembly segment to vitiate panchayat elections,” he claimed. Mr. Naidu said that the SEC should act swiftly and ensure that the gram panchayat elections being held on February 17 would be conducted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/evict-troublemakers-from-kuppam/article33847092.ece
16 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu calls for Statewide protest to ‘protect’ VSP||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national President N. Chandrababu Naidu has exhorted his party leaders and cadres to stage a State-wide protest against the Central government’s proposal of privatisation of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) on February 18. In a statement on Monday, Mr. Naidu alleged that the ruling YSRCP was aware of the the proposed deal with the South Korean company POSCO, but ‘remained a mute spectator’. Dig at Jagan “A relentless agitation is needed to protect the steel plant. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is bent on handing over the steel plant to private hands to save himself from his illegal assets cases. He has apparently struck a secret deal with the POSCO to grab the surplus lands of the steel plant which have a very high value in the market,” alleged Mr. Naidu. The TDP president also deplored that having the privatisation plan in the sleeve, deliberate attempts were being made not to allocate captive mines to the plant. “The people of the State had achieved the industry after a prolonged struggle. Once again, the people of the State need to fight to save the steel plant,” he added.  The people of the State had achieved the industry after a prolonged struggle. Once again, the people of the State need to fight to save the steel plant N. Chandrababu Naidu TDP president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-calls-for-statewide-protest-to-protect-vsp/article33847188.ece
16 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP panel to visit damaged houses in Narasaraopet||Telugu Desam Party’s (TDP) A.P. president K. Atchannaidu said that the TDP has constituted a panel to look into attacks on houses of TDP sympathisers in Narasaraopet Assembly constituency of Guntur district. Mr. Atchannaidu accused the ruling YSRCP leaders of resorting to mindless attacks on the houses of TDP sympathisers just because they did not vote for the ruling party in the panchayat elections. The proposed panel will visit Gogulapadu and Issapalem villages in Narasaraopet area on Tuesday to call on the families whose houses were damaged. The TDP committee consists of the party’s national general secretary Varla Ramaiah, Deputy Leader in Assembly Nimmala Ramanaidu, former Minister Nakka Anand Babu, Narasaraopet Parliamentary president G.V.S. Anjaneyulu and Narasaraopet in-charge Chadalawada Aravind Babu, the leader added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-panel-to-visit-damaged-houses-in-narasaraopet/article33847184.ece
16 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special outpatient ward at GGH||Dr. YSR Aarogyasri Health Care Trust district co-ordinator Y. Balasubrahmanyam said a special outpatient ward has been set up in the Government General Hospital, Vijayawada, for employees and their family members. Dr. Balasubrahmanyam held a meeting with APNGOs association’s representatives headed by district president A. Vidyasagar here on Monday. He said the special OP ward in GGH will be open between 2 p.m. and 4 p.m. daily and called upon employees and their family members to make use of the facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-outpatient-ward-at-ggh/article33846506.ece
16 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM urged to intervene in Kabaddi assn. row||Former Andhra Kabaddi Association secretary and sports administrator K.P. Rao sought the intervention of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy in streamlining the association by conducting elections under the supervision of a retired judge. Mr. Rao raised the issue of ‘group politics’ in the association. He released an open letter in which he stated that the two warring groups heading the association were not recognised by the Sports Authority of A.P. and not eligible to conduct State championships. He said that due to such issues, players were the biggest sufferers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-urged-to-intervene-in-kabaddi-assn-row/article33847182.ece
16 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Senior U.N. official calls on Jagan||United Nations Assistant Secretary General Satya S. Tripathi called on Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at his camp office on Monday. During the interaction, the Chief Minister said the State government has been striving to promote natural farming and organic farming and also to provide marketing facilities. He said steps were taken to provide traning to farmers through custom hiring centers in Rythu Bharosa Kendras. Mr. Tripathi said advanced technologies were available to segregate electronic waste from plastic waste through e-clusters. The Chief Minister explained the necessity for recycling food processing waste and that the government departments concerned should move forward in that direction. The duo also discussed the necessity to achieve carbon neutrality through natural farming.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/senior-un-official-calls-on-jagan/article33847093.ece
16 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dental hospital opened||The Apollo Hospitals has opened the dental hospital at Gayatri Nagar in the city on Monday. Vijaya Dairy chairman Chalasani Anjaneyulu inaugurated the facility. The dental hospital was set up with all modern facilities, said Dr. Bandla Ramchand, addding that patients can avail of free consulations till February 28. Tagore Group of Companies chairman Dhanekula Ravindranath Tagore and others took part in the inauguration programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dental-hospital-opened/article33847185.ece
16 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Convene emergency Assembly meet on VSP, Raghavulu urges CM||CPI(M) Polit Bureau Member B.V. Raghavulu called on workers of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), who are on a relay hunger strike at Kurmannapalem here on Monday camp and expressed solidarity with them. Addressing the workers, Mr. Raghavulu lashed out at the Union government for planning to privatise almost all the 300 public sector units (PSUs) in the country and hand them over to private and corporate groups. He said that the VSP was not a steel plant but has become an integral part of the people of Visakhapatnam and north Andhra. He said that all parties were opposed to the privatisation of the VSP. The Centre, which had failed to implement the promises made in the A.P. Reorganisation Act, 2014, was out to privatise the VSP and cause further injustice to the State, he alleged. The NDA government, had failed to give Special Category Status (SCS) to the State, special package to the backward districts of north Andhra and funds for the Visakhapatnam-headquartered new railway zone, the CPI(M) leader alleged. Mr. Raghavulu called upon the Chief Minister to convene an emergency meeting of the Assembly and adopt a resolution against privatisation of the VSP and sent it to Delhi. He said that the CPI(M) was ready to speak to any party on protection of the VSP and appealed to all parties to sink their differences on the issue. He said that the CPI(M) was ready to garner the support of the party MPs from Kerala and West Bengal in the fight against privatisation of the VSP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/convene-emergency-assembly-meet-on-vsp-raghavulu-urges-cm/article33847196.ece
16 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stage set for polls in 237 gram panchayats tomorrow||District Collector V. Vinay Chand has said that the Model Code of Conduct (MCC), which is already in force in the district, has now come into force in the city and urban areas of the district as the Election Commission has notified the dates for polls in the 12 municipal corporations and 75 municipalities in the State. The MCC has come into force in the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation(GVMC) limits and the Narsipatnam and Yelamanchili Municipalities in the district with immediate effect.  Counting at 2 p.m. The Collector said that all arrangements have been completed for the conduct of polls to 237 of the 244 gram panchayats and 1,465 wards in Paderu Division on February 17. The total voters in the division are 4,36,103. A total of 6,029 polling staff, 198 micro observers and 82 videographers have been appointed for the polls, which will be held from 6.30 a.m. to 1.30 p.m. Counting will begin at 2 p.m. The Collector said that 543 vehicles would be used for the polls. They include 237 jeeps, 13 vans, 30 Boleros and 17 RTC buses. An additional 10 jeeps would be used for transport of voters, staying in remote locations, to the polling booths. He said that three Joint Collectors M. Venugopal Reddy, P. Arun Babu and R. Govinda Rao, ITDA Project Officer S. Venkateswar and Narsipatnam Sub- Collector N. Mourya would be observers for smooth conduct of the polls. He also said that 10 polling stations have been changed in view of security reasons. A total of 80 special buses are being arranged for the transportation of employees going to attend polling duties at various places in Paderu Division from the Andhra University Engineering College and other places in the district, at 4 a.m. on February 16. Buses will also be available at NTR Stadium for poll staff going from Anakapalle, Kasimkota and Munagapaka mandals, at Chodavaram Bus Station for those going from Chodavaram, Butchayyapeta, Devarapalle, Cheedikada and Mungapaka mandals, at Yelamanchili Gurappa Kalyana Mandapam for those going from Yelamanchili, Rambilli and Atchutapuram mandals, buses will also be available at Narsiptnam, Paderu and S. Kota mandals, according to Mr. Vinay Chand. Buses will be available from Narsipatnam Bus Station via Koyyuru, Chintapalli-Gudem, Vaddadi to Paderu, G. Madugula, Paderu, Pedabayalu-Munchingput, Hukumpeta, Dumbriguda, Araku and Anantagiri in different routes. Buses will be available from Anakapalle for Anakapalle, Kasimkota and Munagapaka staff to go to Araku and Anantagiri mandals and buses have been provided from S. Kota to go to Anantagiri, Araku and Paderu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stage-set-for-polls-in-237-gram-panchayats-tomorrow/article33847189.ece
16 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sustainable living need of the hour: expert||Climate change and urbanisation are two of the most important phenomena facing the world today and they are inextricably linked, observed Fulbright fellow in Environmental Studies at Yale University (USA) Suman Chandra. She participated in the discussions during the national webinar on ‘Climate Change Adaptation: Traditional Wisdom and Cross-Scale Understanding,’ jointly organised by GITAM School of Gandhian Studies and United States India Education Forum (USIEF), here on Monday. Greenhouse emissions She pointed that India ranks fourth in the list of countries that produce highest greenhouse emissions and this could be a result of massive urbanisation. Ms. Chandra emphasised that we need to prioritise sustainable living and make it a part of our lifestyle in order to protect the planet. She suggested that a planned urbanisation in countries such as India could serve as a great adaptation method. A. Rama Mohan Reddy, former forest service officer, who extended his services in the Himalayan region, focussed on the impact of climate change on forests which include frequent fires, unforeseen floods, untimely flowering of various plant species and the likes. Visakha Society for Protection and Care of Animals (VSPCA) member Priya Tallam spoke about resilience in coastal communities and various activities undertaken by the VSPCA towards the betterment of the ocean and the marine life along the coast of Visakhapatnam. The panel of speakers included IIM (Ahmedabad) Professor Rama Mohan Turaga, Samata Executive Director Ravi Rebbapragada, Ashoka Trust post doctoral research associate Vikram Aditya, Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) researcher Bijayashree Satapathy and Stanford University researcher Krti Tallam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sustainable-living-need-of-the-hour-expert/article33847193.ece
16 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Integrated medical camp organised at tribal village||Sri Sathya Sai Seva Samithi (SSSSS), Ukkunagaram, organised a free integrated medical camp at Gadugupalli tribal village of Hukumpeta mandal of Paderu with the assistance of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant(VSP) under its CER(Corporate Environment Responsibility). Medical teams of SSSSS Organisations, Vizag district, led by Dr. G.V.S. Rao, doctors, paramedical team, N.S. Rao, former Director (Projects), Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, and former-convener of Ukkunagram SSSSS, R.A. Naidu, district mobile hospital service coordinator, SSSSO, Vizag district, G. Ramakrishna. Convener, Ukkunagaram SSSSS and Sevadal, participated in the medical camp. In all, 321 tribals were examined for dental, gynaecology, ophthalmology (eye) and general medicine by the team of doctors and were also given free medicines. The patients who need treatment were brought to Visakhapatnam. Ganesh, district president, SSS Tribal Villages, and Sevadal (service volunteers) of SSSSO, Paderu, were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/integrated-medical-camp-organised-at-tribal-village/article33847190.ece
16 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Swollen glands and weight loss are early symptoms of childhood cancer, says expert||The most common childhood cancers are leukaemia, brain and other central nervous system tumours, and lymphoma. These cancers account for more than half of all cancers diagnosed in children but only a small percentage of these cancers are diagnosed in adults. Although a small number of cases of childhood cancers are due to genetic abnormalities, the causes of most childhood cancers are unknown, says Manoj Kumar, consultant paediatrician, KIMS ICON Hospital. The early symptoms of childhood cancer include fever, feeling tired, swollen glands and weight loss. When these signs and symptoms last or are severe, the doctor may order tests to check for cancer or other illnesses. Depending upon the type and site of tumour, biopsy, bone marrow aspiration and imaging of the tumour (X Ray, ultrasound, CT scan, MRI scan, bone scan, PET scan) are done for confirmation and staging of cancer. Chemotherapy is treatment with drugs to stop or slow the growth of cancer cells. Chemotherapy works by destroying cells that are in the process of dividing. Radiation therapy uses high-energy radiation to destroy cancer cells and shrink tumours. External beam radiation therapy is the most common type of radiation therapy used to treat cancer in children. Surgery is an essential part of treatment for many solid tumours. The type of surgery depends on the type of cancer and location of the tumour, says Dr. Manoj Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/swollen-glands-and-weight-loss-are-early-symptoms-of-childhood-cancer-says-expert/article33847194.ece
16 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘CM not bothered about privatisation of VSP’||Former Minister K. Atchannaidu has alleged that neither the State government nor the Chief Minister are bothered about the privatisation of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant(VSP). Speaking to the media here on Monday, Mr. Atchannaidu said that TDP Parliamentary district president Palla Sinivas was on an indefinite fast for protection of the VSP, but the State and Central governments were not responding. The Chief Minister has not spoken on the issue for the past one week and writing a letter to the Prime Minister was of no use, he said. The former Minister alleged that the Chief Minister had not convened the all-party meet or took any action on leading a delegation of MPs to Delhi to meet the Prime Minister. Referring to the statements of Minister Botcha Satyanarayana that privatisation plans were there during the rule of Mr. N. Chandrababu Naidu also, he said that Mr. Naidu had stopped the privatisation proposal by taking it up with the then Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee. Naidu’s visit today Mr. Atchannaidu said that TDP MLAs and MPs were ready to resign and follow the Chief Minister if he led the MPs delegation to Delhi. He said that TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu was coming to Visakhapatnam on Tuesday to express solidarity with Mr. Srinivas. He said that the agitation would be intensified further. Former Ministers N. Chinarajappa and Bandaru Satyanarayana Murthy, and party leader Sribharat were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-not-bothered-about-privatisation-of-vsp/article33847122.ece
16 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||44 taken off rowdy list||The city police removed names of 44 persons from rowdy-sheeter list under the ‘Marpu’ programme. In Visakhapatnam, there are about 440 persons listed under the history sheets at various police stations. A committee consisting of jurisdictional DCP (law and order), ADCP (City Special Branch) and ACP Task Force, was formed for the purpose. The committee, after reviewing all the rowdy sheets, has approved for the deletion of 44 rowdy sheets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/44-taken-off-rowdy-sheeter-list/article33847031.ece
16 February 2021||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Temples gear up for Aksharabhyasam||As many as 3,500 children are expected to be introduced to the world of letters on the auspicious day of Vasanata Panchami on Tuesday. Sri Jnana Saraswati Temple has made elaborate arrangements for the mass Aksharabhyasam, where temple chief priest P. Tatacharyulu will help children write their first words. Sarada Seva Sangham president Cherukuri Sridhar reviewed the arrangements for the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/temples-gear-up-for-aksharabhyasam/article33847121.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu’s claims on poll results false: Mekapati||Industries Minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy disputed the claim made by N. Chandrababu Naidu that the TDP-supported candidate won the panchayat election in the Minister’s native village of Brahmanapalli in Marripadu mandal in Nellore district. “It was YSRC-backed candidate who won with a majority of 1,088 votes in Brahmanapalli. In fact, no TDP-supported candidate was in the fray in the panchayat,” the Minister said in a release, adding that that candidates backed by the YSRCP have won 90% of the panchayats in his native constituency of Atmakur. He said that Mr. Naidu had made false statements suggesting that the YSRCP-backed candidate had lost the election in Brahmanapalli. Mr. Gautham Reddy also urged the media to check the facts before publishing or broadcasting such news.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidus-claims-on-poll-results-false-mekapati/article33847088.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Moving stall||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/moving-stall/article33847187.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seeking their due||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seeking-their-due/article33847198.ece
16 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Caring for children with cancer||Being diagnosed with cancer is a shock that most adults fail to immediately come to terms with. So, how does one explain it to a child detected with the deadly disease? On International Childhood Cancer Day, observed on February 15, oncologists and counsellors shared how they break the news to children and other aspects. The news is conveyed to children only if they are aged above 12 years, based on their understanding capabilities and parents’ consent, said doctors from MNJ Institute of Oncology Regional Cancer Centre, Red Hills. Oncologists at other hospitals also said young children are generally spared the tragic news. In any case, however, doctors and counsellors explain the situation first to the parents. An associate professor of Medical Oncology at MNJ Institute, P. Krishna Chaitanya said most tumours in children are curable and that fact is impressed upon parents. Most parents often tend to be in denial at first, explained MNJ Institute director, N. Jayalatha. “Parents may not have thought their children can get cancer, and they cannot see their children suffer. To confirm if it is true, they usually visit two to three specialists,” she said. In a few cases, patients have to stay at the hospital for two to three months. Families who live in faraway villages choose to stay at hospitals rather than commute every day. Dr Jayalatha said when patients feel better after a few rounds of chemotherapy, families choose to skip further treatment, which leads to regrowth of tumours. At Basavataram Indo-American Cancer Hospital and Research Institute, counsellors focus on creating a cheerful atmosphere to keep the spirits of children high. Head of Patient Care at the institute, K. Haritha said they try to keep the children happy as much as possible and keep them engaged by arranging play activities or involving them in artistic pursuits such as pottery and even call volunteer-teachers to impart education. “We celebrate birthdays of all the children as well as all festivals. If any child loses hair during therapy and wants to go to school, we arrange wigs for them. Before they go to schools, we explain the child’s condition to the school management concerned and precautions to be taken,” she said. Awareness programme A special cancer awareness and cultural programme was organised at the institute on Monday. Dr Haritha and Dr Krishna Chaitanya said they try to address financial constraints faced during the treatment process with the help of NGOs and other voluntary organisations. Consultant paediatric oncologist at American Oncology Institute, Parinitha Gutha said they explain the medical condition to young children without using the word cancer and give them hope that treatment would help in recovery. She said it is important since the children have to look forward to treatment and not be scared by it. She, however, stressed that she encourages parents to inform children that they are cancer survivors as they grow up since lifelong follow-up is important and that becomes easy if the survivor knows about it. The doctors said she has come across at least one case where a young man did not know he had survived kidney cancer as a youngster.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/caring-for-children-with-cancer/article33847005.ece
16 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||VROs worried over collection of caste, community data||At a time when the Village Revenue Officers (VROs) in the State are in a peculiar situation best described themselves as “neither here nor there”, a circular issued by the government, which seeks information on their caste and community, has pushed them into consternation further. According to official sources, the office of the Chief Commissioner of Land Administration (CCLA) which is being handled by the Chief Secretary himself has issued a “most urgent” circular on February 13 asking the District Collectors to send information about the VROs, the posts which stand abolished by the State government from September 9 last year as part of the revenue reforms, in three annexures. When the abolishment of the posts was announced, the government assured them to adjust and absorb them into different government departments based on their qualifications. However, they remain unattached to any department even five months after the abolition of the posts. “In spite of not attached to any department we are getting sandwiched between the District Collectors and tahsildars as the former are giving us some tasks, work related to administration in different nature, while the latter are keeping us away in any matter,” said president of Telangana VROs’ Association Golconda Satish. The VROs, whose working strength was 5,485 as on the date of abolition of the posts, are apprehensive about the new information sought about them through the fresh circular. It is stated that the fresh circular was issued after finding variation in the reports submitted by district administrations. “We are worried about the information sought on caste and community of the VROs as we fear discrimination in the guise of it, as and when the State government puts in motion our absorption into other departments,” Mr. Satish said. The District Collectors have been asked to treat the matter (circular) of sending information as most immediate. In annexure-i the details of VROs working in the district in a 18-column proforma has been sought, while in the annexure-ii details actual working, information on their suspension or disciplinary action, if any, ACB cases against them, if any, and their record of absconding from duties and long leave, if any. In annexure-iii, the details of VROs’ community and caste, education qualification, mode of appointment – direct recruitment or compassionate grounds or on promotion has been sought. Although, some officials have told them that caste and community information is being sought for their adjustment in other departments, the VROs’ association is not convinced. Their position of not belonging to any department without any clarity on their cadre or category of post has mattered most when the Pay Revision Commission (PRC) has submitted its report without any place or pay structure – present or recommended – in the report. “We need clarity on our position and future, including pay revision and promotions,” Mr. Golconda Satish said adding that they had played a key role in implementing several welfare schemes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vros-worried-over-collection-of-data-on-caste-community/article33846629.ece
16 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hospital signs on Sonu Sood as brand ambassador||Ankura Hospital, a super specialty hospital chain for women and children in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, has appointed Bollywood actor, producer, and humanitarian Sonu Sood as its brand ambassador. On Monday, the hospital chain launched its 10th centre at L.B. Nagar in the city. The 50,000 sq.ft. centre equipped with 120 beds was inaugurated by the actor in presence of Krishna Prasad, founder and managing director of Ankura Hospitals. Sood has been riding a wave of popularity following the assistance he extended to several stranded migrant labourers during the COVID-19 lockdown last year, helping them reach their native places safe and sound. Recently, he was in Hyderabad to launch a free ambulance service started by a fan, Shiva, a swimmer who has saved over 100 people from drowning in the Hussainsagar when they attempted suicide by jumping into the lake. Inspired by his charitable acts, a young couple in Khammam, P. Naveen and Triveni, had named their baby boy after Sonu Sood earlier this month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hospital-signs-on-sonu-sood-as-brand-ambassador/article33847004.ece
16 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID cases fall below 100 for first time in 7 months||After a little over seven months, less than 100 COVID-19 cases were recorded in Telangana on Sunday. Only 99 people were detected with coronavirus even as 15,766 samples were tested. With this, the tally now stands at 2,96,673. From the past seven days, over 100 to 150 people have tested positive in a day. Less number of cases were detected on Sunday as comparatively less number of samples are put to test as against 26,000 to 31,000 people being examined daily. The new 99 cases include 24 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) region and 10 from Rangareddy. No cases were reported from 13 districts. There has also been a marked drop in the cases recorded in the GHMC region. In the current month, not more than 31 cases have been detected in a day. Two more COVID patients succumbed to the infection, taking the death toll in the State to 1,618. At present, there are 1,676 were active cases and 2,93,379 have recovered. A total of 82,11,404 samples have been tested across the State since March 2 last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-cases-fall-below-100-for-first-time-in-seven-months/article33847007.ece
16 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||50 canines to ‘graduate’ from IITA today||After a rigorous training of eight months in crime prevention and detection by the personnel of Intelligence Security Wing, as many as 50 canines of five different breed would graduate from the Integrated Intelligence Training Academy (IITA) in Moinabad on Tuesday. The 20th batch of Basic Induction Course for Canines and Canine Handlers began on June 15, last. Director General of Police M Mahender Reddy would be the chief guest of the Dikshant Parade. Officials said that the training was imparted to 50-canines of five different breeds, including Labrador, German-Shepard, Belgian-Malinois, Golden-Retriever and Cocker-Spaniel, in explosive sniffing , narcotics and tracking, along with 80-canine handlers and spare handlers. The trainees are from Telangana and Bihar States. The canine and canine handlers basic training course includes two months of love and affection, two months of basic obedience and and four months of specialised category training in explosives, narcotics, and liquor sniffing, tracking, assault and guarding. The performance of the canines and the canine handlers is evaluated through tests on a monthly basis, whereas agility tests of the canines are conducted on a daily basis. If any canine shows any mediocre performance, extra care is taken by the instructors to improve their performance. Mock drills were conducted to have a real time experience for the canines in sniffing activities like explosive, liquor and narcotic detection in public places, including bus stations, railway stations and airports. According to officials, a mid-term test and a final test were conducted in explosives and narcotics sniffing and tracking, for the canines, while written and oral test was conducted for the canine handler by a visiting faculty of other training centres. This year P.K.Chug, Consulting Director of Police K-9 Cell PM Division in Ministry of Home Affairs, was the examiner for the final test. Since 2004, as many as 669-canines and 965-handlers and spare-handlers have been trained in by the Integrated Intelligence Training Academy and those canines are being used widely to attend to anti-sabotage checks in connection with VIP/VVIPs visits, attending bomb threat calls and in crime investigation duties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/50-canines-to-graduate-today/article33847011.ece
16 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Reject corrupt politics of TRS, BJP: Cong.||The Congress party appealed to the Graduates to elect G. Chinna Reddy, Ramulu Naik in the ensuing elections to two Graduates’ Constituencies in the Legislative Council as party win would end commercialisation of politics being practised by BJP and corrupt politics of TRS. Party State chief N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, addressing a press meet here on Monday, after handing over B-Forms to party candidates for MLC polls, exuded confidence that the party would win the elections to the two Graduates’ Constituencies in the Legislative Council. The party has given tickets to former minister G. Chinna Reddy for Mahabubnagar-Rangareddy-Hyderabad constituency and former MLC Ramulu Naik for Khammam-Warangal-Nalgonda constituency. The TPCC president said the Congress party had picked efficient, able and committed leaders as its candidates for MLC polls. He stated that Mr. Chinna Reddy holds a Ph.D degree in Agriculture and was known for his honesty and simplicit, while Mr. Ramulu Naik was born into a poor family and came up in his life after hard struggle. However, neither students nor employees were benefited with formation of Telangana and instead “Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and his family took control of all resources and neglected everyone”, he alleged. The MLC polls were an opportunity to the educated youth to teach a fitting lesson to the corrupt and unethical regimes of TRS and BJP,, the TPCC chief and Nalgonda MP said. Further, he pointed out that the TRS Government had lured jobless youth in the 2018 Assembly elections by promising them Rs. 3,016 per month as unemployment allowance. However, the promise remained unfulfilled even after two-and-a-half years, Mr. Uttam Reddy stating that it was an example of how Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao had been deceiving the jobless youth. The promise of 2014 elections to fill one-lakh vacancies was also unkept. The Pay Revision Commission, in its recent report, had disclosed that over 1.91 lakh posts were vacant in various government departments, the TPCC chief said. The delay in the recruitment process had deprived thousands of students, who participated in the Telangana movement, the opportunity to vie for a government job. Alleging that gross injustice was being done to the State Government staff, the Congress leader said the revision of pay scales was long overdue but the recent PRC report had disappointed them badly as only 7.3% fitment was recommended by it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/reject-corrupt-politics-of-trs-bjp-cong/article33847017.ece
16 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Special facilities for senior citizens during MLC polls||The differently abled, senior citizens and COVID-19 positive persons will have special consideration when it comes to voting in the Mahabubnagar-Ranga Reddy-Hyderabad Graduates Constituency elections for the Telangana Legislative Council on March 14. The election staff themselves will identify and approach the three categories of voters to enable them to vote, GHMC Commissioner and Election Officer D.S. Lokesh Kumar said during a review meeting on Monday. Mr. Lokesh Kumar informed that a total of 5.6 lakh voters will vote for the MLC elections. Hyderabad district will have 169 polling stations, while the distribution, reception and counting centre has been temporarily organised at the indoor stadium at L.B. Stadium. He directed the officials to ensure web casting and infrastructure at every polling station. Special teams will be constituted to enforce the Model Code of Conduct, he said. GHMC Additional Commissioner Priyanka Ala will be the Returning Officer for the conduct of the elections, and her office in the GHMC headquarters will receive the nominations. Notification for the elections will be released on February 16, and the last date for nominations will be February 23. The nominations will be scrutinised within one day, and the deadline for withdrawal will be February 26. Polling will be held between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m. on March 14.  Counting of votes will be taken up on March 17, and the polling process will be concluded on March 22, a statement from GHMC informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/special-facilities-for-senior-citizens/article33847025.ece
16 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Farmers uncertain over their future: Revanth||Loaded with Telangana satire, he delivers punchy speeches targeting the government as crowds respond with whistles airing slogans -- Jai Revanth, Jai Congress. This has been a common feature at the roadside meetings of TPCC working president A. Revanth Reddy during his ongoing 10-day Rajiv Rythu Bharosa Yatra from Achampet to Hyderabad covering several villages and towns. But underneath their enthusiasm lies dejection and despair of the present situation and a sense of fear about their future, says Revanth. “I could sense during my interactions that farmers feel agriculture is not their future,” he says adding both the Central and State governments have failed them with false promises. “It’s not just farmers but youngsters in villages too have lost the track. Liquor is flowing and children as young as 12 have got addicted to it,” he says as he walks along with hundreds of his followers and farmers in Kandukur mandal. During his roadside meetings, Mr Revanth doesn’t hesitate to take on the TRS government as he asks why Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had backtracked from his initial opposition to the farm laws. “If the CM is compromises, what confidence farmers will have,” he asks. During his speeches he recalls the contribution of the Congress party for the welfare of farmers. The Congress MP also attacks KCR saying Rs. 5,000 Rythu Bandhu is not the panacea to the farmers problems after denying them several benefits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/farmers-uncertain-over-their-future-revanth/article33847028.ece
16 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Group of 4 arrested for extortion||Four persons, including three transwomen and a cross-dresser, were arrested by Dundigal police of Cyberabad Commissionerate on Monday for extortion and creating nuisance. According to police, the group had barged into the complainant’s newly constructed house at Dulapally village during the house-warming ceremony on Monday afternoon and demanded money. When the complainant refused to pay and asked them to go they threatened him, pelted stones, cursed the family members and even created nuisance by removing their clothes and using foul language, Sub Inspector D. Mahesh said. The group forcefully took away Rs. 4,000 from the complainant’s pocket and left the place. Based on his complaint, a case was registered and within a few hours the accused — Swathi, Sravani, Shivani and Bhumi — were arrested and remanded to judicial custody, the officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/group-of-4-arrested-for-extortion/article33847012.ece
16 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Worker crushed to death||A 26-year-old labourer was crushed to death after he came under a lift while carrying out work at an under-construction building in Cherlapally here on Monday afternoon. The lift, which was stationed on the second floor, suddenly came down crashing after its cable broke. It fell on Vishal Mali of Nehru Nagar, who was working on the first floor before crashing on the ground floor. Police said that the accident took place around 4 p.m. and the victim suffered severe injuries and died on the spot. His body was shifted to Gandhi Hospital morgue for autopsy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/worker-crushed-to-death/article33847013.ece
16 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Man falls to death||A 35-year-old man died after he accidentally fell off from a building in Mailardevpally here on Monday. The victim, Venkatesh, a local, was coming down after drinking alcohol with his friend Raju on the building when he fell to his death, Rajendranagar ACP R. Sanjay Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-falls-to-death/article33847135.ece
16 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Four of attention diversion gang held||Six members of an ‘organised’ attention diversion gang, including four women, were apprehended by the Hyderabad Commissioner’s Task Force (North Zone) here on Monday. The gang used to visit jewellery shops in the guise of prospective customers, divert the attention of shop owners and steal silver ornaments. Police seized 1,070 grams of silver articles, an auto rickshaw and four mobile phones, all worth Rs. 2.50 lakh, from the possession of the accused and detected three cases. The accused have been identified as — Yata Renuka, Munnelli Kiran, Yata Thulasi, Yata Swetha, Yata Raju and Elizabeth Rani — all relatives who hail from Andhra Pradesh’s Prakasam district. They were handed over to police stations in Hyderabad, Cyberabad and Rachakonda commissionerates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/four-of-attention-diversion-gang-held/article33847137.ece
16 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ramchander, Premender are MLC candidates||The central leadership of the BJP has announced the candidature of city president and incumbent MLC N. Ramchander Rao for the Hyderabad - Ranga Reddy - Mahabubnagar Graduates constituency - and general secretary G. Premender Reddy for Khammam - Nalgonda - Warangal Graduates constituency for the upcoming elections for the Legislative Council on Monday. The party expressed the confidence over both candidates emerging victorious going by the recent political trends in the State, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ramchander-premender-are-bjp-mlc-candidates/article33847023.ece
16 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||More HCWs skip second dose of COVID vaccine||Healthcare workers (HCWs) in Telangana continued to give the second dose of COVID-19 vaccine a miss on Monday. The State Health department had targeted 13,968 HCWs for administering the follow-up jab on Monday, but only 10,932 or 78% turned up. No case of Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI) was reported. On Saturday, when the Health department started to administer the second dose, 556 HCWs had skipped it. Apart from HCWs, 322 frontline workers (FLW) were given the first dose of the vaccine on Monday. Between January 16 and February 15, a total of 2,79,258 have received the first dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/more-hcws-skip-second-dose-of-covid-vaccine/article33847008.ece
16 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS seed startup to commercialise products from Israeli firm||Foragen Seeds, a forage seed startup based in Hyderabad, plans to commercialise products, in the next few years, from Israeli genomics AI firm NRGene’s crop breeding programme of maize, rice and chili-pepper in India. After evaluation of the germplasm licensed by NRGene and the creation of hybrids in the coming seasons, Foragen Seeds will launch new commercial products, co-founder and CEO Prabhakar Babu Gunturu said on Monday. He said this announcing that NRGene has signed an agreement to transfer its India-based eight-year-old crop breeding programme of maize, rice and chili-pepper to Foragen Seeds. The agreement with NRGene will enable Foragen Seeds to enhance its domain expertise, consolidate the forage business and expand footprint rapidly. Foragen intends to foray into the over Rs. 2,000 crore potential field crops business. “The germplasms and breeding materials will significantly help in developing a robust commercial product pipeline suited to various climate zones in India and other tropical and sub-tropical countries,” a release said. Foragen Seeds, which has its corporate office here, is a genetics-based forage seed start-up and currently focused on offering dairy farms value-added products. Majority of its forage products are indigenously developed at its research and development stations in Hyderabad and Bellary. Mr.Gunturu said it aims to be a top notch forage seed company in next 3-5 years and the agreement would augment its position in the field crops business. Fodder based corn hybrids is what it plans to launch, in backdrop of the agreement, next year. Grain based hybrids are expected to take three years to be launched,” he said, adding 10-12 products are likely to be commercialised over next five years. On plans to set up new facilities, he said Foragen has approached Telangana government for land, of about 2.5 acres, to set up a seed processing plant. It is among the largest fodder seed producer in the country with revenues of around Rs. 83 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-seed-startup-to-commercialise-products-from-israeli-firm/article33847131.ece
16 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Birth centenary celebrations of Dharmabhiksham||Speakers at the inaugural meeting of the Bommagani Dharmabhiksham birth centenary celebrations demanded the Communist leader’s statue on the Tank Bund and at a major junction. Speaking at the meeting, CPI State secretary Chada Venkat Reddy said the real tribute to Mr. Dharmabhiksham lies in preparing for struggles for resolution of people’s problems. The year-long centenary celebrations are being jointly conducted by CPI and Toddy Tappers’ Association which was established by Mr. Dharmabhiksham. The celebrations will culminate in a large public gathering on February 22, 2022. Noting that Mr. Dharmabhiksham’s followers are now in various political parties, Mr. Venkat Reddy said they too will be made part of the Bommagani Dharmabhiksham Centenary Celebrations Organising Committee. Heaping rich encomiums on the Communist stalwart, Mr. Venkat Reddy reminded that he won as Member of Parliament from Nalgonda, defeating 486 candidates in the fray. He had an ear to the ground, was part of the armed struggle against the Nizam’s rule, and strove to organise toddy tappers at national level. He took the Communist party and its struggles to several people, he said. TDP State president L. Ramana recalled his association with Mr. Dharmabhiksham.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/birth-centenary-celebrations-of-dharmabhiksham/article33847032.ece
16 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two youth killed in bike accident||Two youngsters were killed after their two-wheeler was hit by a lorry at Mir Chowk here in the wee hours of Monday. Around 1.40 a.m. 19-year-old student from Rasulpurua Fasi Khan and 22-year-old car denting worker from Musanagar in Chaderghat Mosin Khan were travelling on their bike towards Old City to attend a friend’s wedding. Enroute the accident took place near Dar-ul-Shifa crossroad. “A lorry coming in the opposite direction hit the bike. The duo were thrown off the two-wheeler and got crushed under the wheels of the lorry,” Mir Chowk Sub-Inspector K. Surender said. He said that a case was registered against the lorry driver and the bodies were later handed over to the family members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-youth-killed-in-bike-accident/article33847134.ece
16 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Prepare note on Telangana achievements’||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has asked officials to prepare brief note highlighting various achievements of the State to be presented to Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao for the upcoming Sixth Governing Council meeting of the Niti Aayog on February 20. During a review with officials from various departments on Monday, Mr. Kumar said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will preside over the Niti Ayog meeting. He directed the officials to incorporate a table in the report, indicating the rankings of the State on various indicators, along with inputs on key issues and policies based on the Chief Minister’s vision. He asked them to highlight various initiatives of the State such as TS-iPASS, KCR KITS, Rythu Bandhu, Rythu Bima and others. Special Chief Secretary Rani Kumudini, Principal Secretaries K. Ramakrishna Rao, Sunil Sharma, Arvind Kumar, Jayesh Ranjan, Secretaries B. Janardhan Reddy, S.A.M.Rizvi, and others attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/prepare-note-on-telangana-achievements/article33847000.ece
16 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Online course from ICAR-PJTSAU||Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University (PJTSAU) has launched the phase-two of Massive Open Online Course (MOOC) on “Information Handling Skills for Teaching, Learning and Research” here on Monday under ICAR-National Agricultural Higher Education Project (IG). Deputy Director General of ICAR and National Director of ICAR-NAHEP R.C. Agarwal, national coordinator R.B. Sharma and Vice-Chancellor of PJTSAU V. Praveen Rao participated in the launch programme. Registration for the online course could be done till March 6 and the classed for the three-week course would commence from March 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/online-course-from-icar-pjtsau/article33847019.ece
16 February 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Moringa puts tribal women on self-reliance path||Amid COVID-19 pandemic-induced adversity, a group of tribal women of Mucherla village in Kamepalli mandal is trying to chart a path towards self-reliance by exploring the nutritional potential of moringa (drumstick) leaves. The district is well known for moringa cultivation and the nutrient-rich plants are being grown on an estimated 143 acres in Raghunadhapalem, Khammam rural and other mandals adjoining Kamepalli mandal, sources said. Nutrient powerhouse The seedpod of the moringa tree is widely used for culinary purposes and the moringa leaves are a storehouse of nutrients. There is a huge demand for moringa leaf powder mainly for its rich iron content that helps tackle malnutrition and prevent anaemia. To capitalise on the growing demand for moringa leaf powder, a Joint Liability Group (JLG) of some local tribal women has set up Sri Rama Moringa Processing Unit in Mucherla recently. The unit had been inaugurated by Tribal Welfare Minister Satyavathi Rathod on January 30. It forms the crux of the collaborative initiative of the Central and State governments and the International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT), Hyderabad, to promote entrepreneurship among tribal women, meet the nutritional needs of the local communities and foster sustainable livelihoods. As per ICRISAT’s collaborative plan, the food processing unit is expected to provide substantial value addition to locally grown moringa and benefit local farmers. Leaf powder supply The government agencies concerned are mulling over a proposal to supply moringa leaf powder to the Tribal Welfare residential educational institutions through the Telangana Girijan Cooperative Corporation, sources added. The tribal women of Mucherla had undergone training in food processing and entrepreneurship at ICRISAT’s Agribusiness and Innovation Platform (AIP) last year, said Sujatha, Assistant Director (Agriculture), ITDA, Bhadrachalam. The trained women formed the JLG and subsequently set up the moringa powder processing unit with the support of Tribal Cooperative Finance Corporation Ltd (TRICOR) to market moringa powder as a health supplement. The unit is well equipped to process around three to five quintals of moringa leaves per day to make powder out of the leaves in hygienic conditions. It has already started operations on a trial basis and the full-fledged commercial production will start soon. Modalities are being worked out to finalise the marketing tie-ups and launch the product in the market at the earliest in compliance with the norms, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/moringa-puts-tribal-women-on-self-reliance-path/article33847133.ece
16 February 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||New bus station in Khammam to open likely on March 1||Decks have been cleared for operating buses from the ‘ultra-modern’ new bus station, which is fast nearing completion in the heart of the town, from March 1, 2021. A decision to this effect was taken by the higher authorities of the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC), sources said. However, the date of formal inauguration of the new bus station has not yet been finalised. The move to throw open the new bus station for commuters will help find a lasting solution to the congestion woes of passengers at the existing old bus station near Mayuri Centre. The COVID-19 induced crisis has resulted in considerable delay in execution of the work on the new bus station, the foundation stone for which was laid in mid-2017 at an estimated cost of Rs. 17 crore. Work on the bus station complex gathered momentum following renewed focus by the TSRTC on the facility in the aftermath of the lockdown. The new bus station complex will have 30 platforms with ample space for free movement of the buses. It will have all the modern amenities including crew rest rooms and a cafeteria, sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-bus-station-in-khammam-to-open-likely-on-march-1/article33847146.ece
16 February 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Need to build united mass movements against farm laws, says union leader||Thousands of aggrieved farmers are spearheading the protests at Delhi against the farm laws relentlessly with resolute commitment to protect the farm sector, the backbone of the country’s economy and food security, said the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSSC) leader Ashish Mittal. He was addressing a large gathering of farmers, agricultural workers and others at Rythu Garjana, a public meeting organised by the CPI (ML-New Democracy) district committee here late on Monday evening. Earlier, a huge rally was held in the town to express solidarity with the agitating farmers and to press for immediate rollback of the Centre’s three farm laws. An array of cultural programmes were staged by the Arunodaya artists en route the rally in support of the agitating farmers. The All India Kisan Mazdoor Sabha (AIKMS) general secretary V Venkatramaiah, State general secretary K Ranga Reddy, the CPI (ML-ND) State assistant secretary P Ranga Rao, former Yellandu MLA G Narasaiah, the Telangana Jana Samithi president M Kodandaram and others took part in the rally. In his speech at the Pavilion Grounds, Mr Ashish alleged that the pro-corporate farm laws would not only rob millions of farmers their traditional livelihoods but also deprive poor people of food security. “Undeterred by intimidating tactics, the farmers are continuing their agitation with overwhelming support from all sections of the society,” he said, deploring that the BJP dispensation at the Centre was trying to “suppress” the farmers’ agitation by carrying out a “misinformation campaign.” The need of the hour is to build united mass movements across the country in support of farmers (food givers) against the anti-farmer laws and mount pressure on the Centre repeal the “black laws”, he said. Other speakers hit out at the TRS regime in the State for allegedly taking a “U-turn” on the Centre’s new farm laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/need-to-build-united-mass-movements-against-farm-laws-says-union-leader/article33847148.ece
16 February 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||‘FASTag bazar’ springs up at toll plazas||The Ministry of Road Transport & Highways’ (MoRTH) decision to declare all lanes at toll plazas on National Highways ‘FASTag lanes’ from midnight of 15th/16th February, has turned the premises leading to toll complexes in undivided Nalgonda a bazar for FASTags. At least 20 member banks of the National Electronic Toll Collection (NETC) programme through their point-of-sales have made the Pantangi toll plaza, the second busiest gate in the State, at Choutuppal on NH-65 (Hyderabad-Vijayawada) their base camp. The agents set up their tents on either side of the toll complex, to offer the Radio Frequency Identification tags at attractive offers in no time. A customer would only need the registration certificate of the vehicle and ‘Know-Your-Customer’ documentation as required by respective banks, to hand over to the agent. Thanks to smartphones and online sharing and messenger applications, the exercise in most cases is a no-paper transaction. Points of sale were also set up at popular hotels and fuel stations on the route. According to plaza officials, the FASTag compliance at Pantangi toll gate, ever since the first announcement to make FASTag mandatory from December 1, 2019, kept increasing. And that was also the reason, officials say, the NH-65 stretch between Hyderabad and Vijayawada, even during Sankranti rush period, witnessed no queuing owing to toll payments. Sunday’s FASTag compliance figures at Pantangi, according to officials, was 88% and that at Gudur toll plaza (Hyderabad-Warangal) near Bibinagar hovered around 75%. Toll officials will be supported by local police units to check law & order issues, if any, during the mandatory implementation. As a standard operating procedure prescribed by MoRTH, vehicles with a functional FASTag should be able to exit the toll gate within three seconds. Back and forth movement of vehicles in FASTag lanes for RFID reading is prohibited. And if, for whatever reasons on part of the toll plaza, electronic toll collection is not possible, the users should be given a free passage. However, for mistakes by users - no FASTag, inactive FASTag due to low balance, non-functional FASTag such as owing to tag damage etc., they will be charged double toll fee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fastag-bazar-springs-up-at-toll-plazas/article33847026.ece
16 February 2021||SATWAR (SANGAREDDY DISTRICT),TELANGANA||Farmers pour out their tale of woe||Several farmers poured out their woes before Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) leaders here on Monday. They alleged that their lands were put under Part B, thereby blocking any transactions, resulting in several problems. Chandrasekhar Reddy, sarpanch, said that many are not getting passbooks. Registrations took place till 2018, and later they were put in part B mentioning as Wakf lands, he said. "For more than 50 years we are in possession of these lands and many transactions took place. Suddenly, they were stopped after introduction of Dharani portal. We are moving around government offices since the past two-and-a-half years, but with no result. We are neither getting bank loans, Rythu Bandhu nor Rythu Beema. The land extent is about 850 acres,” he said. CLP leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka said that lakhs of farmers are on protest for the past three months in New Delhi against three farm laws brought by the Modi government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/farmers-pour-out-their-tale-of-woe/article33847142.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Just in time!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/just-in-time/article33847139.ece
16 February 2021||GURUGRAM,||Commuters rush to get FASTags installed as deadline ends||Simi Puri, 37, a Sushant Lok-I resident here, had a FASTag installed on one of her two vehicles. But after the National Highways Authority of India made digital payments though FASTags at its toll plazas mandatory from February 16, she decided to get it installed on her second car as well. But she was not alone to throng the Point of Sale near the Kherki Daula toll plaza in a bid to beat the NHAI deadline. The Point of Sale on the roadside near the Kherki Daula toll plaza had an unusual rush of commuters on Monday. Waiting for the FASTag to be installed, Ms. Puri said her Sports Utility Vehicle already had the FASTag installed, but she now decided to get in fixed on her car as well. “This car is usually for the small distance, and the SUV is for long distance travel. But my husband asked me to get the FASTag installed on the car as well after he came to know about the NHAI deadline,” said Ms. Puri. The installation process, however, was quick and hassle-free. “It took just a few minutes,” said Ms. Puri. Rohit, a salesperson at the PoS, said the sale of FASTags had doubled over the past few days. “Earlier we sold 100-odd FASTags a day, but now it is around 200 every day for the past 4-5 days.” He added that the FASTag is activated soon after it is installed with a balance of Rs. 100. “But the payment is accepted only through digital mode. The customer can recharge it again in another 30 minutes,” said Mr. Rohit. As per the NHAI orders, all lanes of National Highway fee plazas have been declared as “FASTag lanes of Fee Plaza” with effect from 00:00 hours of February 16. The vehicles without valid and functional FASTag will have to pay fee equivalent to two times of the fee applicable to that category, as per the orders. Shashi Bhushan, Project Director, NHAI (Gurugram) said more kiosks to install FASTags were set up and adequate number of marshals were deployed to streamline the traffic in preparation for the roll out. “Already 80-85% commuters are making payment through FAStags. Besides, we have been conducting trials for 30-60 minutes everyday since December and collecting double the toll fee from those paying in cash,” said Mr. Bhushan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/commuters-rush-to-get-fastags-installed-as-deadline-ends/article33846990.ece
16 February 2021||GURUGRAM,||FIR against cricketer Yuvraj Singh||An FIR has been lodged against cricketer Yuvraj Singh for allegedly making offensive remarks against scheduled caste on a social media platform during a live video chat with fellow cricketers eight months ago. Hansi Superintendent of Police Nitika Gahlaut said the case was lodged under Section 3 of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, on February 14. “The case was registered on the complaint of Rajat Kansal,” she added. Mr. Kansal, a Dalit rights’ activist, toldThe Hinduthat Mr. Singh had passed comments against scheduled caste while talking about cricketer Yuzvendra Chahal. Mr. Kansal, seeking action against Mr. Singh, said his feelings were hurt as a Dalit due to the remarks. Mr. Singh had expressed regret for the comments after the controversy in June last year, and apologised for unintentionally hurting public sentiments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/fir-against-cricketer-yuvraj-singh/article33846989.ece
16 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Fathers face sons at the barricades||A t the Singhu border protest site, a head constable looks over rows of steel barricades and barriers to lock eyes with his father on the other side. Both stand their ground. The duo may be on opposite sides of the farm laws issue but once they return home at the end of the day, they coexist amicably, though lively debates do break out once in a while. “My father is on the other side of the barricades. He comes for the protest sometimes. They are fighting for what they believe in and we are committed to our duty,” he said, adding that there are discussions at his house about the protest and he shares his viewpoint that the January 26 incident shouldn’t have happened. Thousands of Delhi police personnel like the Head Constable are deployed at the three borders where farmers are protesting against three controversial agricultural laws, many of them are part-time farmers themselves or have fathers who work the fields.  Changed feelings Before the Red Fort violence, he said, officers were empathetic towards the farmers and also understood their problem, however, feelings changed after the Republic Day incident. A 51-year-old assistant sub-inspector posted at the border said that back in his village, his family asks him: “Why are you even on duty? You got beaten up”. He was visibly angry at the protesting farmers even after living with a farmer-father himself. “We are in uniform right now, so we can’t say anything, but after duty, we are free”. Another head constable said that he understands the government’s point of view, however, if he says something to his fellow villagers, they criticise him. “They’ll say that you are paid by the government so you will obviously side with them,” he said. Constable Prabhat said he comes from a rural background and his father is a farmer. “We have one acre of land in Shamli, Uttar Pradesh, which was not sufficient for a family of 10. Farming is never a profitable business. In order to give my family a better life, I prepared for police recruitment and got selected in the Delhi Police force in 2010. I don’t know who is right or wrong but the protesters should understand that police personnel come from the same village as protesters,” he said. Another constable, on condition of anonymity, said that after around two months of duty at the Singhu border, he returned to his home district and is now happy. “We were performing 12-hour shifts there [Singhu border] for over two months during extreme weather conditions. I can understand the pain of both sides. However, we are doing our job. Protests, violence in Delhi have become a regular affair for the past two years and every time, the city police bear the wrath of protesters,” said the policeman. He added that farmers can’t afford to protest for three months as they have to plan for the next crop and take care of their farms. “I hail from Haryana where farming is an occupation but one can’t leave their farms for three months. I pray the issue is resolved at the earliest and the highways can open for normal traffic,” said the policeman. A head constable deployed at the Ghazipur border said that he has worked in his father’s farms in western U.P. and he knows the pain of farmers. The people who attacked policemen on Republic Day can’t be farmers, he said. Duty vs sentiments “Most of the lower-rank policemen come from rural background and understand the sufferings of farmers. For the past two years, policemen have been attacked in every protest. It is tough to be a policeman. In past two months I have hardly spent time with my family. On Republic Day, we were on duty since 2 a.m. and it continued till 11 p.m. due to the violence. I don’t know what exactly the farmers want and what the Centre is offering them, but I request the protesters to not attack the policemen,” said the head constable. Condition of farmers will never change irrespective of the laws, said another constable. “We are into agriculture for the past four generations and have always lived on the edge of financial trouble. I am the first one in my entire family who managed to get asarkari naukri[government job] and shifted to Delhi from Haryana with my family. I always tell my children to study hard. If required, I will sell off the farm land for their education but never go back to the village,” he said. Lower-rank officers on duty face tough working conditions too. A head constable posted at the Singhu border shared that his duty stretches up to 18 hours. A head constable, a resident of Sonipat, deployed at Old Police Lines in Kashmere Gate has to go all the way to OPL first and then come back to Singhu border, close home. “Because of traffic diversion, it takes me about two hours to reach OPL and then one hour to reach the protest site,” he said. Extended duty hours is a problem most officers shared. All they have to do during most of the shift is stand around. Policemen on duty also said that only inspector-rank officers and above are allowed to bring their private vehicles inside the barricaded area. “I live very close to the Singhu border but my son cannot come here to give me lunch. I have to go till the barricades to take it. We come here in police-assigned buses,” he said. Talking about arrangements, while officers were satisfied with food and water, they said that toilets was a huge problem. “Most mobile toilets are out of water and dirty. We go to the bushes to relieve ourselves,” said a constable. Women officers, however, said that they used the washrooms at a nearby petrol pump and a temple which were “fairly clean” and also had access to toilets in the two resorts close to the border.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/fathers-face-sons-at-the-barricades/article33846776.ece
16 February 2021||New Delhi,||CM decries arrest of climate activist||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday condemned the arrest of 21-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi stating that supporting agitating farmers was not a crime. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) later announced that Mr. Kejriwal, in his capacity as the national convener of the party, would address kisan mahapanchayat in Meerut on February 28. “The Aam Aadmi Party condemns the arrest of young climate activist Disha Ravi by the Delhi police in the strongest words. I wonder how a government which has a massive majority is scared of a 21-year-old climate activist. The BJP ruled-Central government sent the Delhi police to Bangalore to arrest this young activist,” party’s national spokesperson Raghav Chadha told a press conference. SC judgment “A few days ago, the Supreme Court of India gave a landmark judgment where it observed that deprivation of liberty even for a single day is one day too many. The Supreme Court made it very clear to the BJP ruled-Central government that playing with the life and liberty of any citizen is against the law and the Constitution of India,” he said. ‘Undeclared Emergency’ When former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi declared Emergency, many of the BJP leaders were arrested. The BJP, he said, “use their arrests as a badge of honour.” The BJP government, he alleged, seemed to be setting an “undeclared Emergency” in motion. What the BJP was doing now, he alleged, “far more sinister, far more insidious” than what happened in 1975” even as he alleged that the BJP government was “allergic to opposition”. “Today, I want to ask the BJP and its leaders that when they oppose the Emergency, then how can they arrest a 21-year-old climate activist, merely for not agreeing with the three farm laws?” he said. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor, reacting to Mr. Chadha’s statement, said every nationalist felt sad to see such comments being made. “It’s pathetic to see AAP defend misguided youth like Umar Khalid to Disha Ravi. It seems the day is not far when AAP may defend Deep Sidhu or the boy who hoisted a Sikh flag atop the Red Fort,” Mr. Kapoor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cm-decries-arrest-of-climate-activist/article33846773.ece
16 February 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Political slugfest breaks out between BJD, BJP||A political slugfest broke out between Biju Janata Dal and Bharatiya Janata Party over beautification and infrastructure projects being undertaken around Lingaraj Temple, Bhubaneswar and Shri Jagannath Temple, Puri. Aparajita Sarangi, Member of Parliament from Bhubaneswar and BJP national spokesperson, on Monday hit out at the Naveen Patnaik Government alleging that no prior permission had been sought from National Monument Authority (NMA) before taking up the projects around Lingaraj and Jagannath temples. Addressing a press conference here, Ms. Sarangi said the State government even did not take the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) into confidence and tinkered with ancient monuments around two major temples. “The government has something to hide in the plan. Development plans were not disclosed before former Director General of ASI who asked for it,” she pointed out. “The NMA had not blocked any legitimate development projects around two temples and many people had duly taken permission for their individual constructions. Who stopped the State government from seeking permissions from NMA,” asked Ms Sarangi. “Two architectural firms which were based in Noida and Bengaluru were awarded contract for providing multi-hundred crore plans. However, these two firms do not have any experience in dealing with such huge projects. The government has not disclosed as to how these two firms were selected,” the BJP leader said.  Withdrawal sought Anticipating that draft heritage bylaws, if finalized, for Brahmeshwar Temple and Ananta Basudeva Temple in Bhubaneswar would restrict constructions around Lingaraj Temple, the BJD government has been demanding complete withdrawal of the draft notifications. Chief Secretary Suresh Chandra Mohapatra on Monday wrote a letter to Union Culture Secretary Raghavendra Singh requesting him to withdraw the draft notifications stating that, “there have been frequent agitations regarding the non-withdrawal of these draft notifications and there is serious apprehension that this will lead to widespread agitation and disturb the day to day religious rituals in the temple.” Ms. Sarangi charged that the State government was exhibiting utter ignorance on the issue. “If the State government has any objections to draft bylaws, it can submit its suggestions and objections to draft bylaws and legally stop them from being finalized. The government has been misleading people through false propaganda,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/political-slugfest-breaks-out-between-bjd-bjp/article33846793.ece
16 February 2021||Chandigarh,||‘Unfortunate that PM didn’t condole deaths’||Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja on Monday said that though hundreds of farmers had lost their lives during the ongoing agitation, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had not even expressed a word of condolence which was unfortunate. She was addressing a ‘kisan sammelan’ at Raduar in Yamunanagar against the Centre’s farm laws. “Though no one had demanded these laws, the government under the guise of coronavirus, imposed these laws on the farmers and labourers to benefit their capitalist friends. Today, the entire world is seeing that farmers are sitting on the road. The government is saying that farmers are being tricked. The government may not see this, but it is the voice of the people,” she said. “Farmers have been agitating in a peaceful manner for three months, but voice of the farmers is not being heard by this government. Wall has been erected in front of the farmers ... the voice of people is being suppressed,” she said. Ms. Selja said people of Haryana had been suffering since the BJP government came to power.  Dal Khalsa demand Meanwhile, Sikh radical outfit Dal Khalsa urged the farmer leaders to revive their ‘Parliament gherao’ programme if they want to stop the government’s onslaughts on protesting farmers. Party leader Kanwar Pal Singh, addressing a motor cycle youth rally in Amritsar, said instead of letting the government and police to target and implicate youth and engineer defection in farmer unions, the farmer leaders should revive their postponed programme for ‘Parliament chalo’ and announce its next date as the budget session is under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/unfortunate-that-pm-didnt-condole-deaths/article33846791.ece
16 February 2021||Ghaziabad,||Tikait flays U.P. govt. move not to hike sugarcane SAP||Reacting to the Uttar Pradesh government’s decision not to increase the State Advised Price (SAP) of sugarcane in the current crushing season, national spokesperson of the Bhartiya Kisan Union Rakesh Tikait asked on Monday “whether Yogi Adityanath is proving to be a weaker Chief Minister than Akhilesh Yadav and Mayawati.” “Since 2017, when the BJP government came to power, the SAP of sugarcane has been increased only by Rs. 10. It has been four years since the rates have been revised. The input cost is rising as the prices of diesel, urea, and pesticides have increased. Now, after half the sugarcane has reached from farms to mills, the government has announced that the rates would remain unchanged,” he said. On Monday, according to official sources, the Uttar Pradesh Cabinet took a decision that cane farmers would get Rs. 315 per quintal for the common variety.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/tikait-flays-up-govt-move-not-to-hike-sugarcane-sap/article33846797.ece
16 February 2021||JAIPUR,||‘Ideological bankruptcy hallmark of BJP’||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday said the “ideological bankruptcy” was the hallmark of Bharatiya Janata Party, which had come to power at the Centre by mobilising a section of the electorate in the name of Ram temple and Hindutva. The BJP had nothing constructive to offer to the nation, he said. “You have exploited Hindutva and played with people’s sentiments to grab power, but you don’t have the courage to take the names of top Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh and Jan Sangh ideologues who had no role in the freedom struggle,” Mr. Gehlot said, while replying to a debate in the State Assembly on the motion of thanks to the Governor’s speech.  ‘Political necessity’ Mr. Gehlot said Prime Minister Narendra Modi was compelled by “political necessity” to skip the name of Jan Sangh founder Syama Prasad Mookerjee in the BJP’s election campaign in West Bengal. “By making a reference to Rabindranath Tagore, Modi Ji went against his own world view... The ideas of such great people are contrary to his own thoughts,” he said. “Tagore had said that the humanity is above all. Subhas Chandra Bose was against the Hindu Mahasabha. Vallabhbhai Patel had banned the RSS,” Mr. Gehlot said, while pointing out that Mr. Modi, who should feel embarrassed, had found a way out by never mentioning the names of former Prime Ministers Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi despite their immense contributions to nation building. Mr. Gehlot said the Congress government in the State had waived farmers’ loans disbursed by cooperative banks, but the Prime Minister was not willing to get one-time settlement for the loans of nationalised banks. Hitting out at Mr. Modi, the Chief Minister said his only contribution was the creation of an atmosphere of fear, in which social activists were being arrested and the Opposition leaders were being targeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ideological-bankruptcy-hallmark-of-bjp/article33846794.ece
16 February 2021||Mumbai,||‘My aim is to make Congress No. 1 party in Maharashtra’||An aggressive OBC farmer leader from Vidarbha, Nana Patole took charge as president of the Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee last week. He spoke with The Hindu on the challenges he faces as his party stands at number four in a State where it once enjoyed single-handed majority. Stressing that rebuilding party organisation and empowering party workers will be his priority, Mr. Patole said he was well aware that the present alliance may not be permanent. He also ruled out any Cabinet reshuffle in the State. The Congress leader also criticised Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari for his “unconstitutional acts”. Did you ask for the responsibility of the State unit or were you chosen by the central leadership? When I met Rahul Gandhiji, I had decided that I would not ask anything. Instead I would only perform better on whatever position is given to me. I had never asked for the Assembly Speaker’s post, but when I was chosen, I showed the real power of this chair. Party leaders took feedback from State leaders and then I was told to resign. I did. The next day my name was announced [for State president]. I had never sought this post. This responsibility is bestowed upon me by the high command. What is your priority? Is it smooth functioning of the tripartite government or expanding party? My aim is to make Congress the number one party in the State. I will start holding meetings and touring the State. The first battle is the upcoming local body polls. Rebuilding party organisation,ghar-wapsiof many leaders is also on the cards. Even the NCP and the Shiv Sena are working to strengthen their organisation and expand. Neither our allies nor us believe the present alliance is a permanent political solution. This adjustment is made under certain conditions to keep the BJP out. Is this the direction from the high command? The high command has given me the responsibility of the State Congress. How I fulfil the expectations of my leaders is my outlook. The CM is always the face of any government, followed by the Deputy CM. In my one-year tenure as Assembly Speaker, I ensured that my impact is felt all across. After all, the Congress is the real challenger of the BJP. I will ensure that it remains so. Is the Congress going to approach the courts against the Governor for not clearing the 12 names for the State Legislative Council? The Governor’s adamant stand is creating constitutional problems. By not clearing names for the Council, as suggested by Cabinet, he is acting in an unconstitutional manner because objections can be raised on the functioning of legislative committees if all posts in both Houses are not filled. We want the Governor to fulfil his constitutional duty. Many fear that your aggressive, outspoken stand will create problems for the party and government as local body polls approach. Will you be contesting as an MVA candidate or independently? I was aggressive even when I was the Speaker. But was it for some wrong deeds? How can I keep calm when wrong things are said against my party or leaders? My focus is to empower my party workers. Whether to form an alliance or contest independently will be decided by the party workers. I don’t want my workers to get confused on this issue of alliance. After your resignation, the NCP chief said that there will be discussions regarding the Speaker’s post. Will the Congress be able to retain that post? If Sharad Pawarji has indeed said this, then there will be discussions between him, Soniaji and Uddhavji, and then the final decision will be taken. Is Cabinet reshuffle on the cards? Do you want to be a minister? As of now, no Cabinet reshuffle is on the cards. Discussions might be held in some time. But I have not asked for any ministerial berth. Whatever order comes from the top, I am ready to follow.  The Congress is the real challenger of the BJP. I will ensure that it remains so||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/my-aim-is-to-make-congress-no-1-party-in-maharashtra/article33846699.ece
16 February 2021||Mumbai,||Sachin Joshi remanded in ED custody till Feb. 18||A special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court remanded actor and businessman Sachin Joshi in Enforcement Directorate’s (ED) custody till February 18 in a Rs. 22-crore slum rehabilitation fraud case involving the Omkar Group. Mr. Joshi was arrested on Sunday and, as per the ED, had helped the promoters of the group to divert Rs. 87 crore. Apart from the cash flows of the Omkar Realtors & Developers Private Limited, it is observed that there are huge inter-company transactions with group companies, including those from which funds have been transferred to Mr. Joshi and his companies, the central agency said. With respect to the funds received against various invoices raised by Mr. Joshi, the ED says, “It is seen that the purpose mentioned in invoices for facilitating settlement of non-eligible tenants and possession of constructed rehabilitation units, help in getting consents from society, slum dwellers, committee members, brokerage towards land deal. However, when Mr. Joshi was asked about whether any such actual services were rendered, he said no actual slum rehabilitation work was done by him, but he was involved in facilitation with Omkar Group, where it was to use his name and brand name to rehabilitate the tenants/settle with the tenants.” The central agency sought his custody for seven days and said, “Mr. Joshi is clearly devoid of any truth and thus evasive. Use of brand name and/or goodwill for settlement of non-eligible tenants appears to be very far-fetched in the light of the fact that neither accused nor his companies had ever done any Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) related work or slum rehabilitation project.” The court’s remand copy said: “It was stated by him that the actual work was done by persons of the Omkar Group only. Thus, for no actual work done or no actual services rendered, the invoices were raised and funds were diverted in the name of the expenses.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sachin-joshi-remanded-in-ed-custody-till-feb-18/article33846701.ece
16 February 2021||Patna,||Bihar gears up for second vaccine dose||The process of giving the second dose of COVID-19 vaccine to healthcare workers in Bihar began on Monday. Bihar is among top 10 States with the maximum number of beneficiaries vaccinated. A total of 4,92,435 beneficiaries, including 95,435 frontline workers, have been given the first shot in the State since January 16, according to Union Health Ministry data. The beneficiaries were called to the same vaccination centres where they had received the first dose. A video conference regarding the rollout of the second dose of vaccine was also held on Sunday to provide all necessary instructions to the heads of the health institutes. “Mondays and Thursdays have been fixed for giving second dose of vaccine to the healthcare workers while the frontline workers will receive the first dose on Tuesdays and Saturdays to avoid any confusion,” said Patna civil surgeon Dr. Vibha Kumari. The beneficiaries were earlier sent messages about when and where they have to go for the second dose of vaccine, said a Health Department official. Till Sunday the total number of COVID-19 positive cases registered in the State stood at 2,61,741 and the recovery rate has been 99.18%. Of late, gap in data of those tested for COVID-19 from Jamui district in the State were highlighted in media which had prompted government to suspend some district health officials and also to form several teams of officials to detect such discrepancies in other districts as well. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar had said, “No one will be spared, if found guilty for such data fudging.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bihar-gears-up-for-second-vaccine-dose/article33846792.ece
16 February 2021||patna,||Principal, 12 asst. professors suspended||A college principal and 12 assistant professors of the Rajendra College in Chhapra of Saran district in Bihar have been suspended for group dance on singer Sapna Choudhury’s item songs in a college function organised to celebrate the birth anniversary of first President of India Rajendra Prasad on December 3. Those suspended have been asked to reply within two weeks why departmental proceedings should not be initiated against them. “The order for their suspension was issued on February 13”, said a official of the JP varsity under which Rajendra College functions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/principal-12-asst-professors-suspended/article33846796.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Call of the wild||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/call-of-the-wild/article33847048.ece
16 February 2021||Naypyidaw,||Suu Kyi to face court this week: lawyer||Myanmar’s deposed leader Aung San Suu Kyi will appear in court via videoconference this week over charges brought against her by the new military junta, her lawyer said on Monday. Army Chief General Min Aung Hlaing has justified the February 1 coup by alleging widespread voter fraud in November’s elections, which Ms. Suu Kyi’s National League for Democracy (NLD) party swept. Two days after the putsch, the 75-year-old Nobel laureate was hit with the unusual charge of violating Myanmar’s import and export law, after a search of her house found walkie-talkies. President Win Myint — who, like Ms. Suu Kyi, was detained in a dawn raid on February 1 — was charged with violating COVID-19 restrictions when he took part in a campaign event last September that drew hundreds. Both are expected to be questioned on Tuesday and Wednesday, said lawyer Khin Maung Zaw outside a court in Naypyidaw, Myanmar’s capital, after a meeting with a judge. “When they are brought to the court on both February 16 and 17, they will be questioned via videoconferencing,” he said. Neither has been publicly seen since the coup, though Ms. Suu Kyi’s party has heard that she is “in good health”. Their detention period was set to end on Wednesday, said the lawyer — though it was likely to be extended. He added that he would also be expected to represent Win Htein, a top NLD executive who was arrested after the coup. Ms. Suu Kyi’s right-hand man and confidant, Mr. Win Htein, was interviewed by local media post-coup, calling on the people of Myanmar to “oppose [the coup] as much as they can”. The 79-year-old NLD stalwart has been charged with defamation, said Mr. Khin Maung Zaw.  Since the coup, about 400 people have been detained, according to the Assistance Association of Political Prisoners monitoring group. While many arrested were political supporters of Ms. Suu Kyi, authorities are also stepping up detentions of civilians taking part in nationwide protests against the military junta. Protesters continued to gather across Myanmar on Monday, following a night in which authorities cut the country’s internet access and increased the security presence in major cities seeking to curtail demonstrations. More than 1,000 protesters were rallying in front of the Myanmar Economic Bank in Mandalay, the country’s second-largest city, when at least 10 trucks full of soldiers and police arrived and started firing slingshots toward the protesters before they even got out of the trucks, according to a photographer who witnessed the events. The soldiers and police then attacked the protesters with sticks and slingshots, and police could be seen aiming long guns into the air amid sounds that resembled gunfire. Local media reported that rubber bullets were also fired into the crowd, and that a few people were injured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/suu-kyi-to-face-court-this-week-lawyer/article33846412.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,||From clashes between troops on the LAC to disengagement||Starting in April 2020, China amassed a large number of troops and armaments along the disputed Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh and other areas along the 3,488 km LAC, leading to stand-offs and skirmishes at Galwan Valley, Pangong Tso (lake), Gogra-Hot Springs and other areas. The People’s Liberation Army (PLA) moved into Indian territory and built fortified structures and defences, changing the status quo on the ground. While there are differences in perception on the alignment of the LAC, over the years, both sides concluded a series of agreements to maintain peace and tranquillity on the border, while talks continued to resolve the dispute. At Pangong Tso, PLA troops moved up to Finger 4 from Finger 8, and then a major clash occurred on the night of May 5, which resulted in injuries to over 70 Indian soldiers. On the north bank, India’s perception of the LAC lies at Finger 8 and the Army regularly carries out patrols till there, which were blocked as a result of the Chinese ingress. On the night of May 9, clashes were reported at Naku La in North Sikkim. India responded by mobilising additional troops and equipment to match the Chinese build-up. Since then, several friction points emerged in eastern Ladakh and both sides initiated diplomatic and military talks aimed at disengagement and de-escalation, with India pushing for the restoration of status quo ante of pre-April. India and China earlier reached an understanding for phased disengagement from all friction points followed by de-escalation from the depth areas along the LAC. It was during this initial process of disengagement that the violent clash occurred on June 15 at Patrolling Point (PP) 14 in Galwan Valley, resulting in the death of 20 Indian soldiers, including a Commanding Officer, and an unknown number of PLA casualties. This marked the biggest clash since 1967. Partial disengagement Despite that, disengagement continued at PP14 and PP15 in the Hot Springs area, and partial disengagement was undertaken at Hot Springs and on the north bank of Pangong Tso. The aim was to create a buffer at these locations with a small group of soldiers retained and the rest moving back to their permanent locations. However, PLA troops continued to sit on the ridgelines of Finger 4 overlooking Indian positions, which was a matter of significant concern to India as it would alter the status quo on the ground. Fresh tensions occurred in the end of August on the south bank of Pangong Tso, as the Indian Army pre-empted Chinese moves and occupied several dominating peaks on the Kailash range on the Indian side of the LAC, which gave tactical advantage to India. This resulted in a massive deployment of troops and tanks in very close proximity a couple of hundred metres of each other, at some locations. Several incidents of firing of warning shots also occurred, the first firing since 1975. This stalled the earlier disengagement process. Both sides amassed around 50,000 troops and heavy equipment in eastern Ladakh and undertook preparations to remain deployed through the harsh winters in the high altitude region. On September 10, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar met his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in Moscow where they agreed on a five-point resolution to take forward the talks. India and China on February 11 announced an agreement for disengagement on the north and south bank of Pangong Tso to cease their forward deployments in a “phased, coordinated and verified manner”, which according to Defence Minister Rajnath Singh will “substantially” restore the situation to that existing prior to commencement of the stand-off last year. As per the agreement, the Chinese side will move back its troops on the north bank to east of Finger 8 while Indian troops will move to their permanent base at Dhan Singh Thapa Post near Finger 3. “A similar action would be taken in the south bank area by both sides,” Mr. Singh said in the Rajya Sabha. The agreement also entails that any structures that had been built by both sides since April 2020 in both north and south bank area will be removed and the landforms will be restored. There is also a moratorium on patrolling in this area until a resumption is discussed by both sides through diplomatic and military talks. Way forward The Defence Ministry said last week that Mr. Singh’s statement made clear there were outstanding problems to be addressed, including at Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang, and these issues would be taken up within 48 hours of the completion of the Pangong Tso disengagement, which could take two weeks or longer. Once complete disengagement is achieved at all friction areas, both sides will undertake de-escalation along the LAC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/from-clashes-between-troops-on-the-lac-to-disengagement/article33846409.ece
16 February 2021||Beirut,||‘Israeli missile strikes in Syria kill 9’||Israeli missile strikes against several targets near Syria’s capital Damascus killed at least nine pro-regime militia fighters early on Monday, a Britain-based war monitor said. “Nine Iran-backed militia fighters were killed” in Israeli strikes targeting arms depots, including missile stores, around Damascus, said the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights. ‘Pro-govt.’ forces The Observatory said all the fighters killed were non-Arab “pro-government” forces, but it said it could not determine if they were Afghan, Pakistani or Iranian. “Syrian air defences intercepted a sizeable number of the missiles, but many hit their targets and caused material damage,” added the monitor, which relies on a network of sources inside Syria for its reports. The attack began shortly after midnight and lasted for nearly half an hour, it said. Syrian state media also reported the strikes, but said that air defences had intercepted “most” of the missiles. An Israeli army spokesperson said, “We cannot comment on these reports.” Since the outbreak of Syria’s civil war in 2011, Israel has routinely carried out raids in the country, mostly targeting Iranian forces and Lebanese Hezbollah fighters as well as government troops. Iran and Hezbollah have backed Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s regime in the near-decade-long war. ‘About 50 targets’ Israel rarely confirms strikes in Syria, but the Jewish state’s Army said it hit about 50 targets in the war-torn country in 2020, without providing details. It has consistently vowed to prevent its arch-enemy Iran from gaining a foothold in Syria. ‘Surprise exercise’ On Sunday, the Israeli Army started a four-day drill along its northern border with Lebanon, a country with which it is still technically at war. The “surprise exercise” was “designed to improve Air Force readiness for combat” in the border region, the Army said in a statement. During the exercise, which will end on Wednesday, Israeli “aircraft, jets and helicopter traffic will be felt across the country, and a number of explosions may be heard in northern Israel”, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/israeli-missile-strikes-in-syria-kill-9/article33846411.ece
16 February 2021||Dhaka,||Bangladesh authorities send more Rohingya to island||Bangladesh authorities sent a fourth group of Rohingya refugees from Myanmar to a newly developed island in the Bay of Bengal on Monday despite calls by human rights groups for a halt to the process. The roughly 2,000 Rohingya, who had been living in the sprawling refugee camps of Cox’s Bazar, were sent to Bhasan Char, an island specifically developed to accommodate 1,00,000 of the 1 million Rohingya who have fled from neighbouring Myanmar, M. Mozammel Haque, a commander of the Bangladesh Navy, told presspersons. With Monday’s group, more than 7,000 refugees have moved to the island since the process started in December. While human rights groups have criticised the move and some are being forced to go against their will, the government has insisted that refugees moving to the island have done so voluntarily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/bangladesh-authorities-send-more-rohingya-to-island/article33846416.ece
16 February 2021||WASHINGTON,||After impeachment acquittal, Trump looks to reassert himself||Donald Trump took in the win at Mar-a-Lago, surrounded by friends and family. His lawyers celebrated with hugs and smiles. One joked, “We’re going to Disney World!” Now acquitted in his second Senate impeachment trial, Mr. Trump is preparing for the next phase of his post-presidency life. He is expected to re-emerge from a self-imposed hibernation at his club in Palm Beach, Florida, and is eyeing ways to reassert his power. But after being barred from Twitter, the former President lacks the social media bullhorn that fuelled his political rise. And he’s confronting a Republican Party deeply divided over the legacy of his jarring final days in office, culminating in the January 6 storming of the Capitol. Mr. Trump remains popular among the GOP base, but many Republicans in Washington have cooled to him. Never before have so many members of a President’s party — seven GOP Senators, in his case — voted for his removal in a Senate trial. Friends and allies expect Mr. Trump to resume friendly media interviews after weeks of silence. He has met with political aides to discuss efforts to help Republicans try to take control of the House and Senate in the 2022 midterms elections. He remains fixated on exacting revenge on Republicans who supported his impeachment or resisted his efforts to overturn the results of the November election won by Democrat Joe Biden. “I imagine you’ll probably be hearing a lot more from him in the coming days,” Senior Adviser Jason Miller said. In a statement after the vote, Mr. Trump told supporters their movement “has only just begun”. “I look forward to continuing our incredible journey together to achieve American greatness for all of our people,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/after-impeachment-acquittal-trump-looks-to-reassert-himself/article33846419.ece
16 February 2021||Geneva,||Nigeria’s Okonjo-Iweala appointed WTO head||Nigeria’s Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala was appointed on Monday as the first female and first African head of the beleaguered World Trade Organization (WTO), saying a stronger WTO would be vital for the global COVID-19 recovery. The WTO called a virtual special General Council meeting at which member states officially selected the former Nigerian Finance Minister and World Bank veteran as the global trade body’s new Director-General. She will take up her post on March 1 and her term, which is renewable, will run until August 31, 2025. The near-paralysed institution desperately needs a kick-start — something Ms. Okonjo-Iweala immediately addressed after being confirmed in the job. “A strong WTO is vital if we are to recover fully and rapidly from the devastation wrought by the COVID-19 pandemic,” the 66-year-old economist said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/nigerias-okonjo-iweala-appointed-wto-head/article33846414.ece
16 February 2021||Jakarta,||Landslip kills nine in Indonesia, say officials||At least nine people have died and 10 are missing after a landslip caused by torrential rain swept away several homes in Indonesia, officials said on Monday, with hundreds forced to flee their flooded homes. Twenty-one people were initially reported missing after the disaster struck on Sunday evening in a rural part of East Java.  Search on Indonesia’s Search and Rescue Agency said it had found nine bodies, but was still searching for 10 others. The other two people had been rescued. “We cannot bring heavy equipment to the site of the landslips currently. However, we are currently trying to make our way,” the East Java Search and Rescue Agency said in a written statement. The landslip also seriously damaged eight houses, the agency said. Pasuruan, a town in the province, was also flooded after a river overflowed due to the heavy rain, forcing more than 350 people to flee their homes, the agency added. Fatal landslides and flash floods are common across the Indonesian archipelago, where seasonal downpours are frequent and relentless. In January, at least 21 people died and more than 60,000 fled the area after a series of major floods hit South Kalimantan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/landslip-kills-nine-in-indonesia-say-officials/article33846417.ece
16 February 2021||Abuja,||Nigeria’s head calls for unity after clashes||Nigerian President Muhammadu Buhari has vowed to protect all religious and ethnic groups after clashes erupted between different communities in the southwest over the weekend. At least one person was killed after a dispute erupted on Friday in Ibadan. Mr. Buhari on Sunday “condemned such violence”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/nigerias-head-calls-for-unity-after-clashes/article33846415.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Farm laws and ‘taxation’ of farmers||Over the past three decades, a major rationale offered in favour of liberalising Indian agriculture was that farmers were “net taxed”. In other words, incomes of farmers were kept artificially lower than what they should have been. It was argued that this “net taxation” existed because protectionist policies deprived farmers of higher international prices, and the administered price system deprived farmers of higher domestic market prices. If there were more liberal domestic markets and freer global trade, prices received by farmers would rise. These arguments are raised again in the debates around the three farm laws. According to this view, farm laws are necessary to end the net taxation of agriculture. For this purpose, data on Producer Support Estimate (PSE) are used. A recent study found that PSE in Indian agriculture was -6% between 2014-15 and 2016-17. In contrast, PSE was +18.2% in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) countries, +19.6% in the European Union countries and +9.5% in the U.S. The farm laws would weaken restrictive trade and marketing policies in India and “get the markets right”. This, in turn, would eliminate negative support and raise farmers’ prices. In these debates, a common example cited is that of milk. There is no Minimum Support Price (MSP) in milk, and a substantial share of milk sales takes place through the private sector, including multinationals like Nestle and Hatsun. Yet, India’s milk sector is growing faster than the foodgrain sector. If the milk sector can grow without MSP and with private corporates, why cannot other agricultural commodities? This article attempts a closer look at these claims. PSE and its estimation The PSE is estimated using a methodology advocated by the OECD. The OECD defines the PSE as “the annual monetary value of gross transfers from consumers and taxpayers to agricultural producers, measured at the farm gate level, arising from policies that support agriculture…” The PSE has two components. The first is market price support (MPS). MPS is that part of the gross transfers to producers arising from “a gap between domestic market prices and border prices of a specific agricultural commodity”. The second is budgetary transfers (BOT). BOT includes all budgetary expenditures on policies that support agricultural production. PSE is the sum of MPS and BOT, expressed also as a percentage of the value of agricultural production. The PSE for Indian agriculture in 2019 was Rs. -1,62,740 crore, or -5.5% of the value of production. Within the PSE, the MPS was negative while BOT was positive. The MPS was Rs. -4,61,804 crore, or -15.5% of the value of production. The BOT was Rs. +2,99,064 crore, or +10.1% of the value of production. The MPS for a commodity is calculated as the product of its annual production and the difference between its international and domestic prices. The problem begins here: the international price is considered a benchmark with no reference to the actual possibilities of domestic producers obtaining that price. Let us assume a commodity ‘A’ whose international price is higher than its domestic price. First, ‘A’ may be produced in large quantities but may also be essential for domestic food security. Hence, it may not be regularly exported. Yet, its MPS will be negative. Examples are rice and wheat in India. Second, most of the short-term changes in MPS may be illusory if they result from short-term fluctuations of international prices or relative exchange rates, or shocks to global demand or supply. Such fluctuations are more pronounced in agriculture because international agricultural markets are infamously imperfect, narrow and dominated by monopolistic multinational companies. Third, if a country starts exporting ‘A’ to benefit from higher international prices, will the differential between international and domestic prices remain? In mainstream trade literature, a “small country assumption” is used where all countries are assumed to be price-takers and no single country is considered capable of triggering a major rise or fall in prices. But this is an unrealistic assumption. The international market for most agricultural commodities is small, while countries like India are large producers. Even if India exports a small additional share of the production of ‘A’, its impact on the international prices of ‘A’ will be disproportionately inverse. Consequently, the differential between domestic and international prices would considerably narrow, if not simply disappear. Due to such fluctuations in MPS, the PSE also fluctuates widely. The PSE for Indian agriculture was +1.9% in 2000. It fell to -14% in 2004, -20.4% in 2008 and -27.8% in 2013. Afterwards, it rose to -3.8% in 2015 and -5.5% in 2019. These fluctuating PSEs mean nothing in terms of taxation or subsidisation of producers. They only mean that international prices were volatile. In summary, the MPS is a wrong measure of taxation in agriculture because the international price is no “true price” to be accepted as a benchmark. Further, a negative MPS, by itself, implies neither a government that squeezes revenues out of farmers nor the absence of absolute profitability in agriculture. The case of milk trade Proponents of farm laws use the OECD estimates of MPS and PSE to show the perils of restrictive markets. By the same logic then, if the increasing penetration of private companies and the absence of MSP in milk are positive features, we should expect positive and rising MPS and PSE for milk. However, milk had the highest negative MPS among India’s major agricultural commodities in 2019. The MPS for milk was Rs. -2,17,527 crore, which accounted for about 47% of the total MPS in agriculture. As a share of its value of production, the MPS for milk was -37.5%. Thus, if we go by the OECD estimates, milk was one of the most heavily “taxed” agricultural commodities in India. Consider the period between 2015 and 2019. If the growth of private firms in milk trade was a positive change, the MPS for milk should have increased over this period. In 2015, the MPS for milk was positive at Rs. 16,190 crore. But in 2016, the MPS turned negative at Rs. -57,223 crore and by 2019 it fell further to Rs. -2.17 lakh crore. In other words, “taxation” of milk producers intensified between 2015 and 2019. In reality, the MPS for milk turned negative not because of any compression of domestic prices. In fact, the average domestic price for milk rose from Rs. 25,946/tonne in 2015 to Rs. 28,988/tonne in 2019. But the average international reference price for milk rose faster from Rs. 24,905/tonne to Rs. 39,884/tonne in 2019. This led to a rise in the price differential from Rs. 1,041/tonne in 2015 to Rs. 10,896/tonne in 2019. To argue from the above that India’s milk producers were “taxed” is as meaningless as arguing that India’s farmers as a whole were “taxed” to the tune of Rs. 4,61,804 crore in a year. The reason is that the OECD methodology, either for milk or for other commodities, does not offer any realistic assessment of the extent of taxation or subsidisation. The lack of logic in debates But these issues do not seem to bother the advocates of farm laws in India. In the debates, it is telling that these advocates (a) use the OECD estimates to highlight the overall negative MPS for agriculture as a problem; (b) but conveniently remain silent on the negative MPS for milk; and (c) yet, argue in the same breath that milk producers have benefited from the growth of private firms. The absence of logic in this line of argument is nothing but appalling. In fact, what is missed in these debates is the elephant in the room: the BOT. The West’s PSEs in agriculture are positive and higher than India’s because they have higher BOT than in India. R. Ramakumar is Professor at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/farm-laws-and-taxation-of-farmers/article33846395.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,||The intricacies of vaccine science||Vaccine science is crucial for effective decision-making. For COVID-19, there are questions about different vaccines and platforms, their advantages, disadvantages, safety and efficacy, and the only way to address these questions is to consider the data and then make a call, while knowing that more data may lead to a change of practice. Several news reports on February 13 stated that the government planned to stick to the “28-day gap” plan for the two doses of vaccines in India. This came just days after the World Health Organization (WHO) published its recommendations that for the AstraZeneca product, the gap between doses should be extended for as long as possible within an eight-to-12-week window. Why did the WHO’s Strategic Advisory Group of Experts (SAGE) on immunisation make this recommendation? SAGE is generally conservative, relies on data and uses specific criteria for the strength of evidence to make its decision. So, what was the evidence and what should India do? On the other hand, why did Germany and other European countries decide not to use the AstraZeneca vaccine for older adults? And yet again, why are countries like France advising a single dose of vaccine for those who have had the SARS-CoV-2 infection? These are just a few questions where the data and the science behind decision-making need to be understood. The information on AZD1222 vaccine (known as Covishield in India) provided to the WHO had a cut-off date of December 7, 2020. Based on data from 14,380 individuals from the U.K., Brazil and South Africa, who were at least two weeks beyond the second standard dose of vaccine, the vaccine had an efficacy of 63.1% against symptomatic COVID-19 infection (74 cases in the vaccinated group and 197 cases among controls). Two weeks after the second dose, there were eight cases of hospitalisation and three cases of severe infection, and all were in the unvaccinated group. So, we know that the vaccine works. WHO’s recommendation However, because of delays in availability of the second dose of the vaccine (and here the data included do not count the individuals who received a half dose of the vaccine), 59% of the people got their second dose between four and eight weeks after the first dose, 22% got the second dose between nine and 12 weeks, and 16% got it more than 12 weeks after the first dose. In these individuals, the vaccine efficacy was 56%, 70% and 78% respectively. The numbers are in the low thousands, but there is a clear trend of increasing efficacy with longer intervals between doses. In addition, when the immune response was measured, it was found that the longer the intervals between the two doses, the better was the immune response. These are the data based on which the WHO made the recommendation of an interval of eight to 12 weeks between two doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine. What about use in older adults? Immunogenicity data from the AstraZeneca vaccine show that older individuals had an immune response comparable to other age groups. However, among the efficacy trial participants for whom data were available till December 7, 2020, only one in ten were older than 65 years. Among them, there were only 12 cases of symptomatic infection — four among the vaccinated and eight in the unvaccinated, which is a vaccine efficacy of 52%, but with a large range. Of the 12 cases, two needed hospitalisation, and both were unvaccinated. However, again, the numbers are too small for firm conclusions. Based on these data, first Germany, and then other European countries decided not to use the vaccine for older individuals.  But these countries also have supplies of the Pfizer-BioNTech mRNA vaccine, for which data on a larger number of older individuals are available. Thus, the countries can prioritise that vaccine to protect their elderly. More data from ongoing efficacy vaccine studies will become available to allow for a change of recommendations, if needed, in countries that have decided not to use the vaccine. But the WHO has taken both immunogenicity and available efficacy data into account and recommended the use of vaccines for older individuals. Why have French experts recommended a single dose for those who have been previously infected with SARS-CoV-2? There are data from people who have been infected before which show that they make more antibodies with the first dose of vaccine (known as boosting), but not with the second dose. Based on this, immunologists think that an infection and one vaccination dose are together equivalent to two doses of the vaccine and will give equal or better protection. While this is a rational and evidence-based approach, there are nuanced aspects that need to be addressed. Is vaccination required at all for people who have been infected? We have data to show that natural infection provides 83% protection for at least five months, and the WHO guidance states that individuals who have been infected can wait six months before getting vaccinated. This is an area that needs research to determine the level and duration of protection from infection, or infection and vaccination. If we had a way of measuring who was protected and who was not without waiting for them to be exposed to the virus and get sick, then answering these questions would be easier. But there is no such correlate of protection as yet. The way forward What should India do? We need to build platforms to study vaccine performance and not just rely on data that emerges from other countries. The number of vaccines is going to increase, and comparisons will become more important to gain clarity about which vaccines can be used for whom and how. We have global data at this time that support a longer interval (at least for the Covishield vaccine) to improve efficacy, and we also have the current luxury of a declining trend in cases, which makes it easier for us to consider the longer-interval idea. This also brings the additional benefit of reaching more people in India with the first dose, while we wait for supplies with the ramping up of manufacturing of vaccines in India. There is another benefit of sharing vaccines with the world — the more we distribute vaccines to the rest of the world, the greater the chance that we decrease the import of variant viruses to India. Gagandeep Kang is a Professor at Christian Medical College, Vellore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-intricacies-of-vaccine-science/article33846407.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Continuity, not change, is Biden’s plan for Palestine||Will President Joe Biden change the U.S.’s policy towards the Palestinian issue? The short answer is no. There are many reasons for this gloomy prognosis. The most important is Mr. Biden’s track record on Israel and especially on its continued occupation of Palestinian territories. He has been a firm supporter of Israel for decades and relatively unsympathetic to the Palestinian’s political concerns despite his support for a two-state solution. It is true that American relations with the Palestinian Authority had reached a new low under President Donald Trump, who unreservedly supported Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s expansionist polices. In fact, Mr. Trump himself proposed that 30% of the West Bank consisting of the Jordan Valley and settlement blocs be annexed to Israel. He moved the American embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem and endorsed the Israeli annexation of the Syrian Golan Heights, captured in 1967. Mr. Trump also cut off $360 million annual funding to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency, which deals with Palestinian refugees, and shut down the Palestine Liberation Organization office in Washington D.C. Mr. Biden and his team have said they will resume aid to the Palestinians and the new President has opposed Israel’s formal annexation of one-third of the occupied territories. However, Secretary of State Antony Blinken has said the U.S. embassy in Israel would remain in Jerusalem as reversing the move “would not make sense practically and politically”. So too would Mr. Trump’s acceptance of Israeli sovereignty over the occupied Golan Heights. Living with the status quo The Biden administration has returned to the long-standing pre-Trump American stance of supporting a two-state solution in principle but doing little to reach that goal. Mr. Blinken declared that “the only way to ensure Israel’s future as a Jewish, democratic state and to give the Palestinians a state to which they are entitled is through the so-called two-state solution”. However, he contradicted himself by adding that “realistically it’s hard to see near-term prospects for moving forward on that”. This was a clear admission that the Biden administration is willing to live with the status quo that allows Israel to continue its harsh occupation, build settlements, cantonise the West Bank, and eventually foreclose the two-state option leaving the Palestinians stateless in their own land. Before assuming office, Mr. Blinken had also made a number of statements accusing Palestinians of being responsible for the failure of negotiations. He reminded them “that they can and should do better and deserve better and that requires leadership: leadership to make clear the reality of the Jewish state; leadership to make clear the need to end incitement and violence”. This was a classic case of blaming the victims for their woes and skirting the question of Israel’s illegal occupation and settlement-building activities. During the election campaign, the Biden team also made clear that it “firmly reject[s] the BDS [Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions] movement, which singles out Israel — home to millions of Jews — and too often veers into anti-Semitism.” Above all, the Biden administration has iterated that it will continue to provide Israel with unconditional military support in the amount of $3.8 billion annually, following the precedent established by Mr. Biden’s former boss, Barack Obama. Therefore, while President Biden, unlike his predecessor, may not act as a cheerleader for the Israeli right wing, his policies will not differ in substantive terms from those of earlier American Presidents. These policies were premised on the notion that Israel was the innocent party to the conflict and the blame for the deadlock lies with the Palestinians who are unwilling and unable to make compromises that in real terms would make a two-state solution dead on arrival. The Israeli narrative Thanks to Israeli propaganda, the conventional wisdom in Washington, D.C. has been that Palestinians “never miss the opportunity to miss an opportunity”. The U.S. has stuck to this narrative despite evidence to the contrary over decades that Israeli governments through the building of settlements and confiscation of Palestinian lands have negated the possibility of a viable Palestinian state emerging in the occupied territories. There are multiple reasons for the American acceptance of the Israeli narrative. These include the influence of the Israel lobby in Congress and the presence in key positions in successive administrations of people whose sympathies lay with Israel. The Biden administration is no exception in this regard. Although the U.S.’s unquestioning support for Israel has complicated its relations with the Arab world for decades, the perception of Israel’s importance to American strategy in West Asia as the U.S.’s one stable ally persists. Consequently, many in the region believe that American policy towards West Asia is made in Jerusalem and not in Washington. Mr. Obama as President was able to partially break this mould in the case of the nuclear agreement with Iran, which Israel opposed stridently. This policy was reversed by Mr. Trump. Now that Mr. Biden seems interested in reviving the nuclear deal, he will have to tread even more carefully in his approach towards Israel, which has been vociferous in its opposition to the U.S. returning to the agreement. The Palestinians are likely to pay the price for this as well since Mr. Biden cannot afford to estrange Israel on both the Iranian and Palestinian fronts for domestic and perceived strategic reasons. Consequently, the changes in Mr. Biden’s approach to the Palestinians when compared to Mr. Trump’s will be only cosmetic in character. In the final analysis, the status quo will continue to be the default option for the Biden administration to the detriment of the Palestinian cause. Mohammed Ayoob is University Distinguished Professor Emeritus of International Relations, Michigan State University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/continuity-not-change-is-bidens-plan-for-palestine/article33846391.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Indian investments and BITs||Sri Lanka’s decision to renege on a 2019 agreement with India and Japan that aimed to jointly develop the strategic East Container Terminal (ECT) at the Colombo port comes as a rude shock to New Delhi. While international relations experts are busy assessing the diplomatic fallout of this problematic decision for India-Sri Lanka ties, the issue also needs to be looked at through the prism of the India-Sri Lanka bilateral investment treaty (BIT), which forms the bedrock of international law governing foreign investment between the two countries. In 1997, India and Sri Lanka signed a BIT to promote and protect foreign investment in each other’s territories. The defining characteristic of this BIT, as is the case with all BITs, is that it empowers individual foreign investors to directly sue the host state before an international tribunal if the investor believes that the host state has breached its treaty obligations. This is known as investor-state dispute settlement (ISDS). An important protection provided for foreign investment in the India-Sri Lanka BIT is the fair and equitable treatment (FET) provision given in Article 3(2). This Article provides that investments and returns of investors of each country shall, at all times, be accorded FET in the other country’s territory. FET is a ubiquitous provision contained in almost all BITs. The normative content of the FET provision has been fleshed out by scores of ISDS tribunals in the last two decades. The tribunals have persistently held that an important component of the FET provision is that the host state should protect the legitimate expectations of foreign investors. In a case known as International Thunderbird Gaming Corporation v Mexico , it was held that the concept of legitimate expectations relates to a situation where the host state’s conduct creates reasonable and justifiable expectations on the part of an investor (or investment) to act in reliance on said conduct, such that a failure to honour those expectations could cause the investor (or investment) to suffer damages. Sri Lanka, by signing the agreement to jointly develop the ECT at the Colombo port, created such expectations on the part of Indian investors. Defaulting on this agreement, without specific and reasonable justification, potentially violates the Indian investor’s legitimate expectations, and thus, the FET provision of the BIT. However, the twist in the tale is that India unilaterally terminated the India-Sri Lanka BIT on March 22, 2017. This termination was part of the mass repudiation of BITs that India undertook in 2017 as a result of several ISDS claims being brought against it. In cases of such unilateral termination, survival clauses in BITs assume significance because they ensure that foreign investment continues to receive protection during the survival period. Article 15(2) of the India-Sri Lanka BIT contains a survival clause, according to which, in case of a unilateral termination of the treaty, the treaty shall continue to be effective for a further period of 15 years from the date of its termination in respect of investments made or acquired before the date of termination. Thus, the Indian investment in Sri Lanka and vice-versa made or acquired before March 22, 2017, will continue to enjoy treaty protection. But, in the case of the investment in developing the ECT at the Colombo port, this survival clause will be inconsequential, since the agreement was signed in 2019, i.e., after India unilaterally terminated the BIT. Hence, the Indian investor will not be able to sue Sri Lanka before an ISDS tribunal, notwithstanding the merits of the case. Important lessons This sordid episode has important lessons for India’s overall approach to BITs. As a consequence of the onslaught of ISDS claims in the last few years, India has developed a protectionist approach towards BITs. The motivation appears to be to eliminate or at least minimise future ISDS cases against India. However, an important attribute that perhaps has not received much attention is that BITs are reciprocal. Thus, BITs do not empower merely foreign investors to sue India, but also authorise Indian investors to make use of BITs to safeguard their investment in turbulent foreign markets. In the post-COVID-19 world, regulatory risks will further exacerbate, subjecting foreign investment to arbitrary and whimsical behaviour of countries. Accordingly, given India’s emergence as an exporter, and not just an importer of capital, the government should revisit its stand on BITs. India needs to adopt a balanced approach towards BITs with an effective ISDS provision. This will facilitate Indian investors in defending their investment under international law should a country, like Sri Lanka, renege on an agreement. Prabhash Ranjan is a senior assistant professor at South Asian University’s faculty of legal studies||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/indian-investments-and-bits/article33846403.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Structural reforms for NEP 2020||With the COVID-19 pandemic easing and normal academic activity being gradually resumed, the Central government’s New Education Policy (NEP) is back in focus. While the policy covers a wide spectrum of issues, including reforms in school and higher education, the emphasis should also be on the need to restructure the governing bodies for universities and autonomous colleges. First, the system of appointments of vice-chancellors and syndicates, or governing councils, the key authorities for any university, needs to be revised. The appointments are often mired in controversies, with frequent reports in the past of aspirants for the post of vice-chancellors and membership of syndicates indulging in unethical practices to gain favour. Luckily, the NEP talks of creating new structures, such as a Board of Management, to replace the syndicate system. To implement this recommendation, State governments must bring in a slew of bold reforms, some of which are outlined below. For the Board of Management structure, the existing system of syndicates, consisting of government nominees and those nominated by Governors or chancellors, should be dispensed with. Often, people lacking merit but with an eye on memberships of affiliation, building, and purchase committees, among others, get nominated to these bodies. Further, with the vice-chancellor as chairman, the Board should consist of former vice-chancellors drawn from other universities, members drawn from industry, the alumni, eminent public intellectuals, principals of affiliated colleges on rotation and members representing the non-teaching staff. The Board’s decisions should be taken by consensus or by a majority of the members present. Proceedings should be conducted in virtual mode and made available for stakeholders’ viewership. For the appointment of vice-chancellors of universities, search committees constituted for such purposes must be thoroughly restructured. The government’s and chancellors’ role in such committees must be done away with. The practice of having government nominees, chancellor’s nominees and university nominees should be stopped and it should be replaced by drawing an eminent former vice-chancellor or academician of proven integrity and administrative capability for the post of chairman. Transparent procedures Applications for the post of vice-chancellors can be invited through advertisements on the university website and through newspapers. Biodata of candidates must also be published on the websites. The committee may then allot marks to candidates’ scholarship in terms of teaching and research, administrative capabilities, and capacity for fundraising. The scores obtained by candidates should be consolidated and the names of shortlisted candidates then submitted in the order of merit to chancellors for deciding on formal appointments. Another important issue is accountability of faculty, and the best way to ensure that is to put in place an institutional structure of ‘academic audit’. Faculty members must mandatorily upload on university websites their annual plans for research and innovative modes of teaching. Their annual self-appraisal reports can be evaluated by external peers and their recommendations should be strictly implemented. There is an urgent need to overcome faculty shortage by recruiting teachers in order to overcome the existing trend of higher educational institutions relying on guest faculty. Finally, in order to improve the higher education ecosystem, excellence in teaching, research, innovation, entrepreneurship and social contribution must be encouraged. The NEP’s recommendations, like the introduction of four-year courses that have the option of re-entry and exit, one- or two-year postgraduate courses, and setting up of an Academic Bank of Credit for credit transfers, may be helpful. The author is former Dean, Faculty of Arts, Bangalore University and former Senior Fellow, ICSSR, New Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/structural-reforms-for-nep-2020/article33846404.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Tolerance deficit||The police in India, and especially forces under the present regime, have a dubious record of effecting needless arrests and filing questionable cases as a tool of harassment. The Delhi Police have outdone all of them by arresting a 22-year-old climate activist in a case that makes the incredible allegation that a social media toolkit for organisers of protests against the farm laws amounted to sedition and incitement to riots. The manner in which a Delhi Police team travelled to Bengaluru and took Disha Ravi into custody, apparently without following the guidelines laid down by the Delhi High Court on inter-State arrests, marks a new low in the display of perversity and high-handedness in law enforcement. Even though Ms. Ravi was produced before a duty magistrate in Delhi within the mandatory 24-hour period, there is no indication whether the Delhi Police informed the local police and if she was properly represented by counsel. It appears that the main charge against her is that she edited a Google document shared among activists, including global climate change icon Greta Thunberg. The toolkit, the prosecution alleges, was prepared by a pro-Khalistani outfit, and based on this, it was concluded that Ms. Ravi was working with separatists to create disaffection against India. It is quite strange that none in the Delhi Police deemed this far-fetched. Such toolkits are common for those organising protests online, and they contain not much more than calls for protests, texts to be tweeted, hashtags to be used, and names of authorities and public functionaries whose handles can be tagged. The possible fact that direct protests were also discussed and planned does not mean there was any incitement to violence, a mandatory requirement to charge someone, as has been done in the case of Ms. Ravi, with sedition. There is little doubt now that it is not organised protests, online or offline activism in support of the ongoing farmers’ protests against the controversial agricultural laws, or the mobilisation of public opinion against government policy, that is adversely affecting the country’s reputation and prestige. The regime is more likely to attract international embarrassment and opprobrium by the indiscriminate use of police power against activists, protesters and the media. The state is increasingly resorting to heavy-handed responses to issues that attract a convergence of activism, opposition political activity and adverse media scrutiny. In particular, the farmers’ protests, and the violent turn that it took on Republic Day due to some deviant elements, have led the present regime to imagine a global conspiracy where none exists. A government truly worried about its global image would instead seek to address the deficit in tolerance and surfeit in repression that are becoming more obvious with each passing day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/tolerance-deficit/article33846392.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Death trap||Thousands of workers in Tamil Nadu’s famed fireworks industry remain trapped in unsafe conditions despite an unending series of accidents that keeps drawing attention to their plight. In the latest accident at a fireworks unit in Virudhunagar, at last count, 20 lives have perished, while 28 workers are in hospital. Such tragedies, caused predominantly by gross violation of norms governing the hazardous industry and human error in handling explosive substances, have occurred with some regularity now. In 11 months, 25 lives were lost in major blazes in three other fireworks factories in Virudhunagar (9), Cuddalore (9), and Madurai (7). Most victims were women. While the dead end up in statistical records, on the ground there is only short-term action: registration of cases, arrests, identification of causes, token inspections, issuance of warnings and safety advisories. The causes are well documented. Unlicensed units that have mushroomed in and outside Sivakasi mostly escape scrutiny till explosions occur. A greater concern is the illegal sub-leasing of contracts for manufacturing crackers by licensed units. Preliminary investigation into the current tragedy has also revealed sub-leasing of works to several persons. The very nature of work in a hazardous industry makes sub-leasing a byword for safety compromise. It leads to conversion of every shed in a manufacturing unit into a ‘factory’ in itself with inflammable chemicals stored all over. Consequently, the limit on workers to be deployed is violated resulting in crowding in each shed. Supervision of the quantum of chemicals to be mixed or stored — a key task to avoid friction — becomes a casualty. Untrained workers and the piece-rate system, which induces people to race to produce more units per day, have also caused accidents. Eyewitness accounts suggest that in the latest accident, a worker, possibly fatigued, had hurriedly emptied semi-finished crackers triggering an explosion. While the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation offers training for workers, shortage of labour has prompted the industry to hire new recruits with limited skills. The industry continues to be labour-intensive, although a decade ago Parliament was informed that automation of the hazardous manufacturing process would be undertaken. Periodic inspections at factories, sustained crackdown and stringent penal action against violators are non-negotiable. For this, Central and State governments must provide the needed manpower for enforcement agencies as the industry has grown manifold. A sustained political push for labour reforms and technological innovations within the industry is also essential. After all, there can be no joy during any celebrations using fireworks if those making it lead a life of dangerous uncertainty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/death-trap/article33846396.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Take action against processionists’||[Madras, February 15] Demand for action against the organisers of the Salem Superstition Eradication Conference, which indulged in anti-Hindu speeches and took out processions denigrating Hindu Gods, were made at a number of places in Tamil Nadu to-day. Protest was also voiced against the seizure of the copies of the Tamil magazine “Thuglak” by the police in Madras yesterday [February 14]. More than 1,000 college students, mostly from the Jain College and other educational institutions, took out a procession to-day from Meenambakkam and Nanganallur protesting against the seizure of the copies of “Thuglak” and demanding freedom of the press. The students urged the Government to take action against those who insulted Hindu Gods. The students are also reported to have detained an electric train for a few minutes. In Ootacamund about 1,500 students of the Government Arts College took out a procession this morning [February 15] from the Government Botanical Gardens to the railway station shouting slogans against D.K., D.M.K. and E.V.R.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/take-action-against-processionists/article33846401.ece
16 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Exports surge 6.2%, imports rise 2%||India recorded a 6.2% surge in exports in January 2021, marking the second month in a row that outbound trade recorded positive growth after the COVID-19 pandemic and global lockdowns dampened global trade through most of 2020. Imports also grew for the second successive month in January, rising 2% as per quick estimates released by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce on Monday. Non-oil and non-gold imports recorded a sharper growth of 7.5%. “Exports in January 2021 were $27.45 billion, as compared to $25.85 billion in January 2020, exhibiting a positive growth of 6.16%,” the Ministry said. The Ministry added that the trade deficit was estimated at $14.54 billion, almost 5% lower than the $15.3 billion recorded in January 2020. Exports had grown by a marginal 0.14% in December 2020. Overall exports in the first ten months of 2020-21 remain about 10% lower than the same period a year earlier, while imports have shrunk by 22.8%. “The trade deficit has sustained at a high level for the second consecutive month, which is a testament to the recovery in domestic demand, as well as the impact of higher commodity prices following the resurgence in global confidence,” said Aditi Nayar, principal economist at rating agency ICRA. She added that it was increasingly likely that the third and fourth quarters of financial year 2020-21 would see a reversion to a current account deficit.  Sharad Saraf, president of the Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIED) said that while several product categories showed impressive growth in January, the contraction in exports of major products such as petroleum products, leather textiles and gems and jewellery were key concerns. “These products are major constituents of India’s export basket and mainly related to the labour-intensive sector of exports,” Mr. Saraf pointed out. Services exports remained a concern, with the Reserve Bank of India pointing to a 6.41% decline in outbound services trade in December 2020. Services exports decline “The worsening contraction in services exports meant that the services trade surplus recorded a year-on-year decline in December 2020, after a gap of nine months,” Ms. Nayar pointed out. Mr Saraf also urged the government to notify the RoDTEP rates for refunding taxes and duties to exporters at the earliest so that exporters can finalise new supply contracts. Last week, exporters had flagged a slew of operational and policy hurdles that are deterring performance even though orders were coming in, and pleaded for a course correction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/exports-surge-62-imports-rise-2/article33846369.ece
16 February 2021||MUMBAI,||States’ fiscal deficit to narrow to 4.3% of GDP in FY22: Ind-Ra||The aggregate fiscal deficit of States is likely to be at 4.3% of the gross domestic product (GDP) in 2021-22 compared with 4.6% in 2020-21, says a report by India Ratings and Research. The rating agency has revised the outlook on State finances to stable for FY22 from stable-to-negative. “We expect the aggregate fiscal deficit of States for FY22 to come in at 4.3% of the gross domestic product (GDP) compared to 4.6% (revised) in FY21,” the agency said in a report. It had earlier forecast FY21 fiscal deficit of States to be at 4.5%, but revised it later due to a sharper-than-expected contraction of 6.1% year-on-year (y-o-y) in the nominal GDP. The agency estimates the nominal GDP to grow 14.5% in FY22, and believes a gradual pick-up in revenue collections could lead to an improvement in the capital expenditure from FY22. The report said due to the economic downturn, even the union government’s finances are under pressure, leading to a lower-than-budgeted devolution of Rs. 5.50 lakh crore to States in FY21 (revised estimate: RE) as against the budget estimate (BE) of Rs. 8.03 lakh crore. The agency said although it estimates the aggregate revenue receipt of the States to grow 8.4% y-o-y in FY22 from a decline of 0.6% in FY21, the revenue deficit would persist in FY22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/states-fiscal-deficit-to-narrow-to-43-of-gdp-in-fy22-ind-ra/article33846378.ece
16 February 2021||Chennai,||India Pistons to partner with Shaw Development||India Pistons Ltd., (IPL) a subsidiary of the $2-billion Amalgamations Group, has entered into a pact with Florida-based Shaw Development LLC to manufacture diesel exhaust fluid (DEF) solutions in Tamil Nadu at an investment of Rs. 50 crore. “The new joint venture — IPL-Shaw Solutions — will manufacture two lakh units of DEF solutions and the capacity will be expandable depending on the demand. Operations will commence by March 2021,” said R. Mahadevan, director, IPL. Under the joint venture, the companies will manufacture DEF for heavy duty vehicles (commercial vehicles and off-road) and diesel engine manufacturers in compliance with BS-VI and equivalent exhaust emission norms. “Through this joint venture, Indian manufacturers will have a local partner for a complete offering of DEF reservoirs, sensors, modules, filters, caps, and other fluid management solutions. The market size for this product in India is Rs. 600-700 crore,” he said. Keith Luomala, Chairman & CEO of Shaw Development, said that India was the most strategic growth market for Shaw to develop highly reliable DEF and fluid management solutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-pistons-to-partner-with-shaw-development/article33846364.ece
16 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||WPI quickens to 2.03% after easing in December||Inflation in wholesale prices quickened to 2.03% in January, after easing to 1.2% in December 2020, led by a spike in manufactured products suggesting that producers were likely regaining pricing power, after the initial pandemic shock, amid rising commodity prices. January’s Wholesale Price Index (WPI) numbers also point to a divergence between wholesale and retail price trends in the month as consumer price inflation had eased to 4.06% from 4.59% in December. The Office of the Economic Adviser in the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade also revised the wholesale inflation rate for November 2020 from 1.55% estimated provisionally, to 2.29%. While a negative inflation rate was recorded for food items, primary articles as well as fuel and power, inflation in manufactured products accelerated to 5.13% in January, almost two percentage points faster than November’s 3.23% pace. Inflation in fuel and power stood at -4.78%, which Care Ratings said could be ‘misleading’ as retail prices of fuels ‘have reached their peak levels’. “Higher prices in manufactured products is positive for business,” Care said in a note. “The recovery in commodity prices can be linked with the unlocking process as producers have also made up for their inability to produce in the first two months of the year by increasing prices.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/wpi-quickens-to-203-after-easing-in-december/article33846367.ece
16 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Indian smartphone market fell 1.7% in 2020’||While the Indian smartphone market declined by 1.7% in 2020, it is expected to witness high single-digit growth in the current year, mainly driven by customers upgrading their devices, according to a report by the International Data Corporation (IDC). “The India smartphone market exited 2020 at 150 million units, a 1.7% year-on-year decline. stay-at-home mandates, remote work, remote education, travel restrictions, and manufacturing shutdowns led to a sluggish H1’20 (-26% y-o-y decline), particularly impacting 2Q20,” IDC said. While smartphone shipments for the full year 2020 remained below pre-pandemic levels, IDC believes a stronger market acceleration in 2021 will be led by upgraders, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indian-smartphone-market-fell-17-in-2020/article33846371.ece
16 February 2021||Bengaluru,||IT revenue to grow to $194 bn in FY21: Nasscom||Indian IT industry’s revenue is estimated to grow 2.3% year-on-year in FY21 to $194 billion on the back of a rapid acceleration in digital transformation and technology adoption, according to industry apex body Nasscom. During the fiscal, software exports are expected to touch $150 billion, a 1.9% growth over the year-earlier period. India has a huge opportunity to become a talent nation for the entire world and investments will go where the talent is, said Debjani Ghosh, president, Nasscom. The industry added more than 1.38 lakh to its headcount in FY21, taking the total to 4.47 million, as per a Nasscom survey. “Most of the hiring was for digital skills and expertise in deep technologies and not for traditional IT functions,” Ms. Ghosh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/it-revenue-to-grow-to-194-bn-in-fy21-nasscom/article33846366.ece
16 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cairn invites bids for gas in Rajasthan unit||Vedanta Ltd. on Monday invited bids for the sale of natural gas from its Rajasthan block at rates equivalent to the price of imported LNG from the spot market or Brent oil price. Cairn Oil & Gas, Vedanta’s oil and gas arm, produces about 3.5 million standard cubic meters per day of gas from the block. “The company invites EoI from interested parties with proven capabilities and demonstrated presence in the natural gas business to participate in the national competitive e-auction process,” the firm said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cairn-invites-bids-for-gas-in-rajasthan-unit/article33846374.ece
16 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||COVID-19 hit products to rebound: HUL||FMCG major Hindustan Unilever expects its ‘COVID impacted’ product categories such as ice-cream and vending solutions to rebound strongly in 2021 with increase in mobility. In an investor presentation, the company also said categories such as skin care and colour cosmetics, which slowed down last year will also rebound. On the other hand, the company said categories such as hand sanitisers and hand wash which saw a sharp surge during the pandemic are also expected to normalise this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/covid-19-hit-products-to-rebound-hul/article33846375.ece
16 February 2021||MUMBAI,||Bank credit grows 5.93%, deposits 11.06%||Bank credit grew 5.93% to Rs. 107.05 lakh crore, while deposits rose 11.06% to Rs. 147.98 lakh crore in the fortnight ended January 29, RBI data showed. In the fortnight ended January 31, 2020, bank credit stood at Rs. 101.05 lakh crore and deposits at Rs. 133.24 lakh crore. In the previous fortnight ended January 15, growth in bank credit was 6.36%, while deposits rose 11.41%. During the first nine months of the current fiscal, bank credit rose by 3.2% and deposits by 8.5%. according to the data.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bank-credit-grows-593-deposits-1106/article33846376.ece
16 February 2021||Chennai,||Renault Kiger starts at 5.45 lakh||French automaker Renault has announced the pricing of its B-SUV segment vehicle Kiger at an introductory price of Rs. 5.45 lakh (ex-showroom, all India) and commenced bookings at its dealership network and through the company’s website. The top variant is priced at Rs. 9.55 lakh, the company said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/renault-kiger-starts-at-545-lakh/article33846373.ece
16 February 2021||New Delhi,||After Amazon moves Supreme Court, Future Group says will defend the matter||Future Retail on Monday said Amazon had approached the Supreme Court against a Delhi HC order that vacated the status quo on Future Group’s proposed Rs. 24,713 crore-deal with Reliance Industries. In a filing, FRL said it “shall defend the proceedings through its legal counsels”.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/after-amazon-moves-supreme-court-future-group-says-will-defend-the-matter/article33846379.ece
16 February 2021||Chennai,||Ashwin writes his own script, decides his bat is a magic wand||There is a touch of drama in whatever R. Ashwin does. You can never tell his mind. On 99, Ashwin needed just a single for his fifth Test hundred. What does he do? He jumps out to off-spinner Moeen Ali’s flighted delivery outside off, has a big swipe but the top-edge travels over the slip to the fence. Soon he throws up his arms in triumph and relief. The crowd goes berserk. The home boy has done it! Magical over Earlier in the thrill-a-minute over, he slog-swept a flighted delivery from Moeen past the ropes, and drove to long-off for a brace. Then arrived his three-figure mark. And, India, riding on Ashwin’s 106 and skipper Virat Kohli’s 62, set England a daunting target of 482 on the third day of the second Test at the M.A. Chidambaram Stadium on Monday. By stumps, England was staring down the barrel at 53 for three. Dom Sibley was trapped leg-before by an Axar Patel arm-ball, Rory Burns was held in the slips off Ashwin and night-watchman Jack Leach was prised out by Axar. The day belonged to Ashwin. On a pitch where the ball turned and bounced, he batted with refreshing freedom. He has opened up his stance a tad but is side-on by the time the bowler releases. His back-swing is measured and, although he is not the quickest on his feet, went forward or played back with a degree of assurance. After his match-saving innings in Sydney, Ashwin has rediscovered his batting mojo following a two-year lull. This was an innings of bold strokeplay. He added 96 in 29.3 overs with Kohli for the seventh wicket to quell an English resurgence. Left-arm spinner Jack Leach’s good length ball was carved past point for four. Ashwin employed the slog-sweep, the pull and the cut for the bulk of his runs. And when Broad erred in line, he was clipped. Ashwin’s footwork is limited, but timing sweet. Fortune favours the brave and Ashwin was let off at 28 [by Ben Stokes in the slips off Stuart Broad], 56 [a difficult chance to ’keeper Ben Foakes standing up to Broad] and 70 [a tough catch and stumping off the same ball by Foakes off Moeen Ali]. Good in parts, Moeen sent back a well-set Kohli with a good length delivery that spun and fatally struck the India captain on his back-leg and consumed Ajinkya Rahane with a flighted ball which spun, bounced and took the inside edge. Kohli’s weight distribution at the crease is the essence of his batsmanship. And it is his footwork — he goes fully forward or travels right back — that is the enabler. His still head in offence or defence is further proof of his balance. And his high left elbow comes into view when he drives down the ground or through covers. Kohli is a good batsman on turning pitches because he can play off the backfoot; he waits for the ball to turn and picks runs through or behind point or punches through covers. He has a back-and-across shuffle, covers the off-stump, opens up the off-side field. Kohli cut and whipped; he has strong wrists. Kept the good deliveries out and put away the loose ones. England will need its batsmen to take the cue. Easier said than done.  Of course, Ashwin and Kohli showed that runs can be made. Kohli was fantastic in the second innings. Ashwin came out and swept early and then was able to manipulate the field Jeetan Patel England’s spin-bowling coach||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ashwin-writes-his-own-script-decides-his-bat-is-a-magic-wand/article33846480.ece
16 February 2021||Melbourne,||Business as usual for Nadal, Barty||Rafael Nadal eased past Italian 16th seed Fabio Fognini 6-3, 6-4, 6-2 to reach his 13th Australian Open quarterfinal on Monday. The Spanish second seed, chasing a record 21st Grand Slam title, held steady against the fierce hitting of Fognini and counter-punched brilliantly. He set up a last eight meeting with Greek fifth seed Stefanos Tsitsipas, who advanced after ninth seed Matteo Berrettini withdrew due to an abdominal strain. Ruud pulls out Daniil Medvedev brushed aside Mackenzie McDonald 6-4, 6-2, 6-3 to extend his winning streak to 18 matches and set up an all-Russian quarterfinal with Andrey Rublev, who was gifted a place in the last eight after Norway’s Casper Ruud retired injured. Medvedev and Rublev join Russian qualifier Aslan Karatsev, making it the first time in the Open era that three Russian men have reached the quarterfinals in the same Grand Slam. In the women’s section, top-ranked Ash Barty sealed a dominant 6-3, 6-4 victory over American Shelby Rogers to reach at least the quarterfinals for the third year in a row. She will face 25th seed Karolina Muchova in the last eight after the Czech beat Belgium’s Elise Mertens 7-6(5) 7-5. Jessica Pegula continued her dream run here with a 6-4, 3-6, 6-3 win over Ukrainian fifth seed Elina Svitolina to set up an all-American quarterfinal against Jennifer Brady, who beat Croatia’s Donna Vekic 6-1, 7-5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/business-as-usual-for-nadal-barty/article33846362.ece
16 February 2021||Chennai,||Axar rebuts pitch criticism||Axar Patel on Monday refuted criticism of the pitch, saying it has played true from the first day. “Not even one ball has hit the batsman’s helmet or taken off extraordinarily. It is just spinning normally. We are also playing on the same pitch and making runs. So nobody should have reservations about the pitch,” said Axar. He added that the pitch required the spinners to hit the right speeds to get maximum purchase. “The wicket is turning, but the turn is on offer when you bowl at a faster pace and have strength behind every ball. If you bowl slowly, the pitch is not offering as much assistance.” The left-arm spinner, who missed the first Test after complaining of knee pain, felt that the decision was in the team’s best interests. “It was slightly frustrating, but I didn’t want to play with a niggle and then midway through the match make the team suffer. I wanted to give myself time. If you look at it positively, I am able to give my 100% [here],” said the 27-year-old debutant. Picked as a like-for-like replacement for Ravindra Jadeja, Axar said, “I know my strengths. My accuracy is my strong point and it works well for me. You don’t need to try too many variations or anything fancy. I am just looking to bowl at one spot and let the pitch do the work for me.” After India lost early wickets in the morning, Axar revealed that there were some nerves in the dressing room before Ashwin and Virat Kohli steadied things. “The partnership gave us confidence. When you have a big score on the board, you can bowl freely and confidently,” he said. Meanwhile, England’s spin-bowling coach Jeetan Patel backed his side’s batsmen to play their natural games on the fourth day. “We've got stroke-makers in the group and we want them to express themselves. That's been one of the strengths of our three Test matches in the sub-continent, still trying to score. “If we sit back and try to defend for two days we're not going to have much success and not going to go anywhere in the game,” said the former New Zealand off-spinner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/axar-rebuts-pitch-criticism/article33846484.ece
16 February 2021||TENHIPALAM:,||Kessia and Dona set new marks on day one||Ernakulam’s Kessia Mariam Benny and Dona Maria Dony of Kozhikode set new meet records on the opening day of the State athletics championship here on Monday.  The winners: Men: 10,000m: K. Anand Krishna (Ekm) 33:46.10; Shot put: S. Devanarayanan (Alp) 13.35m; Hammer: Alex Joseph (Ekm) 43.32m.   Women: 10,000m: P.S. Surya (Tsr) 39:18.58; Shot put: Megha Mariyam Mathew (Tsr) 11.86m; Hammer: Kessia Mariam Benny (Ekm) 44.81m.   Under-20: Boys: 10,000m: A. Anil 36:17.10; Shot put: S. Sreesanth (Alp) 13.36m; Hammer: Athul K. Pradeep (Ktm) 44.93m.   Girls: 5000m: Riya Sreenivasan (Ktm) 20:44.71; Shot put: Kessia Mariam Benny (Ekm) 10.52m; Hammer: Kessia Mariam Benny (Ekm) 46.33m (NMR, OR: 45.64m, Deepa Joshy (Ekm), 2016).   Under-18: Boys: 3000m: 1. S. Abith (Pkd) 9:44.11; Shot put: A. Visu Krishna (Tvm) 14.23m; Hammer: Nithin Saji (Kkd) 45.77m.   Girls: 1500m: 1. Devika Ben (Ktm) 5:15.45; 3000m: K.P. Sanika 11:21.78. Shot put: Gopika Sunil (Ekm) 11.92m; Hammer: Blessy Devasia (Ekm) 47.46m.   Under-16: Boys: 2000m: M. Sandeep (Pkd) 6:10.43; Shot put: K.C. Sarvan (Kgd) 14.52m; Hammer: Muhammed Nihal (Pkd) 45.50m.   Girls: 2000m: Archana Santhosh (Ekm) 7:20.79; Shot put: Dona Maria Dony (Kkd) 12.77m (NMR, OR: 12.61m, Kessia Mariam Benny, 2017) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kessia-and-dona-set-new-marks-on-day-one/article33846706.ece
16 February 2021||Chennai,||Gloveman Foakes — the real deal||Spotting a genuine wicketkeeper with traditional skills is a rarity these days when teams prefer batsmen who can also ‘keep’. Ben Foakes, though, is different. He’s a genuine wicketkeeper who relishes standing up to spinners on pitches that offer turn and bounce. Solid bat And he can bat as well. Foakes lends solidity to the line-up and notched up a Test century on debut against Sri Lanka in 2018. He averages over 40 in six Tests and his first innings here, an unbeaten 42, was a fine innings of composure and footwork. If the ongoing Test is any evidence, the 28-year-old Foakes is arguably the best ’keeper in contemporary cricket. You can see it in the quality of his gathering and his technique standing up; he stays low, rises with the ball, puts his weight on the balls of his feet, is balanced as he gathers the spinning, bouncing deliveries and has the quickest hands in the Wild West. On this vicious Chennai pitch the ball turned and jumped, yet Foakes, never losing his footing and making subtle adjustments, gathered with the ease of a natural. And what reflexes he has! Rohit Sharma was beaten by left-arm spinner Jack Leach’s flight, turn and bounce and Foakes had the bails off in a flash to win a marginal stumping. Then, Rishabh Pant was bamboozled by a Leach delivery that darted into him before spinning past the inside edge, and Foakes, blindsided, and collecting the ball on the leg-side, had the bails off in lightning quick time. The stumping was high on difficulty but Foakes made it appear simple. Earlier he had combined with Ollie Pope who unleashed a throw from short-leg for Foakes to run out Cheteshwar Pujara. Despite a few blemishes — one of which off Ashwin proved costly — the quality of ’keeping was high. Foakes is the real deal!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gloveman-foakes-the-real-deal/article33846477.ece
16 February 2021||CHENNAI:,||Salman and Prithivraj hog the limelight||K. Salman Khan (seven for 32) bowled Triplicane Cosmopolitan Club to a 55-run win over Vijay’s RC in a V-E contest of the TNCA league recently. In another match, S. Prithivraj’s 104 set up Comrades’ 127-run win over Appaiah Chettiar Memorial.  The scores:   V-E: Comrades 279/6 in 50 overs (S. Prithivraj 104, K. Sai Balalji 89, V. Bharath 3/42) bt Appaiah Chettiar Memorial 152 in 46.3 overs (G.P. Anish Vishagan 34, S. Karthik 3/27, V. Logeshwaran 3/47).   Triplicane Cosmopolitan Club 193 in 48.2 overs (S. Prabu 46, S. Ashwath Narayanan 42, K. Salman Khan 30, P.V. Ravi Teja 4/40) bt Vijay’s Recreation Club 138 in 45.2 overs (K. Salman Khan 7/32).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/salman-and-prithivraj-hog-the-limelight/article33846949.ece
16 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Tejaswani wins 25m rapid fire pistol again||Tejaswani stepped it up further to win the women’s 25-metre rapid fire pistol event once again, with a score of 556, in the fourth National shooting selection trials at the Dr. Karni Singh Range. Tejaswani who had won the third trial earlier with a score of 551, was quite impressive with her performance in the 4-second series, with an improved score of 90 in the second stage. After having shot scores of 542 and 522 in the first two trials, Tejaswani has been able to get a good grip on the new event being introduced by the international federation. Abhidnya Patil and Arunima Gaur overtook Niveditha Nair and Neeraj Kaur to the second and third spots respectively.  The result: Women’s 25m rapid fire pistol: 1. Tejaswani 556; 2. Abhidnya Patil 548; 3. Arunima Gaur 546 .  Nationals in April The National Rifle Association of India (NRAI) has announced the conduct of the 64th National shooting championship in Bhopal and Delhi, in April. Asking the State associations to complete the zonal championships by March 31, the NRAI has announced that the National championship for rifle events would be held in Bhopal from April 14 to 29. The Dr. Karni Singh Range in Tughlakabad will host both the pistol and shotgun events. The pistol events would be staged from April 11 to 29, while the shotgun events are from April 10 to 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tejaswani-wins-25m-rapid-fire-pistol-again/article33846987.ece
16 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||So bests Carlsen again, wins title||Wesley So extended Magnus Carlsen’s title-drought by stunning him for the second time in as many finals this season to claim the $100,000 Opera Euro rapid online chess on Sunday. After the two shared the first set 2-2 on Saturday, So won the first game of the best-of-four-rapid-game second set and drew the rest for a 2.5-1.5 triumph. Carlsen could have hit back in the third or fourth games only if he had chosen to sacrifice pieces at the right times. In the final game, So did not press too hard for a win as a draw was enough to clinch the title. So received $30,000 and moved to the top of the ranking after three events of the Champions Chess Tour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/so-bests-carlsen-again-wins-title/article33846357.ece
16 February 2021||BARCELONA,||Confident Barcelona hosts PSG||Barcelona will have Lionel Messi in his best form this season as the team resumes its campaign in Europe’s top club competition against PSG. Messi has scored nine goals in his last nine matches in all competitions. It remains unclear if coach Ronald Koeman will have Gerard Pique or Ronald Araujo back from injuries to boost the defence. PSG also has injury concerns. Both Neymar and Angel Di Maria are out.   Tuesday’s matches Barcelona v PSG (Barcelona); Liverpool v Leipzig (Budapest)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/confident-barcelona-hosts-psg/article33846358.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Silva and Chhetri deliver for BFC||Bengaluru FC (BFC) dented Mumbai City FC’s chances of AFC Champions League qualification by beating it 4-2 in the ISL at the Bambolim stadium in Goa on Monday. Cleiton Silva provided BFC with a blistering start, scoring after 25 seconds and then again on 22 minutes, before Sunil Chhetri capped his 200th appearance by adding two goals of his own. Adam le Fondre pulled things back for Mumbai twice, but couldn’t stop his side from falling two points behind ATK Mohun Bagan (36) with three games left. BFC, on its part, kept alive its faint hopes of a playoff berth, rose up to sixth on 22 points. Silva put BFC ahead by turning in an inch-perfect cross by Udanta Singh from the right. Mumbai had two chances to hit back, but fluffed both. Raynier Fernandes missed a one-on-one with BFC goalie Gurpreet Singh Sandhu, and le Fondre couldn’t convert despite a superb effort to chest down a long ball from Ahmed Jahouh. BFC, not content with the lead, attacked with verve, with Chhetri and Erik Paartalu both having shots from distance saved by Mumbai custodian Amrinder Singh. It didn’t take long for Naushad Moosa’s side to double the lead, with Silva heading in a fine set-piece delivery by Xisco Hernandez. Mumbai, though, closed the first half strongly with defender Mourtada Fall forcing a terrific reflex save from Gurpreet. Sergio Lobera’s men struck immediately after the restart when le Fondre slotted home a low cross from Goddard on the right. But Chhetri re-established the two-goal lead, scoring through Amrinder’s legs after Mumbai midfielder Hernan Santana made a mess of a Gurpreet goal kick. Le Fondre’s excellent looping header with the back to his goal cut the deficit and the Englishman nearly drew his side level with five minutes of regulation time left, but for Gurpeet’s outstretched leg. Chhetri, however, put the tie to bed deep into injury time, finishing off a counter-attack with a fine solo effort.  The result: Mumbai City FC 2 (le Fondre 50, 72) lost to Bengaluru FC 4 (Silva 1, 22, Chhetri 57, 90).   Tuesday’s match: Hyderabad FC v Kerala Blasters, 7.30 p.m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/silva-and-chhetri-deliver-for-bfc/article33846382.ece
16 February 2021||Chennai,||Security breach||A security breach occurred barely minutes into the post-lunch session at the M.A. Chidambaram Stadium on Monday. A young spectator, braving the sharp edges, jumped over the tall railings and started walking towards the reserve England players who were training on one of the practice pitches. Thankfully, security personnel, caught unawares at first, recovered to prevent the spectator from making physical contact with any English player and escorted him out. The intruder was in police custody till the day's play concluded. According to sources, the TNCA sent a letter to the BCCI regretting the incident and assured the Board it wouldn’t happen again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/security-breach/article33846478.ece
16 February 2021||MUMBAI,||Naman Ojha announces his retirement||Former India wicketkeeper-batsman Naman Ojha has announced his retirement after toiling on the domestic circuit for 20 seasons. Ojha, who represented India in all three formats, holds the record for the most dismissals by a wicketkeeper in the Ranji Trophy. Ojha, who debuted for Madhya Pradesh as a 17-year-old in 2000-01, represented India in a Test (in Sri Lanka in 2015), in one ODI and two T20Is (in Zimbabwe in 2010). After announcing his retirement at Indore on Tuesday, an emotional Ojha said he took the tough call in order to prolong his career in the shortest format in overseas leagues. “Absolutely no regrets, but for the last two years, the body wasn’t coping with keeping wickets in the longer formats and with the MP team in transition, I thought this is the right time to move on,” Ojha said, who made 22 hundreds and 55 half-centuries in First Class cricket. “I will explore opportunities in global T20 leagues to keep playing the game I have loved since childhood.” Ojha was in the limelight for his contribution during the Sunrisers’ Hyderabad run to the IPL title in 2016.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/naman-ojha-announces-his-retirement/article33846482.ece
16 February 2021||LONDON,||Aubameyang does the ’trick||Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang marked his return to Arsenal’s starting line-up with his first ever Premier League hat-trick in his side’s 4-2 victory over Leeds United on Sunday.  The results:   Premier League: Arsenal 4 (Aubameyang 13, 41-pen, 47, Bellerin 45) bt Leeds 2 (Struijk 58, Costa 69); Everton 0 lost to Fulham 2 (Maja 48, 65).   LaLiga: Getafe 0 lost to Real Sociedad 1 (Isak 30); Real Madrid 2 (Benzema 12, Kroos 42) bt Valencia 0; Levante 0 lost to Osasuna 1 (Budimir 74).   Villarreal 1 (Gerard 65-pen) lost to Real Betis 2 (Fekir 45, Emerson Aparecido 52).   Serie A: Sampdoria 2 (Keita 31, Quagliarella 71) bt Fiorentina 1 (Vlahovic 37); Cagliari 0 lost to Atalanta 1 (Muriel 90).   Crotone 1 (Ounas 26) lost to Sassuolo 2 (Berardi 14, Caputo 49); Inter Milan 3 (Lukaku 22-pen, 45, Martinez 64) bt Lazio 1 (Escalante 61).   Bundesliga: Eintracht Frankfurt 2 (Silva 57, N’Dicka 79) bt Cologne 0; VfL Wolfsburg 0 drew with Borussia Moenchengladbach 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aubameyang-does-the-trick/article33846359.ece
16 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||KCA withdraws from maintenance of Sports Hub||The Kerala Cricket Association (KCA) has temporarily withdrawn from the maintenance of the Sports Hub, Kariyavattom. This was decided at a meeting of KCA office-bearers here on Monday after a fallout with IL&FS, the owners of the Sports Hub, regarding the hosting of the South Africa women’s series. The BCCI had allotted the women’s one-day and T20 series between India and South Africa to KCA and it was supposed to be held in March at the Sports Hub. However, KCA was forced to write to BCCI to shift those matches as it was unable to ensure the availability of the stadium in March. KCA had accused IL&FS of breach of contract as it it had given the stadium for army recruitment in March without informing. IL&FS also had demanded Rs. 88 lakh towards rent for staging the South Africa series. KCA expressed its inability to pay such a huge amount as it was not earning any revenue from this series. KCA fears that the recruitment rally will damage the wicket and turf and it will put further liability on the association. The association had entered into a 10-year lease agreement with IL&FS in 2016 and has been maintaining the stadium since then. KCA spends around Rs. 75 lakh annually for maintenance of the stadium. The Sports Hub had hosted two T20s and one ODI since 2017, besides A tours and Ranji Trophy matches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kca-withdraws-from-maintenance-of-sports-hub/article33846707.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Daksha resumes sacrifice||During the grand sacrifice performed by Daksha, his feud with Rudra reaches a peak when he deliberately insults Rudra by denying him the sacrificial offerings. Sati Devi, unable to bear Daksha’s antagonistic stance and conduct, gives up her body in the fire generated by her yogic power. Then Rudra sends his followers to disrupt the yagna. The celestial beings who were victims of the fight, rush to Brahma for help. Brahma propitiates Rudra who is in meditation. Brahma praises Rudra who is all knowing and above the Lord’s Maya. He requests Rudra to give up his anger and to take steps to complete the yagna. Eventually the disrupted sacrifice is resumed. In a discourse, Sri R. Krishnamurthy Sastrigal drew attention to the fact that the Bhagavata Purana projects the view that the Supreme Godhead is one but also seen variously as the Trimurtis. The Supreme Lord is the indwelling spirit in each and every aspect of creation and is also the embodiment of compassion. His omniscience makes Him aware of the faults of the jivas who are bound by the gunas and their karma. Daksha represents the jivas who transgress and are likely to commit mistakes. Rudra is now pacified and makes it clear that he had shown this attitude to Daksha only to purify him and not out of revenge. Rudra wills that Daksha should get back his life. He also wills that all the celestial beings and the sacrificial priests who had been wounded by the weapons be restored to their original selves. Daksha is purged of his hatred and ill feelings towards Rudra. He is now transformed and his heart is filled with love and devotion to Siva. He is repentant and acknowledges the magnanimity of Siva who does not entertain hatred towards Daksha. The sacrifice is resumed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/daksha-resumes-sacrifice/article33846473.ece
16 February 2021||Dubai,||Racing Team India excels||Racing Team India won its bid to become the first all-Indian squad to compete at the 24 Hours of Le Mans with a solid debut over the opening two rounds of the Asian Le Mans Series in Dubai this weekend. The JK Tyres-backed team’s ORECA 07 LMP2 car, driven by Narain Karthikeyan, Arjun Maini and Naveen Rao, finished fifth and fourth in the two four-hour races.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/racing-team-india-excels/article33846380.ece
16 February 2021||Chandigarh,||Four ex-champs could prove ‘dangerous’||Although Manika Batra and Sutirtha Mukherjee are seeded to set up the title-clash in the National table tennis championship at Panchkula later this week, the presence of four former champions poses a serious threat to prospects of several prominent players. World No. 63 Manika and defending champion Sutirtha can expect a tough passage ahead with several players looking to regain their lost status. Former champions Madhurika Patkar and Archana Kamath will be placed in the 9-16 bracket when the seeding is drawn on Tuesday morning. Two other National champions K. Shamini and Ankita Das are expected to come through the qualifying phase that began on Monday. Madhurika, the recipient of Arjuna Award last year, and Archana could well be among the ‘dangerous floaters’ in the pre-quarterfinals and scalp any of the top eight seeds. In the last edition, three-time winner and ‘comeback lady’ Shamini’s victims included Sreeja Akula before she ran into eventual semifinalist Ankita Das. In this edition, Sreeja is set to be seeded third or fourth. Besides Shamini and Ankita, some of the likely qualifiers to the main draw are Pooja Sahasrabudhe, Shruti Amrute, Senhora D’Souza, Divya Deshpande, Harsha Vardhini, Surbhi Patwari, Moumita Dutta, Nikhat Banu, Amrutha Pushpak and Frenaz Chipia.  With the Olympic qualification event round the corner, the form and fitness of Manika and Sutirtha will come under scrutiny. Unlike most leading names from the men’s section who have worked together at Sonepat and later in Chennai, most prominent women trained on their own during the past year. After the first set of league matches, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal inaugurated the championship on Monday. Also present during the brief opening ceremony was Haryana’s Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala, who is also the President of the Table Tennis Federation of India (TTFI).  The top-8 ranked players:   1. Manika Batra (Pet), 2. Sutirtha Mukherjee (Har), 3. Ayhika Mukherjee (RBI), 4. Sreeja Akula (RBI), 5. Krittwika Sinha Roy (Pet), 6. Anusha Kutumbale (TTFI), 7. Prapti Sen (Ben ‘A’), 8. Kaushani Nath (Rlys).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/four-ex-champions-could-prove-dangerous-floaters/article33846384.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Vignesh hammers century||M. Vignesh hammered 125 (111b, 14x4) as Vasantham CC coasted to a 142-run win over Grand Dravid CA in the CDCA fifth division league recently.  The scores: I div.: Sri Ramakrishna CT 196 in 49.5 overs (S. Radhakrishnan 64, C. Sathyanarayanan 32, Y. Aravindhan 3/37, G. Maharaja 3/31) bt Suryabala 133 in 41.5 overs (M. Premkumar 46).   V div.: GCC 251 in 49.5 overs (M. Faizaldeen 32, S. Anand Kumar 40, E. Mahendran 61, N. Muruganantham 4/61) lost to Devil Strokers 252/7 in 49.5 overs (V. Prabhul Raj 42, M. Sakthivel 73.   Vasantham 263/7 in 50 overs (P. Saravanan 40, M. Vignesh 125, M. Balraj 43 n.o.) bt Grand Dravid CA 121 in 32.4 overs (B. Karthik 3/34, K. Sridhar 3/28).   VI div.: Appasamy 222/9 in 50 overs (P. Balakrishnan 35, J. Vasanthkumar 41, A. Madhan Kumar 49, A. Jones 3/25) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vignesh-hammers-century/article33846973.ece
16 February 2021||Bengaluru:,||Huge win for Misaka United||Misaka United FC whipped Bangalore Soccer Galaxy 10-1 in the KSFA women’s super division football league here on Monday.  The results: Bengaluru Braves FC 3 (Sushamita Jadhav 19, 44, Valanie Fernandes 53) bt Parikrma FC 1 (Kajol Devgan 11); Misaka United FC 10 (Lalrinmuani 8, 23, 74, Mala 11, Lalrineuani 25, 27, 33, Anjali 39, Ruthy Lalrinmawi 56, Lalthansangi 90) bt Bangalore Soccer Galaxy 1 (Iniya 31) .    The State-ranking veteran table tennis tournament will be held on February 20 and 21 at Malleswaram Association here. For details, call Udayashankar Rao (94802 35091).   S. Suprith (83) and Abhinoam Jacob (4/28) helped Mysore Zone defeat Shimoga Zone in the KSCA inter-mofussil under-19 tournament here.  The scores: Mangalore Zone 144 in 32.1 overs (Thota Azaan 41, Vaibhav Kuribagi 5/23) lost to Dharwad Zone 145/2 in 32 overs (Safal Shetty 30 n.o, Chirag Nayak 79 n.o.).   Mysore Zone 187 in 47.1 overs (Manvanth Kumar 31, Aryan Kaveriappa 36, S. Suprith 83, Sai Sretan 3/34) bt Shimoga Zone 120 in 35.4 overs (Shravan Babu 26, Rahul Kamath 38, Abhinoam Jacob 4/28).   Tumkur Zone 147 in 49.4 overs (T. Chiranjeevi 40, Hemanth Kumar 38) lost to Raichur Zone 148/5 in 42 overs (Vijaya Raj 57, Vijay Reddy 29 n.o.).    Unseeded Dhruv Adiga upset eighth-seed Suchir Chethan 6-3, 6-2 victory in the boys’ first round of the AITA under-16 tennis tournament here on Monday.   Prakash Jayaramaiah’s unbeaten 115 went in vain as Karnataka lost to Odisha in the semifinals of the IndusInd Bank National Nagesh trophy T20 cricket for blind tournament here on Monday.  The scores: Semifinals: Odisha 224/3 in 20 overs (Sukhram Majhi 87 n.o., Pankaj Bhue 88) bt Karnataka 182/3 in 20 overs (Prakash Jayaramaiah 115 n.o.).   Haryana 198/5 in 20 overs (Deepak Malik 90, Rohit Sharma 68) lost to Andhra Pradesh 199/3 in 18.4 overs (Ajaykumar Reddy 60 n.o.).      Cletus Paul’s late goal gave Bangalore Eagles FC a 1-0 win over Bengaluru FC (BFC) in the BDFA super division football league here on Monday. BFC, which suffered its first loss in the league, dropped to second in the standings, one point behind leader FC Bengaluru United.  The results: Bangalore Eagles FC 1 (Cletus Paul 86) bt BFC 0; Kickstart FC 2 (Sudheer Kotikela 49, Solaimalai 69) bt Bangalore Independents FC 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/huge-win-for-misaka-united/article33846739.ece
16 February 2021||WASHINGTON,||Jokic on fire as Nuggets halt Lakers||Nikola Jokic scored a triple-double of 23 points, 16 rebounds and 10 assists to lead Denver Nuggets to a 122-105 win over LA Lakers.  Other results: Kings 110 lost to Grizzlies 124; Clippers 128 bt Cavaliers 111; Suns 109 bt Magic 90; Thunder 114 bt Bucks 109; Raptors 112 lost to Timberwolves 116; Hornets 110 lost to Spurs 122; Pistons 123 bt Pelicans 112; Mavericks 118 lost to Trail Blazers 121; Wizards 104 bt Celtics 91.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jokic-on-fire-as-nuggets-halt-lakers/article33846360.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 10:03 IST,||Sudoku — February 16, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-february-16-2021/article33847925.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Chepauk breathes||Chepauk woke up. Chepauk played. And Chepauk rejoiced. With live cricket returning for the first time in India since the pandemic, #KnowlegeableChennaiCrowd, as the cricket-crazy fans are popularly called, had a ball — as their favourite MA Chidambaram stadium in Chepauk sprang to life with the ongoing India vs England Test. Chennai’s love for the sport, though a familiar story, was on full display during the Valentine’s Day weekend. “I am so happy to be back here,” said R. Vetrivel, who caught an early morning train from Thiruvallur to catch the cricketing action, “We can watch as many matches as we want on TV, but the excitement of watching live cricket is unbeatable.” With India doing well with the ball, fans like Vetrivel had a lot to cheer. As was the case with Prithi Ashwin, wife of cricketer Ravichandran Ashwin and a big fan of the sport. “Chepauk has come alive and is buzzing....”, she tweeted, even as she followed her husband’s heroics on the field. One stitch at a time Not too far away from the din of whistles and claps sat cobbler R. Baskaran. A familiar face in cricketing circles, Baskaran has, since 1993, watched most matches from close quarters: he is the official shoemaker of the Indian cricket team in Chennai. He was not in the thick of things when we caught up with him during the match, due to the COVID-19 protocol. “I am happy that cricket is back at Chepauk, but I wish I was inside,” he said wistfully, mending a glove, “I could have been useful.” Baskaran sits on a pavement near the Pattabhiraman Gate and goes about his everyday business, as fans queue up at the stadium. He has seen cricketing giants from close quarters and has worked closely with Sachin Tendulkar and M.S. Dhoni on their gear whenever they played at Chepauk. “During a match, if I am inside the stadium, I make about Rs. 1000. However, if I am on my pavement shop, I earn about Rs. 500 on a good day.” ‘Slow and steady’ If older cricket fans savoured the romance of the Test format over the past few days, younger fans — like 20-year-old Akhilesh M. from Adyar — saw it as a far cry from the fast-paced nature of T-20 cricket. “I have come here for many CSK matches,” said Akhilesh, sporting an M.S. Dhoni jersey, “I feel Test cricket is slow and steady, but has its own charm. One good session can make or break a game.” He did miss Dhoni, but Virat Kohli lit up his day, when he signalled them to ‘whistle’ and cheer the team. And Chepauk whistled.  Where’s the update?  What connects England spinner Moeen Ali and Tamil actor Ajith Kumar? Seemingly nothing. But Chennai’s cinema-crazy crowd had other plans. A viral video taken in the ground had a fan calling out to Moeen, who was fielding on the boundary. “Ali bhai , Valimai update...” the fan is heard asking on video. Moeen, obviously, knows nothing about this upcoming Ajith-starrer that fans constantly demand ‘updates’ about.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/chepauk-breathes/article33846680.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Straight from the underground||A Valentine’s Day special: on a wooden frame are stencilled the letters I and U. Between them where one would expect a heart stands an exploded spray paint can, its metal body contorted to an amorphous shape. Is that a broken heart? It is hard to say. This canvas is one of the latest additions in Method Art Space, a gallery with branches in Kala Ghoda and Bandra, that currently holds Mumbai-based anonymous street artist Tyler’s much-talked about, often political works. The artist’s first solo show brings their wide repertoire straight from the walls into the white cube space: a welcome change that subverts the belief that street art and graffiti do not fit the ‘fine art’ ideal. “I paint what I am,” opens Tyler, who believes that a lot of their own personality reflects in their work, which is largely mischievous, tongue-in-cheek takes on what happens around them. “Everything that I had done as a mischievous child reflects on my art, when I look at it now,” they add. Further, the medium they have chosen only aides this need to remain “simple and approachable”. The artist adds, “I shouldn’t have to explain my art to anyone. I don’t have any art education and never wanted to be an artist. All I wanted to do was express myself.” A lot of things that didn’t make sense in the society, became the starting point of Tyler’s vast body of work that comments on political and societal happenings, on an almost daily basis; many of them are painted over or whitewashed. “I wanted the medium to be as real as possible.” But having said that, Tyler believes that it also important to keep their reactions simple in terms of details and embellishments, since “there are bigger problems in the world than me right now.” In street art, the placement is perhaps as important as the subject, according to Tyler. On the streets, Tyler has always chosen the most ignored walls as canvasses. “In this country, there is no concept of free art. I want to give the people that opportunity. They can choose to admire it or spit on it, but at least there is accessibility,” says Tyler. “It doesn’t matter if I don’t see a particular work of mine on a wall, a year later. It only makes me want to do it more. It’s like maintaining a little library of my own works.”  Tyler’s works will be on display till March 7||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/straight-from-the-underground/article33846682.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Return of the native||It is raining ‘green’ drives. A visual treat of towering palm trees bordering a landscape dotted with red hibiscus blooms, clusters of pink oleanders, red ixoras, and white crepe jasmine flowers will soon unfold along the water bodies located on the Thiruvallur-Chennai-Chidambaram Highway. In another development, the Raynal Lake in Karnataka that witnessed invasive weeds has had a makeover with native trees like neem, pungania, Arjuna and Ashoka, all regularly watered and taken care of. A 60-acre site in the Nilgiris with two streams and a tea estate, is being restored to its original shola and grassland ecosystem with native grasses and shrubs. All these projects, backed by corporates, focus on creating mindful green spaces with trees that have been growing in the region for thousands of years. “It’s a heartening trend. A number of corporates are approaching environmentalists to make their green drives count. One way of doing this is by leaning on to ancient wisdom to choose the right trees and get the best results,” explains Sivaram TR, founder of Vetri NGO. His initiative, Vanathukkul Tiruppur, a project completely funded by corporates, has planted one million trees in Tiruppur district of Tamil Nadu. “Most of the land belongs to the corporates, which are either ancestral properties that were left barren or purchased by them for expansions like setting up a spinning mill, wind mill or solar park.” Rethinking spaces Sivaram explains how our ancestors divided land into Kurunji (mountains), Mullai (forests), Marudham (farmlands), Neidhal (coastal land) and Paalai (dry land) based on agro-climate conditions and recommended suitable plants. “In Tamil Nadu, villages have names like Velampalayam, Puliampatti, Ichipatti, and Arasmapalyam, referring to trees (with these names) flourishing there for ages. Many insects, birds, and animals depend on these trees for food and shelter,” he says. There is renewed interest in conservation among corporates, says G. Sanjay Prasad, environmental engineer of Environmentalists Foundation of India, an NGO that works with 14 States in the country. They restore water bodies scientifically and plant native trees in the habitats surrounding the lakes. “They no longer look at planting a tree as a mere photo opportunity,” he observes. Across the country, people are using native plants to restore green spaces, for many reasons. Native trees act as carbon sinks, points out Sanjay. “A carbon sink takes in all forms of carbon from the atmosphere, and gives out oxygen. The trees regulate humidity, bring down temperature, and improve water percolation and water table. We set up floating islands on water where vetiver grass is grown along the border to strengthen the bunds. We also plant bamboo, and fruit-bearing trees like amla and jamun .” In Coimbatore, a 400-acre industrial space at Kallapalayam and Moppripalayam is now a green park thriving with thousands of native trees and a bird sanctuary. Award-winning environmentalist Yoganathan, who developed the park along with a team led by S. Shantha Kumar, secretary of CODISSIA Industrial Park Limited, describes how a welcoming cool breeze and the intoxicating fragrance of brown vaagai flowers can uplift one’s spirits instantly. “ Sorga maram (paradise tree) helps cut down radiations of cellphone towers, while iluppai (mahua) trees are good to bring rains, and the naatuvangam (false Ashoka) filters dust and controls pollution.” ‘Suiting our weather’ One can take in a whiff of fragrances — of shenbagam (Champaka ) and manthaarai (bauhinia) — at the park, adds Shantha Kumar. “A study says that in the 1990s there were 30,000 iluppai trees in Tamil Nadu, which are now reduced to 10,000. We have planted these trees in thousands along with native trees like kodukkapuli (Manila tamarind) and semmurungai (red shower tree),” Shantha Kumar adds. While native species have adapted to climate and weather extremities, many exotic plants have become invasive pests, says Nilgiri-based restoration ecologist Vasanth Bosco. He gives an example of Senna spectabilis , a big canopied tree with bright yellow flowers, which has eaten into the water table in places like Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary, Mudumalai, and Bandipur forests. You cannot plant alien trees, agrees B. Saravanan, chief co-ordinator of Siruthuli, an NGO that has planted planted seven lakh native trees across Tamil Nadu through urban forest drives. “The Western Ghats have a diverse palette of trees. A chinnar or deodar tree that grows in Alpine or temperate zones cannot survive in a dry habitat of Tamil Nadu. In Andhra, red sanders thrive in the dry habitat that the land permits. We choose trees that suit our weather conditions.” Agrees Sivaram is also documenting the impact of a million trees on the environment, in terms of tonnes of carbon sequestrated, amount of oxygen released, and more. He says, “To grow one tree costs Rs. 60. Generating funds is always a herculean task. More corporates should come forward and lend support.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/return-of-the-native/article33846676.ece
16 February 2021||Ghaziabad,||Nobody has right to make fun of sacrifices of farmers: Priyanka||Continuing with her attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said on Monday that nobody has the right to make fun of the farmers’ sacrifices. She said the Prime Minister had broken the trust reposed in him by the people by voting him to power for two successive terms. She was speaking at a well-attended Kisan Panchayat in Chandpur tehsil of Bijnor. This was the second such panchayat held by the Congress in western Uttar Pradesh in a week. Sugarcane SAP Using poetry in the sugarcane belt to put her point across, she said, “ Jo bhagwan ka sauda karta hai woh insan ki keemat kya jane, jo ganne ki keemat de na saka woh jaan ki keemat kya jane (The one who sells god would not understand the value of humans, the one who could not pay the price of sugarcane would not value lives (of farmers)).” She underlined the State government’s decision on Monday where it decided to keep the State Advised Price (SAP) of sugarcane unchanged for the current crushing season. “About Rs. 10,000 crore of payment of sugarcane farmers of U.P. is pending. Across the country, this figure goes up to Rs. 15,000 crore. The PM has not ensured to pay your dues but has bought two planes worth Rs. 16,000 crore to travel across the world,” she charged. She also reminded the audience that Rs. 20,000 crore were being spent on the beautification programme of the Parliament. “This money could have been used to clear the pending payment of sugarcane farmers,” she said. Speaking on the farmers’ protest, Ms. Vadra said the PM could not distinguish between a “ deshbhakt ” and a “ deshdrohi ”. “Only a patriot could peacefully protest for 80 days, facing all sorts of problems, so that he could get what rightfully belongs to him. You could not recognise them, instead you preferred to make fun of them,” she remarked. Trying to strike a personal bond, she underlined that she came from a family of martyrs. “Martyrdom is a big thing. It is the family that suffers the most as it lives the pain and nobody has a right to make fun of the martyrdom. I would like to remind Mr. Modi that the farmer who is standing at your door, his son is standing on the border, guarding our freedom.” Cong. with farmers She said every worker of the Congress would stand with farmers. Commenting on the contentious farm laws, she said why was the PM adamant on ‘doing’ the welfare of the farmers when they didn’t want it. “Is your understanding (of agriculture) better than the understanding of crores of farmers of this country? Do they not know what is good for them,” she asked. Ms. Vadra said the farm laws were not made for the welfare of farmers but to look after the interests of the government’s billionaire corporate friends.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/nobody-has-right-to-make-fun-of-sacrifices-of-farmers-priyanka/article33846790.ece
16 February 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. to nominate administrator for managing Gymkhana affairs||The National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) on Monday ordered the appointment of a Central government-nominated administrator to manage the affairs of Delhi Gymkhana Club after prima facie finding of irregularities. The tribunal also ordered suspension of the General Committee (GC) of the 107-year-old Club, located in 27 acres of land near the Prime Minister’s residence in the Capital, along with a halt on acceptance of new membership till further orders. In a strongly worded judgment, the tribunal said the Club, which was granted government land on perpetual lease primarily for sports related activity has been “converted into a recreational club for a chosen few with doors virtually shut for an aspirant belonging to the common stock”. “Under the garb of distinctive character of the Club which is a relic of the Imperial past, the doors for membership are virtually limited to people having blue blood in their veins thereby perpetrating apartheid and shattering the most cherished Constitutional goal of securing social justice and equality of status and opportunity,” the tribunal remarked. Number of members The number of permanent members of the Club is 5,600. However, the users are stated to be double the number of permanent members. The Ministry of Corporate Affairs had claimed that new applicants seeking membership for the Club and having paid registration fee are still in the waiting list for more than 37 years in the non-government category and more than 15 years in the government category. The Ministry alleged that the Club virtually barred entry of many people, who applied for membership, even after waiting for decades as the children of permanent members managed to sneak in, thereafter as green card holders and finally as UCPs (use of club premises) holders. The Ministry also claimed that the money taken from the waitlisted applicants was being utilised for the usage of the Club by persons coming through various channels, a practice which it claims was unfair and prejudicial to public interest. It vehemently stressed that barely three per cent of total expenditure was being incurred by the Club towards sports activity and more than 60% was being spent on maintaining the recreational Club. The Clubargued that it was entitled to decide the membership issue in accordance with the Articles of Association and its action cannot be called in question by the government on the ground of being prejudicial to public interest. It pleaded that the land was allotted to the Club after its incorporation in July 1913 for sports and pastimes along with other objectives, which have neither been altered nor is the Club pursuing any other objective. The tribunal opined that there was a “prima facie case demonstrating that the affairs of the Club are being conducted in a manner prejudicial to public interest”. “It is abundantly clear that misuse of the Club meant for pastime and sports activities and denying access of membership even after accepting the enhanced membership fee...,”the tribunal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-to-nominate-administrator-for-managing-gymkhana-affairs/article33846515.ece
16 February 2021||GURUGRAM,||Commuters rush to get FASTags installed as deadline ends||Simi Puri, 37, a Sushant Lok-I resident here, had a FASTag installed on one of her two vehicles. But after the National Highways Authority of India made digital payments though FASTags at its toll plazas mandatory from February 16, she decided to get it installed on her second car as well. But she was not alone to throng the Point of Sale near the Kherki Daula toll plaza in a bid to beat the NHAI deadline. The Point of Sale on the roadside near the Kherki Daula toll plaza had an unusual rush of commuters on Monday. Waiting for the FASTag to be installed, Ms. Puri said her Sports Utility Vehicle already had the FASTag installed, but she now decided to get in fixed on her car as well. “This car is usually for the small distance, and the SUV is for long distance travel. But my husband asked me to get the FASTag installed on the car as well after he came to know about the NHAI deadline,” said Ms. Puri. The installation process, however, was quick and hassle-free. “It took just a few minutes,” said Ms. Puri. Activated soon Rohit, a salesperson at the PoS, said the sale of FASTags had doubled over the past few days. “Earlier we sold 100-odd FASTags a day, but now it was around 200 every day for the past 4-5 days,” he said. He added that the FASTag was activated soon after it was installed with a balance of Rs. 100. “But the payment is accepted only through digital mode. The customer can recharge it again in another 30 minutes,” said Mr. Rohit. As per the NHAI orders, all lanes of National Highway fee plazas have been declared as “FASTag lanes of Fee Plaza” with effect from 00:00 hours of February 16. The vehicles without valid and functional FASTag will have to pay fee equivalent to two times of the fee applicable to that category, as per the orders. Shashi Bhushan, Project Director, NHAI, Gurugram, said many more kiosks to install FASTags were set up for the convenience of those still not having them equipped and adequate number of marshals were deployed to streamline the traffic in preparation for the roll out. “Already 80-85% commuters are making payment through FAStags. Besides, we have been conducting trials for 30-60 minutes for each shift everyday since December last year and collecting double the toll fee from those paying in cash. We have not faced much difficulty. Hope the roll out will be smooth,” said Mr. Bhushan. ‘Not being recharged’ Sohrab Khan, Manager Toll Operations, Millennium City Expressway Private Limited, said that around 10-15% commuters did not have active FASTags and could play the spoilsport. “Despite having installed the FAStags, 10-15% commuters don’t get them recharged. This is one challenge,” said Mr. Khan. He added the company had made all preparations for the smooth roll out and installed up-to-date Radio Frequency Identification machines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/commuters-rush-to-get-fastags-installed-as-deadline-ends/article33846697.ece
16 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Protesters’ strength dwindles due to Punjab civic elections||Protesting farmers at the Singhu border said that the crowd has comparatively lessened because some of them have gone back to Punjab to cast their vote in the municipal elections that are under way. “Municipal elections were held in Punjab on February 14 and the results are to be declared on February 17 due to which some people have left for their home town. However, the crowd will be as strong as always within two-three days,” said Amrik Singh, district president of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Jalandhar) and member of stage management committee. Another reason, Mr. Amrik said, was that people used to earlier come near the stage at the protest site to participate but have now settled down. “There are speakers till the end of the site and they can listen in their trolleys as well. Therefore, they prefer to not come nearthe stage now,” he said. Entry behind the stage has also been restricted as a cautionary measure, Mr. Amrik said. Attend mahapanchayats Sukhdev Singh (57), resident of Haryana, said that some protesters from the State have gone to attend the mahapanchayats that are being held. “People have to be present for that as well,” he said. However, protesters who are staying said that people — for the last few weeks — have been taking turns every week to come at the protest. “We will not let it slow down. The government will have to agree at some point because we will not go back otherwise. There is no timeline for this protest,” said Avtar Singh from Fatehgarh Sahib. Summers are approaching, plans are being made about constructing ceilings inside the tractors so ACs can be installed. “Soon, there will be ACs to beat the heat and fans in all of the trolleys, tractors and in the stage area,” Mr. Amrik said. The protesting farmers said that they’re ready to face the summers also. “We have managed in biting cold winter. What can the summer do?” said Nirmal Singh (60) from Rohtak. In a related development, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha has sent Rs. 2.25 lakh to Tihar jail for expenses of the protesters lodged in jail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/protesters-strength-dwindles-due-to-punjab-civic-elections/article33846519.ece
16 February 2021||Ghaziabad,||Time to apply vote ki chot: Jayant||“This government should not try to enforce its whims as we were born obstinate,” said Rashtriya Lok Dal vice-president Jayant Chaudhary, addressing a massive kisan panchayat against farm laws in Sadabad area of Hathras district on Monday. He appealed to the farmers to apply “vote ki chot” [cause damage by voting] to teach the BJP a lesson. “After listening to the Prime Minister’s address in Parliament, the farmer is feeling insulted and has become more resolute in his stand against the farm laws,” he said. A large number of farmers turned up for the panchayat yet again. “The protests have emerged from the grassroots, but strangely Mr. Modi is keeping his eyes shut to their [farmers’] demands,” Mr. Chaudhary said. “Whenever there is a challenge, people unite and give birth to a new leader, a new movement.” Mr. Chaudhary reminded how his grandfather Chaudhary Charan Singh had argued in his book — India’s Economic Policy: The Gandhian Blueprint, published in 1978 — that those who were running the country didn’t know the social and psychological make-up of the farmers. “People with urban upbringing make laws for rural India. Even if they have the farmers’ interest in mind, they are not practical. This is proving to be true in 2021,” he said. ‘Benefit of capitalists’ “The Prime Minister said in Parliament that one should not insult the capitalists. This in a country where there is still inequality, where a large section of the electorate is still poor. It shows the PM knows everything. The laws are made for the benefit of his capitalist friends,” said the RLD leader. Raising the issue of a farmer from Aligarh who recently killed himself, Mr. Chaudhary said: “They seek vote in the name of Ram, but they are not concerned about Ramjilal who ended his life after facing humiliation at the hands of officials for his inability to pay electricity bill.” He recalled that the government had promised to develop 22,000 Gramin Hats (rural marketplaces). “I could not find one in this region that is known for potato cultivation... The goal should have been to increase procurement by increasing the number of government mandis,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/its-time-to-apply-vote-ki-chot-says-jayant/article33846778.ece
16 February 2021||New Delhi,||Capital reports 141 new cases, two more deaths||Delhi reported 141 new COVID-19 cases, according to a health bulletin issued by the Delhi government on Monday. Two deaths have also been reported and 134 patients were discharged from hospital, it stated. The total number of active cases in the city has reached 1,036. The positivity rate was recorded at 0.36% and the case fatality rate at 1.71%, with 10,893 total deaths due to the virus so far. According to Delhi government statistics, the total number of virus cases now stands at 6,37,087, with 6,25,158 patients having been discharged. Meanwhile, a total number 14,965 beneficiaries were vaccinated in the national capital on Monday, with 7 instances of Adverse Event Following Immunisation, according to the Delhi government. Of these, 4,571 healthcare workers received their first dose and 2,191 their second dose of the vaccine. As many as 8,203 front-line workers received their first vaccination dose on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/capital-reports-141-new-cases-two-more-deaths/article33846521.ece
16 February 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. has failed on all fronts: BJP||Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri on Monday alleged that the Delhi government had failed on all fronts in the first year of its third term. The government, Mr. Bidhuri alleged, did not even have “a single achievement to its name” in the whole year and nothing to show in the name of development despite having a budget of Rs. 65,000 crores. “Be it the health sector, education, power, water, pollution or even roads, there has been no movement of any work. The biggest challenge faced by the Kejriwal government and the people of Delhi was COVID-19, but the government proved to be a big zero. It was only the Central government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah that came to the rescue of the people of Delhi,” he alleged. During the lockdown, the Kejriwal government had failed the migrant workers by not providing any facility or scheme to look after them, he said. ‘Promises not kept’ The Kejriwal government had promised free Wi-Fi, strengthening of streetlights, installing four lakh CCTVs for the security and safety of the citizens especially women but all these remained on paper only. Referring to pollution in the Capital, the LoP said, every year Delhi became a gas chamber but there had hardly been any movement by the government to deal with the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-govt-has-failed-on-all-fronts-bjp/article33846527.ece
16 February 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab civic body polls: SEC orders repolling in 3 booths||Amid reports of miscreants damaging the electronic voting machines (EVMs) during Punjab civic body polls, the State Election Commission has ordered repolling in three booths on February 16. Repolling will be held in three booths of Patran and Samana Municipal Councils in Patiala district. Polling was held on February 14 for over hundred municipal bodies across the State, which saw 71.39% voter turnout amid stray incidents of clashes at some places. An official statement said the SEC had received reports from the Patran Returning Officer that some miscreants had damaged the EVMs at polling booth number 11 of ward number 8. Reports were received from the Samana RO about damaging of EVMs at polling booth numbers 22 and 23 of ward number 11. “The Commission has announced to nullify the earlier polling conducted in these booths and ordered a repoll under Section 59 (2)(A) of the Punjab State Election Commission Act, 1994,” it said. The counting will take place on February 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/punjab-civic-body-polls-sec-orders-repolling-in-3-booths/article33846693.ece
16 February 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab not to extend parole of prisoners||With the cases of COVID-19 showing a downward trend in Punjab, the high-powered committee constituted by the Supreme Court for dealing with COVID in prisons has decided not to extend the parole of prisoners any further in the State. The Committee headed by Justice Ajay Tewari of Punjab and Haryana High Court with D.K. Tiwari, Principal Secretary (Jails), and P.K. Sinha, Additional Director General of Police (Prisons), has recommended that all the prisoners surrender to the prisons which have been designated specifically for quarantining the returnees before testing and transferring them to their respective prisons. “The process shall be done in a phased manner starting February 17, for which ‘first out-first in’ mechanism shall be followed i.e. the prisoners who have availed the longest period of parole would report back to the prisons first,” said an official statement. The statement added parole of all the prisoners released on parole in year 2020 and presently out on parole shall be extended till the date on which they have been asked to surrender.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/punjab-not-to-extend-parole-of-prisoners/article33846694.ece
16 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||DU reopens four more libraries||The Delhi University on Monday reopened four more libraries as part of its phased reopening of the university. Research scholars and faculty members will be permitted to access the libraries. Prior online registration will be required for accessing reading rooms and other facilities, DU announced. After reopening the Central Library on February 4, the university announced that the Central Science Library, Ratan Tata Library, South Delhi Campus Library and Faculty of Law Library will reopen from February 15. “In the first phase, only bona fide members, PhD or MPhil scholars will be allowed to use library reading room facilities. The libraries will remain closed on Saturday, Sunday and gazetted holidays. The users would be requested to wait, if the capacity of the library is exhausted. Only one user would be allowed to enter in the property counter,” the notice read. The varsity said that areas which are frequented by the users and staff should be regularly sanitised and that entry of users having temperature of COVID-19 symptoms would be restricted.  At the Faculty of Law library, the reading hall at the ground and first floor would be reopened, all the floors at the South Campus library will be reopened, according to the university notice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/du-reopens-four-more-libraries/article33846516.ece
16 February 2021||February 16 2021 00:00 IST,||On the wrong track||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/on-the-wrong-track/article33846525.ece
16 February 2021||New Delhi,||Water woes due to natural calamity resolved: DJB||Issues related to water supply due to the natural calamity in Uttarakhand have been overcome, said Delhi Jal Board (DJB) Vice-Chairperson Raghav Chadha on Monday. Bhagirathi water treatment plant is now working at 100% capacity and Sonia Vihar WTP at 80% after production was reduced due to dirt in the raw water, which was affecting supply in South, East and North East Delhi. “We treat raw Ganges water, which comes from the Upper Ganga Canal at Muradnagar. But due to the recent natural calamity in Uttarakhand, the quality of water worsened and has a lot of dirt and other particles,” said Mr. Chadha. “Water quality is measured in nephelometric turbidity units (NTU) which have reached 8,000; this is supposed to stay at 100.,” he said, adding that NTU reading is now at 960.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/water-woes-due-to-natural-calamity-resolved-djb/article33846526.ece
16 February 2021||Lucknow,||Murder accused killed in encounter||The main accused in the murder of gangster Ajit Singh was killed in an encounter with the Uttar Pradesh police here on Monday, officials said. Girdhari Vishvakarma (40), accused of shooting dead Ajit in the Gomti Nagar area in Lucknow on January 6, was killed in the encounter in the city Monday morning, Lucknow Police Commissioner D.K. Thakur told PTI. Three policemen were also injured in the incident, he said. The injured have been hospitalised and are out of danger, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/murder-accused-killed-in-encounter/article33846695.ece
16 February 2021||Lucknow,||Only 27% take the jab in U.P. vaccination drive||Over 32,000 persons received vaccination shots in Uttar Pradesh on Monday as the State started its second dose of vaccination and mop up for health and frontline workers who missed their first shot, a senior official said. Meanwhile, the State recorded less than 3,000 active COVID-19 cases over 24 hours for the first time since May 30, 2020. Those who missed their vaccination in the first phase, which started on January 16, started receiving their dose, while those who had already got the first shot would receive their second dose. Over 32,000 such persons received vaccination till 2 p.m. on Monday in around 2,300 sessions, said Amit Mohan Prasad, Principal Secretary (Health). In the past 24 hours, 58 positive cases were recorded while 122 got discharged. The active cases stood at 2,974, the first time since May 30, 2020 that the active infections were below 3,000, said Mr. Prasad. Out of the 2,974 patients, 710 were in home isolation. While 8,704 persons died due to COVID-19 so far in the State, over 5.90 lakh persons were discharged and the State had a recovery rate of 98.06%, said Mr. Prasad. Skips vaccination Poonam Mishra (50), an ASHA worker from Kushinagar, missed her vaccination shot as she was apprehensive that it could complicate her heart disease and blood pressure. “I am on medicines. Doctor asked me to get it, but I was scared,” she said. However, due to the experience of other ASHA workers, she says she could volunteer for the next round of vaccination. “I am thinking I will get it the next time. Because somebody with blood pressure got it and faced no problems. Besides, if we stay safe, we can keep others safe,” Ms. Mishra said. Kusmawati Sharma (42), an ASHA worker from Kushinagar, is looking forward to her second shot on February 26 after getting the first dose on January 28. “I didn’t face any problems after the first dose,” said Ms. Sharma. Geetanjali Maurya, head of the Anganwadi Karmachari Association, Uttar Pradesh, says barring stray cases, as per the inputs she has received from several districts, there is no reluctance among Anganwadi workers to get the vaccination. “It is not true that they are not willing or are scared,” she said, adding that the workers she knew had at worse complained of fever or giddiness after being administered the shots. There are 3.75 lakh Anganwadi workers in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/over-32000-get-vaccine-shots-in-up/article33846795.ece
16 February 2021||New Delhi,||Why six out of seven posts in NCM vacant, HC asks Centre||The Delhi High Court on Monday asked the Centre to explain why six out of seven posts at the National Commission for Minorities (NCM) are lying vacant since October last. Justice directed the Ministry of Minorities Affairs to submit a status report in 10 days in response to a petition seeking filling up of the vacancies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/why-six-out-of-seven-posts-in-ncm-vacant-hc-asks-centre/article33846513.ece
