17 February 2021||New Delhi,||Toolkit case: role of PJF under scanner||The focus of investigation by the Delhi Police into the toolkit document case is centred on an alleged “pro-Khalistani” organisation, Poetic Justice Foundation (PJF), sources said. A senior police officer said the roles of all the founders and the co-founders of the PJF are under scanner. “Depending on the interrogation of the three accused — Disha Ravi, Nikita Jacob and Shantanu Muluk — the roles of members and those associated with PJF will be probed.” Non-bailable warrants have been issued against Ms. Jacob and Mr. Muluk. The police said on Monday that Ms. Jacob and Mr. Muluk, along with arrested climate activist Disha Ravi, created and spread the toolkit. ‘Greta absolved’ However, sources said climate change activist Greta Thunberg, whose tweet brought the toolkit to the notice of security agencies, has been absolved of any criminality for now. They added that the PJF was not a “banned terrorist organisation” under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The last group to be added to the list of banned Khalistani outfits was the Sikhs For Justice (SFJ). “Delhi Police has, so far, not claimed nor stated that there is any link between SFJ and PJF,” the officer said. However, he said, “it cannot be a coincidence” that the PJF facilitated a toolkit mentioning an action plan for January 26 and the SFJ’s face, Gurpatwant Singh Pannu, “in parallel” announced a reward for hoisting a flag at the Red Fort on Republic Day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/toolkit-case-role-of-pjf-under-scanner/article33855681.ece
17 February 2021||Sidhi/Rewa,||45 killed as bus falls into canal in Madhya Pradesh||At least 45 people, including 20 women, were killed when a packed bus skidded off the road and plunged into a canal in Sidhi district of Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday. The accident took place around 8.30 a.m. near Patna village, around 80 km from the Sidhi district headquarters, when the ill-fated bus was on its way to Satna from Sidhi, a senior official said.  Rescue operations A search operation, involving members of the State Disaster Response Force and local authorities, was still on at the site. Rescuers had retrieved 45 bodies, Rewa Divisional Commissioner Rajesh Jain said. “A total of 45 bodies — 24 men, 20 women and a child — have been fished out of the Bansagar canal until now,” he said, adding that a magisterial probe had been ordered to ascertain the cause of the accident. “Seven persons managed to swim to safety,” he said. The packed bus veered off the road and rolled down the canal, which is part of the Bansagar project, said Inspector General (Rewa zone) Umesh Joga. Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed grief at the “horrific” bus accident and approved an ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh each for the next of kin of those who lost their lives. Mr. Modi said, “The bus accident in MP’s Sidhi is horrific. Condolences to the bereaved families. The local administration is actively involved in rescue and relief work.” Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan expressed grief over the tragedy and announced an ex-gratia of Rs. 5 lakh each to the kin of the deceased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/45-killed-as-bus-falls-into-canal-in-madhya-pradesh/article33855691.ece
17 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Will revive nominations withdrawn ‘under duress’, says Ramesh Kumar||State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar on Tuesday decided to take a fresh look at what he called “unnatural” withdrawal of nominations filed by the contestants in the fray for the municipal elections, the process for which had started in May last, but was differed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In a statement, the SEC said there was a need to re-look at the nominations that had been filed but withdrawn under “duress or inducements.” This was necessary in the wake of many representations / complaints received by the Commission on the issue and in the backdrop of the High Court judgment on February 12 to check poll aberrations by invoking the powers that vested with the Commission, the statement said. The SEC said the Commission would reconsider afresh the “forced withdrawals” and revive them. “The candidate will have to come forward and state so,” he added. Single nominations Mr. Ramesh Kumar said all the Returning Officers of Municipal Corporations and Election Officers of Municipalities / Nagar Panchayats had been asked to report to him cases of candidates coming forward with complaints of coercive and forced withdrawal of candidatures to enable the Commission to take decision on revival of such candidatures. Mr. Ramesh Kumar pointed out that the CPI, the TDP, the BJP and the JSP had brought to his notice instances of gross violation during the filing of nominations for the municipal elections in March last. Citing instances of single nominations, he said in Marcherla (Guntur district), out of 31 wards, 10 had witnessed single valid nominations and in Pulivendula (Kadapa), 21 of the 33 wards had single nominations. In Rayachoti (Kadapa), single nominations were filed in 21 of the 34 wards. Similarly, in Punganu (Chittoor), 16 out of 31 wards saw single nominations. In Palamaner (Chittoor), 10 out of 26 wards witnessed single valid nomination and in Tirupati Municipal Corporation, six out of 50 wards had single nominations. He said a few ULBs were identified and the authorities were asked to submit reports of such instances to be considered afresh by February 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sec-to-revive-nominations-withdrawn-under-duress/article33855625.ece
17 February 2021||LUCKNOW,||Nation rectifying mistakes of history: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said the country was rectifying the mistakes, injustice and tampering that was committed against those who created history. Mr. Modi made the remarks while laying the foundation stone of a Maharaja Suheldev Memorial and development work of Chittaura Lake in Bahraich, U.P., through videoconferencing. Medieval Bhar chieftain Suheldev is projected as a Hindutva icon by the RSS-BJP. Mr. Modi said, “It is unfortunate that those who dedicated their lives to the protection of ‘Bharatiyata’, innumerable such heroes and heroines did not get the due position that they deserved.” The “injustice” and tampering done against those who created history in the name of writing history were being “rectified” by today’s India, which was freeing itself of these mistakes, he noted. Popular caste icon Though Suheldev’s historic existence is shrouded in mystery, he is popular as a caste icon among the Rajbhars (OBC) and the Pasis (second largest Dalit caste in Uttar Pradesh), both competing for his legacy. Mr. Modi said, India’s history was not just about those “who enslaved the country and the history written by those with a mentality of slavery”. India’s history was also that which had been nurtured by the common people through folklores and transmitted from one generation to another. There was no better occasion than the 75th year of Independence to remember and take inspiration from the contribution of icons like Suheldev and their sacrifice, penance struggle, valour and martyrdom, he said. Citing examples of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and B.R. Ambedkar, along with Suheldev, Mr. Modi said there were many personalities in the country who had not got their due recognition. Maharaja Suheldev’s valour and courage may not have found their place in history books but from Awadh to Terai region and Purvanchal, he had always found himself in folklores and in people’s hearts. Suheldev was a sensitive and development-oriented ruler, he asserted. The debate over Suheldev’s caste legacy was triggered once again before Tuesday’s event, as BJP MP from Bansgaon Kamlesh Paswan wrote to Mr. Modi and President Ram Nath Kovind demanding that the memorial built for Suheldev be named as Rashtraveer Suheldev Pasi Smarak, claiming that the icon belonged to the Pasi community and not Bhar as stated by Anil Rajbhar, a Minister in the U.P. government. The Om Prakash Rajbhar-led Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party held its own event in Azamgarh to mark the 1012 birth anniversary of “Maharaja Suheldev Rajbhar” hailing him as “rashtra rakshak rashtraveer.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rectifying-injustices-of-history-says-modi/article33856205.ece
17 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||File counter in MLA’s citizenship row: HC||Telangana High Court on Tuesday directed the State government to file its counter affidavit for final hearing in the writ petition challenging Indian citizenship of Vemulawada MLA Chennamaneni Ramesh of ruling TRS party. Hearing the plea filed by Adi Srinivas who lost to Mr. Ramesh in 2018 Assembly elections, Justice Abhinand Kumar Shavili of the HC adjourned the matter by two weeks. The judge extended the order staying cancellation of Indian citizenship of Mr. Ramesh by the Union Home Ministry for two weeks. Presenting contentions of the State government, Additional Advocate General J. Ramchander Rao told the court that second schedule of the Constitution amply made it clear that Home department matters along with Law and Order issues come under the purview of the State government. Yet, the Union Home Ministry neither put the State government on notice in the matter. It did not take any inputs from the State government either. The Union government cancelled the MLA’s citizenship without consulting the State government. It had not even called for any records on the matter from the State, Mr. Rao said. “The central government had declared Mr. Ramesh as not citizen of India on figment of imagination,” he argued. The petitioner’s counsel Ravi Kiran Rao averred that State government had no role to play when it came to declaration of citizenship. The legislator himself presented in an application with the Indian embassy in Germany that he was not an Indian citizen. This was presented before the court by the Union government. That document was enough to prove that he was not Indian citizen, he argued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/file-counter-in-mlas-citizenship-row-hc/article33856241.ece
17 February 2021||Hyderabad,||‘Landmark’ half dome to encase Moula Ali shrine||The small Maula Ali shrine is set to get a huge dome as part of a massive construction and conservation project being carried out by the Al Kausar Trust. “It will be a landmark dome that can be seen from anywhere in the city once it is completed,” said Syed Nazeer Hasan Abedi of the Al Kausar Trust which has taken up the project. Protecting old structure “It will be a half dome standing on pillars so that the old structure is encased and protected. The pillars will rise to 20 feet and the dome will cover the whole structure that exists on top,” informed Mr. Abedi, founder and trustee of the trust backed by a few NRIs. “The first phase of the work at Maula Ali is over. The second phase work is ongoing. We have divided the work into five phases. We are building a museum which will house all the artefacts that have been donated to the shrine from 17th century onwards by the royalty and noblemen,” said Mr. Abedi. “This is a very very famous place. But unfortunately it has been neglected by the Waqf as well as the community. We want it to gain its rightful place,” said Mr. Abedi. Evident change The change is already evident. On February 26, when the Urs procession from Bargah Hazrat Abbas, Diwan Deodi, culminates at the Maula Ali Ashoorkhana, the pilgrims will be in for a pleasant surprise: a clutch of amenities that didn’t exist sometime back have been added including some well-appointed toilets. A ramp takes them up to the first landing of the medieval religious site. The visitors now have to climb only 300 steps instead of the 550 earlier. However, the biggest challenge will be restoring the ceremonial arches built by benefactors over the centuries. Many of them have suffered extensive damage. The Al Kausar Trust has set up a lime-mortar mixing facility to create the plastering material for the restoration work. Scaffoldings have been erected for the arch at the second landing but it has been damaged due to vagaries of time and chipped away by vandals exposing the stone innards of the pillars. It remains to be seen how the extensive construction and restoration work at the Maula Ali shrine will change the appearance of the medieval site which comes alive during the Urs of Hazrat Ali and during the first 10 days of Muharram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/landmark-half-dome-to-encase-small-maula-ali-shrine/article33856257.ece
17 February 2021||KOCHI,||With eye on polls, BJP to rope in ‘influential people’||In poll mode, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is holding talks with influential individuals in society – popular former government employees, famous lawyers, retired police officers and the like – to see if they will join hands with the party, according to a senior party functionary. “We are not really focussing on poaching people from other political formations, but are trying to join hands with the people who are opinion makers,” he said, adding that there will be such people joining the BJP in the course of the Vijay Yatra to be taken out by party State president K. Surendran from Kasaragod on February 21. PM’s directive In his brief talk with the party core committee in Kerala on Sunday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had urged the leaders to introduce new faces and to popularise “the Central schemes that benefited the people of Kerala”, a senior leader told The Hindu . Mr. Modi chose to gloss over the internal squabbles in the party ever since the last reshuffle resulting in the ascent of Mr. Surendran as State president as his thrust was on augmenting the party organisation and showcasing the Centre’s ‘achievements’, the leader said. Sobha factor  Disgruntled party leader Sobha Surendran, who met Mr. Modi in Delhi ahead of his Kerala visit and was tasked with receiving him when he arrived on Sunday, would campaign for the party in constituencies assigned to her. “She would be asked to contest too, maybe from Varkala, but it is heard she isn’t keen to contest the polls,” said another senior leader. Social media teams Meanwhile, the party has pressed into action its social media teams that feed booth-level activists with campaign material while door-to-door campaigning has also begun, albeit on a smaller scale. “There’s at least one WhatsApp group under each booth committee to circulate information,” said a party leader. But there are those within the party who think that many booth committees have just a token existence. “Most are just namesake committees and compared to 2016, the party is quite weak organisationally.” said a leader. “But we could land anywhere from three to 10 seats. If it’s 10 for us, it could throw up a hung verdict where we will emerge really powerful,” the leader added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/with-eye-on-polls-bjp-to-rope-in-influential-people/article33855846.ece
17 February 2021||Vijayawada,||BJP urges SEC to issue fresh notification||The BJP on Tuesday urged State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar to cancel the process of elections to the Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) initiated in March last, and, instead, issue a fresh notification for the same. In a representation made to the SEC, party state vice-president P. Venkata Satyanarayana allegted the election process that was initiated last year was replete with violence and malpractices. “At some places, the candidates were prevented from filing their nomination papers, while at others, the nomination papers were torn. These apart, there were instances of illegal detention and kidnapping of candidates,” the BJP alleged. The Commission had on Monday released the notification for elections to 12 Municipal Corporations and 75 Municipalities, and said that the process would resume from where it was paused on March 15 last, i.e., “withdrawal of candidature” stage. JSP plea Meanwhile, Jana Sena Party president Pawan Kalyan also sought fresh notification for the municipal elections. In a release, he said, “Many honest persons missed the chance to contest due to atrocities committed by the ruling party during the process of filing nomination last year.” In a separate letter to the SEC, Mr. Satyanarayana accused the police at Muchumarri of Kurnool district of bias. He accused the SI of arresting the sarpanch candidate, A. Rajasekhar, and his supporters in “false cases” to facilitate the victory of YSRCP-backed candidate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-urges-sec-to-issue-fresh-notification/article33855679.ece
17 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Police shift fasting TDP leader to hospital||Former TDP MLA Palla Srinivasa Rao, who had been on fast unto death since February 10 demanding that the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) be continued in the public sector, was forcibly evicted from the protest camp and shifted to a private hospital in the early hours of Tuesday. The development assumed significance as TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu was scheduled to call on the fasting leader and express his solidarity for the cause in the afternoon. It was learnt that the police went to the protest camp on Monday evening and told the family members of Mr. Srinivasa Rao about the need to shift him to a hospital in view of his deteriorating health condition. Mr. Srinivasa Rao, however, had refused to get himself admitted to hospital. The police went to the protest camp at around 3 a.m. and forcibly shifted him to a private hospital at Sheelanagar. Mr. Srinivasa Rao initially declined treatment at the hospital, but relented after the doctors convinced him that his vital parameters were a cause for concern and that it could pose a grave threat to his health, party sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-shift-fasting-tdp-leader-to-hospital/article33855693.ece
17 February 2021||Pune,||As cases surge, Maharashtra CM wants action against violators||Amid a spike in COVID-19 cases across Maharashtra, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday directed divisional commissioners, district collectors and police authorities to take stern measures to enforce pandemic regulations. However, no decision has been taken on re-imposition of a stringent lockdown, the CM added. As COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra outpaced its recoveries for the fifth consecutive day, Mr. Thackeray and Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar held a meeting to take stock of the situation with divisional commissioners and district collectors. “It is up to the public to decide whether they want a strict lockdown or to move freely with some basic regulations… If people do not wear masks or follow health rules, then the district and police administration has a responsibility to strictly enforce them. They must take strict action without showing any leniency,” said the Chief Minister, directing authorities to crack down on those found violating pandemic regulations. He also urged them to conduct targeted testing in areas where the infection is on the rise and said attempts must be made to trace at least 20 contacts of every patient. Mr. Thackeray also permitted authorities to form containment zones wherever required. ‘Youth endangering old’ “As businesses have started following the relaxations of restrictions, the young are out of the house. But everyone is behaving as if the pandemic is over… the irresponsibility of the youth is endangering the old and senior citizens at home,” said the Chief Minister. “Now, weddings have started, and gatherings, parties, and other social events are taking place without people adhering to any rules. Despite having extended restaurant and hotel timings, SOPs here are being flouted. Local administration teams should take strict action wherever there is any violation,” said Mr. Thackeray, adding that the licences of such places would be revoked if they do not follow regulations. On Tuesday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) Mayor Kishori Pednekar also hinted at re-imposition of lockdown in Mumbai city if the public continued to flout basic COVID-19 norms. 3,663 new cases Meanwhile, cases continued to surge with Maharashtra reporting 3,663 new cases on Tuesday while just 2,700 patients were discharged. The number of active cases rose to 37,125. With 39 fatalities, the death toll is 51,591. Pune reported more than 600 new cases to take its total case tally to 3,95,707. Mumbai city reported 461 new cases to take its total case tally to 3,15,030 of whom 4,238 are active. Three fatalities saw the city’s death toll reach 11,425. Nagpur district also reported 600 new cases, taking the case tally to 1,41,375.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/as-cases-surge-maharashtra-cm-wants-action-against-violators/article33856332.ece
17 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Don’t fall prey to political interests, CM tells protesters||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday cautioned Public Service Commission rank holders against falling prey to the machinations of elements that sought to make political capital out of their anguish for postings. He slammed former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy for “pushing the lie” that the Congress would revive expired PSC rank lists if voted to power. Mr. Chandy had also promised employment for all who figured on PSC rank lists. Mr. Chandy, more than anybody, knew the depth of the falsity, Mr. Vijayan said. He challenged Mr. Chandy to point out one rule that would enable any government to resurrect obsolete PSC rank lists. For every vacancy, five persons would figure on the PSC list. Not all persons would receive an advice memo, he said. The Congress election campaign had floundered. People had rejected its recriminatory propaganda against the LDF government. The party now sensed a political opportunity in the PSC ranker holders’ strike to put the government on the back foot and steady its flailing electioneering, Mr. Vijayan said. Charge against Chandy Mr. Chandy had dashed the hopes of the youth in 2011 by barring those with a degree from applying for last grade government jobs. In 2002, he had chaired a UDF meeting that slashed government jobs and imposed the infamous recruitment ban, Mr. Vijayan recalled. Mr. Chandy's government had in 2014 reduced the duration of the rank list for uniformed services from three years to one. His government rarely reported vacancies to the PSC. Some youths had prostrated themselves in front of Mr. Chandy. Ideally, Mr. Chandy should have knelt in front of them in repentance for betraying their interests, Mr. Vijayan said. In contrast, the Left Democratic Front had appointed 1,57,911 persons via the PSC. It has extended the term of the last grade employees rank list till August so that the rank holders could benefit from vacancies arising from retirement in April and May. Mr. Vijayan did not indicate that the government would engage protesters in talks. He said the youth were the government’s highest priority. The administration was acutely aware of their aspirations. The regularisation of contract employees with more than 10 years of service would not whittle down PSC ranker holders’ employment possibilities as made out by the Opposition, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dont-fall-prey-to-political-interests-cm-tells-protesters/article33855853.ece
17 February 2021||AHMEDABAD,||BJP fields candidates for 2 Gujarat RS seats||The BJP has fielded Dinesh Prajapati and Rambhai Mokaria for the two Rajya Sabha seats that fell vacant owing to the deaths of Congress’s Ahmed Patel and the BJP’s Abhay Bhardwaj. Since by-elections to both seats are being held separately, the ruling BJP is set to win both, given its strength in the Assembly. Both Mr. Prajapati and Mr. Mokaria will file their nomination papers on Thursday. The former is from an OBC community from north Gujarat, while the latter belongs to the Aboti Brahmin community from Porbandar. Patel had won a nail-biting contest in 2017, defeating the BJP’s Balwantsinh Rajput, who was poached by the BJP from the Congress to take on Patel. Bhardwaj had become a Rajya Sabha member in 2020 but died before he attended any session of the House. Both died of health complications they developed after they were infected with COVID-19. The last day for the filing of nominations is February 18. Scrutiny will be done on February 19. The last day for withdrawal is February 22. The polls will be held from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. on March 1. The entire election process will be completed by March 3. There is no clarity yet about whether the Congress will field its candidates since its chances of winning are remote with separate polling for both seats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-fields-candidates-for-2-gujarat-rs-seats/article33856336.ece
17 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||4 cases of South Africa variant of virus found||Four cases of the South Africa variant of SARS-CoV-2 and one case of the Brazil variant have been detected in the country, the Health Ministry said on Tuesday. India has so far reported 187 cases of the U.K. variant. Giving details of the cases, Indian Council of Medical Research Director-General Balram Bhargava said, “South African variant of SARS-CoV-2 which has spread to 44 countries has entered India. The strain has been detected in four different SA returnees this past month — Angola (1), Tanzania (1) and South Africa (2). All travellers have been tested, quarantined and ICMR-NIV is attempting to isolate and culture the SA variant.” Earlier this month, one case of the Brazilian variant, which emerged independently in that country, was reported in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/4-cases-of-south-africa-variant-of-virus-found/article33855673.ece
17 February 2021||mumbai,||Farmers’ protest: Cong. seeks action against those behind tweets||As preliminary investigation into identical tweets by celebrities against the ongoing farmers’ agitation indicate the hand of Bharatiya Janata Party’s IT cell and 12 other influencers, the State unit of the Congress has demanded action against them. Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh had said on Monday, “My statement regarding celebrity tweets on the issue of farmers’ protest has been twisted. I had ordered an inquiry into the BJP’s IT cell as it was likely to be involved in the case & not celebrities. Lata Mangeshkar ji & Sachin Tendulkar ji are the pride of Maharashtra & are also respected by the people across the nation hence, there is no question of probing them. A preliminary investigation by MH Police has revealed that BJP’s IT cell chief and 12 other influencers are involved in the tweet case and the police are taking action accordingly.” State unit of the Congress, which had demanded an inquiry, said the party’s allegations that celebrities were pressurised to tweet in favour of the government has now been proved. “Many days have passed since the demand by Congress that inquiry be conducted as to whether BJP forced the celebrities to tweet. Not a single celebrity came forward clarifying that they tweeted on their own. It also proves that it was planned by the BJP,” said Maharashtra Congress general secretary Sachin Sawant. Mr. Sawant said that BJP leaders were trying to hide behind Sachin Tendulkar and Lata Mangeshkar. “Now that the preliminary probe has found out BJP’s hand into it, soon the conspiracy will be exposed,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmers-protest-cong-seeks-action-against-those-behind-tweets/article33856330.ece
17 February 2021||MANGALURU,||Coastal belt’s first CNG station opened in city||Opening up to green fuel, Coastal Karnataka’s first Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) station was commissioned in the city on Tuesday. The Netravathi Service Station of Indian Oil Corporation Ltd (IOCL) at Adyar on Mangaluru-Bengaluru National Highway 75 became the first station of the coastal belt supplying CNG to private and commercial vehicles. GAIL Gas Ltd., a subsidiary of GAIL India Ltd., supplies CNG to it. It is priced at Rs. 55 a kg. Speaking on the occasion, Chief General Manager (City Gas Distribution- Projects), GAIL Gas Ltd., Noida, Kapil Kumar Jain, and General Manager, City Gas Distribution-Projects, Mangaluru, Vilin Zunke, said that five more CNG stations will be opened in Mangaluru city by this month-end. They will be at Haleyangady, Kuluru (both IOCL outlets), Kavoor, Mulky and Hosabettu (all Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd outlets). Dakshina Kannada district will have a total of 12 CNG stations by March-end as six more stations will be opened at Bikarnakatta, Karnataka Polytechnic Junction, Kadri, all in the city, at Mudipu and Boliyar, on the outskirts of the city, and at Belthangady, Mr. Zunke said. The General Manager said that a CNG kit fitting agency has come up at Surathkal in the city. Some more such agencies will come up in the coming days. In addition, automobile companies have already rolled out cars having in-built CNG fuel tank. Chief Divisional Retails Sales Manager, IOCL, Mangaluru, Anoop Kushwah, who was present on the occasion, said that the use of CNG will help to reduce pollution level. Senior Manager, Retail Sales, IOCL, Mangaluru Division, C.N. Srinivas, was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/coastal-belts-first-cng-station-opened-in-city/article33856316.ece
17 February 2021||HUBBALLI,||‘Promote ITI students as per earlier order’||Taking exception to the sudden government order asking first year students of ITI (Industrial Training Institute) to pay first year’s examination fee, several students staged a protest under the aegis of All India Democratic Youth Organisation (AIDYO) in Dharwad on Tuesday. The protestors gathered in front of the office of the Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad and raised slogans seeking immediate withdrawal of the government order asking the students to pay the fees within a day. Addressing the protesors, district president of AIDYO Bhavanishankar said that on February 2, 2019, the Directorate General of Training (DGT) had issued an order (No:DGT-18024/03/2020-TTC) cancelling the first year examinations for students of various ITI courses and promoting first year students to second year without any examination. However, on Monday (February 15), the State government issued an unilateral order asking the students to pay the examination fee within a day, which was highly undemocratic and condemnable, he said. The decision of the government had shocked the students who were being forced to arrange for fees in a day’s time. This apart, the decision to hold the examination in the first week of March was another shock to the students, he said. Mr. Bhavanishankar said that during the lockdown and post-lockdown period, the students faced difficulties in understanding the subjects and the sudden decision to hold examinations was highly condemnable. He urged the department to take steps to promote first year students to second year as per the earlier DGT order and withdraw the notification issued for payment of examination fee.  The protestors subsequently submitted a memorandum addressed to the Commissioner of Department of Industrial Training and Employment through the Deputy Commissioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/promote-iti-students-as-per-earlier-order/article33855829.ece
17 February 2021||new delhi,||‘Sedition law cannot be used to quell disquiet’||A Delhi court has said that the “law of sedition cannot be invoked to quieten the disquiet under the pretence of muzzling the miscreants”. Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana made the observation while granting bail to two persons — Devi Lal Burdak and Swaroop Ram — arrested by the Delhi police earlier this month for allegedly committing sedition and spreading rumours by posting fake video on Facebook during the ongoing farmers’ protest. The court also said invocation of Section 124A (sedition) of the IPC is a “seriously debatable issue” in the case before it. ‘Powerful tool’ The court said the sedition law was a powerful tool in the hands of the state to maintain peace and order in society. “However, it can’t be invoked to quieten the disquiet under the pretence of muzzling the miscreants. Evidently, law proscribes any act which has a tendency to create disturbance of public peace by resort to violence.” “In the absence of any exhortation or instigation to create disturbance of public peace by resort to violence or any allusion or oblique remark or even any hint towards this objective, attributable to the accused, I suspect that Section 124A of IPC can be validly invoked against the applicant,” the judge said on Monday. According to the police, Mr. Burdak had posted a fake video on his Facebook page with the tagline “there is a rebellion in Delhi Police and around 200 officials have given mass resignation”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sedition-law-cannot-be-used-to-quell-disquiet/article33856339.ece
17 February 2021||New Delhi,||Kiran Bedi removed as Puducherry L-G||Kiran Bedi was removed as Lieutenant Governor of Puducherry late on Tuesday evening. Telangana Governor Tamilsai Soundarajan has been given additional charge of the Union Territory until regular arrangements are made for the post. A communique from the Rashtrapati Bhavan said, “The President has directed that Dr. Kiran Bedi shall cease to hold the office of the Lieutenant-Governor of Puducherry and has appointed Dr. Tamilisai Soundararajan, Governor of Telangana, to discharge the functions of the Lieutenant-Governor of Puducherry, in addition to her own duties.” No reason given The statement didn’t specify any reason behind Ms Bedi’s removal. In fact, Ms. Bedi had put up a two-minute long video of her supervising reasons for the Union Territory’s low rate of COVID vaccination. The move comes on a day when the Congress government, headed by Chief Minister V Narayanasamy, slipped into minority after the resignation of two MLAs in the last two days. In all, four MLAs have quit since January. The high profile exits of the Congress lawmakers has come as an embarrassment for the party as former party chief Rahul Gandhi is scheduled to kick off the party’s poll campaign on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kiran-bedi-removed-as-puducherry-l-g/article33855739.ece
17 February 2021||February 17 2021 00:00 IST,||‘An insult to martyrs’||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has described the decision to sell the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) as an insult to the sacrifices of those who had laid down their lives for its establishment. Speaking in Visakhapatnam on Tuesday, Mr. Naidu alleged that while the Centre had put up the VSP for sale, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had run away from his responsibility of protecting the plant. Mr. Chandrababu Naidu wondered what was preventing the Chief Minister from opening his mouth on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/an-insult-to-martyrs/article33855677.ece
17 February 2021||GUNTUR,||Jagan conferred Skoch CM of the Year award||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has been conferred the Skoch Chief Minister of the Year award. The award was presented to him by the chairman, Skoch group, Sameer Kochhar, at the CM’s camp office at Tadepalli on Tuesday. The award selection was based on study of project-level outcomes in various States. Mr. Kochhar said that schemes like the YSR Rythu Bharosa Kendra stand out as an interesting model for village-level procurement at a pre-announced minimum support price and is reporting good outcomes for farmers. YSR Cheyutha scheme focuses on economic empowerment of middle-aged women through livelihood-linked loans for over 4-year term, and is again a great example of financial inclusion with outcomes. Schemes like Disha and Abhay that aim to enhance women’s safety and security have made a marked difference in the law and order perception as well as the confidence level of women to go out and participate without fear, he added. Similarly, initiatives have been taken across the government to respond to COVID-19 and have shown desirable outcomes. All the above and more is evident in a year-long study of 123 projects from across sectors in Andhra Pradesh, he said. “The State has taken several revolutionary measures in the past two years to make governance more efficient and transparent. Innovative measures have been taken across sectors, the credit for which goes to the Chief Minister,” said Kochhar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jagan-mohan-reddy-conferred-skoch-cm-of-the-year-award/article33855683.ece
17 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||India, China pull back troops from Pangong||With the withdrawal of tanks from the forward areas on the south bank of Pangong Tso (lake) completed, India and China have started pulling back troops in large numbers from the north and south banks and also restoring land that was dug up during the heavy build-up of defences last year. ‘Good pace’  Videos released by the Army on Tuesday show the People’s Liberation Army troops dismantling tents and bunkers and moving equipment in vehicles. Infantry troops can be seen moving out on foot as well as long convoys of vehicles with stores and troops as part of the disengagement agreement. “The de-induction of troops from the frontline is going on at a good pace. Indian troops too are withdrawing from the heights of the Kailash range as per the agreement,” a government official said. On the south bank, tanks and troops of both sides had been deployed dangerously close to each other, and they have now been pulled back by some distance. Stating that it doesn’t mean they all go back to their original barracks, another official said they had moved back from the frontline now. The overall pullback of troops and armaments from across the LAC to farther behind would be discussed once the disengagement from all the friction areas was over, the official said. As reported by The Hindu , the Chinese troops have started clearing out from the ridgelines of Finger 4, which has been a major area of contention. On the north bank, Chinese troops will withdraw to the east of Finger 8, while Indian troops will move to the Dhan Singh Thapa post near Finger 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-china-pull-back-troops-from-pangong/article33855689.ece
17 February 2021||New Delhi,||‘Sedition law can’t be used to quell disquiet: court||Charges of sedition “cannot be invoked to quieten the disquiet under the pretence of muzzling the miscreants”, a Delhi Court observed while granting bail to a 21-year-old labourer. The youth was arrested for posting a fake video on Facebook about the Delhi police on the farmers’ agitation. Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana remarked that in the absence of any exhortation, call, incitement or instigation to create disorder or disturbance of public peace by resort to violence, the sedition law cannot be invoked against anyone. Mr. Swaroop Ram had posted a fake video on his Facebook page with the tagline ‘Delhi Police mae bagawat 200 policekarmiyon ne diya samuhik istifa . (Rebellion in Delhi Police, 200 policemen have resigned en masse) Jai Jawaan Jai Kisan #I_Support_ Rakesh_ Tikait_ Challenge”. The Delhi police stated that the video was related to an incident in which a senior officer was briefing police personnel at the protest site and encouraging them to tackle the situation properly. Mr. Ram, in his defence, submitted that the material was “innocuous in nature and was, in fact, an expression of emotions uttered in disagreement with government policies”. Taking note of submission from both sides, ASJ Rana said, “The law of sedition is a powerful tool in the hands of the State to maintain peace and order in society. However, it cannot be invoked to quieten the disquiet under the pretence of muzzling the miscreants”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sedition-law-cant-be-used-to-quell-disquiet-court/article33856203.ece
17 February 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Six killed in expressway accident||Six people, including a veterinary doctor and his family, were killed and four others sustained injuries in a collision of multiple vehicles on the Mumbai-Pune Expressway in the early hours of Tuesday. A little after midnight on Monday, a heavy container vehicle coming towards Mumbai on the second lane lost control and rammed into an Innova. The container further dashed into a Creta car and then toppled after hitting a tempo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/six-killed-in-expressway-accident/article33856335.ece
17 February 2021||Mysuru,||Questions raised over MCC Commissioner’s transfer||The transfer of Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) Commissioner Gurudutt Hegde has raised questions over the appropriateness of the move in the midst of the ongoing Swachh Survekshan – 2021 through which Mysuru is making efforts to reclaim its cleanest city tag. The MCC, under Mr. Hegde’s leadership, had taken up a series of programmes, including a garbage clearance drive along the Outer Ring Road, identifying black spots in parts of the city and removing the waste, penalising people for littering, roping in artists for wall painting, and taking steps to set up a construction and demolition waste recycling plant, besides laying emphasis on securing citizens’ feedback. All these and recycling waste water for secondary uses such as gardening along with streamlining the routine garbage clearance work that were taken up during the ongoing Swachh Survekshan by the MCC are identified as key areas for Mysuru’s bid to regain the cleanest city tag. The sudden transfer of Mr. Hegde along with 41 other IAS officers by the State government recently has been questioned by Congress MLA for Narasimharaja and former Minister Tanveer Sait. “The replacement of the MCC Commissioner at such a crucial juncture will have an impact on the continuation of the Swachh Survekshan programmes,” Mr. Sait said. Ravi Keerthi, founder of Mysuru Memes, a social media platform which had tied up with the MCC for wall painting activity, said Mr. Hegde’s transfer should not have come in the midst of Swachh Survekshan. An official in the MCC, who is closely co-ordinating the Swacch Survekshan activities, told The Hindu that Mr. Hegde’s transfer would hit the ongoing activities. For, Mr. Hegde, who had steered the activities last year also, had taken officials, pourakarmikas, and NGOs involved in the activities into confidence and was leading from the front, the official said while regretting his transfer. Though the government has given Shilpa Nag, e-governance Director of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj, the concurrent charge of MCC Commissioner, a post she had earlier served, officials involved in Swachh Survekshan works are hoping for an early appointment of a full-time Commissioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/questions-raised-over-mcc-commissioners-transfer/article33855931.ece
17 February 2021||February 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Showing their admiration||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/showing-their-admiration/article33856392.ece
17 February 2021||February 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Disha allowed to speak to kin||A court on Tuesday allowed 22-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi to speak to her family members over phone for 15 minutes a day and meet her lawyer for 30 minutes a day, while she remained in police custody.page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/disha-allowed-to-speak-to-kin/article33855674.ece
17 February 2021||February 17 2021 00:00 IST,||HC grants relief to Muluk||Climate activist Shantanu Muluk on Tuesday got transit anticipatory bail from the Bombay High Court. The court on Wednesday will pass order on a similar plea by Nikita Jacob.page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-grants-relief-to-muluk/article33855675.ece
17 February 2021||February 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Will discuss demands with CM: Vijaya Sai||The demands made by trade unions and political parties, which includes passing a resolution in the Assembly against the sale of VSP, will be taken up with the CM, says YSRCP leader V. Vijaya Sai Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/will-discuss-demands-with-cm-vijaya-sai/article33855678.ece
17 February 2021||Vijayawada,||60 new COVID cases in State||The State reported 60 new COVID-19 in the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning, and there were no fatalities during the period. The tally, therefore, increased to 8,88,959 while the toll remains at 7,163. As many as 140 patients recovered during the period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/60-new-covid-cases-in-state/article33855676.ece
17 February 2021||New Delhi,||Kiran Bedi removed as Puducherry L-G||Kiran Bedi was removed as Lieutenant Governor of Puducherry late on Tuesday evening. Telangana Governor Tamilsai Soundarajan has been given additional charge of the Union Territory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kiran-bedi-removed-as-puducherry-l-g/article33855789.ece
17 February 2021||Chennai,||CM unveils industrial, MSME policies||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami unveiled new industrial policy 2021 and the micro, small and medium enterprises policy, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-unveils-industrial-msme-policies/article33856182.ece
17 February 2021||New Delhi,||Kiran Bedi removed as Puducherry L-G||Kiran Bedi was removed as Lieutenant Governor of Puducherry late on Tuesday evening. Telangana Governor Tamilsai Soundarajan has been given additional charge of the Union Territory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kiran-bedi-removed-as-puducherry-l-g/article33856184.ece
17 February 2021||Mumbai,||Mumbai nearby||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday reserved its order on a bail plea filed by Partho Dasgupta, former chief executive officer of Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), who is an accused in the television rating point manipulation case. A single judge Bench of Justice P.D. Naik was hearing Mr. Dasgupta’s plea filed under Section 439 (special powers of High Court or Court of Session regarding bail) of the Code of Criminal Procedure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mumbai-nearby/article33856334.ece
17 February 2021||BELAGAVI,||‘Those opposing funds drive will meet Ravana’s fate’||“Those opposing the construction of the Sri Ram temple in Ayodhya will meet the same fate as of Ravana,” Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi said in Belagavi on Tuesday. In a press release issued from his office, the BJP leader has criticised leaders who were speaking against the donation collection drive for the temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/those-opposing-funds-drive-will-meet-ravanas-fate/article33855831.ece
17 February 2021||Patna,||Act tough if policemen found drunk: Nitish||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has directed officials to immediately dismiss police personnel from service if they are caught drinking alcohol or in a drunken state. The Opposition has slammed the State government’s decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/act-tough-if-policemen-found-drunk-nitish/article33856207.ece
17 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Classes 6 to 8 to reopen on February 22||Classes 6 to 8 will reopen in Karnataka on February 22. However, in Bengaluru Urban and in Kerala-Karnataka border areas, only Class 8 will be reopened, Minister S. Suresh Kumar said on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/classes-6-to-8-to-reopen-on-february-22/article33855932.ece
17 February 2021||Chennai,||451 persons test positive for COVID-19 in T.N.||As many as 451 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday, while seven more succumbed to the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/451-persons-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-tn/article33855735.ece
17 February 2021||Chennai,||CM unveils industrial, MSME policies||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has directed officials to immediately dismiss police personnel from service if they are caught drinking alcohol or in a drunken state. The Opposition parties have slammed the government’s decision to make “scapegoat” of the police personnel. Mr. Kumar’s directive came during a review meeting of the State Prohibition, Excise and Registration Department on Monday. “All police personnel across the State have taken a pledge of not drinking liquor in their lifetime. If anyone gets caught drinking alcohol or is found in a drunken state, disciplinary action must be initiated ,” Mr. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-unveils-industrial-msme-policies/article33855737.ece
17 February 2021||Mumbai,||HC order on Nikita’s plea today||The Bombay High Court will pronounce on Wednesday the order on a plea filed by advocate Nikita Jacob seeking transit anticipatory bail in the toolkit case, while a single Bench of Justice Vibha Kankanwadi of the Aurangabad Bench of the court granted 10 days of the same bail to Shantanu Muluk in connection with the same case. Mr. Muluk, an aeronautical engineer, filed his plea through advocate Satej Jadhav. In Mumbai, Justice P.D. Naik heard Ms. Jacob’s plea after a non-bailable warrant (NBW) was issued by the Delhi Police Cyber Cell hours after 22-year-old Disha Ravi from Bengaluru was sent to five-day police custody. Hiten Venegavkar, counsel for the Delhi Police, raised questions about the maintainability of the application. He said there was no provision for transit bail under the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). The offence was registered in Delhi. Therefore, no cause of action had arisen here. The court, however, said, “Cause of action arises for anticipatory bail but this is a transit bail application.” Mr. Venegavkar pointed out that under Section 438 (direction for grant of bail to person apprehending arrest) of CrPC, the court did not have the power for cases outside the jurisdiction of court to grant anticipatory bail. Devices seized Senior advocate Mihir Desai, for Ms. Jacob, urged the court to look at the limited purpose of granting transit anticipatory bail as the NBW was issued by the Tis Hazari court. He said the Delhi Police had raided Ms. Jacob’s house and seized her electronic devices. He contended that she was an advocate of this court and environmental enthusiast. According to them, she was preparing the toolkit but then it did not contain any violent acts or anything pertaining to taking over the Red Fort, he stated. The court said the merits of the case would be considered by the court concerned. The Bench exclaimed, “Should we grant transit when a warrant has been issued?” Mr. Desai replied, “They do not need a warrant to arrest. This a cognisable, non-bailable offence.” He informed the court that Mr. Muluk had been granted transit anticipatory bail by the Aurangabad Bench. The court said it would pass an order on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-order-on-nikitas-plea-today/article33855629.ece
17 February 2021||New Delhi,||4 more bodies found, Chamoli death toll 58||Search teams have so far found 58 bodies of those killed in the Chamoli flash floods in Uttarakhand. The identities of 31 bodies have been established so far. Uttarakhand Director-General of Police Ashok Kumar said the search, rescue and relief operations in Joshimath, Raini and Tapovan areas would continue. The work of digging out bodies from under the debris would be completed in three or four days. However, the operations would go on until the last person was located. On Tuesday, three bodies were found in the Tapovan hydel project tunnel, and one from Maithana. The search teams have also recovered 24 body parts from different places so far. According to the Chamoli police, the DNA samples of unidentified bodies and 91 family members of the missing persons have been stored for matching. The Joshimath police station has so far registered 179 missing reports. A joint team of the Army, the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) have cleared over 145 metres of the Tapovan tunnel filled with sludge and debris.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/4-more-bodies-found-chamoli-death-toll-58/article33855657.ece
17 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Frayed tempers, confusion reign at toll plazas||On Tuesday, as the new rule to collect double fee from vehicles entering toll plazas without FASTag kicked in, tempers soared and confusion reigned. Motorists without FASTag were seen arguing with toll plaza employees over paying double fee. At the Sadahalli gate toll plaza, cars heading towards the Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) without FASTag ended up paying Rs. 380 as toll fee for the round trip, whereas Rs. 140 was collected from cars fitted with FASTag. Some of the taxi drivers who did not have enough cash to pay the fee were seen taking a U-turn at the toll plaza. Somasundaram, a resident of Bengaluru, said: “The NHAI should have given more time to install FASTag or the option of paying cash. The new rules burden the common people. To buy a FASTag, it costs Rs. 400. The government should have made it more affordable.” Rajesh M., a taxi driver, said: “All taxi drivers are not in a position to make advance deposit in FASTag as we all depend on daily income. They ask for double fee for not maintaining the balance. The NHAI should have continued with at least one cash lane. Paying almost Rs. 400 is a huge amount for any driver.” A toll booth employee said: “From Monday midnight, all toll lanes were converted into FASTag lanes. As per the order, we started collecting Rs. 380 from cars entering the lanes without FASTag. Earlier, Rs. 190 was charged for those who entered FASTag lane for cash payments and now it has been doubled. Those who have FASTag are paying a toll fee of Rs. 140 (Rs. 95 for going towards KIA and Rs. 45 for return) and the amount automatically gets deducted from the FASTag account. .`` On Tuesday, the local police were deployed to maintain law and order. Kannada activist Vatal Nagaraj staged a protest at the toll plaza and accused the Central government of “daylight robbery” by making FASTag mandatory. “By increasing fuel and LPG prices, and now imposing hefty penalty on motorists at toll plazas, the Union government is harassing common people. We will protest on all the highways, if the Central government fails to repeal the new rules within a week,” he said. Arguments were also seen at the toll plaza located near Nagasandra metro station on Tumakuru Road. Vehicle owners, especially goods vehicles and autorickshaws, resisted imposition of hefty penalty. Sreenath, a car owner, said: “Asking motorists to pay security deposit and maintain a minimum balance is a burden.” Though NHAI has been claiming that FASTag will ease traffic near toll plazas, traffic lined up for over 500 m near Nagasandra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/frayed-tempers-confusion-reign-at-toll-plazas/article33855606.ece
17 February 2021||New Delhi,||Court allows Disha to speak to kin||A Delhi Court on Tuesday directed the Delhi police to provide 22-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi a copy of the FIR and other documents related to her arrest in connection with the “toolkit” case. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Pankaj Sharma also allowed Ms. Ravi to speak with her family members over phone for 15 minutes a day and meet with her lawyer for 30 minutes a day, while she remained in police custody. The court also directed the Delhi police to provide Ms. Ravi with copies of the arrest memo and remand paper which was placed to seek her custodial interrogation. The court also allowed her to get warm clothes, masks and books. Ms. Ravi was arrested by a Cyber Cell team of the Delhi Police from Bengaluru on Saturday and brought to the capital. She was sent to five days police custody by a Delhi court on Sunday after the police sought her remand to probe an alleged larger conspiracy against the government of India and to ascertain her alleged role relating to the Khalistan movement. According to the police, Ms. Ravi is an editor of the “Toolkit Google Doc” and was a key conspirator in the document’s formulation and dissemination. The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) on Tuesday issued notice to the Delhi Police over the arrest of climate change activist Disha Ravi. Taking suo motu cognisance of the matter, the women’s panel in its letter to the police, has sought reasons as to why a transit remand was not sought. “Please provide reasons for allegedly not providing a lawyer of her choice when she was produced before the court in Delhi,” the notice read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/court-allows-disha-to-speak-to-kin/article33855627.ece
17 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Shah meets MPs, MLAs over farmers’ protest||The BJP’s national leadership has gone into a huddle with party MPs and legislators from Punjab, Haryana, western Uttar Pradesh and a few districts of Rajasthan over the farmers agitation. The top brass have urged them to proactively reach out to agitating farmers from their areas, particularly the Jat community, to resolve the protests by farmer unions over the three contentious laws related to agriculture. At a meeting held at the BJP’s national headquarters in New Delhi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Agriculture Minister Narendra Tomar, party president J.P. Nadda, and general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santhosh urged legislators and local leaders to get in touch with local khaps , panchayats and community groups in these areas to explain the party and government’s position. The party was constrained to hold the meeting not just because the agitation was not coming to an end but also because of ground-level feedback from its own workers who warned that the continuation of the agitation without any outreach or proactive step by the party and the government would alienate farming communities, especially the Jat community, which has voted for the BJP in Uttar Pradesh since 2014. “Home Minister Amit Shah ji said it was clear that the agitation was being exploited by certain political groups to effect changes other than the farmers’ demands. The agitation was about anything but the laws. It seems to be an ideological war with the government,” said a senior leader who was present at the meeting. “We have been asked to remain in our areas for the next 15-20 days at least and get in touch with all khaps , panchayats and community leaders to explain our position,” he said. Sources confirmed that legislators gave the feedback that more work needed to be done by the government to mollify agitated farmers, than the rounds of talks held till now. While the BJP will fight the Punjab election on its own and does not have a lot riding on it, the party’s majority in Uttar Pradesh, which go to the polls with Punjab in 2022, will be affected by any alienation of the Jat community. In Haryana, while the BJP does not count on the support of the Jats, it is in alliance with the Jannayak Janata Party, led by Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, which commands the community’s support and has been facing a backlash. A senior Minister told The Hindu that the government was ready to talk to farmers groups on specific issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shah-meets-mps-mlas-over-farmers-protest/article33856110.ece
17 February 2021||DEHRADUN,||Lab study to trace origin of disaster||A week after a landslip claimed 58 lives in Chamoli, Uttarakhand, a team of scientists at the Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology (WIHG) in Dehradun are analysing fragments of ice, rock and mud in their labs to better understand the origins of the disaster. On-site study Five WIHG researchers travelled to the disaster site and later undertook aerial surveys right up to the vicinity of the Raunthi glacier, near the Nandadevi biosphere reserve, in the Himalayas. A portion of this glacier is believed to have crumbled down and caused an avalanche that destroyed the Rishiganga and Tapovan hydropower projects in Chamoli as well as trapping at least 150, many fatally, in muck and slurry. Sameer Trivedi, who was among those involved in the reconnaissance and analysis, said he and his colleagues had managed to extract several boulders of glacier — some about 25 kg — from the slurry even as rescue operations were on. “We have collected several samples. We also have sediment samples from glaciers in the region from previous expeditions. We can now compare them and be more certain of the glacial origin of the avalanche,” he told The Hindu . His team included Manish Mehta, Amit Kumar, Vineet Kumar and Akshaya Verma. An outstanding research question that the scientists are poring over is what might have caused the rock to break off. The current hypothesis is that it was a natural process of freezing and thawing of the icy mountains over eons that might have caused cracks to develop, weakening the structure and causing it to crumble. Another suggestion is that a heavy mass of snow may have fallen over the glacier, which was already partially melting, causing it to break off. Loud blast However the scientists’ team reports that residents of Raini village, located near the Rishiganga, have reported hearing a loud blast just prior to the avalanche. “It could be due to an enormous volume of water, or there could be another source, we don’t know yet,” said WIHG Director Kalachand Sain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lab-study-to-trace-origin-of-disaster/article33855644.ece
17 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Cases shoot up in Bengaluru complex||The number of COVID-19 positive cases at the SNN Raj Lake View apartment in Bilekahalli, which has emerged as a cluster for COVID-19 cases, shot up to 103 on Tuesday. It was 28 on Monday. “All 1,052 residents of the apartment complex have been tested and the results are out now. As many as 103 have tested positive,” Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad said on Tuesday. Significantly, a majority of those tested positive, 96, are over 60 years of age. However, many of them are asymptomatic and none of them have been hospitalised, he added. The Commissioner said the situation was being constantly monitored and all necessary medical care was being provided. “It is under control now,” he said. The Commissioner attributed the spread of the infection in the apartment to a get-together at the club house nearly 10 days ago. “The event, held in an air-conditioned room, seems to have acted as a superspreader,” he said, advising apartment complexes to avoid get-togethers in closed spaces. However, Kishore, 39 (name changed on request), a resident of the apartment who has also tested positive, told The Hindu that not one, but a series of four to five events held at the club house over the last two weeks may have led to this cluster. “When cases had peaked in the city, we took utmost care in our apartment and had very few cases. But evidently we had become complacent leading to this today,” he said. However, he added that the apartment community reacted with alacrity and got every resident tested. Self-quarantine He said residents of all the 400 flats strictly stayed indoors since the cluster broke out and all facilities were discontinued. Only those with negative certificates and coming from houses with no positive case are going out of the apartment. All contacts of patients are also asked to quarantine themselves, he said. “There is concern, but no panic. We will get over this,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cases-shoot-up-in-bengaluru-complex/article33855603.ece
17 February 2021||KOCHI,||Builder held in dollar smuggling case||Santhosh Eapen, managing director of Unitac Builder, was arrested by the Customs Preventive Commissionerate here on Tuesday and released on bail the same day. The arrest was recorded in the case related to the smuggling of dollars worth Rs. 1.30 crore. In a remand report filed in the Economic Offences Court, Ernakulam, the Customs submitted that Mr. Eapen had information that the money he gave as commission for obtaining the contract of the LIFE Mission project at Wadakancherry was illegally converted into foreign exchange and smuggled abroad. 6% commission Mr. Eapen, it said, also admitted that he had given 6% commission to a firm, ISO Monk, which was owned by Sandeep Nair, another accused in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case, for getting confirmation of the contract of the project. The agency held that Mr. Eapen had admitted that he had knowledge that Khaled Mohamed Ali Shoukry, former Finance Head of the UAE Consulate, Thiruvananthapuram, converted the money and took it abroad. Mr. Eapen also abetted the smuggling activity, it said. The agency submitted that M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, had abetted the awarding of the contracts of the LIFE Mission project to Unitac Builders. While releasing Mr. Eapen on bail, the court asked him not to leave the country. He was asked to provide a bail bond of Rs. 1 lakh and to present himself before the investigation officer in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/builder-held-in-dollar-smuggling-case/article33855609.ece
17 February 2021||NEW DELHI/SRINAGAR,||Ambassadors’ team heads to J&K to study situation||European Union Ambassador Ugo Astuto is expected to lead a delegation of Ambassadors, including some from European countries, to Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday, beginning with Srinagar, in a visit expected to study the “situation on the ground” there ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Porto in May for the E.U.-India summit. The visit has received some criticism from leaders in the Union Territory, including former Chief Minister Omar Abdullah, who said such “guided tours” would serve “no purpose”. While the visit of the envoys has not been officially announced, the European Union’s European External Action Service (EEAS) confirmed their acceptance of the External Affairs Ministry’s invitation. “The Ambassador of the E.U. has accepted an invitation from the Indian Ministry of External Affairs to pay a visit to Kashmir. Ambassadors of EU Member States will also join,” Nabila Massrali, EU spokesperson for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, told The Hindu in a written reply. “Any such visit organised by the Indian authorities would help to inform the E.U. of the situation on the ground, as part of the E.U.’s wider outreach and contacts,” Ms. Massrali said, referring to the previous visits organised by the government last year. According to Jammu & Kashmir officials, arrangements are being made for about 20 Ambassadors and diplomats. In Srinagar, workers were seen dismantling scores of security bunkers and barricades on Tuesday, especially those dotting the main road connecting the Srinagar airport with the city, in an apparent bid to decrease the visibility of security personnel. An official said the outreach being planned this week “is more extensive” than that for the previous two visits. “Representatives of the District Development Council (DDC), elected last December, will provide a fresh perspective of the ground situation,” another official said. The J&K administration has extended invitations to Valley-based civil society groups, media persons and grassroots representatives and DDC members, to meet the delegation. However, no meetings with former Chief Ministers Farooq Abdullah, Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti or senior political leaders have been included on the agenda thus far. Ahead of their visit to the valley last year, the Ambassadors had asked to meet the former CMs, who were all in detention. “We have seen these guided tours in the past particularly, in the immediate aftermath of August 5, 2019. They serve no purpose because the visiting delegation is allowed to meet only hand-picked individuals. If this proposed delegation is going to do the same thing, this visit will be as pointless as previous ones,” Mr. Abdullah told The Hindu . “However, if the delegation comes to meet us, we will not stop them. Our doors are open,” another leader from the regional party said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/eu-other-envoys-head-to-jk-to-study-situation/article33855634.ece
17 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rs. 17.66 cr. of Amnesty’s entities attached||The Enforcement Directorate has attached Rs. 17.66 crore kept in the bank accounts of the Amnesty International India Pvt. Ltd. (AIIPL) and the Indians for Amnesty International Trust (IAIT) in connection with a money laundering case. The ED probe is based on an FIR registered by the CBI against the AIIPL, the IAIT, the Amnesty International India Foundation Trust (AIIFT) and the Amnesty International South Asia Foundation (AISAF), under various provisions of the IPC and the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act. According to the agency, the AIIFT had been granted permission under the Act during 2011-12 for receiving foreign contributions from the Amnesty International-United Kingdom. However, it was cancelled on the basis of adverse inputs received from security agencies. It is alleged that the IAIT and the AIIPL were then formed in 2012-13 and 2013-14 to “escape the FCRA route and carried out NGO activities in the guise of service export and FDI”. The agency alleged that after the cancellation of the FCRA licence, the Amnesty entities adopted another route to receive money from abroad. The Amnesty International-U.K. sent Rs. 51.72 crore to the AIIPL in the guise of export of services and FDI. “In order to corroborate export proceeds/advances for export of services to Amnesty International-U.K., no documentary proof in the form of invoices and copies of agreement between AIIPL and Amnesty International-UK was furnished by AIIPL to the authorised dealer banks,” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-1766-cr-of-amnestys-entities-attached/article33855642.ece
17 February 2021||Bengaluru,||New law on the anvil on online gaming, Karnataka government tells High Court||The State government on Tuesday told the High Court of Karnataka that a law for online gaming or betting is on the anvil and the same will be placed before the State Cabinet shortly. A submission in this regard has been made before a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum during the hearing of a PIL petition, which had sought direction to the government to ban on all forms of online gambling or online betting till the State comes out with a mechanism to regulate such online activities. Federation’s plea Meanwhile, the Bench allowed the Online Rummy Federation to be part of the proceedings in the petition as the federation wanted to oppose a blanket ban on all forms of online gaming sought by the petitioner. While suggesting that control of online gaming through regulation is a more appropriate approach than banning all online games, as ‘games of skills’ like rummy are recognised in law as interpreted by the apex court, it was contended in the federation’s application. The federation also contended that merely offering rummy online will not make it unlawful as rummy. It pointed out that the State government could earn a revenue of around Rs. 2,500 crore in next five years by bringing in a suitable law for the control and regulation of online games.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-law-on-the-anvil-on-online-gaming-karnataka-government-tells-high-court/article33856114.ece
17 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Bengaluru doctors remove a 3.5 kg tumour from 15-year-old girl’s neck||After living with a 3.5 kg tumour that extended from her neck onto her chest for almost a decade, life has completely changed for 15-year-old Surbhi Ben after six surgeries. A team of 21 doctors from the city have successfully removed the football-sized tumour that had made it difficult for Surbhi to carry out even routine tasks. The girl, who hails from Amerli district in Gujarat, had spent her entire childhood making visits to hospitals. Faced with social ostracism for her ungainly looks due to the tumour, the girl is now recovering after the surgeries conducted over the course of a year. The team of doctors at Aster CMI Hospital, who conducted the surgeries, said Surbhi first came to them in December 2019. “She underwent the first procedure in January 2020 and at that time, she had three tumours in her throat that were intertwined with the nerves making the surgery extremely complicated. Despite taking precautions, the uncertainty of the outcome loomed large over us. She had to undergo a total of six surgeries and is now recovering,” said Chetan Ginigeri Lead Consultant - Department of Paediatrics and Neonatology. Explaining the procedure, Dr Ginigeri said that she had to undergo interventional radiology before the tumour was surgically debulked (reduction of mass) after which she had to undergo reconstruction for the affected area. “She is undergoing voice training and it will take another three to four months for her to fully recover,” he said. Born in an underprivileged family of farm labourers, Surbhi Ben was a toddler when her parents Parshottam Bhai Variya and Rekha first noticed the lumps around her face. Several appointments with doctors in and around Amerli ended in despair for they all advised that she should be taken to a bigger hospital, which the parents could not afford. Meanwhile, the tumour kept intruding, making it difficult for Surbhi to carry out routine tasks. Eventually, she had to drop out of school in 2019. Fortunately for her, hope soon arrived in the form of a few well-wishers, the NewsLions, a media outlet, helped facilitate the treatment along with Milaap, a crowd funding platform, and raised over Rs. 70 lakh to provide her these life-changing surgeries. Once the funds were arranged, the family then reached out to Aster CMI Hospital in December. If they had delayed the visit even by one or two months, they would have been stuck in the COVID-19 lockdown, doctors said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengaluru-doctors-remove-a-35-kg-tumour-from-15-year-old-girls-neck/article33856117.ece
17 February 2021||Bengaluru,||VTU to make IPR course mandatory for undergraduate engineering students||To encourage the study of Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) among engineering students, Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) has made an IPR course mandatory for UG engineering students. Speaking at a press meet here on Tuesday, Karisiddappa  ,  Vice-Chancellor, said they wanted students to study IPR and encourage research and promote outreach on the matter.    He said that the course will have various verticals, including patent, trademark, design and copyright. Prof. Karisidappa said that it must be made a part of the curriculum in colleges by the university with increasing sophistication in the pedagogical approach. He alsoannounced that for the 2021-22 academic year, the National Innovation and Start-up Policy VTU, Belagavi, would offer MBA Programme in MBA in Innovation, Entrepreneurship and Venture Development (IEV). Another announcement he made was to set up a research grants scheme to harness and nurture research talents available in its PG centres and affiliated/autonomous/constituent institutions in the State. “The scheme will also assist in the creation of facilities at their location for the promotion of research useful for the society. Under this scheme, grants are offered for research and innovation in all the fields of engineering, applied sciences, interdisciplinary sciences and management sciences,” he said. Under the provisions under VTU Research Grants Scheme 2021, a maximum up to Rs. 25 lakh per proposal may be considered for approval. In addition to this, the university has also framed its research policy.  COE in smart cities design Looking at the plethora of opportunities that engineers can harness in infrastructure developments, VTU will establish a Centre of Excellence (CoE) in smart cities designs and start a PG course M. Plan., in smart city planning from the academic year 2021-22. “With investments made in housing, road network, urban transport, water supply, power-related infrastructures, smart cities, and other forms of urban management, our students will benefit from the course,” said Prof. Karisidappa.  Other announcements  VTU has launched Jnanayaana Research Fellowship programme for full time Ph.D. Students. Under this scheme, each research scholar will get monthly scholarship of Rs. 25,000/- including contingency amount of Rs. 25,000/- per year for three years.  Financial assistance for B.E. final year Student’s Innovative Projects.  The VTU National Innovation and Start-up Policy has created a dedicated building for incubating the start-ups and providing a platform for innovation at the centre.  VTU adopted 10 government schools in Belagavi district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ipr-course-will-be-mandatory-for-ug-engineering-students/article33856116.ece
17 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC seeks Centre’s response on plea for safety system at airports||Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad A. Bobde visualised the horror and tragedy of an air crash while hearing a petition alleging “deliberate omission” on the part of the Ministry of Civil Aviation and the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) to install a fail-safe system to stop an aircraft from overshooting runways at vulnerable airports like Mangaluru and Kozhikode. “A crash is something horrible... People are trapped inside the flight,” Chief Justice Bobde, heading a three-judge Bench, observed on Tuesday. The court asked Additional Solicitor-General Aishwarya Bhati, appearing for the government and agreeing with the CJI’s oral observations, to file its response to the petition. The writ petition filed by Delhi resident Rajen Mehta sought the installation of the Engineered Material Arresting System (EMAS) in at-risk airports across the country, more importantly at table-top airports in Kozhikode and Mangaluru. He said the EMAS could have averted the tragic Mangaluru air crash of 2010 and the recent one in Kozhikode. “The existence of EMAS was brought to the knowledge of Air Authority of India [AAI] and the respondents [the DGCA and the Civil Aviation Ministry] in 2008. However, for no plausible reason, it has not been installed till date,” the petition said. Mr. Mehta also sought an inquiry into the delay in installing EMAS despite specific knowledge about the vulnerability of the Mangaluru and Kozhikode airports. He said criminal action should be initiated against officials responsible for the delay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-seeks-centres-response-on-plea-for-safety-system-at-airports/article33855624.ece
17 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Toolkit content does not disclose sedition: ex-judge||Publicly available content of the toolkit, which led to the arrest of 22-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi, does not disclose sedition, the former Supreme Court judge Justice Deepak Gupta told The Hindu in a phone interaction on Tuesday. “The first toolkit that I read which is in public domain... I don’t know whether the police have something else, but what is in the public domain does not disclose anything to indicate there is any incitement to violence. I heard some police official say in an interview that on January 26 they said ‘you march to Delhi’, but he forgets they also said ‘we will come back with the farmers’. At best, it could be an offence of violating Section 144 which may have been in force in Delhi,” Justice Gupta said. The former judge said “moving to the capital of the country to press forth your demands is not an act of sedition”. Justice Gupta said charges in the toolkit case show a “non-application of mind”. “They have also put Section 153 and 153A (IPC), which is disaffection against society and religion. I don’t know where they get these from... In my view there is no case of sedition made out,” Justice Gupta said. Ms. Ravi was remanded to custody on multiple charges like sedition, criminal conspiracy and promoting enmity between groups in connection with a toolkit on the farmers’ protest. Noting there has been an “exponential increase in arrests in the past few years”, Justice Gupta said this may “create a sense of fear”. “Youngsters and activists, they may be right or they may be wrong. I may not agree with what they say, but they have a right to say it. By arresting, you are sending a message that don’t become an activist or don’t take part in this or your future could be in jeopardy. If you do that and succeed, then we will no longer be a democracy. We will not be the India which our founding fathers wanted it to be. Every voice should be heard,” Justice Gupta said. He explained that a show of disaffection would not amount to sedition. Disaffection has to be accompanied with incitement of violence or public disorder to constitute the offence. Justice Gupta cited the Balwant Singh case in which the apex court had set aside the conviction of two men accused of raising some slogans like “Khalistan zindabad”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/toolkit-content-does-not-disclose-sedition-ex-judge/article33855631.ece
17 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||UGC bats for ‘cow science’ exam||The University Grants Commission has written to all Vice-Chancellors asking them to encourage students in their universities and affiliated colleges to write the Central government’s “indigenous cow science” examination later this month. The study material for the examination includes claims that cow dung is used as protection against radiation in nuclear centres in India and Russia and protected Bhopal residents from the gas leak. It claims a link between cow slaughter and earthquakes and posits that Jersey cows are lazy and give poor quality milk, while indigenous cow milk is yellow, because it has traces of gold. This controversial material was removed from the English version of the study text after it caused an uproar last month. However, several regional language versions including Tamil and Malayalam still contain these claims. The examination is run by the Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog (RKA), set up under the Animal Husbandry Ministry to disseminate information on the “economic, scientific, environmental, health, agricultural and spiritual relevance of the indigenous cow”, said the UGC letter, dated February 12. The all-India examination, which is open to school and college students as well as other citizens, will be held on February 25. “I write this to request you to give wide publicity to this initiative and encourage students to enrol/ register themselves for this examination,” wrote UGC Secretary Rajnish Jain. Revised study material The revised English version of the study material now has three sections. “Divinity is locked up in the anatomy of cow as she is said to embody the elements of purity, reality and existence. Her face epitomizes innocence — her eyes reflect peace, her horns royalty and her ears intelligence. Her udders are the fountain of ambrosia in the form of milk,” says the first section, which is titled ‘Kamdhenu Desi Cows and some Shlokas in Scripture’. Apart from quotes from the Vedas, it also cites the Bible and Muslim theologian Al Ghazali to make its case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ugc-bats-for-cow-science-exam/article33855655.ece
17 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Explain action taken on OTTs, SC tells govt.||The Supreme Court on Tuesday did not appear convinced with the government’s submission that it is “contemplating” regulations for OTT (over-the-top) platforms such as Netflix and Amazon Prime. “Everybody in the world can contemplate... You put it out in an affidavit what you are doing,” Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde addressed Additional Solicitor-General K.M. Nataraj, for the government. The court issued notice on a plea filed by advocates Shashank Shekhar Jha and Apurva Arhatia seeking a proper board/institution /association for monitoring and managing the content of different OTT/streaming and digital media platforms. Initially, during the hearing, the court had asked the petitioners to approach the government with their representation. However, the court, later on, decided that the government should better file a written reply to the petition. The plea contended that there was no law or autonomous body governing the digital content to monitor and manage the content of OTT platforms made available to the public at large without any filter or screening, it said. “Lack of legislation governing OTT/streaming platforms is becoming evident with each passing day and every new case that is filed on these grounds... The government is facing heat to fill this lacuna with regulations from the public and the judiciary; still the relevant government departments have not done anything significant to regularise these OTT/Streaming Platforms,” the plea said. None of the OTT/streaming platforms, including Netflix, Amazon Prime, Zee5, and Hotstar, have signed the self-regulation provided by Ministry of Information and Broadcasting since February 2020, it said.  Everybody in the world can contemplate... You put it out in an affidavit Sharad A. BobdeChief Justice of India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/explain-action-taken-on-otts-sc-tells-govt/article33855652.ece
17 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||BJP goes into huddle over farmers’ protest||BJP’s national leadership went into a huddle with its Members of Parliament and legislators from Punjab, Haryana, Western Uttar Pradesh and a few districts of Rajasthan to urge them to proactively reach out to agitating farmers from their areas, particularly the Jat community, in order to resolve the ongoing agitation by farmer unions over the three laws related to agriculture. At a meeting held at BJP’s national headquarters in New Delhi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, party president J.P. Nadda, general secretary B.L. Santhosh and Agriculture Minister Narendra Tomar urged legislators and local leaders to get in touch with local khaps, panchayats and community groups in these areas to explain the party and government’s position. The meeting was necessary not just because the agitation that wasn’t coming to an end, but also due to ground level feedback from the party workers who warned that continuation of the agitation without any outreach or proactive step would alienate farming communities, especially the Jat community (which has voted with the BJP in Uttar Pradesh since 2014) from the party. “Home Minister Amit Shahji said it was clear that the agitation was being exploited by certain political groups to affect changes other than the farmers’ demands. The agitation was about anything but the laws. It seems to be an ideological war with the government,” said a senior leader who was present at the meeting. “We have been asked to remain in our areas to explain our position,” he added. A senior Minister told The Hindu that the government was ready to talk to farmers groups on specific issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-goes-into-huddle-over-farmers-protest/article33856341.ece
17 February 2021||Thrissur,||Yogi Aditya Nath to flag off BJP yatra||The Vijay Yatra led by BJP State president K. Surednran will start from Kasaragod on February 21. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Aditya Nath will inaugurate the yatra. Home Minister Amit Shah will attend the concluding session on March 7. Alleging that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has been mum on the Sabarimala issue, Union Minister of Parliamentary Affairs Prahlad Joshi has alleged that the Congress is not sincere in its efforts to protect interests of Hindus. Interacting with the media after a Bharatiya Janata Party leadership meeting in Thrissur on Tuesday, Mr. Joshi said both the Left Democratic Front and the United Democratic Front had disappointed the people of Kerala. The Congress which supports court verdicts in Delhi is opposing the judgments in Kerala. The party which is opposing the LDF here is in alliance with the Left in Bengal. Their only agenda is to oppose the BJP, he said. “Unemployment is so severe in the State that even people close to the Chief Minister are into gold smuggling. The LDF is appointing their people illegally in government posts in a hurry because they know that they are going to be out of power soon. The people will express their displeasure in the election,” he said. “Both the LDF and the UDF are competing to strike a link with Islamic fundamentalists. Surrendering to the Muslim fundamentalists is their idea of secularism. In all, 60,000 cases have been taken against BJP activists in the State,” he said. Mr. Joshi said the BJP was taking up issues of the people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/yogi-aditya-nath-to-flag-off-bjp-yatra/article33855891.ece
17 February 2021||February 17 2021 00:00 IST,||45 killed as bus falls into canal in Madhya Pradesh||Mr. Modi said, “The bus accident in MP’s Sidhi is horrific. Condolences to the bereaved families. The local administration is actively involved in rescue and relief work.” Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan expressed grief over the tragedy and announced an ex-gratia of Rs. 5 lakh each to the kin of the deceased. “I have also sent Water Resources Minister Tulsiram Silawat and MOS for Panchyat Ramkhelawan Patel to the spot,” Mr. Chouhan said. The Chief Minister said he ordered to stop the water outflow from the Bansagar dam so that water level in the canal could go down and help in the rescue operation. Madhya Pradesh Congress president Kamal Nath also expressed grief over the tragedy. Witnesses said the bus sank completely into the canal water and was not visible in the morning hours. Later, the district administration stopped the release of water into the canal from the Bansagar project, which brought the water level down, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/45-killed-as-bus-falls-into-canal-in-madhya-pradesh/article33855621.ece
17 February 2021||February 17 2021 00:00 IST,||India, China pull back troops from Pangong||The overall pullback of troops and armaments from across the LAC to farther behind would be discussed once the disengagement from all the friction areas was over, the official said. As reported by The Hindu, the Chinese troops have started clearing out from the ridgelines of Finger 4, a major area of contention. On the north bank, the Chinese troops will withdraw to the east of Finger 8, while the Indian troops will move to the Dhan Singh Thapa post near Finger 3. As part of the mutual and reciprocal steps, it was agreed that structures built by both sides on the north and south banks of the lake since April 2020 would be removed and the landforms restored. The disengagement began last Wednesday and is expected to be completed by the end of the week, following which the Corps Commanders will meet within 48 hours to discuss disengagement at the other frictions areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-china-pull-back-troops-from-pangong/article33855622.ece
17 February 2021||LUCKNOW,||Rectifying injustices of history, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said the country was rectifying the mistakes, injustice and tampering that was committed against those who created history. Mr. Modi made the remarks while laying the foundation stone of a Maharaja Suheldev Memorial and development work of Chittaura Lake in Bahraich, Uttar Pradesh, through videoconferencing Medieval Bhar chieftain Suheldev is projected as a Hindutva icon by the RSS-BJP. Mr. Modi said, “It is unfortunate that those who dedicated their lives to the protection of ‘Bharatiyata’, innumerable such heroes and heroines did not get the due position that they deserved.” The “injustice” and tampering done against those who created history in the name of writing history were being “rectified” by today’s India, which was freeing itself of these mistakes, he noted. Though Suheldev's historic existence is shrouded in mystery, he is popular as a caste icon among the Rajbhars (OBC) and the Pasis (second largest Dalit caste in U.P.), both competing for his legacy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rectifying-mistakes-of-history-pm/article33855639.ece
17 February 2021||New Delhi,||Remove ‘Modi tax’ on petroleum, says Cong.||Continuing to exert pressure on the Narendra Modi government over high excise duty on petroleum products, the Congress on Tuesday referred to it as “Modi tax” and demanded its immediate withdrawal. At a press conference, spokesperson Pawan Khera said the Modi government has collected more than Rs. 20 lakh crore from additional excise duty collection. “We demand an immediate withdrawal of this additional ‘Modi Tax’ imposed over the last six years and eight months. This in itself will reduce petrol price to Rs. 61.92 per litre and diesel price to Rs. 47.51 per litre. Every common Indian deserves this relief immediately,” he said. “India deserves a government which works and thinks for every single Indian and not, to use the words of my leader Rahul Gandhi, just a government of Hum do, Humare do, ” he added. International prices He said when former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh demitted office in May 2014, international crude oil price was $108 per barrel yet petrol was sold at Rs. 71.51 per litre in Delhi and diesel at Rs. 57.28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/remove-modi-tax-on-petrol-diesel-cong/article33855648.ece
17 February 2021||KOLKATA,||Left-Congress alliance in Bengal to include ISF||In a significant political development, the Left and Congress leadership announced on Tuesday that they will accommodate Abbas Siddique’s newly floated political outfit Indian Secular Front in their secular democratic alliance for the upcoming polls. The announcement was made after a meeting of senior leaders of both the political parties. West Bengal Pradesh Congress Commitee president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said they were not yet announcing the number of seats they would leave for the ISF. Mr. Chowdhury was joined by Left Front chairperson Biman Bose and Communist Party of India (Marxist) State Secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra. The Congress leader said the political situation in the State was changing rapidly and the Left-Congress alliance was fast gaining support and emerging as an important alternative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/left-congress-alliance-in-bengal-to-include-isf/article33855875.ece
17 February 2021||February 17 2021 00:00 IST,||4 cases of South African variant of virus found||“This variant has shown mutations in the receptor binding domain of the spike protein... India has confirmed one case of the variant strain detected in a Brazil returnee in the first week of February. The traveller and contacts have been tested and quarantined. The virus strain has been successfully isolated and cultured at ICMR-NIV, Pune, and experiments to assess vaccine effectiveness are under way,” Dr. Bhargava said at the Health Ministry’s press conference. He added that the U.K. strain, which emerged in September 2020, has so far spread to 86 countries, including India. “Neutralisation potential with the U.K. variant of the virus is there with the vaccine that we have,” he added. ‘Maintain vigil’ Speaking about measures to restrict and check the entry of COVID-19 virus strains (South Africa/Brazil) into the country, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said that flights from South Africa and Brazil to India are routed through Gulf countries. “So though there are no direct flights, the government is looking at bringing in measures to check passengers from these countries,” he said. NITI Aayog member V.K. Paul said India should continue its vigil to contain the COVID-19 virus despite the fall in the number of active cases.He added that India was now giving COVID-19 vaccines to 24 countries. “We don’t still fully understand the virus and need to be serious about vaccinating while following COVID appropriate behaviour. The vaccines are safe and can be given to people on blood thinners and aspirin,” he added. Two States Giving data on COVID-19 cases, the Ministry said currently only two States have more than 35,000 active cases contributing to 72% of the cases. “Kerala (61,550) and Maharashtra (37,383) continue to top the list of States with most active cases and we are closely monitoring the situation here,” said Mr. Bhushan. He also said that 11 States/ UTs with vaccination coverage of less than 50% including Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Chandigarh, Nagaland and Puducherry have been instructed to have multiple vaccination sessions. The Ministry added that more than 88.5 lakh COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far and more than 1.3 lakh vaccine doses were given on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/4-cases-of-south-african-variant-of-virus-found/article33855600.ece
17 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Karnataka tightens norms for travellers from Kerala||Karnataka has issued new guidelines mandating all those coming from Kerala to the State to carry a negative RT-PCR test report not older than 72 hours. Not just that, it has ruled that all those who have come to the State from Kerala in the last two weeks, exempting those with a negative test report not older than 72 hours, to be mandatorily subjected to COVID-19 test. A similar restriction was placed earlier in the month in four districts bordering Kerala, but it was expanded to the entire State on Tuesday. This comes in the light of a COVID-19 cluster at a nursing college in Bengaluru being traced back mostly to Kerala returnees, even as the neighbouring State is reporting a high number of cases every day. The guidelines say all the students in engineering and other professional colleges who have recently arrived from Kerala have to be tested for COVID-19. It calls for hostels, hotels, resorts, homestays, dormitories, and residential communities to ensure that persons checking in after travelling from Kerala have a COVID-19 negative certificate. It also asks hostels to ensure strict implementation of COVID-19 safety guidelines and appeals to students to not frequently travel to Kerala unless strongly justified. The guidelines call for ramping up testing and strengthening COVID-19 surveillance at all education institutions that accommodate students who have travelled from Kerala. Commissioner of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike N. Manjunath Prasad said those who try to enter the State/city without a negative RT-PCR report would have to undergo mandatory quarantine until they are tested and results are out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/negative-rt-pcr-report-mandatory-for-those-coming-to-state-from-kerala/article33855827.ece
17 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Traffic snarls, protests at toll plazas in Kerala||The four toll plazas managed by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) in the State witnessed traffic snarls, confusion, and protests by motorists and the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation crew on Tuesday, the first day of making user-fee collection through FASTags mandatory. Since February 15 midnight, any vehicle reaching the FASTag lane without the prepaid tag or an invalid one has to pay twice the toll applicable to that category of vehicles. All except one All lanes, except one, in toll plazas on national highways are declared as FASTag lanes to promote toll payment in the digital mode, for seamless movement of vehicles and to reduce waiting time and fuel consumption. At the Pampampallam, Ponnarimangalam, Paliyekkara and Kumbalam toll plazas under the NHAI, motorists with functional FASTags had a smooth ride. However, vehicle owners without FASTags argued with the staff at the booths and refused to move along the lane for those without FASTags. Delay in acceptance of fee led to traffic snarls on these lanes. The fleet of the KSRTC that did not have the FASTag added to the woes as the drivers refused to use the non-dedicated lane by paying double the user fee or by taking the monthly pass. With the toll plaza staff taking a tough stance, the crew parked the buses haphazardly. Around 200 buses of the KSRTC operating on interstate routes have the FASTag. The buses of the Tamil Nadu Road Transport Corporation are also using the FASTag.  Local residents The official said the State was also not ready to share the user fee of the local residents as agreed. Local residents within 10 km of the Paliyekkara toll plaza can avail themselves of a monthly pass of Rs. 150 and those near the Pampampallam, Ponnarimangalam and Kumbalam toll plazas have to take monthly pass of Rs. 275 to cross over.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/traffic-snarls-protests-at-toll-plazas-in-kerala/article33855612.ece
17 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Classes 6 to 8 to reopen in Karnataka on Feb. 22||Classes 6 to 8 will reopen in Karnataka from February 22. However, in Bengaluru Urban and Kerala and Karnataka border areas, only Class 8 will be reopened. Announcing this on Tuesday, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said the decision was taken after consultation with the COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC). Schools in Karnataka have been reopened in a phase-wise manner since January 1, and so far, Classes 9 to II PU are back. The Minister said the decision on reopening of Classes 1 to 5 will be taken on February 24 or 25 after another meeting with the TAC. Mr. Kumar said that two important analytical reports will be submitted by the committee to the government by the end of this week, after which a decision on reopening lower primary classes will be made. He said that the government wanted to exercise caution as COVID-19 cases were reported in nursing colleges and apartment complexes. He said in all schools in Karnataka, random testing needs to be carried out regularly. The Minister also said that there was demand from all stakeholders to reopen all grades from Class 1 at the earliest. He also referred to the study by Azim Premji University that stated that children not only missed out on the regular curricular learning that they would have acquired if schools were open, but are also ‘forgetting’ what they learned in previous years. According to the study, on an average, 92% of students from Classes 2 and 6 have lost at least one specific foundational ability in languages that they may have acquired in previous years. The corresponding figure for mathematics was 82%. Mr. Kumar said that teachers and students coming from Kerala will have to be tested and can attend classes only after producing a COVID-19 negative certificate. Like the other classes, attendance for upper primary classes is not mandatory and students can opt to attend online or physical classes. With upper primary classes reopening in a majority of the districts, he said that the pre-metric hostels, where around 70,000 students are enrolled will also have to be reopened amidst all precautionary measures. He said that the Transport Department will also ply more trips so that students are able to travel to and from their school. The move to not open Classes 1 to 5 has not gone down well among a section of educationists, teachers and parents, who feel that the learning levels of children have been affected adversely.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/classes-6-to-8-to-reopen-in-karnataka/article33855613.ece
17 February 2021||KOCHI,||Film body slams OTT release of Drishyam 2||The Kerala Film Chamber of Commerce has denied theatrical screening for movies released first on the over-the-top (OTT) platform. The apex body of the film organisations in the Malayalam industry reiterated its position on Tuesday after reports emerged that actor Mohanlal, whose Drishyam 2 had opted for a direct-to-digital première’, was willing to release his movie on the big screen later. “Superstars in Malayalam should take a leaf out of the stance taken by Tamil actor Vijay who had waited for nearly a year to release his Master in cinemas following the COVID-19 crisis. Actor Mohanlal could have opted for a similar position. But he chose to release his movie on the OTT platform,” said K. Vijayakumar, president, Kerala Film Chamber. In crisis Reminding lead actors in the industry that they climbed to the top league after screening movies on the big screen, Mr. Vijayakumar said the business model, where a movie was released first on the digital platform, would hit the prospects of the theatre owners hard. “The theatre industry is supporting thousands of workers. These superstars should not forget the reality that the industry will plunge into a crisis if movies continued to be released first on the OTT platform,” he said. Trend flayed The chamber president flayed the current trend by lead actors of pushing the release date of their movies though cinemas resumed operations from the second week of January. “Why are they not even showing the patience and determination shown by a young filmmaker like Tharun Moorthy and his producer who had the courage to release their Operation Java movie in cinemas despite having the option to go for a direct-to-digital première?,” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/film-body-slams-ott-release-of-drishyam-2/article33855616.ece
17 February 2021||February 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Toolkit case: role of PJF under scanner||Pannu had announced a reward of $2,50,000 for Punjab farmers protesting at the Singhu border to raise the Khalistani flag at India Gate on January 26. Sources also said that during Ms. Ravi’s interrogation, it had been revealed that in the now deleted WhatsApp group, which was created on December 6, Ms. Jacob became a member on December 11 and the members of the PJF were added on December 12. ‘Not directly linked’ “It appears that Disha may not be directly linked to PJF because if that had been the case, they wouldn’t be added into the group after Nikita. However, the case is still in early stages of investigation,” the officer said. The Delhi Police is investigating a sedition and conspiracy case after a tookit was shared on social media, which is a document with a section titled ‘prior action plan’ about digital strikes to be conducted through hashtags on and before January 26, tweetstorms from January 23 onwards, physical action on January 26, and joining the farmers’ march into Delhi and back to the borders. The police claimed that the events of January 26, including the violence, were a copycat execution of the action plan. Ms. Ravi was arrested from Bengaluru on February 13 and is currently in police custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/toolkit-case-role-of-pjf-under-scanner/article33855619.ece
17 February 2021||Chandigarh,||No record of trusts headed by PM: PMO||Information on the number of trusts (both public and private) that Prime Minister Narendra Modi heads by virtue of his office (ex-officio) is not maintained by the Prime Minister’s Office. The compilation of this information from different units-files would disproportionately divert the resources of the PMO from the efficient discharge of its normal functions, said a reply to an application filed under the Right To Information Act, 2005. Hemant Kumar, an advocate at the Punjab and Haryana High Court, had sought information about the names of all the trusts (public or private) that are being headed by the Prime Minister by virtue of his office or the post, through online RTI with the PMO on January 19. In its reply, the PMO on February 15, said, “The information available, if any, is not maintained in compiled form in this office. Its collection and compilation from different units-files would disproportionately divert the resources of the office from the efficient discharge of its normal functions, thereby attracting the provisions under section 7(9) of the RTI Act, 2005.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-record-of-trusts-headed-by-pm-pmo/article33856342.ece
17 February 2021||Srinagar,||Akbar Lone’s son booked under UAPA||Hilal Lone, son of senior National Conference (NC) leader and MP Akbar Lone, was on Tuesday booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) for his alleged ‘provocative’ speech during campaigning in the District Development Council elections in November-December last. Mr. Hilal Lone was sent in 10-day police remand by the court in Bandipora. “Hilal Lone has been booked under Section 13 of the UAPA, besides Sections 505, 153-A and 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC),” Inspector General of Police (IGP) Vijay Kumar told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/akbar-lones-son-booked-under-uapa/article33855636.ece
17 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Indian Mission writes to U.K. lawmaker||The new farm laws were “duly discussed and debated” in Parliament before being passed, the High Commission of India in the U.K. said in an unusual “open letter” to a British lawmaker. Responding to public comments by MP Claudia Webbe, the High Commission on Monday said a “small section” of farmers are protesting and urged British citizens who are part of Ms. Webbe’s constituency to reach out to it for further information regarding the legislations. “The farm laws were duly discussed and debated in Parliament and their benefits have started reaching more than 100 million small farmers instantly. Since the enactment of these reforms, discussions have been held with farmers and other stakeholders on their efficient implementation,” it said. ‘Treated with respect’ The letter said the protesting farmers were “treated with utmost respect” by the security agencies and that the protest is being carried out by a “small section” of agricultural community. Ms. Webbe, MP from Leicester East, had commented in social media over the arrests of activists Disha Ravi and Nodeep Kaur saying, “Both women were targeted, arrested and imprisoned for peacefully supporting the farmers’ protest. This suppression is driven by authoritarianism and free market capitalism.” She had extended support to the farmers and described the movement as a “human rights protest” and a “protest against food insecurity”. In response, the High Commission said, the letter was an attempt to “dispel any misgivings” about the objectives of the farm laws and that the government of India is trying to address concerns of the protesting farmers. The statement however declared that India is aware of foreign plots that are not helpful for dialogue between the farmers and the government. “The government of India is more than aware of efforts by vested interests abroad to fuel the protests through misinformation and incendiary assertions that are not helpful in progressing the dialogue between the protesters and the government or addressing the issues through the democratic processes that our people have traditionally relied on,” said the High Commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indian-mission-writes-to-uk-lawmaker-on-farm-protests/article33855646.ece
17 February 2021||Srinagar,||Attempt to abduct child thwarted||A resident from Bandipora in Kashmir on Tuesday alleged that three persons, working with the Army, tried to molest and abduct his minor daughter on February 10. The police said the accused have been held. “My daughter was at a family-run shop when a vehicle stopped. One person disembarked and handed over money to my daughter and grabbed her hand, in a bid to push her into the vehicle. However, she raised a hue and cry. Later, locals secured her release,” the victim’s father, a labourer, told The Hindu over the phone. The Army has not commented on the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/attempt-to-abduct-child-thwarted/article33856108.ece
17 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Unions ask farmers to go back to Delhi||With the crowds of Punjab farmers starting to thin out at the Singhu and Tikri protest sites on the Delhi-Haryana border, Punjab’s farmers union leaders have decided to cancel plans for large mahapanchayats in the State and mobilise people to come to Delhi instead. They hope that large mobilisation for a countrywide rail roko protest on Friday will prove a turning point in their demands for repeal of the three farm reform laws and give them a legal guarantee for remunerative prices. The decision was taken at a meeting of 32 Punjab unions at the Singhu border on Tuesday, leaders said at an evening press conference. Buta Singh Burjgill, president of Bharatiya Kisan Union-Dakaunda said it was more important to strengthen the morcha in Delhi. He appealed to all unions and protestors to cancel any plans for mahapanchayats in the State. All India Kisan Sabha’s Punjab head Major Singh Punnawal urged Punjab’s villagers to collect money and travel together to Delhi to counter the idea that the movement was losing momentum. The mahapanchayats are giving the false impression that the Delhi morcha is being withdrawn, said Rajinder Singh Deep Singh Wala of the Kirti Kisan Union. The umbrella Samyukt Kisan Morcha, which includes unions from Punjab and elsewhere, has been actively promoting mahapanchayats, especially in Haryana, Rajasthan, western U.P., Madhya Pradesh and as far as Telangana. BKU-Tikait leader Rakesh Tikait, who has been drawing large crowds, has even announced that it is better for farmers to mobilise where they are rather than coming to the capital. SKM leaders also said they are preparing farmers for coming to Delhi when the call is given.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/return-to-delhi-punjab-unions-tell-farmers/article33855654.ece
17 February 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Godhra accused held after 19 years||Rafiq Bhatuk, an alleged key conspirator in the 2002 Godhra train burning case, has been arrested. He had been on the run for 19 years. As per the local police, Bhatuk, 51, was part of the main group that hatched a conspiracy to target the train in which kar sevaks were returning from Ayodhya. The mob torched a coach of Sabarmati Express near the Godhra railway station and 59 persons were charred to death on February 26, 2002. On a tip-off, the police raided a house in Signal Falia area near the Godhra railway station on Sunday night and picked up Bhatuk. The police said he was involved in throwing stones on the coach and pouring petrol inside.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/godhra-accused-held-after-19-years/article33855647.ece
17 February 2021||New Delhi,||Rahul asks why inputs were ignored||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday quoted a Frontline report to question why Prime Minister Narendra Modi didn’t act despite prior intelligence about a suicide attack on security establishments in Jammu and Kashmir. “On 14th Feb 2019, the PM was busy shooting a film having ignored prior intelligence inputs and leaving our jawans to die in Pulwama. Why were actionable intelligence inputs ignored?” he said. He tagged a news report published by the magazine that claimed there were “two successive actionable intelligence about a terror attack”. To mark two years of the Pulwama terror attack, Frontline published an investigation, revealing that between January 2 and February 13, 2019, a series of intelligence inputs were shared with various authorities responsible for maintaining internal security. All these inputs pointed to a possible fidayeen (suicide) strike as part of the Jaish-e-Mohammad’s “Qisas mission”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahul-asks-why-inputs-were-ignored/article33855632.ece
17 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||No contempt case against Sardesai: SC||The Supreme Court's public relations department late on Tuesday issued a statement that the court had not initiated any criminal contempt proceedings against senior journalist Rajdeep Sardesai. It clarified that information on the court’s website showing the case status was placed “inadvertently” and “appropriate action to rectify the same is under process”. “This is in context with news item being flashed in some news channels about initiating suo motu criminal contempt proceeding against Rajdeep Sardesai by the Supreme Court, it is made clear that no such proceeding has been initiated against Mr. Rajdeep Sardesai. However status shown at Supreme Court website vide case no. SMC (Crl) 02/2021 has been placed inadvertently. Appropriate action to rectify the same is under process,” the short statement circulated via WhatsApp by the court’s public relations official said. The clarification came shortly after media reports, based on the website status, said the court had suo motu registered criminal contempt against Mr. Sardesai on February 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-contempt-case-against-sardesai-sc/article33856112.ece
17 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Nepal objects to Tripura CM’s claims||Kathmandu on Tuesday formally objected to reports of the BJP allegedly planning to expand its presence in neighbouring countries such as Sri Lanka and Nepal. Foreign Minister of Nepal Pradeep Kumar Gyawali announced the move on social media after Chief Minister of Tripura Biplab Kumar Deb quoted Home Minister Amit Shah saying the BJP will soon form governments in Sri Lanka and Nepal. “Noted. Formal objection has been already conveyed,” said Mr. Gyawali on social media after people demanded that Nepal take steps against the assertions by Mr. Deb. This is the first high-level statement from Nepal on Mr. Deb’s comments. Mr. Deb had said during a meeting in Agartala that Mr. Shah had informed him about the plans. “We were discussing about the party in Agartala when he [Mr. Shah] was the national president. Someone from among us pointed out to Amit ji that the BJP was doing well in the country... In response, Amit Shah said there is still Sri Lanka, Nepal left. We have to take the party there,” Mr. Deb told a gathering.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nepal-objects-to-tripura-cms-claims/article33855635.ece
17 February 2021||Bengaluru,||HC rejects plea filed by B.R. Shetty||In a setback to B.R Shetty, NRI entrepreneur and promoter of UAE-based NMC Healthcare, the High Court of Karnataka has rejected his plea against the action of the Bureau of Immigration restraining him from leaving India based on the Lookout Circulars (LOCs) issued by two public sector banks to whom his companies owe around Rs. 2,800 crore. The immigration authorities on November 14, 2020, denied him permission to fly to Abu Dhabi from Bengaluru airport based on the two LOCs issued by the Bank of Baroda (BOB) and the Punjab National Bank (PNB) in May and July respectively in relation to default of loans granted to companies promoted by him. Justice P.S. Dinesh Kumar dismissed the petitions filed by Dr. Shetty while holding that action of the banks and immigration authorities cannot be interfered with as the petitioner, as per the law, has an opportunity to approach the banks, which have issued LOCs against him, and explain them that the LOCs were issued wrongly. “Unless Dr. Shetty exhausts the remedy of approaching BOB and PNB and explains to them how the LOCs have been wrongly issued, and the banks pass any further orders, his prayer to permit to travel to Abu Dhabi cannot be considered,” the court said. On his claim that he was only the guarantor for the loans and that he had demitted the posts managements of the companies based in UAE and the banks have also initiated process in UAE, the HC said the petition was liable to be dismissed on the threshold because of the admission by the petitioner that he was the guarantor as “a guarantor is equally liable to repay the debt.” Moreover, the petitioner himself was the promoter of these companies, it noted. The companies promoted by Dr. Shetty owe Rs. 2,000 crore and Rs. 800 crore to BOB and PNB respectively and he is the guarantor for the borrowed sums. He had come to India in February last year and wanted to go back to UAE in November.  Re-visit lending guidelines    The HC also observed that, “it is time, the law makers and the Reserve Bank of India re-visit the lending guidelines and the procedures and take necessary remedial measures to ensure that public money is well secured before disbursement.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-rejects-plea-filed-by-br-shetty/article33855604.ece
17 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Noted jurist Rama Jois passes away||Noted jurist and former Governor M. Rama Jois, 89, passed away on Tuesday morning. He was suffering from age-related ailments and suffered a cardiac arrest, sources close to the family said. He is survived by his wife and two children. Born in 1931 in Shivamogga, Mr. Jois studied Law in Shivamogga and Bengaluru, and enrolled as an advocate in 1959. He was arrested during the Emergency and spent time in Bangalore jail with the former Prime Minister late Atal Bihari Vajpayee and BJP leader L.K. Advani, among other political prisoners. He was posted as a judge of the Karnataka High Court in 1977. He was later appointed as the Chief Justice of the Punjab and Haryana High Court. Post retirement, Mr. Jois identified himself with the BJP and was made Governor of Bihar and later Jharkhand by the NDA government in the early 2000s. However, he had very short stints as Governor. He was subsequently elected to the Rajya Sabha from the State on a BJP ticket. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa expressed his condolences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/noted-jurist-rama-jois-passes-away/article33855611.ece
17 February 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,||Pawn trader from A.P. found dead||A prawn trader from neighbouring Andhra Pradesh was found murdered at a fruit orchard in Dammapeta mandal on Tuesday morning. The victim was identified as Kodanda Rama Rao, 39, of Bhimavaram in Andhra Pradesh’s West Godavari district. Rama Rao reportedly went missing from Bhimavaram five days ago. Acting on a complaint filed by his wife, the Bhimavaram two town police registered a man missing case, sources said. Alerted by Dammapeta police, a police team from Bhimavaram reached the spot, where the body of Rama Rao was found. Police suspect that Rama Rao was kidnapped and murdered by his business partner-turned foe due to some financial disputes. Investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pawn-trader-from-ap-found-dead/article33856345.ece
17 February 2021||Chandigarh,||Oppn. crying foul in face of defeat: Amarinder||Hitting out at the Opposition parties over their allegations that the Punjab civic body elections were “rigged”, CM Amarinder Singh said they were crying foul in the face of their “imminent defeat”.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/oppn-crying-foul-in-face-of-defeat-amarinder/article33855879.ece
17 February 2021||KOCHI,||Can’t share confessional statements with ED: Customs||The Customs has opposed the sharing of confessional statements of Swapna Suresh and P.S. Sarith, the key accused in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case and dollar smuggling case, with the Enforcement Directorate (ED). It was while considering the plea of the ED on Tuesday for the certified copies of the confessional statements of the accused, which were obtained under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, that the Customs raised the objection. The ED had moved the application at the Economic Offences Court, Ernakulam. When the case came up before the court, the Customs maintained that its investigations into the gold and dollar smuggling cases were yet to be completed. The confessional statements were made by the accused before a judicial officer. The judge of the Economic Offences Court had handed over the copies to the investigating officers in a sealed cover with an instruction to maintain its secrecy, counsel for the Customs submitted. The judge had also asked the investigating officers in the case not to share the details of the statements with anyone else. However, its the discretion of the court to decide on the access to the statements, the Customs submitted. Incidentally, the ED had approached the court for obtaining 10 certified copies of the statement, which the agency believed would help in taking forward its investigation in the cases booked under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. As the accused in the smuggling case were also the accused in the money laundering cases, the information in the confessional statement would be helpful for the investigation, the agency submitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cant-share-confessional-statements-with-ed-customs/article33855607.ece
17 February 2021||KOCHI,||Excluded for being a Congress supporter: Salim Kumar||National award-winning actor Salim Kumar said on Tuesday that he was not on the list of 24 film personalities who will light a lamp at the Kochi leg of the International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK) as he was a Congress supporter. “This is a festival conducted by those affiliated to the Communist Party of India (Marxist). I was told that my age was a bar for being invited to the inaugural function, in which 24 persons who had won awards at various levels will light the lamp,” he alleged. Mr. Salim Kumar pointed out that filmmakers such as Aashiq Abu and Amal Neerad, who are part of the list, had studied along with him at Maharaja’s College, Ernakulam. “I will be elder to them by three or four years. Moreover, I am not a 90-year-old,” he said. The actor said that he would not attend the event even if his name was included now as the organisers had insulted him by not including his name in the inaugural list. “They have succeeded in ensuring that I am not part of the inaugural function,” he said. ‘No political reasons’ Filmmaker Kamal, chairman of the Kerala State Chalachitra Academy, denied the allegations while saying that there were no political reasons for not having the actor at the inaugural function of the fete. “The organising committee, which comprised members of various film trade bodies, had included new-generation film personalities among those who would light the lamp on the occasion,” he said. ‘Need to check’ Asked whether Mr. Salim Kumar’s name had figured on the list, Mr. Kamal said he needed to check with the organising committee. However, he said that the festival in Kochi could not be held without the presence of Mr. Salim Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/excluded-for-being-a-congress-supporter-salim-kumar/article33855618.ece
17 February 2021||New Delhi,||‘Can’t compile cost of security for Kangana’||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has said it was difficult to determine and compile the precise expenditure incurred on providing security to Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut or any other individual.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cant-compile-cost-of-security-for-kangana/article33855640.ece
17 February 2021||New Delhi,||CPI slams speculation on Kanhaiya Kumar-JD(U) leader meet||The CPI has stepped in to reject speculation raised on former JNU Students’ Union president Kanhaiya Kumar’s meet with JD(U) leader Ashok Choudhary and said it was only to raise “people’s issues”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cpi-slams-speculation-on-kanhaiya-kumar-jdu-leader-meet/article33855650.ece
17 February 2021||New Delhi,||EPFO interest rate likely on March 4||The Employees Provident Fund Organisation is likely to announce the rate of interest on provident fund deposits for the financial year 2020-21 when its Central Board of Trustees will meet at Srinagar on March 4.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/epfo-interest-rate-likely-on-march-4/article33855658.ece
17 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bengaluru highway stretch to light up||The Maduravoyal-Sriperumbudur stretch of the Chennai-Bengaluru highway will soon have better lighting, thanks to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) inviting tenders to install 352 street lights and 17 high mast lights. The tenders for the Rs. 9.7-crore work will be opened soon, and work will be completed within a couple of months, if election dates are not announced before taking it up. Already, high mast lights that have a reach of 50 metres each have been installed at two more junctions. “We are waiting for electrification at these spots. As far as the work to install lights is concerned, the chosen company will have to place orders and meanwhile, they will take up work for the foundation for fixing the posts. Once the equipment is procured, it is only a matter of installation,” said a source in the NHAI. Road repair Apart from the electrification, the 23.2-km main carriageway and 9-km service roads are getting strengthened with 90-mm thickness of dense bituminous macadam and bituminous tar surface. “A total of Rs. 49 crore has been allocated for this. The lighting contract includes cleaning of medians and sides. The new contractor would have to do the cleaning twice a month instead of once a month at present,” said an engineer associated with the project. V.G. Sivaramakrishnan of Puliambedu, who takes the road quite frequently, said he was happy with the progress of the work. However, more needs to be done. “There are locations where the service lane is lower than the main carriageway. The NHAI needs to level these spots so that two-wheelers and smaller vehicles would not find it inconvenient while driving,” he said. Lakshmi Rajangam of Vanagaram said that medians should have rails or crash barriers to prevent pedestrians and cattle from crossing at any place they please. “Specific pedestrian crossings must be provided. At present, we don’t know who would jump out from where. The proposed widening must be taken up as soon as possible since the traffic taking the road is enormous,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bengaluru-highway-stretch-to-light-up/article33856156.ece
17 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Election case against Chidambaram dismissed||The Madras High Court on Tuesday dismissed an election petition filed against the victory of former Union Minister P. Chidambaram from Sivaganga parliamentary constituency in May 2009. The court held that neither the charge of bribing voters nor the allegation of having manipulated the counting process could be proved against him. Justice Pushpa Sathyanarayana rejected the election petition filed by R.S. Rajakannappan, who had contested the polls as an AIADMK candidate in 2009 but joined the DMK last year, after holding that no credible evidence whatsoever had been produced by him before the court to declare the election of Mr. Chidambaram as null and void. Stating that the returned candidate had secured 3,34,348 votes as against 3,30,994 votes secured by the election petitioner, the judge said the election could not be set aside just because the victory margin of 3,354 votes was small. She stressed that the law requires the charge of electoral malpractices to be proved beyond doubt. “An election petition is a quasi-criminal proceeding… The standard of proof required for proving corrupt practice for all intent and purpose is equated with the standard expected in a criminal trial. The burden of proof on the election petitioner can be said to have been discharged only when there is a cogent and reliable evidence to prove the charges. “Therefore, the charges must be proved beyond reasonable doubt and not merely by preponderance of probabilities as in a civil action… It is evident that the election petitioner herein has not proved the charges of corrupt practice against the first respondent by adducing clear-cut, cogent, credible and reliable evidence,” the judge held. Though the petitioner had relied upon five instances of alleged bribing of voters by the former Minister, he had given up four of them during the course of trial due to lack of sufficient evidence to prove them. The petitioner relied heavily upon a sole instance that reportedly took place Rajagambeeram village on May 12, 2009, a day before the day of polling. According to him, the returned candidate’s son Karti P. Chidambaram and his men were allegedly caught distributing money to the voters on that day by Anbazhagan of AIADMK. The latter was beaten up when he questioned the illegality and the victim could easily identify those who had assaulted him on that day, the petitioner claimed. However, Mr. Anbazhagan, during cross examination, contradicted the claim and said that he could not identify any person who attacked him. Referring to the inconsistency in the deposition, the judge said the election petitioner did not have any direct knowledge about the Rajagambeeram incident and all that he had averred was on the basis of hearsay. Similarly, the petitioner had failed to substantiate his claim that Mr. Chidambaram, who was the Union Home Minister at the time of election, had influenced the Returning Officer to manipulate the counting process in favour of him after coming to know that the Congress party was about to come to power in the Centre for the second time, the judge observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/election-case-against-chidambaram-dismissed/article33856174.ece
17 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Certified m-sand units’ capacity exceeds demand, says PWD||With more m-sand manufacturing units across the State being approved for quality, the combined production capacity of the certified units now exceeds the daily demand, officials of the Public Works Department (PWD) have said. The PWD assessment committee met a few days ago and certified 87 m-sand units for quality, taking the total number of such units to 357. On an average, the State needs about 16,200 truckloads of sand, including river sand, daily. This demand can now be met entirely by m-sand units, whose combined production capacity stands at 18,000 truckloads a day. According to the committee members, the objective to bring m-sand as a substitute to river sand has been achieved with more people opting for m-sand, which is also used extensively in government projects. This increase in production capacity has helped in stabilising the price. While m-sand costs Rs. 28-Rs. 32 per cubic foot in mofussil areas, it costs Rs. 40 per cubic foot in Chennai and a minimum of Rs. 10 would be charged as transportation charges, said the PWD officials. The assessment committee comprises engineers from various government agencies and representatives from IIT-Madras, Anna University, Structural Engineering Research Centre, Taramani, and the Bureau of Indian Standards. The panel meets once in two months to review product certification and m-sand quality. Applications of nearly 17 units are under scrutiny. A minimum of 800 manufacturing units with or without stone crusher plants are yet to be brought under the ambit of PWD’s quality approval. The committee grants approval to units that produce p-sand (a fine grade plastering m-sand), which is used for wall plastering. Policy suggested Some committee members from the BIS and IIT-Madras urged the PWD authorities to implement a m-sand policy soon to make quality approval mandatory. This would help the other units seek certification before sales, sources said. Moreover, complaints regarding m-sand are now handled by multiple agencies, including police and revenue authorities. Once the policy is in place, it would empower the PWD to levy penalty on violators, the sources added.  While m-sand costs Rs. 28-Rs. 32 per cubic foot in mofussil areas, it costs Rs. 40 per cubic foot in Chennai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/certified-m-sand-units-capacity-exceeds-demand-says-pwd/article33856442.ece
17 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM unveils industrial, MSME policies||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday unveiled Tamil Nadu’s new industrial policy 2021 and the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) policy, 2021. They are aimed at attracting large-scale investments and job creation. The objective of the industrial policy is to achieve an annual growth of 15% in the manufacturing sector, attract investments worth Rs. 10 lakh crore and create jobs for 20 lakh people by 2025. It is also aimed at increasing the contribution of the manufacturing sector to 30% of the State’s economy by 2030 from the current 25% (as of 2019-20). The MSME policy is aimed at attracting investments worth Rs. 2 lakh crore by 2025 and creating additional employment opportunities for 20 lakh persons. Speaking at the event, Mr. Palaniswami said the policies were meant to boost the new sunrise sectors like food processing, and attention had been paid to promotion of research and development and adoption of technology in manufacturing. The industrial policy was designed to give more incentives to those creating jobs for transgender persons and persons with disabilities, he said. Under the policy, land at 50% of the cost and other incentives would be offered for establishing projects in 22 identified districts, including the southern districts and such industrially backward districts as Dharmapuri, Perambalur and Nagapattinam, Mr. Palaniswami said. The MSMEs were now given a capital subsidy of 25%, or a maximum of up to Rs. 50 lakh, and the sum would be increased to Rs. 1.5 crore. The government would allocate Rs. 1,000 crore for further strengthening the role of the Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation Ltd. A sum of Rs. 500 crore would be provided for strengthening the industrial estates, he said. Major investments A total of 28 memoranda of understanding were signed on the occasion, with a cumulative investment of Rs. 28,053 crore capable of creating 68,775 jobs. These investments are across various sectors, including electric vehicles, wind energy, auto components, city gas and textiles. Some of the major investments include a Rs. 7,948 crore investment by Elest Private Limited for the manufacture of electric buses and electric trucks and batteries, which has the potential to create 8,081 jobs, and the Rs. 4,684-crore project of Tata Electronics in Krishnagiri to make mechanical enclosures for mobile phones with the potential of creating 18,250 jobs. “This is a very large project in precision engineering and manufacturing, and will create capabilities for the country. It will create significant employment mainly for women and also train them in skill sets in new technical areas,” said Natarajan Chandrasekaran, Chairman, Tata Sons, joining the event through video-conference. Grasim Industries, part of the Aditya Birla Group, has signed an MoU for investing Rs. 750 crore for making paints. Other major investments include SunEdison’s Rs. 14,23-crore solar module manufacturing unit at Cheyyar and Taiwan’s Pegatron Corporation’s Rs. 1,100-crore investment to make smartphones in Mahindra World City, Chengalpattu The Chief Minister also inaugurated 8 completed projects at an investment of Rs. 3,377 crore with a potential to create jobs for 7,139 persons. These include projects of France’s PCA Automobiles and Ather Energy. He laid the foundation for 10 new industrial parks and estates. In total, 46 projects with an investment of Rs. 33,465 crore, providing employment opportunities to 2,19,714 persons, were launched, according to an official release. Mr. Palaniswami said the 81% of the investment projects signed at the second edition of the Global Investors Meet were at various stages of implementation. In the last 10 years, the State had attracted Rs. 6.85 lakh crore in investments. New investments to the tune of Rs. 6.50 lakh crore were attracted through the launch of the industrial policy in 2014 by former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, Mr. Palaniswami said. Apart from the MoUs signed on Tuesday, 74 MoUs were signed during the COVID-19 pandemic period with investment commitments of Rs. 60,674 crore and a potential of creating 1,00,721 jobs. The Chief Minister said new policies for exports and an upgraded aerospace and defence policy would soon be launched. He also presented Business Today Awards 2021-Tamil Nadu to MRF, CPCL, Hyundai Motor, ITC Ltd, Foxconn Group, Mahindra World City and Salcomp. He presented the Chief Minister’s Annual Award to the outstanding entrepreneurs. Industries Minister M.C. Sampath, Rural Industries Minister P. Benjamin, Chief Secretary Rajeev Ranjan, Industries Secretary N. Muruganandam and MSME Secretary Mangat Ram Sharma were present.  Under the industrial policy, land at 50% of the cost and other incentives would be offered for establishing projects in 22 identified districts||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-unveils-industrial-msme-policies/article33855754.ece
17 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||3 months after his death, doctor’s family still waiting for answers||The family of N. Lokesh Kumar, a first year postgraduate student of Madras Medical College/Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, who was found dead in a hotel room during his quarantine period last October, has been waiting to know what caused his death for over three months. They, after a lot of difficulty, managed to get their hands on the autopsy reports that have indicated the cause of death as “complications of pneumonia” but have not heard an official word so far. With the documents in hand, the family, along with a section of doctors, is demanding that the State government declare that he died due to COVID-19 to respect his work. The doctor, on completion of COVID-19 duty at RGGGH, was quarantined at a hotel where he was found dead on October 26, 2020. “When I spoke to him over the phone at about 6.45 p.m. on October 25, he said he had mild fever and had given a swab for testing. He spoke to our mother at 8.30 p.m. and that was the last time we heard from him. Our calls made to him the next day went unanswered,” said Poornima Harikarthick, sister of Dr. Kumar. A resident of Salem, Dr. Kumar had joined MMC on June 26 after securing a seat in the second round of counselling. He initially joined Madurai Medical College. “First, they said it was a case of suicide. But we believed he had no reasons for doing so. We tried to check the swab result but doctors said it was negative for COVID-19. After difficulty, we managed to get his reports including those of post-mortem, histopathology and viscera analysis. There was no evidence of suicide, and the documents show that he died due to pneumonia, while the CT scan found his lungs affected. We approached the hospital dean 10 days ago but he said he will look into the reports again,” she said. According to documents obtained by the family, a post-mortem whole body CT study on October 27 showed extensive bilateral bronchopneumonia with right lower lobe consolidation. The post-mortem report noted that both lungs were oedematous. “The right lung appeared oedematous, dark brown in colour with pneumonic consolidation changes noted over anterior and lateral part of upper lobe, entire middle and lower lobe”. No drug or poison Chemical analysis detected no drug or other poison. Histopathological examination of lungs said there was pulmonary edema and interstitial haemorrhage. In the final opinion of November 10, forensic medicine doctors concluded that “based on autopsy findings and histopathological reports of tissue bits, the deceased appears to have died due to complications of pneumonia”. Sources in the hospital said the initial findings soon after autopsy indicated COVID-19 pneumonia. But official sources said the reports of the forensic medicine, pathology and radiology departments were “discordant”. “Till date, we have to face questions on whether Lokesh died of suicide. Why cannot the government declare his cause of death? He was on COVID-19 duty. The compensation is only secondary. What hurts is the lack of respect and recognition for his sacrifice,” Ms. Harikarthick said. G. Ravindranath, general secretary, Doctors Association for Social Equality, said that unless proved otherwise, death during the pandemic should be considered as due to COVID-19. “The RT-PCR report may have returned negative but it is important to take the chest findings into account. They have not used the word COVID-19 in the reports. The State government should provide solatium and a government job to the family,” he said. Similarly, A. Ramalingam, convenor of Federation of Government Doctors Association, said, “This is about a healthcare worker who was on COVID-19 duty. Autopsy indicates pneumonia, and it should be considered as COVID-19. When the government can grant solatium of Rs. 50 lakh to a village administrative officer and policeman who died during pandemic-related work, both Lokesh Kumar and Jayamohan, a medical officer in The Nilgiris died while being directly involved in COVID-19 duty,” he said. RGGGH dean E. Theranirajan said, “A report from the directors of Pathology, Radiology and Forensic Medicine has been submitted to the Directorate of Medical Education in a sealed cover for further action.”  Why cannot the government declare his cause of death? He was on COVID-19 duty. The compensation is only secondary. What hurts is the lack of respect and recognition for his sacrifice Poornima Harikarthick Sister of the late Lokesh Kumar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/its-over-3-months-after-his-death-doctors-family-waits-for-answers/article33855798.ece
17 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Work begins to give Koyambedu wholesale market a green space||A portion of the Koyambedu wholesale market complex will be converted into a green space. Care Earth Trust, a city-based NGO, has joined hands with the Market Management Committee to increase the green cover in the market. The periphery of the vegetable market along the Kaliamman Koil Street has nearly 300 saplings planted to increase tree cover in the vacant space. The saplings of various native species, including neem, tropical almond and portia (poovarasam), have been planted in three rows. “This is one of the potential areas for developing green spaces. Many saplings planted two months ago have grown up to two or three feet tall. We even have bamboo saplings in the space covering around 1.5 km,” said S. Balaji, former principal chief conservator of forests and advisor, Care Earth Trust. The Chennai metropolitan area has only 9.5% of green cover. There is a need to enhance the tree cover up to 20% to mitigate the impact of pollution. “We had proposed a five-year greening strategy to the Greater Chennai Corporation in 2018 to plant 10 lakh saplings across the city. This initiative is part of the strategy to increase green urban spaces and enhance biodiversity,” he said. The trust is planting ornamental shrubs on the premises and is planning to promote native grass varieties. “We plan to create a small tree park, including palm and bamboo varieties, and research on native grass and climbers and replicate the efforts in other spaces,” Mr. Balaji said. However, the project ran into several challenges as the site was often used as a dumping space for vegetable waste and grazing area for cattle. Tall saplings were planted and tree guards installed. The trust is adding more greenery around the waterbodies that are taken up for ecorestoration, including the Thazambur and Sembakkam lakes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-begins-to-give-koyambedu-wholesale-market-a-green-space/article33856161.ece
17 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||451 persons test positive for COVID-19 in State||Another 451 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday. While 470 persons were discharged, seven more succumbed to the infection. As on date, a total of 8,46,026 persons have tested positive — 4,206 active cases, 8,29,388 persons discharged and 12,432 deaths. There were no fresh cases in two of the 37 districts — Perambalur and Ranipet. Chennai recorded 149 fresh cases. This took the city’s overall tally to 2,33,619. There were 40 cases in Coimbatore, 31 in Chengalpattu and 38 in Tiruvallur. The remaining districts had less than 20 cases each. These included Madurai, 10, Salem, 11, Thanjavur, 10, Tiruppur, 12, and Tiruchi, 10. Two persons died in Chennai, while Chengalpattu, Krishnagiri, Tiruvallur, Thoothukudi and Vellore recorded one death each. All of them were aged above 60 and had co-morbidities. A 64-year-old man from Tiruvallur, with diabetes and hypertension, was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) on February 13. He died the next day owing to COVID-19 pneumonia, respiratory failure, septic shock and acute kidney injury. A 67-year-old man from Chennai, who had coronary artery disease, died at the RGGGH on February 14 owing to COVID-19 pneumonia, respiratory failure and moderate left ventricular systolic dysfunction. In the last 24 hours, 50,800 samples were tested. So far, 1,68,63,820 samples have been tested. A private laboratory — Primegen Healthcare Laboratories Pvt. Ltd., Madurai — was approved for COVID-19 testing recently. There are 187 testing facilities in the private sector and 68 in the government sector. The samples of two more U.K. returnees, who had tested positive for COVID-19, returned positive for the U.K. variant of the novel coronavirus following Whole Genome Sequencing at the Institute for Stem Cell Science and Regenerative Medicine, Bengaluru. According to the Health Department’s bulletin, so far 11 persons — eight U.K. returnees and three of their contacts — tested positive for the U.K. variant. One of the U.K. returnees was under treatment in a separate isolation ward, and the remaining 10 persons tested negative in the follow-up RT-PCR test as per the Standard Operating Procedure. They were discharged and kept in home quarantine. On Tuesday, 21,029 persons were vaccinated against COVID-19 in the State. A total 14,041 healthcare workers, 3,878 frontline workers and 3,110 police personnel received the shots. Till date, a total of 2,90,046 persons have received the two vaccines available in the State. Of them, 2,40,188 were healthcare workers. As many as 13,823 healthcare workers, 3,865 frontline workers and 2,977 police personnel received Covishield, while 218 healthcare workers, 13 frontline workers and 133 police personnel received Covaxin. The vaccination was carried out in 639 sessions, with the total capacity for the day being 83,134, according to the daily report issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. A total of 16,609 persons received the first dose, while the second dose was administered to 4,420 persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/451-persons-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-state/article33855751.ece
17 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T. Nagar multi-level parking facility to open this month||The Greater Chennai Corporation will inaugurate the multi-level car parking lot on Thanikachalam Road in T. Nagar by the end of this month, collecting charges similar to the on-street parking facilities in the area. The parking charge for cars will be Rs. 20 for one hour and for motorcycles it will be Rs. 5. The trial run of the parking lot is expected to be carried out shortly. Testing of the facility is yet to be completed. The automated parking lot has to be tested with all the three lifts operating with cars of different sizes and brands. “The testing has been done with cars as long as 5.1 metres. All kinds of cars can be taken out of the parking lot in 90 seconds,” said an official. The original proposal was to inaugurate the facility in January. Owing to the delay in its inauguration, some roads in T. Nagar are experiencing traffic congestion. The launch is expected to reduce congestion on many stretches of T. Nagar, which is expected to get more than 700 parking slots after the inauguration. The parking of vehicles in the facility will be permitted only through GCC Smart Parking App. After its inauguration on Thanikachalam Road, the facility will be integrated with the command and control centre in Ripon Buildings to facilitate analytics. The study of parking demand in various roads will be carried out based on this integration. Camera feed will be monitored by the control centre for all roads before making a decision on parking lots. The decision on identifying spaces for premium parking lots will also be made soon using the command and control centre. In T. Nagar, the civic body has not identified any parking lot for collection of premium parking charges, which is Rs. 40 an hour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/t-nagar-multi-level-parking-facility-to-open-this-month/article33856153.ece
17 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu BJP forms poll management committee||The Tamil Nadu unit of the BJP has formed a 34-member committee for its election management work ahead of the Assembly polls in the State. L. Murugan, BJP State president will be the chairman of the committee and senior leaders such as M. Chakravarthy, K.T. Raghavan, Karu Nagarajan and K.S. Soundaram will be co-conveners. Former IPS officer K. Annamalai has been named convenor for NDA coordination.  New entrant Former Congress functionary Karate R. Thiagarajan, who joined the BJP last week, has been named in a team to manage tours of leaders while former DMK leader V.P. Duraisamy has been named in the manifesto team. Visit by Ministers On Wednesday, Union Ministers of State G. Kishan Reddy and V.K. Singh, who are the election in-charge and co-in-charge, respectively, for the BJP’s Tamil Nadu unit, will be touring Coimbatore and holding meetings with party office-bearers. They will also perform a ‘bhoomi pujan’ for the Prime Minister’s programme on February 25 at Codissia Grounds. On Thursday, they will hold meetings with functionaries at the party State headquarters, Kamalalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-bjp-forms-poll-management-panel/article33856181.ece
17 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||As complaints pour in, dealers ask customers to pre-check petrol quality before tanking up||The Tamil Nadu Petroleum Dealers Association (TNPDA) has said that it will not be responsible for any water content in fuel tanks of customers after they have filled ethanol-blended petrol. This comes due to State-run oil companies increasing the quantum of ethanol being blended in petrol from 1.91% to 6.73% as against the target of 10%. TNPDA president K. P Murali told reporters that there have been complaints, especially in the southern districts, of dealers selling adulterated petrol. “People who have found water in their fuel tanks are coming to petrol bunks and picking fights with us. The water could have been caused by their tank locks not functioning properly or due to ethanol reacting with atmospheric oxygen to form water. If customers have any doubts regarding the quality of petrol sold, they can check the quality at any point of time in the bunks. If they do so before filling up petrol, it is well and good,” he said. Display boards He said that fuel outlets belonging to Association members had been advised to place boards informing people about the ethanol content in petrol and its water-attracting quality. He also said that outlets had issues with water content in their storage tanks due to the ethanol not being blended, but only being mixed. A senior oil industry official said that dealers have to adhere to quality checks as stipulated by oil companies for the fuel they receive and store. “There is no issue if such checks are done and safeguards taken. It is misleading to say that there are issues. In fact, all of us shall welcome blending of ethanol which improves efficiency and reduces emissions,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/petroleum-dealers-ask-customers-to-pre-check-quality-of-petrol-before-tanking-up/article33855795.ece
17 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Work on six-lane project gathers pace||Around 30% of the work to widen the 70-km Sriperumbudur-Walajapet stretch of the Chennai-Bengaluru Highway, which is being carried out in two portions, has been completed. The road is being upgraded to a six-lane facility with service lanes and around 30 flyovers and underpasses. The 34-km stretch between Sriperumbudur and Karaipettai is being widened at a cost of Rs. 654.26 crore and on completion will have three flyovers, eight underpasses, four underpasses for light vehicles and five minor bridges. “About 10% of the work has been finished in this section, which was beset with delays in land acquisition. We began work with only 60% of the land required. Those who had been paid compensation could not move out for various reasons. We had to wait for that since without making the service lanes, we cannot commence work on construction of flyovers,” said a source in the NHAI. This section is likely to be completed in December 2022. As far as the second portion of the work between Karaipettai and Walajapet, 30% of the work has been completed so far. In this project, which is carried out at a cost of Rs. 533.36 crore, 13 km of carriageway has been widened into six lanes and 19 km of the road has service lanes laid. Construction of four vehicular underpasses have commenced and these spots are getting lit up simultaneously instead of waiting for the end of the project as is the usual practice. “It will serve a dual purpose, the work site would be well-lit and motorists too would find it useful,” said a source in the NHAI. Continuous service lanes will be built for the safety of two-wheeler riders and cyclists as several industries are on either side of the road. Illumination will be provided in all urban areas and service roads. This would be for about 90% of the length. This stretch of the road is expected to be ready by March 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-on-six-lane-project-gathers-pace/article33856157.ece
17 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||68-year-old with transplanted heart undergoes hip replacement surgery||When doctors of the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital evaluated Koothan, 68, who had fractured the neck of the femur of the right hip joint in an accident, they knew that replacing the hip joint would be the best solution. But the task was not simple as the patient had undergone a heart transplant three years ago. “The patient was on immunosuppressants. We had to take into consideration a number of factors as he had a cardiac transplant. There was an anaesthetic risk, and a need for a surgery of shorter duration. We had to reduce the duration of anaesthesia and surgical time. As he was on immunosuppressants, there was also the possibility of infection,” said N. Deen Mohammed Ismail, Director of the Institute of Orthopaedics and Traumatology. The patient, a resident of Chennai, sustained the fracture in a road accident on January 18. He had diabetes, high blood pressure and kidney disease, making such a surgical intervention high-risk. All pre-operative investigations were done. On February 11, a surgical team, headed by Dr. Ismail, performed the surgery. “Instead of cemented arthroplasty, we did uncemented arthroplasty as the particles could be absorbed in the blood and could cause damage to the heart. We completed the surgery in an hour instead of the usual two to two-and-a-half-hours,” Dr. Ismail said. The patient is doing well and has started walking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/68-year-old-with-transplanted-heart-undergoes-hip-replacement-surgery/article33856180.ece
17 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Explore public transport option via sea, Gadkari tells CM||Union Minister for Road, Transport and Highways and Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Nitin Gadkari praised the State government for setting an example in bringing down the road accidents and praised Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and all the stakeholders for being a model State in road safety. Mr. Gadkari was delivering his keynote address after launching a number of road safety projects in the State at a function here on Tuesday. He urged the Chief Minister to focus on the opportunities available in sea transport as a viable public transport medium. Mr. Gadkari said the Chennai-Bengaluru Green express highway project work would begin in two months. Highlighting that most of the road accident victims were from the poor families, he rued that accident benefits did not reach them. Mr. Gadkari flagged off the road safety patrol vehicles, launched enforcement-related equipment to the police departments of three districts of Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu and Tiruvannamalai and opened the medical equipment installed at Trauma Care Centre at the Kancheepuram Government Hospital. The Chief Minister, after distributing the road safety awards to the Collectors of Salem, Thanjavur and Tiruvallur districts, said the government had adopted a five-point approach to road safety projects after having a tie-up with the Indian Institute of Technology Madras. The five points were removing black spots, training on road safety, integrated road safety measures, strengthening the road patrol enforcement and improving the road quality.  Hartwig Schafer, Vice-President (South Asia Region), World Bank, praised the State for the impressive efforts taken in road safety by implementing the Automatic Speed Enforcement System and Advanced Traffic Management System on the ECR from Akkarai to Mamallapuram, which was being funded by them. Chief Secretary Rajeev Ranjan, Additional Chief Secretary and Home Secretary S.K. Prabhakar and DGP J.K. Tripathy were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/try-to-explore-public-transport-option-via-sea-gadkari-tells-cm/article33856168.ece
17 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TNERC rejects plea by two solar developers||The Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (TNERC) has rejected separate pleas by two solar energy developers for extension of commissioning date for their solar projects. Raasi Green Earth Energy Private Limited and VSR Solar Power Private Limited had sought extension of the commencing date by 15 months and 18 months respectively. They cited the levy of safeguard duty by the Centre in 2018 on imports of solar modules from China, Taiwan and Malaysia as a change of law and aforce majeureevent. In 2017, Tangedco had floated a tender for procuring 1500 MW of solar power from the developers for establishing solar power plants under the reverse bidding process (the lowest bidder emerges as the winner). The upper limit fixed in the tender was Rs. 4 per unit. Raasi Green emerged as a successful bidder at Rs. 3.47 per unit for building a capacity of 100 MW. VSR Solar Power was also part of the tender process and was to build a 50 MW project at Rs. 3.47 per unit. Through the tender process in 2017, Tangedco had finalised 16 developers for procurement of 1500 MW of solar power at Rs. 3.47 per unit on a long term basis and subsequently signed the power purchase agreements with them. As per the agreement, Raasi’s 100 MW project should have come up in Kavanoor village, Paramakudi taluk, Ramanathapuram district by September 26, 2019, while VSR Solar’s 50 MW project at Vilathikulam, Thoothukudi, should have been commissioned by March 21, 2019. Both companies said the levy of safeguard duty had hiked their project cost by 17%. The TNERC rejected their pleas saying the clause in the power purchase agreements does not encompass either the levy of safeguard duty in specific nor change in law in general as one of theforce majeureevents. It also noted that of the13 developers, who had executed the power purchase agreements along with the two firms, none of them took shelter under this clause and all of them have executed their projects. The two projects have not been commissioned within 34 months from the date of signing the power purchase agreements. As per the terms, the agreements stand automatically terminated and Tangedco is entitled to claim damages to the extent of non-commissioning of the projects, TNERC ruled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnerc-rejects-plea-by-two-solar-developers/article33855792.ece
17 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State’s new industrial policy encourages relocation of firms||The industrial policy 2021 provides a higher set of incentives to companies looking to relocate from other countries, and incentives to the sunrise sectors. Investment proposals from companies having relocation plans may be provided a higher set of incentives on a case-to-case basis, including a transport subsidy of Rs. 10 crore. For companies wishing to invest in the sunrise sectors, the policy provides a higher set of incentives, along with a larger training subsidy, research and development reimbursements and patent and certification costs. The policy has identified aerospace and defence applications, agro and food processing (except edible oil industries), electronics system design and manufacturing, electric vehicles, electric vehicle cell and battery manufacturing or any greenfuel technology such as hydrogen fuel, biotechnology, petrochemicals and speciality chemicals as the sunrise sectors. The policy states that a special incentive package will be provided to the developers of private industrial parks. The State shall continue to promote the existing focus sectors such as automotive, chemicals, heavy engineering, leather, textiles, financial services and software. The existing policy for reservation of 20% of the land area in the Sipcot Industrial Parks for the micro, small and medium enterprises shall continue. The State government and its promotional agencies shall develop integrated townships with social infrastructure in the new and existing growth centres and industrial complexes. Initially, 15% of the area of industrial parks exceeding 500 acres shall be reserved for social infrastructure. Subject to the applicable labour laws, flexibility in employment conditions — flexible working hours, 24x7 operations (3 shifts), employment of women in night shifts and flexibility in hiring contract labour — will be permitted. Following the recommendations of the C. Rangarajan Committee, which looked into the impact of COVID-19 on Tamil Nadu, the government shall create an industrial ecosystem fund, with a corpus of Rs. 500 crore, to support small infrastructure projects and ecosystem creation, says the policy document. A venture capital fund will be created with a corpus of Rs. 500 crore to support entrepreneurs undertaking ventures in the sunrise sectors. Manufacturing projects creating employment for at least 50 persons will be eligible for incentives. The projects will be categorised as ultra mega (with an investment of Rs. 5,000 crore), mega (investment ranging from Rs. 500 crore-Rs. 5,000 crore), large (from Rs. 300 crore-Rs. 500 crore) and sub-large (Rs. 50 crore-Rs. 300 crore). “With the new industrial policy, we hope to see Tamil Nadu emerge as a leader not only in traditional industries like automotive and textiles but also in emerging sectors like electronics,” said Venu Srinivasan, Chairman, TVS Motor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/states-new-industrial-policy-encourages-relocation-of-firms/article33855757.ece
17 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||On day 1, 1.4 lakh take north Chennai Metro||On day one of the opening of Chennai Metro Rail’s phase I extension project from Washermenpet to Wimco Nagar, 1.4 lakh passengers travelled across the city. One of the primary reasons for such a surge in traffic is that Chennai Metro Rail Ltd (CMRL) announced free rides for passengers from 2 p.m. till 11 p.m. According to CMRL officials, about 55,000-56,000 passengers have been travelling on weekdays of late and from this week, they estimate there may be an increase of another 5,000 as the 9 km stretch has become operational. “We gave free services to give commuters an idea of how comfortable the system is. We are hoping to see more patronage in the coming weeks,” an official said. Sources said the fares had to be brought down as soon as possible so that the working class could also afford to travel with ease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/on-day-1-14-lakh-take-north-chennai-metro/article33855791.ece
17 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New FASTag rule slows down traffic at toll plazas||Heated arguments were seen at toll plazas in the State on Tuesday as double toll fee was collected from vehicles that did not use radio frequency-enabled FASTag cards that allow electronic deduction of fee. The Centre has made toll collection through FASTag mandatory from February 15. At a toll plaza on the GST Road, of the 1,500 vehicles that entered the FASTag only lanes, some 300 showed their displeasure and anger. “The others just did not bother about the double charge. When we advised them to take the FASTag cards, they did not want to,” said a toll operator. Another toll operator said that last month, not many of those who entered FASTag-only lanes and paid double charges bought the cards. “We had 15,000 double payment vehicles. Getting FASTag cards has been made simpler and there is no charge of Rs. 100 collected previously. They have to make a minimum payment of Rs. 200 and that amount can be fully used for paying toll fee,” he said. The cards are a convenient option for toll operators since they need not handle cash. Vehicles too are taking lesser time to cross plazas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-fastag-rule-slows-down-traffic-at-toll-plazas/article33856159.ece
17 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kazakhstan envoy calls on Prince of Arcot||Yerlan Alimbayev, Kazakhstan Ambassador to India, called on Prince of Arcot Nawab Mohammed Abdul Ali on Tuesday. The envoy was accompanied by Nawab Mi Nasir Ali Khan, Honorary Consul of Kazakhstan in Hyderabad for Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, and Asif Iqbal, president of the Indian Economic Trade Organisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kazakhstan-envoy-calls-on-prince-of-arcot/article33856165.ece
17 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Thyagarajan selected as Anna varsity’s syndicate nominee for V-C panel||Anna University’s syndicate has selected S.P. Thyagarajan, Chancellor of Avinashilingam Institute for Home Science and Higher Education for Women (deemed to be university), as the nominee for the Vice-Chancellor search panel. Mr. Thyagarajan, who also served as former Vice-Chancellor of the University of Madras said, “It is a challenging assignment.” “In Ramachandra University I had established an engineering faculty. Besides, I am a biotechnologist. With the National Education Policy looking to establish a multidisciplinary system you want that kind of expertise,” he explained. He is Professor of Eminence and Dean (Research) at SRU. The tenure of Anna University’s current Vice-Chancellor ends on April 11. In a departure from the norm, for the first time, all bureaucrats and ex-officio members were present at the syndicate meeting, sources said. It is understood that the Vice-Chancellor had proposed the name of Ashok Jhunjhunwala, institute professor at the Indian Institute of Technology Madras, but it was struck down by the syndicate. Mr. Surappa said he had recommended his name as Mr. Jhunjhunwala was a renowned academic. Sources said one of the issues placed for discussion was an MoU with a construction company PST Engineering Construction signed by the previous Vice-Chancellor M. Rajaram during his tenure in violation of the university statutes. The MoU also permitted the company to sponsor six candidates for engineering programmes. The matter, however, was not taken up for discussion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thyagarajan-selected-as-anna-varsitys-syndicate-nominee-for-v-c-panel/article33856171.ece
17 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mobile app developed by TNeGA being tested for cataract screening||A mobile application developed in-house by the Tamil Nadu e-Governance Agency (TNeGA) based on artificial intelligence techniques is being tested in a few districts by Tamil Nadu State Blind Control Society (TNSBCS) for screening the public for cataract. Santosh K. Misra, Commissioner of e-Governance and Chief Executive Officer of TNeGA, said that the application has been designed in such a way as to address the resource constraints in screening a large number of people for cataract, a condition that could lead to blindness if left untreated. He said the mobile application can be used for preliminary screening of the eye of a person. Through the image captured by the application in close range, it can detect if the person had cataract and whether further medical support was required, he said. He added that the application had been designed to detect macular disintegration as well. Highlighting that cataract was a major cause of blindness that could be prevented, Mr. Misra said that in the present scenario, screening of a large number of people required trained professionals and other resources. “Consequently, many cases go undetected,” he said. Data put out by the National Programme for Control of Blindness and Visual Impairment for 2018-19 said that 3,33,203 cataract surgeries were performed in Tamil Nadu. “We got a request from the Health and Family Welfare Department highlighting this issue. To address that, we have developed this application in about three to four months’ time,” Mr. Misra said. He said that sample images provided by TNSBCS was used to design the application to detect cataract and the application proved quite effective during internal testing. Pointing out that field trials were being done in a few districts now with TNSBCS, he said that the application will soon be rolled out widely once its accuracy was found to be satisfactory. N. Venkatesh Prajna, Chief, Cornea and Refractive Surgeries, and Director, Residency Training, Aravind Eye Care System, said that cataract was a major public health problem. Acknowledging the need for newer strategies to tackle it, he stressed that validation of these solutions through wide population-based studies was important.  Through the image captured by the application in close range, it can detect if the person has cataract and whether further medical support is required Santosh K. Misra Commissioner of e-Governance and Chief Executive Officer of TNeGA||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mobile-app-developed-by-tnega-being-tested-for-cataract-screening/article33856172.ece
17 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Start-up offers free test series for UPSC aspirants||ExcelOnAcademy, incubated at the Indian Institute of Technology Madras (IIT-M) has launched a smart test series for Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) exam aspirants to help them clear preliminary stages. It offers 4,200 questions, complemented by a data-driven analysis for each aspirant for every test taken. Four tests The academy has developed an algorithm that provides analysis of strong and weak areas based on candidates’ test performance to enable them revise precisely. It offers four tests covering static, current affairs and CSAT, along with three levels of test analysis, free of cost to all UPSC aspirants. The founders of the academy have proposed to offer all the four modules free of cost to 20 candidates from economically weaker background. Details of the criteria may be obtained by writing toinfo@excelonacademy.com. The smart test series can be accessed athttps://www. excelonacademy.com/modules. The start-up was co-founded by T. Uday Kumar, an IIT-M alumnus who cleared the UPSC Indian Engineering Service 2000 in his first attempt and Muthu Kumar Raju, a U.S.-based tech entrepreneur specialising in building cutting-edge technology platforms for start-ups and aspiring business. 5,000 aspirants Over 5,000 civil service aspirants are already using ExcelOnAcademy services for their preparations. The founders can be reached with specific questions atinfo@excelonacademy.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/start-up-offers-free-test-series-for-upsc-aspirants/article33856176.ece
17 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Experts to hold classes during film festival||The Chennai International Film Festival (CIFF), which is set to begin on February 18, will have 12 master classes conducted by various industry experts covering different aspects of film production. “This is the first time that we are scheduling 12 master classes and we hope that youth who attend the festival get some exposure from members of the Tamil film industry on the latest technology and different aspects of making films,” said A. Thangaraj, general secretary, Indo Cine Appreciation Foundation (ICAF). The master classes will be held at the 6 Degrees theatre and will cover art direction, cinematography, editing, direction, costume design, acting and writing. Directors K.V. Anand and Balaji Mohan, cinematographer Rathnavelu, actor Kalairani and editor Ruben are among those who will conduct the classes. CIFF will see screening of 91 films from 53 countries. The event s being supported by the State Government. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami recently handed over cheque for Rs. 75 lakh to the organisers. Details about the schedules and registration can be accessed at https://chennaifilmfest.com/  This is the first time that we are scheduling 12 master classes and we hope that youth get some exposure A. Thangaraj General secretary, Indo Cine Appreciation Foundation (ICAF)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/experts-to-hold-classes-during-film-festival/article33856162.ece
17 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for grabbing actor’s land||The Anti-Land Grabbing of Central Crime Branch has arrested a man for allegedly grabbing a plot of veteran actor Vanisri in Aminjikarai by forging documents. The police said while Ms. Vanisri was active in films, she was also running the firm Vani enterprises that manufactured car batteries from 1967. For running the business, she bought a property measuring 9,102 sq. ft. on Nelson Manickam Road at Aminjikarai in 1971 from M. Padmini. The property was registered with the sub-registrar in 1971. The property was in her possession until 2010. Later, she realised that her property had been grabbed by a few. On her complaint, the police arrested Thamim Ansari, 43 of Azad Nagar and remanded him to judicial custody. The police said the accused forged a power of attorney and rectification deed to usurp the property and executed a sale deed to buyers. The market value of the property could be around Rs. 6 crore. Two held The special wing of police arrested two more persons who were allegedly involved in grabbing a property worth Rs. 1.5 crore of a businessman. The complainant, M. Subramanian of Thirunagarp Colony, lodged a complaint with the Police Commissioner recently alleging that the land measuring 3,480 sq. ft. belonging to him in Sholinganallur had been grabbed by a few using impersonation and forged documents. Based on his complaint, the police arrested the accused, who were identified as Raguraman and Santhosh Gopal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-grabbing-actors-land/article33856163.ece
17 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Modi to lay foundation for CPCL’s refinery today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone for the Cauvery Basin Refinery at Nagapattinam on Wednesday evening through video-conferencing from New Delhi. Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Union Minister for Petroleum and Natural Gas and Steel Dharmendra Pradhan would be present at the event to be held at Chennai Trade Centre from 4.30 p.m. The refinery, with nine million metric tonnes per annum (MMTPA) capacity is being set up at Nagapattinam as part of a joint venture between Indian Oil Corporation Ltd (IOCL) and Chennai Petroleum Corporation Ltd at an estimated cost of Rs. 31,500 crore. The refinery, which is coming up in place of an existing facility, would produce petrol and diesel meeting BS-VI specifications and polypropylene as a value-added product. Around 80% of materials and services for the refinery would be sourced indigenously, said Rajeev Ailawadi, Managing Director (incharge), CPCL, who addressed a press conference on Monday. Manali plant Mr. Modi will also dedicate to the nation CPCL’s gasoline desulfurisation unit at Manali that has been constructed at a cost of Rs. 500 crore. The unit would produce low sulphur (less than 8 ppm) environment-friendly gasoline. The Prime Minister will also dedicate to the nation, IOCL’s 143-km-long Ramanathapuram-Thoothukudi section of the Ennore-Tiruvallur-Bengaluru-Puducherry-Nagapattinam-Madurai-Tuticorin Natural Gas pipeline (ETBPNMTPL) that has been laid at the cost of around Rs. 700 crore. Expansion On a question about the need for expanding the refinery, P. Jayadevan, Executive director, IOCL, said that demand for oil was increasing and oil demand was expected to peak in India by 2040-45. At that time electric vehicles are expected to be 30% of the vehicle population. “If need be, the refinery can switch over to chemical from fuel,” he said. S. S. Sawant, Executive Director (Southern Region), Pipelines, IOCL was present during the press meet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pm-to-lay-foundation-for-refinery-today/article33855740.ece
17 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Worker dies in accident on IIT-Madras campus||A 23-year-old worker died after a marble slab accidentally fell on him from a lorry on Indian Institute of Technology-Madras (IIT-M) campus. Police said the accident took place on Monday evening. The deceased has been identified as V. Vijay, 23, from Nallur in Kancheepuram district and he was working as a loadman with a marble company in Maduravoyal. Accompanied by a driver, he came in a lorry to deliver marble slabs for ongoing construction work at the campus. While he was standing behind the vehicle, the driver suddenly reversed and the marble slabs on the truck slid and fell on Vijay, crushing him. He was taken to a hospital where he was declared brought dead. Kotturpuram police sent his body to Government Royapettah Hospital for a post-mortem and have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/worker-dies-in-accident-on-iit-madras-campus/article33855796.ece
17 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kamal calls for applications from aspiring candidates||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Monday said that party cadres and members of the public aspiring to contest on the party’s ticket in the coming Assembly election in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry and in the parliamentary byelections in Kanniyakumari can apply on the party’s website (www.maiam.com) from February 21 onwards. The applicants will have to pay a non-refundable amount of Rs. 25,000 to apply for a single constituency. In a statement, Mr. Haasan said that aspiring candidates could apply for several constituencies and the public could also nominate others. “Non-party members can also apply. Those who do not have access to the internet can apply in person at the party headquarters,” he said. Non-refundable Mr. Haasan added that the non-refundable amount would be used for party expenses. “This money will not be returned whether your application is selected or not. This amount will be your contribution towards honest politics,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kamal-calls-for-applications-from-aspiring-candidates/article33855793.ece
17 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rajinikanth visits Ilaiyaraaja's new studio||Actor Rajinikanth visited Ilaiyaraaja's new studio in T.Nagar. The actor had initially met Mr. Ilaiyaraaja at his residence on Monday and decided to visit the new studio. He was given a tour of the new studio on Kodambakkam High Road in T. Nagar. A spokesperson for Mr. Ilaiyaraaja, in a statement, said that Mr. Rajinikanth appreciated the new facility and said that it felt like he was in a temple. On Tuesday, Mr. Rajinikanth once again visited the studio and spent some time with the music composer. Videos and photos released of his visit also showed the actor observing musicians at the studio. Earlier this month, the music maestro began working out of his new studio after he was forced to move out of Prasad Studios from where he had composed songs for more than 1,000 films.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rajinikanth-visits-ilaiyaraajas-new-studio/article33855825.ece
17 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Blue Cross functionary gets award||S. Chinny Krishna, the co-founder of Blue Cross of India, has been conferred with the ‘Prani Mitra’ award for 2021 by the Animal Welfare Board of India for his lifetime service to animals. Union Minister for Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying Giriraj Singh presented the award to Mr. Krishna in New Delhi on Tuesday. ‘Prani Mitra’ is the country’s highest award for animal welfare. Interestingly, Mr. Krishna’s father V. Sundaram received the award for the year 1997, according to a note. Blue Cross of India said that this was not just an honour for Mr. Krishna but also for the organisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/blue-cross-co-founder-gets-prani-mitra-award/article33856170.ece
17 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MDMA tablets seized in Chennai||Chennai Air Customs seized MDMA tablets and Meth crystals estimated at Rs. 6.6 lakh from soup/gravy packet and a greeting card from parcels that arrived from the Netherlands. When two unregistered parcels came, on information, they opened the first parcel that was addressed to a person from Namakkal, they found a “Knorr Rundvless Jus” soup/gravy packet inside which 100 MDMA tablets estimated at Rs. 4 lakh was found. In the second parcel, they found a greeting card (with a message that read Congratulations in Dutch) and when opened, it contained 26 grams of Meth crystals in a packet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mdma-tablets-seized/article33856166.ece
17 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Interim Budget on February 23||The AIADMK government’s final Budget for its current term before the Assembly election will be presented on February 23, Assembly Secretary K. Srinivasan announced on Tuesday. Deputy Chief Minister and Finance Minister O. Panneerselvam will present the interim Budget for 2021-22 at Kalaivanar Arangam. As per convention, the Finance Minister will table the interim budget and seek a vote-on-account for finances for a specific number of months. A full budget will be presented but will not be voted on. The government will seek approval for a specific portion of the budget. When the new government is sworn in, it will present the budget, with changes and announcement of schemes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/interim-budget-on-february-23/article33855749.ece
17 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New grievance redressal system out||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has launched the Integrated and Inclusive Public Grievance CM Helpline Management System. A press release said an integrated grievance redressal system had been established to ensure that those with a number of grievances need not go to various departments. “Each department has separate grievance redress centres and websites. At the district level, people’s grievances are being heard on Mondays; on ‘Manu Needhi Day’ every month; farmers’ and fishermen’s grievance redressal day; Amma scheme grievance redressal day; and pensioners’ grievance redressal day. Due to this, one person is being forced to go to various departments to get their issues redressed. Identical requests are being received at the district and State levels. Therefore, all grievance redressal centres have been brought under one set-up,” it said. The government will spend Rs. 69.21 crore on implementing this system. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami opened the Helpline Call Centre, which has been built, at a cost of Rs. 12.78 crore, on Rajiv Gandhi Salai at Sholinganallur. People can use the toll free number 1100 to register their grievances throughout the day. They can also use the websites, CMHelpline.tnega.org, and cmhelpline@tn.gov.in, and the CMHelpline Citizen mobile application. The release said people could also reach out to the government through social media handles — @cmhelpine_tn on Twitter and CM-Helpline TN on Facebook. Aadhaar and ration cards are essential to get grievances redressed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-grievance-redressal-system-out/article33855752.ece
17 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kamal Haasan flays arrest of activist Disha Ravi||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Tuesday compared the arrest of 22-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi by Delhi police, for her alleged involvement in creating a ‘tool kit’ for supporting farmers’ protests, to the arrests that took place in the erstwhile British Raj. In a series of social media posts, Mr. Haasan said he was shocked by Ms. Ravi’s arrest in a sedition case. “Trampling on the throats of those with another point of view in the name of sedition is condemnable. It is against freedom of speech guaranteed by democracy,” he said. Mr. Haasan said the continued implementation of ‘British era’ laws was shameful and called for a public debate on sedition laws. “The politics should not create an antagonistic impression on students. Their impact should be felt in politics. They should oppose oppression without fearand put an end to these dictatorial acts,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kamal-haasan-condemns-climate-activist-dishas-arrest/article33856178.ece
17 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Online Italian classes from March 6||The Indo-Italian Chamber of Commerce and Industry will begin online language classes from March 6. Students, Indian and joint ventures and public who are keen to learn the language will benefit from the course, according to a release. For details, call 9080582082.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-italian-classes-from-march-6/article33856148.ece
17 February 2021||CHENNAI/COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Mixed reactions from MSMEs||Ahead of the Assembly election, the Chief Minister has rolled out a policy for the MSME sector which has been grappling with various issues in the last five years. Though industrial estates said they welcomed the policy, many were sceptical about the targets and strategies listed in it. Some even said there could have been little more detailing to solve the immediate crisis. A few associations pointed out that they were not consulted while this policy was formulated, while another section of the MSMEs was wondering whether the same structure would be followed in case of a change in government after the election. K.E. Raghunathan, convener, Consortium of Indian Associations, who in the last one year has been highlighting the issues and challenges faced by the sector, said, “While we certainly appreciate the various announcements in terms of creation of infrastructure, financial subsidies, social security support and employment generation, some of the proposed schemes are extension of what is being offered by the Central government.” He added, “Expectations for support to the ailing MSMEs that are affected by the COVID-19 — such as an additional moratorium for repayment of loan EMIs, additional loans for those who are not covered under the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme of the Central government, setting up of raw material ration shops at industrial parks and fair price shops for MSMEs — are missing in this document,” he said. Mr. Raghunathan said most of the announcements required at least 2 to 3 years to fructify. With the election due in the next two months, the question of who will form the next government still remains open, thus raising concerns of continuity. The new policy is aimed at attracting new investments worth Rs. 2,00,000 crore by 2025 and creating jobs for over 20 lakh persons. Many micro units across Tamil Nadu felt that the policy had nothing in specific to them. “Any policy for MSMEs does not address the requirements and challenges of the micro units,” said J. James, president of the Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mixed-reactions-from-msmes/article33855822.ece
17 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Land acquisition for Avinashi Road flyover work stayed||A group of land owners on Avinashi Road here have obtained an order from the Madras High Court that has stayed acquisition of their land for the flyover work. According to Karthikeyan, one of the land owners, it is learnt that over 500 properties along the 10 km stretch - from Uppilipalayam to Goldwins - will be affected because of the work. “None of us got a notice from the government about acquiring our land for the project. We came to know about it only through advertisements in newspaper. So far, advertisements have been given for about 170 properties. We met the officials concerned and submitted our grievances. Since there was no relief, we approached the court,” he said. Almost all the properties on either side of the Avinashi Road are educational institutions, hospitals, or commercial establishments. Some of the commercial spaces are very small. The compensation that the government will pay works out to just about 50 % of the market value now. “The acquisition is mainly because of the ramps and service roads. We are not against the flyover. But, the project should be redesigned so that there are no ramps. The government has not acquired land for any of the flyover works taken up in the recent years here. It should not do so for the Avinashi Road project too,” he said. The Avinashi Road Land Owners Association planned to bring together all those who would be affected because of the project and approach the court again, he added. An official in the Highways Department said the main flyover work would continue. Because of the stay order, the lands of those who had approached the court would not be acquired till further orders. There had been representations from many land owners and the Department would decide on those in the coming months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/land-acquisition-for-avinashi-road-flyover-work-stayed/article33856189.ece
17 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Library inaugurated||A private library boasting of a collection of over one lakh titles was inaugurated at Peelamedu here on Monday. According to a release, the Omni Books Library will function in a three-storied building near Fun Mall in Peelamedu. Books will be available in a range of topics including fiction, science and technology, history, mass communication, economics, politics and agriculture. The library will also have facilities such as air-conditioned rooms and elevators. Founder V.G. Rajan said the library would also be useful for those preparing for competitive examinations apart from book lovers. The library membership begins from Rs. 225 per month, he said in the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/library-inaugurated/article33856192.ece
17 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Jurisdictional conflict arises between city, district police||The retrieval of a body from a water body near Nagarajapuram by the police turned out to be an affair that lasted nearly 10 hours on Tuesday, owing to a jurisdictional conflict that arose between the Coimbatore City Police and the Coimbatore District Police. Police sources privy to the development said the local residents reported that a body of a man, estimated to be around 40 years old, was found in the water body with the head covered in a plastic bag. The Vadavalli police station, which comes under the Coimbatore District Police, did not proceed further with the investigation as they claimed that the particular spot of the water body, where the body was found, came under the jurisdiction of the Selvapuram police station that comes under the Coimbatore City Police. However, the Selvapuram police passed the buck to the Vadavalli police claiming that the spot did not come under their jurisdiction. With both the police stations reaching an impasse, District Superintendent of Police Ara Arularasu consulted the Telungupalayam Village Administrative Officer in the afternoon. The VAO along with other Revenue Department officials surveyed the territory and issued a certificate that it came under the Selvapuram police station limits, the sources said. Yet, the Coimbatore City Police maintained that the spot did not come under the Selvapuram police station. Finally, Mr. Arularasu asked the Vadavalli police to retrieve the body and send it to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital for autopsy. A senior police officer with the Coimbatore District Police said the higher officials would take the decision regarding the Vadavalli police continuing with the investigation or transferring the case to Selvapuram police. Meanwhile, a top officer from Coimbatore City Police claimed that the issue had been resolved and that such conflicts would not occur again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jurisdictional-conflict-arises-between-city-district-police/article33856194.ece
17 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Micro units hail MSME policy as it has increased capital subsidy ceiling||The micro units here have welcomed the MSME policy announced by the State government on Tuesday as it has increased the capital subsidy ceiling. “This is a welcome move that will help micro units expand,” said J. James, president of Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises. The plan of the government to infuse funds into Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation (TIIC) is another announcement that will benefit the MSMEs, said C. Sivakumar, president of Coimbatore and Tiruppur Districts Micro and Cottage Entrepreneurs Association. Raja M.Shanmugham, president of Tiruppur Exporters’ Association, said the Industrial and MSME policies will pave way for the growth of industries in the State. The MSME policy focuses on textiles too. The support to industrial housing project will benefit clusters such as Tiruppur. The incentives provided to MSMEs, such as equity participation through a designated Fund Management Company (FMC) and 20% of the total expenditure incurred on SME IPO, will help growth of Tirupur knitwear sector, he said. K.V. Karthik, president of Southern India Engineering Manufacturers’ Association, said the focus on quality improvement is a step in the right direction. The government has come out with several incentives to support industrial associations in development activities. Both the policies encourage investments in the State, especially in the MSME sector, said Ramesh Babu, president of Coimbatore District Small Industries Association. The announcements in the policy aim at attracting investments. However, the micro units had submitted a memorandum to the government on their demands. Those were not addressed, said Mr. James. When the Central or State governments announce an industrial policy, there is no focus or priority for micro units. For instance, the micro units do not get orders from public sector undertakings or government departments, he said.  The plan to infuse funds into Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation will benefit the MSMEs C. Sivakumar President, Coimbatore and Tiruppur Districts Micro and Cottage Entrepreneurs Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/msme-has-increased-capital-subsidy-ceiling/article33855821.ece
17 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested for attempting to sell tushes||Forest Department officials from the Anamalai Tiger Reserve on Monday arrested two men on charges of attempting to sell the tushes (small tusks) from the skeletal remains of a female elephant within the Pollachi forest range. Trespass A press release issued on Tuesday said T. Manian (42) allegedly trespassed into Pothamadai beat of the forest range and stole the two tushes. He then allegedly attempted to sell it to M. Mohanraj at a textile showroom in Vettaikaranpudur. Based on a tip-off, the Forest Department officials caught the duo red-handed on Monday and arrested them, the release said. The accused were remanded in judicial custody at Coimbatore Central Prison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-arrested-for-attempting-to-sell-tushes/article33856197.ece
17 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Gang attacks man, steals car||A gang attacked a 48-year-old man and stole his car in broad daylight at Madukkarai here on Tuesday. Police sources said Vincent Kumar, a interior decorator from Kerala, travelled to Coimbatore with his wife Sajin, a traffic inspector in Erode district. After dropping her, he was en route to Palakkad in his car. At around 8 a.m. as he approached Marappalam in Madukkarai, a six-member gang allegedly waylaid the car and attacked him with an iron rod. An injured Kumar was left behind as the gang drove off from the spot, according to the sources. The Madukkarai police registered a case after conducting inquiries with Kumar, who was admitted in a private hospital. The motive remains unclear as no cash was in the car, the sources said. Further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gang-attacks-man-steals-car/article33856191.ece
17 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Helmets distributed to motorists||As part of the 32nd Road Safety Month, the City Traffic Police on Tuesday distributed helmets to 30 motorists to raise awareness on the importance of wearing helmets. Awareness Raj Khanna, Assistant Commissioner of Police, Traffic West, participated in the awareness event held near a jewellery showroom on Raja Street in Town Hall. Officials said the event began at around 5.30 p.m. and lasted nearly 30 minutes. The helmets were distributed to those who were not wearing one.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/helmets-distributed-to-motorists/article33856198.ece
17 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Ex-serviceman arrested||The Alandurai police on Monday arrested a youth, who was a former staff member of the Army, on charges of possessing a country-made gun on Monday. Police sources said R. Ranjith (23) from Kavundampalyam worked in the housekeeping section of the Army from 2015 to 2018. Meanwhile, he was booked in another case in Perur police station where he allegedly cheated a man of Rs. 1.3 lakh assuring employment in the Army, the sources said. While the accused was remanded in judicial custody by the Alandurai police, the Perur police would formally arrest him, the sources said.  Held under POCSO Act The Pollachi All Women Police arrested a 19-year-old on Monday on charges of sexually assaulting a 16-year-old girl. The police said the girl was allegedly in a relationship with the accused and that she was sent to a rehabilitation home in January based on a complaint from her mother. Subsequently, the victim was sent along with her mother to a relative’s residence in Palakkad, Kerala, earlier in February, where she was found to be eight weeks pregnant during a medical check-up. Based on the information from Kerala police, the Pollachi All Women police booked the accused. He was remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ex-serviceman-arrested/article33856193.ece
17 February 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||‘Only foundations laid, but projects remain non-starters’||Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami was a “hero of laying foundation stones” whilst the projects upon laying the foundation always remained a non-starter, said DMK MP M.K. Kanimozhi while addressing the media in Dharmapuri on Tuesday. Even for AIIMS, the foundation was laid, but nothing had moved forward, while AIIMS in other States was progressing, Ms. Kanimozhi added.  ‘No new industries’ People have already concluded that this government has not done anything for them, which was evident in low employments levels, and lack of new industries, Ms. Kanimozhi said. Speaking on the sidelines of her election campaign here, the DMK MP said the Chief Minister, who had not taken efforts to increase employment on the one hand, has however signed up for anti-farmer laws. The state of affairs at the districts was equally abysmal, she said. Literacy rate “Dharmapuri is the district of Higher Education Minister K.P. Anbalagan. However, the district’s literacy rate was 67% far lower than the State average of 85%, leaving the district as one of the low literacy districts in the State,” Ms. Kanimozhi said. SIPCOT Similarly, the SIPCOT announced by the late DMK patriarch Karunanidhi was not started and the industries were yet to be set up, the MP said. Asked if she would welcome V.K. Sasikala’s return to politics as a woman, Ms. Kanimozhi said, there was no man or woman in politics. “One’s choice to enter or not enter politics is the prerogative of an individual and that of a party. I have nothing to say to that.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/only-foundations-laid-but-projects-remain-a-non-starter-in-tn/article33855804.ece
17 February 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||‘Board exam dates to be announced after CM’s nod’||The dates for board examinations would be announced after getting approval from Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, said School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan in Gobichettipalayam on Tuesday. Addressing the media, he said that the opinions of parents, students and educationalists would be taken up with the Chief Minister after which a decision will be taken and the schedule will be released. To a question about teachers association complaining that students are stressed due to six working days a week and whether Saturdays will be declared holidays, the Minister said, “It is not the right time to answer”. He reiterated that only after consultations with parents and educationalists, would any decision on the reopening of schools from classes 6 to 8 be taken. To a question asking why teachers are not available at Urdu schools in the State, Mr. Sengottaiyan said that full-time teachers are not available and hence the Department had appointed temporary and special teachers to handle classes for Urdu subjects. The Minister said that revenue officials had identified water bodies that were left out in the Athikadavu – Avinashi Ground Water Recharge and Drinking Water Supply Scheme and that those water bodies will be included in the second phase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/board-exam-dates-to-be-announced-after-approval-from-cm-sengottaiyan/article33855806.ece
17 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Plea to increase working days under MGNREGS||The Erode South District Council of Tamil Manila Vivasaya Thozhilalar Sangam has urged the Central Government to increase the number of working days under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) from 100 to 200 and to fix a minimum wage of Rs. 600 a day. In a memorandum sent to the Prime Minister, the district coordinator of Bharatiya Khet Mazdoor Union said that due to crisis in the agricultural sector, employment opportunities had drastically dwindled. “Work provided under MGNREGS provides livelihood to people in rural areas,” the letter said. The letter said that COVID-19 lockdown had ravaged the rural economy. “The number of people who obtained job cards in January 2020 was 76.7 million, Now, it is 118 million,” the letter said. The Union wanted the number of guaranteed working days increased from 100 to 200 and minimum wages fixed at Rs. 600 a day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-increase-working-days-under-mgnregs/article33855803.ece
17 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Construction of modern bus shelter near Gani Market opposed||Stating that the construction of a modern bus shelter near Panneerselvam Park signal would result in removal of 70 retail shops functioning on E.K.M. Abdul Gani Textile Market premises, members of the Erode Gani Market Daily All Small Textile Traders Association urged the Corporation to set up the shelter in some other location. In a petition submitted to Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan here on Tuesday, the members said that they were running the shops for 40 years now. Under the Smart City Mission, works to construct a modernised textile hub is under way on the premises and temporary shops have been allotted for the traders to continue their business. During the COVID -19 pandemic, shops were closed for five months, which affected the livelihood of traders. Even before they could recover from the loss, the civic body has proposed to establish a bus shelter. Seventy small retail shops functioning in the area where the shelter has been planned have to be removed for the purpose. It will affect the traders and cause traffic congestion in the area, they said. Traders wanted the civic body to establish the shelter in some other location so that they can continue their business.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/construction-of-modern-bus-shelter-near-gani-market-opposed/article33855810.ece
17 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Over 50 children rescued from Erode railway station in 3 months||The Child Help Desk functioning at the Erode Railway Junction has rescued 56 children from October to December 2020. Rights Education and Development Centre, a non-governmental organisation, established the desk at the junction in March 2019 to rescue and rehabilitate unaccompanied, missing, run away children in the age group of 6 to 14 and child workers in the age group of 15 to 18. The desk functions round the clock and is manned by 12 members. The rescued children are handed over to their parents or guardian through Government Railway Police (GRP), Railway Protection Force (RPF) and the station manager. If need arises, the children are also produced at the Child Welfare Committee for care and protection. “We have rescued 181 children in two years,” said D. Jajaraj, project coordinator. After COVID-19 lockdown relaxation, 56 children were rescued between October and December 2020, of which 48 were from Odisha, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh. “Poverty is pushing the children of these States to work in Erode and nearby areas as they are employed here illegally,” he added. Many children arrived at the junction through unregistered agents or company staff of various textile mills, the coordinator said. He said that Inter State Migrant Workmen Act was violated and the families were not aware of registering their details in their native district and destination district. “Only if they register, the government can monitor them and ensure their safety,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-50-children-rescued-from-erode-railway-station-in-3-months/article33855802.ece
17 February 2021||KOVILPATTI,TAMIL NADU||‘Stalin moving towards political vacuum’||Even as the ruling AIADMK is all set to form the government for the third consecutive term with the people’s overwhelming mandate, DMK president M.K. Stalin, who is completely dependent on a corporate firm for running his party and electioneering, is moving towards a political vacuum, Minister for Information Kadambur C. Raju has said. Speaking to reporters here on Tuesday, Mr. Raju said the Mr. Stalin, who was repeatedly telling that there was a vacuum in Tamil Nadu, was moving towards emptiness as the people had lost trust in him long back and he had no courage to meet the people on his own. Being operated by a corporate firm, the DMK president’s meeting with a group of ‘mobilized crowd’ were so artificial even as the Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami was casually meeting the voters who were waiting to elect him for the post again. “Precisely, the DMK will not even be the Opposition party after the Assembly elections,” Mr. Raju said. On anti-Hindi stance of the DMK, he said late Chief Minister and the founder DMK, C.N. Annadurai, was the real warrior against Hindi while his successor M. Karunanidhi staged drama by lying down on a railway track that was not in use. “If the DMK is against Hindi, the party should not accept Kendriya Vidyalaya also. Instead, its MPs are selling the Kendriya Vidyalaya admission coupons. The DMK, for its political survival, is glorifying Tamil. People are fully aware of the DMK playing dual role when it comes to anti-Hindi stand and its political survival,” Mr. Raju charged.  ‘No connection’ On the ministers’ stoic silence about V.K. Sasikala, former aide of late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, after her release from the prison, he said: “there is no connection between her and the AIADMK… The party, which had faced the DMK’s onslaughts in the past and lost its cadre like Poolavaari Sugumaran and Batlagundu Arumugam to such violence, has become the largest party of Tamil Nadu and came to power as it stood like a rock under the leadership of late M.G. Ramachandran and Jayalalithaa. There is no need to speak about unnecessary things about unnecessary people.” When asked about AMMK’s general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran’s assertion that his party was founded only to salvage the AIADMK, Mr. Raju said he could never achieve it. “When a political party is launched, the party founder should spell out the purpose behind floating the party. Like actor Kamalhaasan, he (Mr. Dhinakaran) is also giving a reason for launching his political outfit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-moving-towards-political-vacuum/article33855761.ece
17 February 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Free civil services coaching||Free civil services examination coaching for the children of fisherfolk has been proposed jointly under the aegis of the Fisheries Department and the Anna Management Training Centre. According to a press release from the district administration, coaching will be provided annually for 20 candidates, who are children of the members of Marine and Inland Fisheries Cooperative Society and Fisheries Welfare Board. Applications may be downloaded fromwww.fisheries.gov.in Duly filled applications may be sent to the office of Assistant Director of Fisheries, 24-25, Cooperative Colony, 4th Cross, Krishnagiri – 635 001. The applications may also be handed over in person. The last date for receipt of applications to avail the free coaching is February 19, by 5 p.m. Further details may also be ascertained over phone on -04343-235745.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-civil-services-coaching/article33855811.ece
17 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK-led alliance will win majority of seats: Murugan||The AIADMK-led alliance will win a majority of seats in the coming Assembly election and the number of BJP MLAs will be in double digits, said BJP State president L. Murugan here on Tuesday. Addressing mediapersons, Mr. Murugan said leaders who joined hands with Prime Minister Narendra Modi would definitely win the election. In contrast, the leaders supported by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi always lost. “In Tamil Nadu too, the DMK-led alliance will be defeated in the election,” the BJp leader said. Mr. Murugan said DMK leader M.K. Stalin could never become the Chief Minister. “The DMK is against the interests of Tamil culture, tradition, and against the interests of the nation. Hence, the public will not vote for them.” On the agriculture laws, the BJP leader said farmers throughout the country supported them. “All farmers believe that the PM is their best friend.” He criticised DMK MLAs and MPs for not conducting any grievance redressal meet with the public. “Although the DMK opposes teaching Hindi to students, the language is being taught in many of the schools run by DMK leaders. The DMK leaders are hurting vulnerable sections of society under the pretext of preserving Tamil language,” he said. Asked if he would contest in thecoming election, Mr. Murugan replied that he would to do so if party leaders asked him to. To a question on opposition to the Prime Minister’s recent visit to Tamil Nadu, Mr. Murugan said the DMK and anti-social elements were behind it. Various developmental projects were allocated to the State under the BJP rule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-led-alliance-will-win-majority-of-seats-l-murugan/article33855773.ece
17 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||No place for discrimination in abode of God: High Court||Taking note of the fact that there was a difference of opinion over conduct of a temple festival in Tiruchi district, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed that it was an unfortunate case. After it was submitted that the temple authorities themselves would conduct the event, the court dismissed the petition that sought the conduct of a peace meeting. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi observed that a temple was a place of religious worship, and it was based upon faith. When people go to the temple out of faith, there could not be any difference based upon colour or creed. God does not recognise any community. It only recognises a human being who goes there to pray, the court said. Classification of men had no place in the abode of God. If such activities were permitted, it would strike against the very spirit of the Constitution. The temple should not be a place for perpetuating communal separation leading to discrimination. On the other hand, it should facilitate all persons having common faith to come and worship, the judges said. The High Court dismissed the petition filed by M. Padmanaban, who sought a direction to authorities to conduct a peace meeting for conduct of the temple festival at Eraniamman Thirukovil, which was under the control of Jambukeswarar Akilandeswari Temple at Thiruvanaikovil in Tiruchi district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/there-is-no-place-for-discrimination-in-abode-of-god-hc/article33855766.ece
17 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Organs of brain dead person transplanted||The organs of a brain-dead government servant were successfully harvested and transplanted by doctors of Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre (MMHRC). According to a press release from the hospital, 62-year-old Raju, a former government servant, met with an accident on February 11 and sustained injuries in his head. He was given first-aid at a private hospital in Othakadai and was then referred to MMHRC, where he was admitted to the intensive care unit. He was declared brain-dead on February 14. Tests showed that other organs such as kidney, liver, and eyes were functioning well. The doctors explained Mr. Raju’s condition to his wife and children and suggested that they donate his organs. They whole-heartedly agreed to it. On February 14, a team of doctors from the hospital performed a five-hour-long surgery. The liver was transplanted to a patient at MMHRC. A kidney was donated to the Tirunelveli Kidney Care Centre and the eyes to Aravind Eye Hospital, said the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/organs-of-transplanted/article33855768.ece
17 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||CM hands over land allotment letter||MADITSSIA Trade and Convention Centre President S. Anburajan received a land allotment order for construction of a trade and convention centre at Madurai from Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami at an event held in Chennai on Tuesday. A press release from MADITSSIA president B. Muruganantham said that the trade body obtained permission to construct a trade and convention in 2017 and the State government had granted Rs. 5 crore. A 3.06-acre land near the satellite town at Kappalur was procured to construct the Rs. 25 crore worth trade and convention centre. The centre would have a hall to accommodate around 3,000 persons, air-conditioned halls and a parking facility to accommodate 500 cars. Mr. Muruganantham, MADITSSIA Trade and Convention Centre Secretary K.P. Gopi and Treasurer V.S. Manimaran also participated in the event held in Chennai, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/land-allotment-letter-for-trade-centre-received/article33855767.ece
17 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Update, restructure Wildlife Protection Act’||While 133 species of plants have been named as threatened in study reports, Schedule VI of the Wildlife Protection Act has named only six species for legal protection, said a public interest litigation petition filed before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi ordered notice to the Centre and the State in the petition filed by K. Pushpavanam, who sought a direction to authorities to update and restructure the Schedules of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 in accordance with the reports. He said the International Union for Conservation of Nature and the Wildlife Institute of India had prepared the lists and the Biological Survey of India had also contributed to them. It was disheartening to know that when 133 species of plants were named as threatened, only six species had legal protection under the Wildlife Protection Act. Therefore, there was a need to revisit the Schedules under the Act and update it as per the list as expeditiously as possible, the petitioner said in the PIL plea. The court sought a response and adjourned hearing in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/update-restructure-wildlife-protection-act/article33856310.ece
17 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Fill vacant posts in Forest Department’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday ordered notice to the Centre and the State on a PIL petition that sought a direction to authorities to take steps and fill up vacancies in various posts in the State Forest Department. In her petition, A. Veronica Mary of Madurai said frontline forest staff that included forest watcher and forest guard played a key role in conservation of wildlife. Vacant posts in the Forest Department had to be filled up to tackle crimes against wildlife. She sought a direction to the State to conduct a special drive to fill up the frontline posts that were vacant. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi ordered notice and sought response in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fill-vacant-posts-in-forest-department/article33855765.ece
17 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||10-year RI for ganja peddlers||The Madurai district court on Tuesday sentenced two from Rajasthan to 10 years rigorous imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs. one lakh each for the possession of 50 kg of ganja. Judge Padmanaban sentenced Sajan Nath and Suresh Chand Balai for the possession of the ganja. The Dindigul NIB-CID arrested the two and booked them under various sections of the NDPS Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10-year-ri-for-ganja-peddlers/article33855771.ece
17 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Students take part in bird count||Students of various colleges participated in a bird count conducted on their campus as part of the Great Backyard Bird Count. According to a release from Lady Doak College, the students have been participating in the exercise for the past five years. Besides regular resident birds, a few migrant species such as Asian paradise flycatcher and Asian brown flycatcher have been spotted on the campus. Altogther, more than 30 species have been spotted. The Asian paradise flycatcher is a regular visitor and a star attraction for birders. The spotted owlets and rose ringed parakeets have also spotted. The bird count has helped students to have a better understanding of their environment, according to the release. At N.M.S.S. Vellaichamy Nadar College, a total of 21 bird species have been identified. The bird count was organised by the Department of Zoology on February 15. K.S. Malar, associate professor and Head of the Department, welcomed the gathering. M. Rajesh, Assistant Professor of Zoology, The American College, was the chief guest for the event. More than 40 students participated. Some rare species such as Golden oriole and paradise flycatcher hve been spotted, according to a release. At Yadava College, M. Sekar, Principal, inaugurated the bird count on Tuesday. The exercise will also be held from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. on Wednesday. Interested students and the public can participate, said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/students-take-part-in-bird-count/article33855764.ece
17 February 2021||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||CPI (M) to stage protests against fuel price hike||State secretary of Communist Party of India (Marxist) K. Balakrishnan said that the party would stage protests across the State against fuel price hike. Mr. Balakirshnan told presspersons that the party would stage protests between February 17 and 19 to condemn hike in cost of fuel and LPG across Tamil Nadu. On return of V.K. Sasikala, Mr. Balakrishnan said that it would not have any impact on Tamil Nadu politics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-m-to-stage-protests-against-fuel-price-hike/article33855815.ece
17 February 2021||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Tahsildhar injured during jallikattu||A tahsildhar suffered minor injuries while she was reviewing the progress of a jallikattu near Erumapatti here on Tuesday. Hospitalised Sendhamangalam tahsildhar Janaki was hit by a bull near the main stage. She suffered minor injuries and was rushed to a hospital.  Over 300 tamers and 700 bulls took part in the event. Thirty-three tamers suffered minor injuries. The jallikattu was flagged off by Revenue District Officer, Namakkal, M. Kottai Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tahsildhar-injured-during-jallikattu/article33855816.ece
17 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Spate of resignations by MLAs land Congress regime in trouble||Ahead of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s visit to Puducherry on Wednesday, the ruling party on Tuesday suffered another jolt with one more legislator, A. John Kumar, resigning his MLA’s post, thereby bringing the strength of the Congress-DMK combine in the house on par with the Opposition. Mr. Kumar submitted the resignation to Speaker V.P. Sivakolandhu at his residence. The Congress had witnessed a spate of resignations in the recent weeks starting with the resignation of A. Namassivayam, who was considered second-in-command in the Ministry, and Congress legislator Theeppainthan. On Monday evening, Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao took to Twitter to announce his resignation as MLA. He also posted a letter to Speaker V. Sivakolandhu announcing his resignation from the Assembly. A source in the Assembly Secretariat said the file to notify the vacancies had already been mooted. The recent resignations have brought down the strength of the Assembly from 33 to 28. The latest resignation and disqualification of Congress legislator P. Danavelou last year for indulging in anti-party activities had brought down the strength of Congress in the house to 10, including that of the Speaker. Mr. Danavelou was disqualified by the Speaker on a complaint that he was trying to topple the government. Together with its alliance partner DMK’s three and the support of an Independent, the ruling party has a strength of 14 in the currently 28-member house. The principal Opposition party the All India N.R. Congress has 7 and its allies the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam have 4 with three nominated legislators belonging to the BJP. There are reports of more people resigning from the MLA post. Mr. Namassivayam and Theeppainthan have already joined the Bharatiya Janata Party. Political sources said Mr. Kumar was also expected to join the saffron party in the next few days. Meanwhile, Congress leaders including Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, ministers, legislators, AICC in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao and Sanjay Dutt met at the party office to discuss the fall out of the resignations. PCC sources told The Hindu that the party would make a public announcement either during the public meeting to be chaired by Rahul Gandhi at the AFT ground on Wednesday or after his departure. “It is an ideological battle. We will continue the fight after holding discussions with Mr. Gandhi, leaders of alliance partner, including DMK president M.K. Stalin and others. The BJP has been trying to dislodge the government as they have done in other States,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/spate-of-resignations-by-mlas-land-congress-regime-in-trouble/article33855824.ece
17 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Nesting of Olive Ridley turtles picks up||With their traditional migration season delayed possibly due to changes in climatic conditions caused by the influence of successive Cyclones Nivar and Burevi that swept through the eastern seaboard late last year, female Olive Ridley turtles have been leaving hundreds of eggs at nesting spots in the region over the past few weeks. Teams of volunteers led by the Forest Department have been engaged in collecting eggs by fanning across the coastline between Nallavadu and Moorthykuppam. The Puducherry coastline falls on the migratory route to Odisha used by these turtles listed under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. The Olive Ridley is one of only two species of sea turtles that engage in “arribada” nesting (Spanish for mass migration), where large groups of females assemble at a nesting site on the beach. According to Kannadassin, a staff with the Forest Department, the nesting season which usually begins in November was delayed by a few weeks this year. A seven-member team of Forest Department officials led by Vanjulavalli Karthik, Deputy Conservator, has been patrolling the coastline in the early hours on a daily basis for weeks — the survey happens usually from 3 a.m. to 8 a.m. The team has also been sensitising fishermen in coastal settlements such as Nallavadu, Pannithittu, Narambai, Moorthykuppam and Pudukuppam to the importance of protecting the eggs of the turtle species which are endangered due to over exploitation for meat. 4,000 eggs “We have so far collected over 4,000 eggs and taken them to properly fenced hatcheries,” the staff said. The team expects this year’s nesting cycle to continue at least till April. It is estimated that an adult female at a time lays approximately 100 to 200 eggs, which hatch after a 48-day period. The volunteers have been releasing hatchlings back into the sea and the process could extend till June.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nesting-of-olive-ridleys-picks-up/article33855794.ece
17 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 vaccination session sites set to be increased in U.T.||The session sites for administering COVID-19 vaccination are being increased to improve immunisation coverage in the Union Territory. At a meeting of the State Task Force cum District Task Force on COVID-19 vaccination, it was decided that two more session sites would be made functional at the Community Health Centre (CHC) Mannadipet and at the Primary Health Centre (PHC) Bahour. These facilities will be in addition to the existing 10 session sites across the Union Territory. There are six such facilities in Puducherry — Indira Gandhi Government General Hospital & Post Graduate Institute, Indira Gandhi Medical College and Research Institute, Rajiv Gandhi Government Women And Children’s Hospital, Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research, CHC Karikalampakkam and PHC Villianur. Vaccination is also being delivered at the government hospitals in Karaikal, Mahe and Yanam and the CHC in Thirunallar. T. Arun, Health Secretary, who chaired the meeting that primarily focused on modalities to increase the output of COVID-19 vaccination programme, said the number of session days would also be increased to six days per week (excluding Sundays and public holidays). Director (Health) S. Mohan Kumar said efforts had to be made to meet the target to complete the administering of the first dose for healthcare workers by February 20 and the first dose for frontline workers by March 6. Police coordination The police have agreed to help coordinate the successful implementation of the programme. All the heads of office establishments have been directed to mobilise their staff for vaccination. The Health Secretary also instructed the Health Department to deploy the sub-district level facilitators cum supervisors to promote and monitor vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-vaccination-session-sites-set-to-be-increased-in-ut/article33856385.ece
17 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||A long feud comes to an end in Puducherry||The removal of Kiran Bedi as Puducherry Lt. Governor on Tuesday brings to an end a tumultuous phase of confrontation between the Raj Nivas and the Congress government that played out variously as power tussles, courtroom battles, tangles over policy and a slow burn of several key schemes. Ms. Bedi took office as the 24th Lt. Governor on May 29, 2016, and charted a more dynamic and interventionist role for the Raj Nivas that would put her at odds with the government of Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, the Congress veteran who entered office in June the same year. Ms. Bedi’s measures such as holding citizen grievance redress meetings at the Raj Nivas as part of measures to make it a “People’s Nivas” and undertaking visits for on-the-spot assessments of civic woes soon sparked charges that she was running a parallel administration and side-lining the legislators. Open clash The simmering discord between the Union Territory’s titular head and its political commander-in-chief burst into the open in January 2017, when the Lt. Governor and the Chief Minister clashed over her suspension of an official of the Pondicherry Civil Services for sharing obscenity on a WhatsApp group and directing the police to book a case under Section 67A of the Information Technology Act. She then cancelled the Chief Minister’s order, vide a circular dated January 2, 2017, prohibiting officials from using social media for “interaction with seniors bypassing the administrative hierarchy and routine official channel”. The complaint to the then Union Home Minister, Rajnath Singh, by eight Congress MLAs accusing the Lt. Governor of adopting a “rigidly autocratic, unethical, whimsical and dictatorial” style of running the administration by “overlooking” an elected government was a sign of things to come. The differences between the two constitutional authorities ranged from banal issues such as whether to allow New Year gatherings on the beach to weighty policy matters. However, the government declared an all-out war when the Lt. Governor administered the oath of office to three BJP-nominated MLAs in 2017 and later when she overruled the Cabinet decision to distribute rice and chose cash transfers. Ms. Bedi’s style of governance has led to two dramatic protests led by the Chief Minister demanding her recall — an unprecedented dharna in front of the Raj Nivas in February 2019 and a three-day round-the-clock dharna in January this year. Mr. Narayanasamy had also submitted a petition to the President on January 10, reiterating the plea for her recall. Among Ms. Bedi’s accomplishments, which even her fierce critics might concede, are the efforts at transparency and accountability in the administration as well as her campaign for the revival of lakes and waterbodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-long-feud-comes-to-an-end-in-puducherry/article33855758.ece
17 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Our govt. has a majority, says CM||Dismissing as unjustified the Opposition’s calls for his resignation after a spate of resignations by Congress legislators, Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Tuesday stated that his government still enjoyed the majority. Addressing the media after a quickly-convened party consultation at the PCC office in the wake of two legislators resigning from MLA posts, the Chief Minister said, “The government of the Congress-DMK alliance is strong and all legislators stand united.” Pressed on the Opposition demand for his resignation as the government had lost its majority, he said, “The Opposition will say so. Our government has a majority.” Mr. Narayanasamy added that the government would move forward in accordance with provisions laid down by the Constitution. M.N.R. Balan, Deputy Speaker, said the Government was ready for a floor test to prove its majority. Government whip R.K.R. Anantharaman said there were members in the Opposition who preferred not to topple an elected government and this would show in a floor test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/our-govt-has-a-majority-says-cm/article33856387.ece
17 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Active COVID-19 cases in Puducherry dip||The number of active COVID-19 cases continued to come down in the Union Territory with 20 new cases and 43 recoveries reported on Tuesday. Puducherry recorded 10 of the new cases while Karaikal and Mahe reported five cases each. The number of active cases came down from 236 to 213 in the last 24 hours. The test positivity rate was 0.96% and case fatality rate 1.67%. While 350 healthcare workers volunteered for vaccination, 17 frontline workers got the jab in the last 24 hours. So far, 6,243 persons, including 5,920 healthcare workers, have taken the vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/active-covid-19-cases-in-puducherry-dip/article33856388.ece
17 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry CM rejects call for resignation||Dismissing as unjustifiedthe Opposition’s calls for his resignationfollowing aspate of resignationsby Congress legislators, Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Tuesday said his government still enjoyed a majority. Addressing the media, he said: “The government of the Congress-DMK alliance is strong and all legislators stand united. The Opposition’s calls for resignation are not justified.” The government would abide by the provisions laid down in the Constitution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-cm-rejects-call-for-resignation/article33856443.ece
17 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||CM welcomes decision to replace Bedi||Welcoming the Centre’s decision to replace Puducherry Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi, Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Tuesday said Ms. Bedi had been a stumbling block to implementing welfare schemes and development programmes. Addressing a press conference, he said the Congress and its alliance partners had been fighting for the last four-and-a-half years against the obstructions created by the Lt. Governor. “Raj Nivas was working as the headquarters of the BJP. We have been raising the issue for a long time. We had been fighting along with other secular parties for her removal,” he said. The Centre has now realised the demands raised by the Congress, he said adding those who would function against the rights of UT would be displaced. “It is a victory for the people of the Union Territory,” he added. The Chief Minister said he expected Tamilsai Soundararajan to execute her responsibilities in a constitutional manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-welcomes-decision-to-replace-bedi/article33855756.ece
17 February 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Missing boy traced||A boy aged about four years who came along with his mother to the election campaign of DMK leader M. K. Stalin at Oonaiyur village near Tirumayam on Monday went missing. But he was traced before the programme concluded. The boy and his mother had come from Kannanur near Tirumayam to attend ‘Ungal Thoguthiyil Stalin’ event. The woman suddenly found her son missing in the crowd and apparently rushed towards the stage where Mr. Stalin was present, yelling that her child was missing. The DMK functionaries pacified the woman and an announcement was immediately made in the public address system about the missing boy. A senior DMK member said the boy was found by the cadre in one of the corners before the campaign concluded. The boy was brought to the stage to Mr. Stalin before being handed over to his mother.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/missing-boy-traced/article33855745.ece
17 February 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||‘MDMK will strive to prevent attacks on Tamils anywhere’||Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (MDMK) general secretary Vaiko questioned on the action taken by the Centre to prevent killings of Tamil fishermen by Sri Lankan armed forces. Mr. Vaiko was here on Tuesday as part of a fund collection campaign organised by the party. “MDMK strives to prevent attack on Tamils in any part of the globe. According to United Nations report, 1.37 lakh Tamils were killed in Sri Lanka. Three days after the visit by our External Affairs Minister S. Jaisankar to Sri Lanka, four fishermen were killed and their boat was attacked,” he said. When Centre was questioned on measures taken to prevent such atrocities, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said they have constructed houses (in Tamil Nadu). Mr. Vaiko said that Prime Minister cannot cheat Tamils by reciting Thirukkural or singing Tamil songs. The prices of fuel, and LPG have been hiked. Farmers are protesting in Delhi braving cold weather and Centre is not ready to fulfil their demands, he said. Mr. Vaiko claimed that the Central government was anti-farmer and Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami government was slave to the Centre. He said that steps were being taken to force Hindi, Sanskrit on the public through new education policy and questioned on the measures taken by the Chief Minister to prevent this.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mdmk-will-strive-to-prevent-attack-on-tamils-in-any-part-of-the-globe-vaiko/article33855813.ece
17 February 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||CM launches mobile application for sale of SHG products||Chief Minister Edappadi.K Palaniswami launched a mobile application Salem Mathi for promotion and sale of products manufactured by women Self Help Groups at his camp office here on Tuesday. According to officials, the application could be downloaded from Google play store and purchase products produced by SHGs which would be delivered at the customer’s house. According to a release, over 2,000 products from 470 SHGs can be purchased through the application. There are 12,487 SHGs in Salem rural limits and 6,894 groups in Salem urban areas with three lakh members, a release said. A sum of Rs. 958 crore has been provided as loans for SHGs for the current financial year. The Chief Minister also launched the distribution of Thaliku Thangam scheme for 35 beneficiaries.. Benefits to the tune of Rs. 56.48 crore would be distributed to 7,100 beneficiaries in the district, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-launches-mobile-application-for-sale-of-shg-products/article33855801.ece
17 February 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘Expedite land acquisition process for Salem Airport expansion’||The Airport Advisory Committee has requested the revenue authorities to expedite the land acquisition process for Salem airport expansion. Member of Parliament for Salem S.R. Parthibhan, Airport Director V.K. Ravindra Sharma, Mettur Sub-Collector Saravanan, industry representatives and other officials took part in the meeting. Detailing the works under way at the airport, Mr. Sharma said the apron was being extended for parking two additional aircraft. He sought installation of obstacle lights on high rise buildings and overhead water tanks to guide flights. Land acquisition should be completed for extension of runway and operation of wide body flights, Mr. Sharma added. Mr. Parthibhan, who is also the Committee Chairman, requested authorities to expedite the land acquisition process for the airport expansion. He said that Rs. 35 crore has been allocated by the Centre for developing the terminal building. He requested the Airport authorities to regularise gate pass and VIP pass facilities. The Committee appreciated the CSR works conducted by AAI. On land acquisition, revenue officials said that a proposal has been sent to the government for acquiring 609 acres. Committee members wanted setting up of cafeteria at the airport, allowing overnight parking, operation of evening flights from Chennai and flights to Bengaluru, Hydrebad, Goa, Tirupati and other important cities. Mr. Parthibhan said that Salem airport has been included in Udan 4.0 scheme and an announcement on this was expected by March.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/expedite-land-acquisition-process-for-salem-airport-expansion/article33855820.ece
17 February 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Walkathon held||A blindfolded walkathon was organised here on Tuesday as part of Low Vision Awareness Month. According to a release, Salem Corporation Commissioner N. Ravichandran, and City Health Officer K. Parthibhan flagged off the rally organised by the Allied Health Sciences School under Vinayaka Mission’s Research Foundation here. About 200 students and staff took part in the rally that started at Salem Corporation office and concluded at the Mahatma Gandhi stadium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/walkathon-held/article33855814.ece
17 February 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Over 80% using FASTag in Salem region||Over 80% vehicle users are using FASTag at the toll plazas in the region and we are expecting 100% usage in the near future, official sources from the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) said. The Centre made FASTag mandatory from the midnight of Monday at all toll plazas in the country and vehicles without FASTags had to pay double the toll charges, if the payment was made in cash. According to sources here, close to 85% vehicles passing through eight toll plazas in Salem zone of NHAI were using FASTag.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-80-using-fastag-in-salem-region/article33855818.ece
17 February 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||DMDK sacks functionary||The Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam (DMDK) high command sacked a union secretary Kannan in Periyakulam after his wife Packiam, a ward councillor, allegedly voted in favour of the DMK candidate in the indirect election held for the Chairman post. The Periyakulam Union has 16 wards. The general elections to the rural local bodies were held in 2019 in which the DMK bagged 8 seats, AIADMK: 6, AMMK and DMDK bagged one each. As per the laws, the chairman and vice-chairman had to be elected by the ward councillors in an indirect election. As the general election was held, the officials had to cancel the election thrice for want of quorum. In the meantime, the DMK councillor Selvam switched loyalty to the AIADMK after which DMK’s tally reduced to 7. When a councillor Thangavel (DMK) approached the Madras High Court Bench, Madurai, the court directed the officials to conduct the election by Feb 15, in which Thangavel got elected with the support of DMDK and the AMMK councillors, thus defeating the DMK candidate. After the news reached, the DMDK, which is in the alliance of the AIADMK, sacked the councillor’s husband Kannan from the party. However, the AIADMK functionaries and the councillors from the Periyakulam Union have taken up the issue with party coordinator and Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam. ‘Sacking the functionary was insufficient....the DMDK, which is in the company of the AIADMK front, cannot vote against the party and then come with lame excuses,’ they said. With Mr. Panneerselvam in town, the issue was expected to snowball further, party cadre said. However, senior party functionaries attempted to play it down stating that the high command is aware of the development, but wouldn’t blow it up further as the general election was fast approaching.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmdk-sacks-functionary/article33855781.ece
17 February 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Mini cargo vehicle overturns: five killed||Five workers, who were going in a cargo autorickshaw, were killed when the vehicle overturned in a channel crossing the road near Maniyachchi on Tuesday. The victims were identified as G. Malai Azhagu, 48, M. Petchiammal, 54, V. Gomathi, 65, S. Eswari, 27, and S. Petchiammal, 33, all from Manappadaiveedu near Seevalaperi in Tirunelveli district. Six others – S. Petchiammal, 65, S. Chellathaai, 60, S. Mariammal, 50, M. Lingammal, 30, M. Petchiammal, 30, and M. Viji, 36, all from Manappadaiveedu, - sustained injuries and were rushed to the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital for treatment after the first-aid at Ottapidaaram Government Hospital. The condition of Ms. Viji is said to be critical. Police said the mini cargo vehicle, after taking 35 farmhands at Manappadaiveedu, about 15 km from Palayamkottai, was going to their workplace at Maniyachchi and Puthiyamputhur, where the unprecedented rain in mid-January has revived agricultural operations in an otherwise dry area. When they were about to reach Maniyachchi at around 8.30 a.m., the speeding vehicle overturned in a channel having very little water. As some of the labourers were trapped beneath the overturned vehicle, five women were killed on the spot while 30 others suffered injuries. Villagers immediately arrived at the spot to start rescue operation with the help of an earthmover that was used to lift the ill-fated vehicle to retrieve the bodies and the injured. Of the 30 injured, 24 were taken to the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital for treatment. The bodies were also sent to the TVMCH for post-mortem. Superintendent of Police, Thoothukudi, S. Jayakumar, and Deputy Superintendent of Police, Maniyachchi, Shankar, visited the accident spot. Police suspect that overloading and rash driving by driver N. Chiththirai, 44, of Thirumalaikozhunthupuram caused the accident and he has been picked up for interrogation. Though ferrying passengers in cargo vehicles is an offence, it is so common in areas around Kovilpatti, Ottapidaaram, Kayathar and Vilathikulam, where cargo vehicle drivers take farmhands to their workplace from the villages in the morning and drop them back in their village. As the police take no action against drivers of these vehicles, they violate road safety rules leading to fatal accidents. Thoothukudi Collector K. Senthil Raj, who visited the accident spot in the evening along with the officials of Department of Highways, instructed them to create speed-breakers along the road wherever it is required to avert speeding. Tirunelveli Collector V. Vishnu and Ottapidaaram MLA Shanmugaiah visited the accident victims in Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital. Mr. Vishnu, who interacted with the victims and their relatives during his visit, assured them all possible help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mini-cargo-vehicle-overturns-five-killed/article33855770.ece
17 February 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Protest against hike in prices of petrol, LPG||The CITU Auto Trade Union staged a novel protest here on Tuesday to condemn unprecedented hike in the prices of petrol and diesel and LPG cylinder. Even as the price of petrol is about to cross Rs. 100 a litre, the LPG cylinder price has been upwardly revised by Rs. 50 to hit consumers especially middle and lower income groups. The fuel price hike will soon reflect in the prices of essential commodities, consumers say. Condemning it, the union staged a demonstration on North Car Street with an empty LPG cylinder and towed an autorickshaw with a rope. While a protester was carrying the LPG cylinder on his head, other protesters towed an autorickshaw to show that the fuel price hike would take the people to ‘stone age.’ Union president Murugan, district executive committee members Senthil Raj and Antony participated in the agitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protest-against-hike-in-prices-of-petrol-lpg/article33855783.ece
17 February 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Five killed as vehicle falls into channel||Five farm workers were killed on the spot and 30 others were injured as the cargo autorickshaw in which they were travelling to work fell into a channel near Maniyaachi in Thoothukudi district on Tuesday. The deceased were identified as G. Malai Azhagu, 48; M. Petchiammal, 54; V. Gomathi, 65; S. Eswari, 27; and S. Petchiammal, 33, all hailing from Manappadaiveedu near Seevalaperi in Tirunelveli district. Of the injured, S. Petchiammal, 65; S. Chellathaai, 60; S. Mariammal, 50; M. Lingammal, 30; M. Petchiammal, 30; and M. Viji, 36 — all hailing from from Manappadaiveedu — were rushed to the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital after first aid at the Ottapidaaram Government Hospital. The condition of Ms. Viji is said to be critical. The other injured were taken to the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital. The bodies were also sent there for post-mortem. The police said the cargo autorickshaw took in 35 farm workers at Manappadaiveedu, about 15 km from Palayamkottai, and was proceeding to Maniyaachi and Puthiyamputhur, a dry region where the unprecedented rain in mid-January has helped revive farming. When they were about to reach Maniyaachi around 8.30 a.m., the vehicle overturned and plunged into a channel. Many of the occupants were trapped beneath the vehicle. Villagers near Maniyaachi rushed the spot to rescue the workers with the help of an earthmover. Thoothukudi Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar and Maniyaachi Deputy Superintendent of Police Shankar visited the spot. The police suspect that overloading and rash driving by N. Chiththirai, 44, of Thirumalaikozhunthupuram, caused the accident. He has been detained at the Maniyaachi station. Ferrying passengers in cargo vehicles is an offence, but the practice is common in the areas around Kovilpatti, Ottapidaaram, Kayathar and Vilaathikulam. As the police take no action, the drivers of these vehicles violate road safety rules, leading often to fatal accidents. Thoothukudi Collector K. Senthil Raj, who visited the spot, instructed the Department of Highways to create speed-breakers wherever it was required. Tirunelveli Collector V. Vishnu and Ottapidaaram MLA Shanmugaiah visited the victims at the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital.  Villagers near Maniyaachi rushed the spot to rescue the workers with the help of an earthmover||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-farm-workers-killed-as-vehicle-falls-into-channel/article33855759.ece
17 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Blast case hearing put off to February 23||All the four accused in the case relating to a major blast that occurred at an explosives factory at T. Murungapatti near Thuraiyur in December 2016 appeared before the First Additional District and Sessions Judge (PCR) here on Tuesday for a hearing in connection with framing of charges. The blast claimed the lives of 19 persons and caused injuries to 18 others. Officers of the Crime Branch CID, Tiruchi, investigating the case led by an officer in the rank of a Deputy Superintendent of Police were present. The CB-CID had named R. Vijayakannan, the managing director, licencee and occupier of the factory; factory director Prakasam and two others, S.S. Anand and R. Rajagopal, as the accused in the case. All the four appeared before the court when the hearing was held. Vijayakannan was the prime accused in the case. Special Public Prosecutor A. Rajendhran representing the CB-CID submitted before the Court that 322 witnesses had been examined. The Controller of Explosives from Nagpur, who inspected the factory, found that PETN (Penta Erithritol Tetra Nitrate ) unit -II was razed to the ground in the explosion. Pieces of flesh of the victims were found scattered in the vicinity. The equipment in the explosives factory was not maintained peoperly. There was excess storage of explosives in the PETN Unit-II where labourers beyond the permitted capacity were engaged at the time of explosion. There was ample evidence for framing of charges against the accused, the SPP contended. The prosecution had already submitted documents to the Court, including electronic evidences such as CDs and digital photos taken at the blast site. The defence counsel contended that the accused should be discharged and no further proceedings should be continued against them as no offences were committed by them. After hearing the submissions from both sides, the Judge adjourned the next hearing to February 23. The trial in the case would start only after the charges are framed, said the prosecution sources. The blast at Vetrivel Explosives occurred at 7.20 a.m. on December 1, 2016 with the case initially booked by the Uppilliyapuram Police. Subsequently, the case was transferred to the CB-CID for a detailed investigation following a direction from the Director General of Police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/blast-case-hearing-put-off-to-february-23/article33856428.ece
17 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||CM hands over land for Trade Facilitation Centre at Panchapur||A land measuring 9.42 acres at Panchapur on the city outskirts was on Tuesday handed over to Trichy Trade Centre Private Limited (SPV) by SIDCO for setting up Trade Facilitation Centre at a project cost of Rs. 11 crore, including the State government grant of Rs. 5 crore. Trichy Trade Centre chairman N. Kanagasabapathy received the land allotment order from Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami in Chennai. The first instalment of the land cost of Rs. 1.14 crore was handed over to the SIDCO by Trichy Trade Centre earlier this month. The balance has to be made before June 2021 following which the SPV is required to start construction work. While operation and maintenance cost will be borne by the SPV, the TANSIDCO will facilitate project implementation through a single window committee. Construction will start within six months from the taking possession of the plot, by obtaining the approval of local bodies and other competent authorities, and completed within 18 months from the date of commencement. A convention centre with 45,000 square feet space to accommodate 4,000 persons has been planned on the Trade Facilitation Centre premises. Food park Work on establishment of a Food Park on 250 acres at the SIPCOT Industrial Estate at Manapparai was also initiated by the Chief Minister on Tuesday. The Manapparai Industrial Park, for which 436.05 hectares have been earmarked, straddles Kannudaiyanpatti, K. Periyapatti (North) and Chathirapatti. The project involves development of roads, water supply, storm water drainage, street lights, green belt development and other such amenities. Besides food processing industries, it will house general engineering units involved in fabrication, machining, forging and castings; auto component industries; packaging units; and paper conversion units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-hands-over-land-for-trade-facilitation-centre-at-panchapur/article33855744.ece
17 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rush to fix FASTags||The points of sale of FASTags near toll plazas on National Highways witnessed a heavy rush on Tuesday after National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) made digital payments through FASTags at its toll plazas mandatory. A large number of vehicle users, who were yet to buy FASTags, thronged the toll plazas near Samayapuram on Tiruchi-Chennai highway and near Thuvakudi on Tiruchi-Thanjavur highway since early morning to get tags installed on their vehicles. The rush follows the announcement that vehicles without FASTags would be charged almost double the fee. The crowds swelled at points of sales after the NHAI started collecting additional fees at toll plazas. A NHAI official said the heavy rush witnessed on Monday and Tuesday was likely to continue for a few more days. More than 70% of vehicle owners and taxis had already fixed FASTags and the figure was fast increasing, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-rush-to-fix-fastags/article33856431.ece
17 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Protest against land acquisition||Property owners and traders who face displacement due to land acquisition for the proposed service lanes between Palpannai and Thuvakudi on Tiruchi-Thanjavur National Highway staged a black flag demonstration at Kattur on Tuesday condemning the land acquisition. They demanded that the land acquisition proceedings be stopped and instead steps for construction of an elevated corridor must be taken up so as to protect the livelihood of a large number of people who would be affected by the land acquisition. Members of Federation of Persons Affected by Widening of Tiruchi-Thanjavur Highway, which had mooted the alternative proposal of constructing an elevated corridor, participated in the meeting. Ve. Govindarajalu, general secretary, Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peramaippu, who had expressed solidarity with the federation members, led the agitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protest-against-land-acquisition/article33855800.ece
17 February 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Plan to utilise banana waste||The National Research Centre for Banana, Tiruchi, has announced the launch of an initiative to develop small machinery for extracting banana fibre and utilise the sap, central stem and other waste for producing a variety of products. The initiative was launched by NRCB in partnership the Indian Institute of Information Technology Design and Manufacturing, Kancheepuram, and Gencrest, an industry partner, brought together at the behest of Mylswamy Annadurai, vice-president, Tamil Nadu State Council for Science and Technology and chairman, National Design and Research Forum, a NRCB press release said. In Tamil Nadu, banana is cultivated in more than one lakh hectares and more than 10 million tonnes of waste is generated after the harvest of bunches. The initiative was aimed at managing this humongous quantity of biowaste. An agreement was signed to develop pilot scale machinery for extracting more than three tonnes of banana fibre every day and utilise the sap, central stem and scutcher for producing a variety of products. On the occasion, Dr. Mylswamy observed that banana cultivation generated approximately 80 million tonnes of pseudostem waste per year, but it was not used well despite its huge industrial potential. Banana fibre could be used in textiles and scutcher waste generated after extracting the fibre could be used as acoustic and aircraft panels and self-healing composites. Banana sap can be used as an organic liquid nutrient for enhancing the yield of fruits and vegetables and reducing the carbon footprint, Dr. Mylswamy said and added that the collaborative venture will hugely benefit the banana farmers in multiple ways, the press release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plan-to-utilise-banana-waste/article33856430.ece
17 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||22 peafowls found dead in Manapparai||Sixteen peahens and six peacocks were found dead on a farm at Keezhapoigaipatti near Manapparai on Monday. The dead birds were found lying in and around an agricultural land belonging to farmer Rasu. Forest Department officials visited the spot. An official said samples from the carcasses would be sent to the Regional Forensic laboratory in Tiruchi to determine the cause of the death, but suspected poisoning. After post-mortem the carcasses were buried on the premises of the office of the Forest Ranger at Manapparai. Meanwhile, Rasu’s wife Ponnammal alias Chinnaponnu, 55, was arrested on a charge of placing hare traps along the boundary of the farm land. Placing the traps is an offence. Rasu is absconding, sources said. A case under Section 9 of the Wild Life Protection Act has been booked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/22-peafowls-found-dead-in-manapparai/article33855741.ece
17 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||41 fresh cases in central region||Forty-one more persons tested positive for the novel corona virus in central region on Tuesday. There was no COVID-19 related deaths recorded in the bulletin of the State Health Department. Among the eight central districts, Tiruchi and Thanjavur districts recorded 10 fresh cases each. Tiruvarur district added half-a-dozen new cases and Nagapattinam five. Four persons tested positive for the virus in Karur. Ariyalur and Pudukottai reported three fresh cases each. For the third consecutive day, Perambalur saw no new case. As on Tuesday, Thanjavur had the maximum number of 108 active cases, including those undergoing treatment at hospital and in home quarantine, in the region. Tiruchi had 92 active cases, Nagapattinam 61, Tiruvarur 48, Karur 44, Pudukottai 32, Ariyalur 12 and Perambalur 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/41-fresh-cases-in-central-region/article33855747.ece
17 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Rape victim ends life||A 20-year-old woman who set herself afire after being allegedly raped by a man a few days ago succumbed to burn injuries on Monday. The crime took place at the house of the woman in Vaiyampatti police station limits on February 12. The accused, M. Arun Pandi, 27, was arrested on February 14. The woman succumbed to burns at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in Tiruchi on Monday. The Vaiyampatti police have registered a case under IPC section 376 (rape) read with section 4 (B) of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Woman Act. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104. and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044 24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rape-victim-ends-life/article33855742.ece
17 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Four boys rescued||A team of officials from various government departments rescued four boys, aged 14 to 18, belonging to North India found working as bonded labourers at a construction site here on Monday. Three of the boys hailed from Odisha and another from Bihar. The inspection was carried out as part of a two-week long Operation Smile. Inquiries revealed that the family members of the boys were reportedly given money ranging from Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 5,000 as advance allegedly by the traffickers to bring them to Tiruchi. The rescued boys were produced before the Collector and subsequently before the Child Welfare Committee. The boys have been accommodated in a home for temporary stay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-boys-rescued/article33856432.ece
17 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at Mettur dam stood at 104.40 feet on Tuesday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 376 cusecs and the discharge 1,500 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article33855746.ece
17 February 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Medical camp held||Over 200 conservancy workers participated in a medical camp organised by NGO Vizhuthugal at Thirumurugan Town Panchayat office near Tiruppur on Monday. A release said blood sugar levels, blood pressure and the bone and joint health of the workers were checked during the camp. Following the medical check-up, the NGO distributed gloves, masks and hand sanitisers to the conservancy workers, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medical-camp-held/article33856187.ece
17 February 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Construction of government buildings halted in Rifle Range wetland in Kotagiri||After local opposition from activists, construction bordering one of the last remaining wetlands in Kotagiri, has been cancelled by the Nilgiris district administration. The wetland, known as Rifle Range in Kotagiri, is said to have originally been 15 times its current size. Due to a lack of protection, the original spread of the wetland has gradually been whittled down and is now said to be just around 8 acres. Though the wetland has diminished in size due to encroaching residential buildings and plantations, it continues to be a source of drinking water for some of the most populated parts of Kotagiri town, with four wells being dug into it. Local residents who had got together over the last few years to clean up the wetland were shocked to find that it had been dug up and plans were being made to construct a few buildings, including a Primary Health Center. After opposition, the plan to construct buildings on the wetland have been cancelled, confirmed Nilgiris District Collector, J. Innocent Divya when contacted on Tuesday. Ms. Divya said that when the wetland was dug up, it was found that the soil was not suitable for construction, as it was swampy and there were concerns about the stability of any building built on the land. K.J. Raju, secretary of the Longwood Shola Watchdog Committee, who has been at the forefront of mobilising support for the protection of the Rifle Range wetland welcomed the decision. “Local residents have tried over the last few years to clean up and restore the wetland, which is a habitat used by a variety of wildlife around the town. We hope that this will lead to remaining wetlands and swamps around Kotagiri to be protected, and further encroachments prevented,” he said. G. Janardhanan, president of the Ooty Public Awareness Association, said that wetlands in the Nilgiris need to be identified. “If these wetlands come under the control of the Revenue Department, then they should be handed over to the Forest Department, as this would ensure some degree of protection. Already, wetlands in Udhagamandalam town, near the railway station have been destroyed by the government deciding to build buildings there. Not only does this result in the wetland being damaged, but the buildings too are unstable, and eventually sustain so much damage that they become unusable,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/construction-of-government-buildings-halted-in-rifle-range-wetland-in-kotagiri/article33856186.ece
17 February 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Seven new COVID-19 cases detected in Vellore||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore reached 20,893 with seven new cases reported on February 16. While a total of 20,472 have been discharged, the active cases in the district stands at 71. The district’s death toll is 350. In Ranipet, no new cases were reported and the total stood at 16,192. In Tirupattur, two cases were reported on Tuesday and the total number of cases stood at 7,616. In Tiruvannamalai, seven new cases were reported, taking the total to 19,434. Out of this, 19,114 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 36.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seven-new-covid-19-cases-detected-in-vellore/article33856383.ece
17 February 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Good performance fetches projects||In appreciation of Virudhunagar district’s good performance with respect to 47 indicators of development in various sectors under aspirational district, a draft proposal has been sent to the Centre for allocation of three innovative programmes to the district, said its Nodal Officer, R. Jaya. Talking to reporters after reviewing implementation of various works in education, health, agriculture, nutrition, child development, skill development and infrastructure, she said that the district has made good strides in the given indicators among the 117 districts in the country. Ms. Jaya, who is joint secretary in the Ministry of Tribal Affairs, said that the female birth rate has increased from 1000 to 1006 in the district. Besides, on education front, the district has achieved its 100% target and number of drop-out of students has come down. The number of girls in higher education has increased. Stating that continuous efforts would be put in for overall development of the district under aspirational district project, she exuded confidence that Virudhunagar would become a developed district very soon. Along with Virudhunagar Collector, R. Kannan, the Nodal Officer inspected the additional classrooms constructed by Department of Rural Development and funds from Koodankulam Nuclear Power Plant and the smart classroom set up by the Department of School Education. She also inspected the saplings planted to increase greenery under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. She inspected several other development works taken up in the district. District Revenue Officer, R. Mangalaramasubramanian, Project Director (District Rural Development Agency), V. Jayakumar, Sub-Collector, C. Dinesh Kumar, Joint Director (Agriculture), S. Uthandaraman, and Personal Assistant (Agriculture) to Collector, Sankar S. Narayanan, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/good-performance-fetches-projects/article33855785.ece
17 February 2021||February 17 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||All to be allowed inside Meenakshi temple||With relaxation of rules, all devotees will be allowed to have darshan at Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple through the four gates from Wednesday. However, the delay in permitting shops to reopen on the temple premises, which have been remaining closed for the past 11 months, has disheartened shopkeepers. Around 115 shops have been functioning inside the temple premises, says S. Rajanagulu, president of Arulmigu Meenakshi Sundareswarar Kovil Kadaikaarargal Sangam. Products such as thazampoo kungumam , sandhanam , puja items, jewellery, toys and flowers are sold at the shops. But they have remained closed for the past 11 months since the outbreak of COVID-1. The closure of the shops for nearly a year now has affected all shopkeepers, says P. Pandiarajan, a shopkeeper. “Most of the shops have been functioning continously for at least two generations. The owners have traditionally been dependent on revenue from the shops to make ends meet. They are now struggling to run their families with no income,” he points out. Some of them have even shifted to other jobs to earn income. “Besides shopowners, workers and other retailers dependent on the shops are also struggling," Mr. Rajanagulu adds. Mr. Pandiarajan says rules have been relaxed to allow children and senior citizens inside the temple from Wednesday. “Since most of the public activities have returned to normalcy, the shops inside the temple must also be allowed to open. The shopkeepers will comply with all COVID-19 safety precautions,” he adds. Mr. Rajanagulu says the judiciary issued an order for shifting 40 shops from the temple to a complex under construction at the multi-level car parking on North Aavani Moola Street. “Until construction is completed, the shops must be allowed to function within the temple.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-devotees-to-be-allowed-inside-meenakshi-temple/article33855777.ece
17 February 2021||February 17 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 40 cases||Coimbatore reported 40 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the district’s tally to 55,240. The Health Department did not report any deaths. The district saw 54,128 recoveries and 433 were active cases. A total of 51 patients were discharged on Tuesday. Tiruppur reported 12 fresh cases, taking the district’s tally to stand at 18,174. No deaths were reported in the district. As many as 17,834 patients recovered and 118 were active cases. On Tuesday, 17 persons were discharged. In the Nilgiris, four persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases stood at 8,285. The toll stood at 48 and 42 persons are undergoing treatment.  Covaxin administration begins at CMCH As part of the COVID-19 vaccination drive, the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) began administering Covaxin to frontline workers here from Tuesday. According to CMCH Dean P. Kalidas, 59 frontline workers received their first doses of Covaxin at CMCH on Tuesday. Meanwhile, 5,513 beneficiaries including the CMCH staff members and healthcare workers from private hospitals received the Covishield vaccine shots at CMCH, he said. Dr. Kalidas said the beneficiaries could choose between Covishield and Covaxin prior to receiving their first dose. However, he noted that the same vaccine must be maintained for the second doses and must not be mixed up. A consignment of 25,600 vials of Covaxin reached Coimbatore on Saturday. Officials from the Health Department said the Covaxin doses were sent only to CMCH and ESI Hospital in Coimbatore district and that the latter would soon begin to administer the Covaxin shots to the beneficiaries. Over 20 vaccination centres including government hospitals, primary health centres and private hospitals are present in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-40-cases/article33856199.ece
17 February 2021||February 17 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Salem sees 11 new cases||Eleven persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Salem on Tuesday. As per media bulletin, all cases were indigenous. Namakkal district reported six indigenous cases. Erode district reported 16 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 14,639. While 16 persons were discharged, 133 continue to be under treatment. Coimbatore reported 40 new cases on Tuesday, taking the district’s tally to 55,240. The Health Department did not report any deaths. The district saw 54,128 recoveries and 433 were active cases. A total of 51 patients were discharged on Tuesday. Tiruppur reported 12 fresh cases, taking the district’s tally to stand at 18,174. No deaths were reported in the district. As many as 17,834 patients recovered and 118 were active cases. On Tuesday, 17 persons were discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-sees-11-new-cases/article33855807.ece
17 February 2021||February 17 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Follow road rules, autorickshaw drivers told||Over 80% of road accidents are reported in 20% accident-prone areas and if road users follow the rules scrupulously, they can avoid them, according to Madurai Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan. Addressing the valedictory function of Road Safety Month here on Tuesday, he advised the autorickshaw drivers not to alter the seating arrangement in their vehicles against the rules. “You should be careful in the safety of yourself alone, but also that of your customers, who also have their families waiting at home,” he told them. Mr. Visakan said that nothing was more precious than one’s life and, hence, the drivers should follow all safety precautions on the road rather than focusing only on taking passengers. The Corporation was ready to extend all cooperation to the city police in maintenance of free flow of vehicular traffic. “We are ready to shift any parking lot on need base,” he added. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic) K. Sugumaran said a small city such as Madurai had 14,200 autorickshaws plying with permits. Like the drivers of State-run buses and Corporation vehicle drivers, auto drivers too had a major role in making the city accident-free. He advised them not to alter the seating arrangement and avoid overloading. “Whenever an auto meets with an accident, insurance is denied to passengers if the vehicle is overloaded as per insurance rules,” he warned. He said drivers should avoid stopping their vehicles at will without proper signaling as it led to accidents. They should also avoid driving in the wrong direction. Mr. Sugumaran appealed to the Corporation to take up thermoplastic road markings, especially for pedestrian crossings. A psychiatrist, Kavitha Fenn, stressed the importance of the golden hour in shifting accident victims to hospitals to save their lives. Mr. Visakan released a short film, Uyir Kavalan , produced by Inspector of Police Thangamani of Madurai City Traffic Police. Assitant Commissioners of Police (Traffic) A. Tirumalai and Mariappan were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/follow-road-rules-autorickshaw-drivers-told/article33855763.ece
17 February 2021||February 17 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Aiming high||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiming-high/article33856196.ece
17 February 2021||February 17 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two female nursing students end life||Dejected with her poor performance in the examination, a 20-year-old female nursing student at Melur has ended her life. Police said the deceased, who was pursuing the nursing course in an institute affiliated to a private hospital in the city, was attending online classes. The victim was frustrated as she could not perform well in the examination and consumed poison on February 11. She was admitted to a private hospital in the city. However, she did not respond to treatment and died on Sunday night, police said. Melur police are investigating the case. Second incident In an unrelated incident, another female nursing student from Achchampatti took the extreme step as she could not put up with chronic stomach ache. The woman, who was under treatment at Government Rajaji hospital in Madurai for burns, died on Sunday, according to police. Alanganallur police have booked a case. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-students-end-life/article33855778.ece
17 February 2021||February 17 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Bull run||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bull-run/article33856382.ece
17 February 2021||February 17 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||General||SREC Business School: Panel discussion on “Implication of Union Budget 2021”, 2 p.m.  Sankara College of Science and Commerce: Vegetable carving workshop, 10 a.m.      Sree Saraswathi Thyagaraja College: Virtual conference on Empowerment of South Asia Through Economic Consolidation, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/general/article33856190.ece
17 February 2021||February 17 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||17-02-2021-city-cinema||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA  SRI SUNDARAVINAYAGAR BHAKTHA JANA SABHA, Sheela Nagar, Madipakkam. 9841657654 TODAY 6.30 pm: Shruthi S.Bhat -Vocal, M.Vijay -Violin, B.Ganapathiram -Mridangam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/17-02-2021-city-cinema/article33856150.ece
17 February 2021||February 17 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi Today||K.A.P. Viswanatham Govrenment-Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital: Inauguration of ward for the destitute, S. Sivarasu, Collector, and J. Loganathan, Commissioner of Police, participate, 9.30 a.m.  District Road Safety Council and Bishop Heber College Road Safety Club: Road safety awareness campaign on speed limit, R. Vedarathinam, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Crime and Traffic, inaugurates, Puthur Four Roads Junction, 9.30 a.m.  AIMAN College of Arts and Science: Awareness programme on ‘Road Safety,’ R. Vedarathinam, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Crime and Traffic, chief guest, 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-today/article33856429.ece
17 February 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Now, Star Air flight connects Belagavi with Jodhpur||Star Air, aviation arm of the Sanjay Ghodawat Group, started the Jodhpur-Belagavi-Jodhpur flight under the UDAAN scheme in Belagavi on Tuesday. The inaugural Belagavi-Jodhpur flight witnessed an overwhelming response with 100 % passenger load. Sambra Airport director Rajesh Kumar Maurya, leaders, frequent fliers, executives of Star Air and Sanjay Ghodawat Group, AAI officers and others were present at the symbolic inaugural ceremony held amid COVID-19 protocol in Sambra Airport in Belagavi. Chairman Sanjay D. Ghodawat said that it will connect more tier II and tier III cities under RCS-UDAN. “The overwhelming response we received for Ajmer (Kishangarh) route has encouraged us to connect more cities from Rajasthan. Jodhpur is a step in that direction.” The commute time to cover the over 1,100 kilometres distance is only around two hours. Initially, the services will be available thrice a week. But this is likely to increase with demand. Director, Star Air, Shrenik Ghodawat, said that the new route will “certainly augment the regional connectivity and also catapult trade and tourism.” Belagavi happens to be an operational hub for Star Air and the airline has connected it to various Indian cities. Currently, it is offering flight services from Belagavi to the seven Indian cities of Bengaluru, Mumbai, Nashik, Ahmedabad, Surat, Indore and Ajmer (Kishangarh). Jodhpur is the eighth Indian city connected to Belagavi. Star Air offers scheduled flight services to 12 destinations — Ajmer (Kishangarh), Ahmedabad, Belagavi, Bengaluru, Delhi (Hindon), Hubballi, Indore, Kalaburagi, Mumbai, Nashik, Surat and Tirupati. In addition, it offers chartered flight services (both domestic and international) and cargo services, said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/now-star-air-flight-connects-belagavi-with-jodhpur/article33855836.ece
17 February 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Those opposing fund collection for building Ram temple will meet the fate of Ravana, says Savadi||“Those opposing the construction of the Sri Ram temple in Ayodhya will meet the same fate as of Ravana,” Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi said in Belagavi on Tuesday. In a press release issued from his office, the BJP leader has criticised leaders who were speaking against the donation collection drive for the temple. Without naming H.D. Kumaraswamy, former Chief Minister, Mr. Savadi said that those who were opposing the donation collection drive will meet the fate of Ravana, the villain of the Ramayana, if they tried to play politics over such issues. Mr. Kumaraswamy had on Monday said that some VHP members were marking the houses of people who had refused to donate to the Ram temple, on the lines of the Nazis. The VHP was not forcing anyone to donate for the temple. Instead, people of various faiths are donating voluntarily. That some people are opposing this is highly condemnable. It is clear as to who such leaders are trying to please. These leaders should introspect about their own ethical values, if they were to point fingers at honest and sincere organisations like the VHP.  ‘The VHP is not forcing anyone to donate for the temple; instead, people of various faiths are donating voluntarily. That some people are opposing it is highly condemnable.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/those-opposing-fund-collection-for-building-ram-temple-will-meet-the-fate-of-ravana-says-savadi/article33855834.ece
17 February 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Clinic inaugurated||A Cerebral Visual Impairment Clinic has been established in the KLE Society’s Prabhakar Kore Hospital here. The clinic was inaugurated in the Department of Ophthalmology. Medical Director M.V. Jali said that the clinic was set up with the efforts of Arvind Tenagi and Mahesh Kamate. Child ophthalmology expert Smitha Prabhu will be in charge of the clinic. Head of Department of Paediatric Retina, Narayana Nethralaya, and Programme Director KIDROP Anand Vinekar inaugurated the centre. Registrar, KAHER, V.A. Kothiwale and paediatrician V.D. Patil and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/clinic-inaugurated/article33855832.ece
17 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ram Mandir: Siddaramaiah, HDK question donation collection||Former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy’s comment on the donation drive for the construction of a Ram Mandir in Ayodhya has snowballed into a political slugfest, with the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) and several BJP leaders taking exception to it. Meanwhile, Mr. Kumaraswamy’s political rival and former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah on Tuesday also questioned the donation collection drive ‘Sri Ram Mandir Nidhi Samarpana Abhiyan’. Mr. Kumaraswamy, who stoked the controversy with his statements on Monday, told reporters that he had not mentioned the name of any organisation. “Who has given permission to raise donations? They require government permission for it. On what basis are people collecting money on the streets and in every village? To whom will they give accounts? Money is being raised by whipping up emotions,” he said. He sought to clarify that he was not opposed to the Ram Mandir construction or the donation drive. “I had specific information about the homes of those who had not paid being marked. Why are you creating anxiety among people?” he asked. “In the past, money was collected for bricks. Did they give any accounts? I have said this as a responsible person, that Ram’s name should not be misused or used to loot gullible people.” The VHP dubbed Mr. Kumaraswamy’s statement on homes being marked as “highly irresponsible”. “The volunteers do not even demand money from people. The outreach is merely to enable the whole country to take part or contribute as everyone believes strongly that Sri Ram is the identity of Bharat,” said Basavaraj, Karnataka organising secretary of the VHP, in a statement. “The former Chief Minister does not even check the facts or provide any before making such remarks. The VHP takes serious note of the baseless allegations made by an individual who held the highest office in the State and condemns the unwarrantedremarks on the patriotic organisation of the RSS.” Mr. Kumaraswamy’s statement also attracted the wrath of BJP Ministers and leaders. Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi, without naming the JD(S) leader, said those opposed to the donation drive for political reasons would meet the end of Ravana, the antagonist in Ramayana. ‘Receipt shortage’ One of the trustees of the Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, Sri Vishwa Prasanna Tirtha Swami of Udupi Pejawar Mutt, categorically rejected Mr. Kumaraswamy’s charges of “Nazi-styled” profiling of people who have not donated. The seer said the fund collection drive had received an overwhelming response, resulting in a shortage of coupons andreceipt books. “If at all a list of households was prepared, it was to help volunteers to return to those houses later to collect funds and issue proper receipts,” he said. BJP general secretary C.T. Ravi asked for details of the homes that were allegedly being marked. “People from across religions and castes are voluntarily donating. Let him provide details as to whose homes have been marked,” he said. He added that as against the target of Rs. 1,000 crore, Rs. 1,500 crore had been collected in donations so far. Meanwhile, former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah told reporters in Delhi that he had also been approached for donation, but he had refused to contribute. “My house has not been marked. I have told them clearly that I will not donate to the Ram Mandir on disputed land, but am willing to donate to a Ram Mandir to be constructed elsewhere.” He, however, asked the organisers about what happened to the money collected earlier. “They have collected money and bricks in the past. They threw the bricks outside the city [Ayodhya]. Have they given an account of the money collected?” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ram-mandir-siddaramaiah-hdk-question-donation-collection/article33855953.ece
17 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Stepmother connived with friend to murder ex-CM’s relative for gain’||Details are now emerging of how Indu Chouhan, 36, allegedly planned the murder of her stepson Siddharth Singh, a relative of the late Karnataka Chief Minister N. Dharam Singh, for three months with the help of her male friend. The crime was busted after the Amruthahalli police took up the probe of a missing complaint based on a suspicious message from the victim’s mobile phone to his father on January 19, the day he went missing. The police said as per the plan, Siddharth was abducted from his apartment in Dasarahalli and strangled to death using a seatbelt near Mulbagil before his body was buried in a forest area in Nellore, Andhra Pradesh. Siddharth, 28, an MBA graduate from the U.S., was staying alone in the apartment and had planned to start a business in the city. The accused, Shyam Sundar Reddy, and his associates, Vinod and Karthik, messaged Siddharth’s father Devender Sing using Siddharth’s mobile phone, saying that he was travelling to the U.S. to meet his friends. The accused also created an alibi by sending one more message later stating that he had landed safely. Things began to unfold when Devender checked and found out that Siddharth never went to the U.S. and found his mobile phone switched off. Suspecting something amiss, he filed a missing complaint. Considering the sensitivity of the case, C.K. Baba, DCP, Northeast division, and team zeroed in on Reddy based on CCTV footage and call record details. Fearing arrest, Reddy, committed suicide in the forest area, while his associate Vinod, who also attempted suicide, was rescued by passers-by and arrested later. Based on his confession, the police arrested Indu. Indu, the second wife of Devender, was living in a flat in Chennai where she met Reddy two years ago. Reddy, an engineering graduate working for a private firm in Chennai, was living in the adjacent flat. Investigations revealed that the duo had an affair and Indu, who was having problems with her husband, plotted the murder as Devender was ignoring her and her two children and getting close to Siddharth, the police said, adding that she feared that Devender would bequeath the property to Siddharth. “Indu thought the only option to take over the property was to eliminate Siddharth and plotted the murder using Reddy. Indu promised to settle his life and live with him in a farm house after the successful execution of the plan,” said a police officer, adding that Indu had transferred Rs. 75,000 as advance to him and his associate out of the promised Rs. 4 lakh.  Indu Chouhan allegedly planned the murder of Siddharth Singh for three months with the help of Shyam Sundar Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stepmother-connived-with-friend-to-murder-ex-cms-relative-for-gain/article33856130.ece
17 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP to step up enforcement of COVID-19 safety guidelines||The emergence of two COVID-19 clusters in the city has turned out to be a wake up call that there is no place for complacency over safety precautions observed lately, and it is time to pull up our socks to prevent a second wave, said BBMP commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad. He was speaking at a video conference held with representatives of RWAs and apartment associations in the city on Tuesday. As an immediate measure, the civic body has posted back all 440 civic marshals to enforce mask rule on the streets. “Most of them were withdrawn from mask enforcement and redeployed for solid waste management. But days later, the city has seen a spurt in cases and masking up is the top priority now,” Mr. Prasad said. He also said the civic body was considering a proposal to authorise citizen wardens in RWAs, apartments, and other public spaces like parks to enforce the mask rule. Reiterating the need to go back to the days of caution in residential colonies and apartments – masking up, sanitising, and social distancing – he advised residential communities to not hold events in closed air-conditioned spaces for the next few months. He added that events, if need be, have to be held in open spaces and senior citizens are advised not to attend. Mr. Prasad advised regular sanitisation of all common areas, restrictions on entry of outsiders (except house help and drivers) into the apartments, and staggered timing for gyms and swimming pools in apartment complexes. He appealed to RWAs and apartment associations to be the eyes and ears of the civic body and asked them to flag persons with symptoms in their community. “I request the citizens to get tested. In both the clusters, we have tested every resident. The civic body will conduct both antigen and RT-PCR tests for free, even through mobile labs. That is the best way to fight this,” he said. Presently, the BBMP is conducting tests in the range of 20,000 to 25,000 everyday, which will be increased in the coming week, he said, adding the civic body will also strengthen contact tracing again. “At its peak, the city was reporting nearly 6,000 cases a day in June 2020 and now we are reporting less than 200 cases a day. We have come a long way. There is no need to panic. But there is no place for complacency,” Mr. Prasad said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-to-step-up-enforcement-of-covid-19-safety-guidelines/article33856120.ece
17 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Alumni of Mount Carmel College express solidarity with Disha Ravi||The alumni of Disha Ravi’s alma mater Mount Carmel College have released a statement expressing solidarity with the 22-year-old climate activist arrested by the Delhi police in connection with the Greta Thunberg toolkit case, and condemning the arrest. “The blatant targeting of a young woman citizen expressing her support with the nation’s protesting farmers is horrifying and completely unacceptable ... Her arrest, we believe, is a way to browbeat young, articulate women — which Mount Carmel College has produced for generations — into silent submission,” the statement signed by 330 alumni of the college said. The statement described Ms. Ravi as “one of the best among us, fulfilling her duties as a citizen of India, and indeed of the world, through her activism in the field of climate change”, a “model to emulate” and said the signatories “are proud of the work she has undertaken in the field of climate change activism”. The statement said the signatories unconditionally express support to her and her family in this time of distress. “As co-founder of Fridays for Future in India, she has coordinated with climate activists across the world to get politicians and corporations to act and undertake measures to prevent the world from getting worse. Her participation as a young woman of colour in climate change activism has been important in bringing attention to the vulnerabilities faced by marginalised communities in countries of Global South,” the statement further said.  The blatant targeting of a woman citizen expressing her support with farmers is horrifying, said the statement signed by 330 alumni of the college.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/alumni-of-mount-carmel-college-express-solidarity-with-disha-ravi/article33856136.ece
17 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man hacked to death by wife’s relatives||A 27-year-old newly married man was hacked to death allegedly by his wife’s relatives for marrying against their wishes. The accused visited the house of Chetan in Laggere on the pretext of wishing him on his birthday and escaped after killing him in front of his wife. According to the police, Chetan was staying in a rented house with Bhumika. He was an electrician. According to the police, Bhumika was married earlier, but was unhappy and she eloped with Chetan two months ago. The accused have been identified as Akash, 19, Bhumika’s brother, her uncle Nanjesh, 58, and relative Deepak, 18. According to a preliminary investigation, the Rajgopalnagar police said Bhumika’s family members had opposed their relationship. On Tuesday morning, the accused got into an argument with Chetan over the marriage and attacked him with a chopper, killing him on the spot. On the run Bhumika, who witnessed the incident, cried for help. The accused fled the spot. Neighbours who heard the cry rushed to the house to find Chetan in a pool of blood. They alerted the police, who shifted the body for post mortem. Based on Bhumika’s statement, the police registered a case against the trio and efforts are on to track them down. “The accused Nanjesh is a supplier in a hotel, Akash is a driver and Deepak is a PUC drop-out. We have got the clues about the accused and they will be arrested soon,” the police said.  The 27-year-old newly married man was allegedly killed for marrying against his wife’s relatives’ wishes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-hacked-to-death-by-wifes-relatives/article33856138.ece
17 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Women have won more than 50% of gram panchayat seats||The gram panchayat results in December last year have thrown interesting developments pertaining to the empowerment of women. While 50% of the total seats were reserved for women, more than 50% of the elected representatives now are women — which means women also won in wards that were not reserved for them. From a 93-year-old woman elected in Bidar district to a young U.S.-educated woman, who has become the president of Sokke Gram Panchayat in Jagalur taluk of Davangere district, this election has been good for women candidates. There are as many as 31 members from the third gender, including the one elected as president of Saligrama Gram Panchayat in K.R. taluk of Mysuru district. Several other members holds Ph.D, postgraduate, medical, engineering, and law degrees, a note from the Rural Development of Panchayat Raj Department said. On Tuesday, these people were among the over 90,000 newly elected gram panchayat members who started a five-day training programme for capacity building through online classes. The mega exercise, inaugurated by RDPR Minister K.S. Eshwarappa, is being conducted by the Abdul Nazeer Sab Administrative Training Institute in Mysuru. It will be conducted through 285 centres across the State. As many as 90,729 members have been elected from 5,728 gram panchayats. During the training programme, the focus will be on training the new members in the panchayat raj system and the resource persons have been trained to this effect. A programme has been devised to provide continuous training to members with about 25 selected topics to be taught on the first and third Saturday of every month, press note said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/women-have-won-more-than-50-of-gram-panchayat-seats/article33855950.ece
17 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Taking the district administration to villages||To take the district administration to the doorsteps of villagers, starting from February 20, all Revenue Department officials, including the Deputy Commissioners and tahsildars, will visit 227 villages on every third Saturday of each month to hear the grievances of the marginalised sections in villages. Revenue Minister R. Ashok on Tuesday chaired a videoconference meeting with the Deputy Commissioners of all districts and said all DCs, tahsildars, revenue inspectors, surveyors, and all other officials of the department, except the clerical staff, would stay in villages for 24 hours on every third Saturday of each month. In case of a holiday falling on the third Saturday, the programme should be taken up the next day, he said. The decision has been taken as a large number of women, the elderly, and physically challenged persons were finding it difficult to the get to the office of the DC, the Minister said. During their village stay, the officials should look into problems related to pension due to the elderly, widows, and physically challenged persons, the issuance of BPL ration cards, land encroachment, identifying government land, providing road facility to the village, anganwadi buildings, facilities at hostels, and other matters, Mr. Ashok said. While the DCs and other officials will spend a night in hostels, the women staff will stay in houses, he said. The DCs have to clear all the applications on the spot by ordering tahsildars and revenue inspectors to address the grievance. The programme is to start at 10 a.m. and officials are to hold meetings with elected representatives between 4 p.m. and 5 p.m. on the same day. No invitations will be printed for the programme and officials have been told not to receive garlands from the public. No expenditure is to be incurred by officials for the village visits. Remote villages have been identified already to provide justice to the people who have been denied the benefits of various government schemes, he said. Mr. Ashok also said he would stay in a backward class students’ hostel at Hosahalli in Doddaballapur taluk on February 20. He said he would go around a Dalit colony and consume food prepared by Dalits on that day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/taking-the-district-administration-to-villages/article33855956.ece
17 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||All travellers from abroad must have RT-PCR negative certificate||The State government has made it mandatory for all international passengers coming to Karnataka, irrespective of their vaccination status, to compulsorily produce RT-PCR negative certificate on arrival. According to a circular issued by the Health Department, the international passengers should follow all guidelines issued by the Karnataka government. “Further, it is mandatory for passengers arriving in Karnataka from the United Kingdom, Brazil and South Africa to produce RT-PCR negative certificate to board the flight and also at Bengaluru airport. They should also undergo home quarantine for 14 days and get a follow-up RT-PCR done on the seventh day of arrival,” stated the circular. 438 new cases, 6 deaths The State on Tuesday reported 438 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 9,46,076. With six deaths, the toll rose to 12,273. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 344 persons were discharged on Tuesday, taking the total recoveries to 9,27,924. Of the remaining 5,860 active patients, 125 are being monitored in the ICU. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.93%, the Case Fatality Rate touched 1.36%. As many as 47,028 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 41,930 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 1,80,45,304. Healthcare workers On the second day, 69.86% (16,916) of the targeted 24,213 healthcare workers took the second dose till 8.30 pm. From Monday onwards, when the second dose vaccination began in the State, a total of 27,475 healthcare workers have been innoculated. According to data shared by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, Chitradurga recorded the highest number (3,238) of healthcare workers who took the second dose. Bengaluru Urban (2,296) and Vijayapura (2,277) came next. Bidar continued to record the lowest with only 195 taking the second dose. Meanwhile, as on Tuesday a total of 4,12,822 of the targeted 8,21,939 healthcare workers and 92,191 of the targeted 2,90,763 frontline workers have been administered the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine registering a coverage of 50% and 32% respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/all-travellers-from-abroad-must-have-rt-pcr-negative-certificate/article33856126.ece
17 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Families with SMA babies hope for miracle cure||Parents of babies with Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA), a rare genetic disease, came together at an event organised by Bangalore Baptist Hospital in the city on Tuesday. Raman Gowda and Beembai, parents of Aadhya, 1, said they are waiting for a miracle cure for their baby. Another family came from Chennai to discuss their 3.5-year-old daughter Rudra’s daily progress with the doctor. SMA is a disease caused by loss of nerve cells, which carry electrical signals from the brain to the muscles. The disease, as it progresses, makes it extremely difficult for the babies to carry out basic activities like sitting up, lifting their head, swallowing milk and even breathing. The hospital has a dedicated Paediatric Neuromuscular Service, a pioneering centre in the country with a multidisciplinary team of doctors providing comprehensive care under one roof. This service is run in collaboration with Organisation for Rare Diseases India, a NGO. A gene therapy costing Rs. 16 crore is the only shot of life for nearly 200 children under the care of specialists here. Last month, the gene therapy called Zolgensma, was offered free to 14-month-old baby Fatima from Bhatkal who was the lucky winner of a lottery through a compassionate access programme by Novartis, the Swiss drugmaker. While Fatima was lucky, several other babies are waiting for the miracle cure. “We have registered five more children for the lottery. While one family has resorted to crowdfunding, others are desperately waiting for the expensive therapy,” said Ann Agnes Mathew, Consultant Paediatric Neurologist and Neuromascular Specialist at the hospital. Speaking at the event, State Health Director Om Prakash Patil said the Union Ministry is working on a special programme for children with rare diseases. “We already had two-three meetings in this regard,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/families-with-sma-babies-hope-for-miracle-cure/article33856142.ece
17 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police directed to crack down on beggars||Police Commissioner Kamal Pant has directed the jurisdictional police to crack down on beggars and “other people” who lead to obstruction of traffic. In a memo issued on Monday, he ordered a drive jointly by the traffic and law and order police. An ACP-rank officer will be the nodal officer for the drive supervised by jurisdictional DCPs. Though the memo directs taking action, it will be up to the discretion of the DCPs as far as the nature of the action is concerned. “Beggars create nuisance to motorists who refuse to pay alms,” Mr. Pant said in the memo. The memo was issued in the wake of concerns raised by many residents in the last Sanchara Samparka Divasa held on Sunday in Yelahanka. They said that cab drivers giving alms to transgenders as a token of “good luck” had resulted in traffic jams at major junctions and increased the begging menace. The residents urged Mr. Pant to take action. This is not the first time that that the city police is cracking down on beggars. In 2016, it launched a special drive, Operation Smile, led by the then Additional Commissioner P. Harishekharan against begging, especially against those who were forcing children to beg at traffic junctions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-directed-to-crack-down-on-beggars/article33856134.ece
17 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah calls on Rahul Gandhi||Former Chief Minister and Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Tuesday called on former Congress president and MP Rahul Gandhi in New Delhi and discussed various political issues related to Karnataka. During the meeting, Mr. Siddaramaiah is said to have discussed a Statewide tour he has proposed to undertake along with KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar after the State Budget session next month. Mr. Siddaramaiah also reportedly discussed the names of candidates to be fielded by the party in the byelections to two Assembly constituencies and the Belagavi Lok Sabha seat. Congress leaders B.Z. Zameer Ahmed Khan, Arshad Rizwan, Prakash Rathod, H.M. Revanna, and Ashok Pattan accompanied him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/siddaramaiah-calls-on-rahul-gandhi/article33855954.ece
17 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rahul, Priyanka Gandhi in Bengaluru today||Former Congress national president Rahul Gandhi and All-India Congress Committee general secretary Priyanka Gandhi will be in Bengaluru city on Wednesday to attend the wedding reception of Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar’s daughter Aishwarya and Amartya Hegde, son of the late Cafe Coffee Day founder V.G. Siddhartha. Ms. Aishwarya and Mr. Hegde tied the knot on Sunday last. The Gandhis will return to Delhi in the evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rahul-priyanka-gandhi-in-bengaluru-today/article33855957.ece
17 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Finding beneficiaries||To eliminate brokers and middlemen in taluk offices and provide pension to eligible candidates, the Revenue Department has launched the Navodaya mobile app to identify beneficiaries for various pension schemes. Officials will identify the persons eligible for pension and transfer the amount each month to their bank accounts. The bank accounts of beneficiaries will be seized if they are found to not be withdrawing the money for eight or nine months, and such beneficiaries will then be considered as falling above the poverty line. The State spends Rs. 7,500 crore annually for providing pension to the poor and those aged above 60. During a recent verification drive, nearly four lakh bogus applicants were deleted and it saved the State exchequer Rs. 500 crore a year. The same amount will be used to give pension to the new eligible applicants, Revenue Minister R. Ashok said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/finding-beneficiaries/article33855958.ece
17 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NHAI pays Rs. 5L donation for remarks; HC accepts apology||After the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) paid Rs. 2.5 lakh each as donation for environmental causes to two organisations, the High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday permitted the authority to withdraw its affidavit containing the controversial remark that Environment Protection Act, 1986, was passed by the Parliament “not only to protect environment but also at the instance of foreign powers.” A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum allowed the NHAI to withdraw the entire statement filed on behalf of the authority containing many controversial remarks, and accepted the apology for the remarks. The NHAI said that it had paid Rs. 2.5 lakh each to Indian Council for Forestry Research and Education, Dehradun, and the Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nhai-pays-rs-5l-donation-for-remarks-hc-accepts-apology/article33855840.ece
17 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Five police officers transferred||The State government on Tuesday transferred five IPS officers and gave them new posting until further orders. According to a notification, the new postings are: Bhaskar Rao, Additional Director General of Police, Railways, Bengaluru; Prashanth Kumar Thakur, Additional Director General of Police, Lokayukta; Alikana S. Murthy, Additional Director General of Police and Managing Director, Karnataka State Police Housing Corporation, Bengaluru. K. Ramachandra Rao, Additional Director General of Police, Metropolitan Task Force, Bengaluru; and Arun Jeji Chakravarthy, Additional Director General of Police, Internal Security Division, Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/five-police-officers-transferred/article33856122.ece
17 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No power supply today||There will be no power supply on Wednesday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. in areas serviced from 66/11KV Pottery Road Station due to quarterly maintenance works. Some of the affected areas are: Bore Bank Road, Haris Road, ITI Layout, Chinappa Garden, Gandhi Grama, Williams Town, Pottery Town, Cox Town, Doddigunta, C.C Road, R.K Road, Wheeler Road, Tambu Chetty Road, M.M Road, Mosque Road, More Road, Coles Road, Stephens Road, Roberson Road, Hutchins Road, Lloyd Road, Richard’s Park road, Hall road, Davis Road, Bharath Nagar, M.S. Nagar, Linagarajapura Village, Oil Mill Road, High Street, Banasawadi Main Road, Puravankara Apartments, MSO Colony, ITC Colony, and surrounding areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-power-supply-today/article33856123.ece
17 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Treat patients like kin, says Sudhakar||If doctors treat their patients like their kin, the public healthcare sector will be able to meet the expectations of common man, said Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar here on Tuesday. Dr. Sudhakar was the chief guest at the convocation ceremony of the Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMRCI). Addressing the graduating batch of doctors, he hoped that the country was in its final leg of the battle against the COVID-19 pandemic. He said there were about three lakh staff serving in the Department of Health and Family Welfare. But the service provided at government hospitals was perceived to be not upto the mark. “Doctors can change this perception if they serve with dedication and treat each patient as their kin,” he said. Focus on health sector He also said that it was a matter of pride that India could develop and manufacture vaccine for COVID-19 in 10 months. As many as five lakh healthcare workers and frontline workers in the State can be vaccinated. The Minister also said that the health sector would be a major focus area in the upcoming Budget to be presented by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/treat-patients-like-kin-says-sudhakar/article33856124.ece
17 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Shivakumar condemns Disha’s arrest||KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar on Tuesday slammed the Centre on the arrest of climate activist Disha Ravi in connection with the farmers’ agitations. While condemning the arrest, the Congress leader tweeted: The “Arrest of Disha Ravi is an attack to weaken the moral strength of India’s youth and make dissent illegal. Police action against her, using a concocted ‘Toolkit’ conspiracy violates legal norms. Why not approach a competent court before arresting a young woman?” “Congress brought Freedom to India and has always stood for & defended Personal Liberty of Citizens. Congress is the only bulwark against India becoming an authoritarian state. Citizens must realise that only Congress can defend their personal & political freedom,” he added. Activists of NSUI, the students’ wing of the Congress, staged a demonstration here against the arrest. They demanded Disha’s release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shivakumar-condemns-dishas-arrest/article33856139.ece
17 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rush to buy FASTags||The Monday deadline resulted in a surge in demand for FASTags near toll plazas. At toll plazas, four to five service providers were seen selling FASTag on Tuesday as well. An employee of a service provider said: “On Tuesday morning, we saw more demand for new FASTags. Earlier, it took hours to activate FASTag, but now it hardly takes five minutes.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rush-to-buy-fastags/article33856143.ece
17 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||80% comply with rules||A senior official of the NHAI said there was 80% compliance in Bengaluru, and around 70% in other areas. “It is better to buy FASTag instead of paying a hefty fee. We hope that more than 90% of vehicles will have FASTag within a week,” said the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/80-comply-with-rules/article33856144.ece
17 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Goldsmith held for stealing gold worth Rs. 4 crore||The Wilson Garden police on Tuesday arrested a 19-year-old goldsmith who allegedly stole solid gold weighing 11.2 kg worth Rs. 4.58 crore from his employer’s shop in Nagarathpet recently. The arrested has been identified as Swapnil Ghadge from Maharashtra. He was arrested from his house in Solapur and the police recovered the stolen gold. Swapnil was working with Siddeshwar Haribha Sindhe, who melts old gold jewels into solid and makes new designs out of them. According to the police, Swapnil was working in a similar firm in Hyderabad and returned to his hometown during the lockdown. He came to Bengaluru in November and joined Sindhe’s shop. Sindhe told the police that on January 29 they had melted around 12.7 kg gold and kept it in his relatives’ house on RT Street. The next day, Swapnil went to the relative’s house and took the gold under the pretense that Sindhe had asked to bring it. He fled with the gold before Sindhe came to the shop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/goldsmith-held-for-stealing-gold-worth-rs-4-crore/article33856137.ece
17 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Next academic year from July 15||Minister S. Suresh Kumar also announced that the 2021-22 academic year will begin from July 15. The new year has been delayed by 1.5 months as the current academic year was affected by the pandemic. Schools in the State were closed from March to December, 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/next-academic-year-from-july-15/article33855842.ece
17 February 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Scientific’ measures to help avoid human-elephant encounters||Forest Minister Aravind Limbavali has said it would be difficult to take up the strengthening of elephant corridor as a step towards tackling elephant menace for a couple of years, given the current financial position. He addressed a meeting on elephant menace in Sakleshpur on Tuesday. The Minister said the State government would take up scientific measures to avoid man-elephant encounters in the district. The Forest Department had implemented certain measures in this direction. “We will write to the Centre to seek funds to install railway track fencing to avoid elephants entering human habitats”, he said. The department had convened a meeting of legislators from forest areas on February 25. Based on the suggestions expressed in the meeting, a proposal would be sent to the Centre. The State government had to take permission from the Central government on some issues while handling wild animals. Hassan Lok Sabha member Prajwal Revanna said the State government had to submit a proposal to the Centre seeking funds for the elephant corridor. Minister for Excise K. Gopalaiah, who is also Minister in charge of the district, legislators H.K. Kumaraswamy, K.S. Lingesh, former MLA H.M. Vishwanath and senior officers of the Forest Department attended the meeting. Earlier, Mr. Limbavali and Mr. Gopalaiah met the family members of Asthik Bhat, who was killed in an elephant attack on September 1, 2020, near Sakleshpur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/scientific-measures-to-help-avoid-human-elephant-encounters/article33855935.ece
17 February 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Shivamogga airport will be ready soon, says CM||The airport being constructed at Sogane on the outskirts of Shivamogga city will be operational within a year, said Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Tuesday. He spoke to presspersons after inspecting the work along with elected representatives and senior officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shivamogga-airport-will-be-ready-soon-says-cm/article33855946.ece
17 February 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||CM’s directive||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has said rich people who have taken BPL cards should return them. He told presspersons in Shivamogga on Tuesday the government would continue with guidelines issued in 2017 with regard to issuing BPL cards, meant to claim various government schemes including foodgrains at subsidised prices. "There are no changes in the guidelines. However, I have instructed the officers to withdraw cards from those who do not deserve it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cms-directive/article33855949.ece
17 February 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Man, woman found dead||A man and a woman, who were said to be depressed over the delay in their wedding, were found dead on the outskirts of the village in Akhandahalli of Yaddrami taluk in Kalaburagi district on Tuesday. The victims were identified as Parashuram Pujari (23) and Bhagyashree Wodeyar (18). According to the police, Parashuram was a farmer and the girl was studying PU. They were in love with each other for the last couple of years. They were depressed due to the uncertainty over their marriage and both eloped on February 11. They were found dead on Tuesday. Yeddrami Police have registered a case. ( Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani on Ph: 104 for help .)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-woman-found-dead/article33855837.ece
17 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Drive to remove encroachments to resume in city tomorrow||Mangaluru City Corporation and the police will jointly re-launch the drive to remove encroachments from pavements in the city on Thursday, Mayor Divakar said here on Tuesday. Chairing a meeting with councillors and police on traffic issues, Mr. Divakar said that teams have been formed for the city and for Surathkal to remove the encroachments. “Street vendors cannot operate on the footpath, which is meant for pedestrians to move freely,” Mr. Divakar said and added that he or other councillors will not interfere when the encroachments are removed. Responding to the demand by the Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime and Traffic) Vinay Gaonker for having a dedicated team of corporation officials for clearing encroachments, corporation Commissioner Akshy Sridhar said that a dedicated team of officials have been formed for the city and Surathkal and they will be coordinating with the police in the footpath clearance drive. On the demand for review of no-parking zones notified and the need for more road sign boards, Mr. Gaonker said that a committee comprising police and corporation officials have been formed to review the 54 notified no-parking zones. “We initially notified 61 no-parking zones and revised it to bring it down to 54. If problems are found in any of the 54 no-parking zones, we are ready to further modify our orders,” he said. Mr. Sridhar said that following the review, the corporation will install necessary road signages and make appropriate road markings. Mr. Sridhar said that work of laying road humps in a scientific way has already began. The corporation will take suggestions from experts from the National Institute of Technology-Karnataka and other academic institutions about road works. Councillor Naveen R. D’Souza said that despite widening the stretch between Kankanady Circle and Falnir, it is not of much use as many street vendors are operating on the stretch whose customers park on both sides of the road. Another councillor pointed out at street vendors selling vegetables and fish on the the Airport Road. Pointing out problems caused to motorists because of the barricades placed on the median between Nanthoor Junction and KPT Junction by the National Highways Authority of India, councillors Bhaskar Moily and Vinayraj said that motorists approaching the KPT Junction from Bondel find it difficult to see vehicles coming from Nanthoor Junction. Councillor T. Praveen Chandra Alva blamed the NHAI for not consulting either the traffic police or the corporation before erecting the barricades. Mentioning about the erratic ways in which city bus drivers drive, councillor Sudhir Shetty Kannur said that three operators on the route leading to Veeranagar and Faizal Nagar stop operating buses at 7.30 p.m., which is causing hardship to regular commuters. Councillor Kiran Kumar expressed the need to shift the bus stop at Kodical Cross to a nearby petrol station. Councillor M. Shashidhar Hegde said that traffic problems in the city should be resolved in a scientific manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/drive-to-remove-encroachments-to-resume-in-city-tomorrow/article33856327.ece
17 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Activists kept out of meeting||Activists G. Hanumantha Kamath and G.K. Bhat were not allowed to attend the meeting called by Mayor Divakar to discuss traffic issues at the corporation on Tuesday. Mr. Kamath said that the office of the Mayor had called him and Mr. Bhat and asked them to attend the meeting. Apart from officials from Mangaluru City Corporation, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime and Traffic) Vinay Gaonker and officials from the office of Regional Transport Officer attended the meeting. When Mr. Kamath came to the venue, officials told him that the meeting was purely between councillors and the officials. “It is strange that at the last moment officials barred us from attending the meeting. We represent the voice of the people who bear with traffic problems. It appears officials are not keen on hearing bitter truth about traffic management,” Mr. Kamath said and left the venue. Mr. Bhat heard from Mr. Kamath and did not come to the venue. Defending the decision to bar activists, Mr. Divakar told The Hindu that the meeting had been called to hear the 60 elected councillors and four nominated councillors. “This alone has taken two and half hours. We did not have time to hear others,” he said and added that he has received a memorandum from Mr. Kamath. However, Mr. Kamath denied having submitted any memorandum on traffic issues to Mr. Divakar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/activists-kept-out-of-meeting/article33856325.ece
17 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Do not make a charge without proof, says seer||The Sri Ram Janm Bhoomi Tirth Kshetra Trust on Tuesday categorically rejected the charge of Nazi style of profiling of people as to who has not donated for Ram Temple construction made by the former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Monday. Mr. Kumaraswamy had made the allegations at a press conference in Shivamogga and tweeted the same later. Sri Vishwa Prasanna Tirtha Swamiji of Udupi Pejawar Mutt, who is one of the trustees of the trust, rejected the charge outright and urged Mr. Kumaraswamy not to make any accusations without any semblance of proof. Stating that it was not wrong to level accusations, the swamiji told presspersons in Udupi that making accusations without any proof was completely wrong. He said that neither the trust nor the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh had given any such instructions to volunteers who were collecting donations for the construction of the Ram Temple. Sri Vishwa Prasanna said that people’s response to the fund collection has been overwhelming to the extent of causing shortage of coupons and receipt books. He said that if at all a list of households was prepared, it was to help volunteers to return to those houses later and collect funds with proper receipt. The former Chief Minister has not shown any proof that the list was prepared with the intent that he said it was for. Responding to the former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah’s reported statement that he would not donate for the temple construction, Sri Vishwa Prasanna said that the trust did not force anyone to make donation. He refused to react to Mr. Siddaramaiah’s charge that the Ram Temple site was under dispute and added that the Supreme Court had already settled the issue. Earlier, devotees felicitated Sri Vishwa Prasanna Tirtha on the occasion of his 33rd year of Sanyasahrama. In a simple programme at the mutt in Udupi, devotees showered flower petals on the swamiji at the Guru Vandana programme. Mutt’s Diwan M. Raghuramacharya, Vidwan Vishwesh Bhat, CEO Subrahmanya Bhat, Manager Indushekhar Hegde, Personal Secretaries Vishnumurthy Acharya, Krishna Bhat, Vasudeva Bhat and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/do-not-make-a-charge-without-proof-says-seer/article33856319.ece
17 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Body of youth who went missing in landslip found||The body of Sanath Shetty (20), who was missing since the landslip at Bangarapalke water falls of Malavanthige village in Belthangady taluk in Dakshina Kannada on January 25, was found on Tuesday evening. The police said that the body was stuck between two boulders at the base of the falls. A team of Belthangady Police led by Police Inspector Sandesh P.G. and a team each of volunteers led by activist Mahesh Shetty Thimarody and Malavanthige Panchayat member Prakash Kumar were involved in the search operation on Tuesday. Sanath Shetty was among the group of youths who had come from Ujire to see the falls. As Shetty was trying to reach atop the falls, there was a landslip and he went missing later. With the spot in the Kudremukh National Park being inaccessible, it was challenging for the district administration to conduct the rescue operation. Apart from the police and the local team members, 25 personnel from the Karnataka Fire and Emergency Services and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) were involved in the rescue operation. District Fire Officer Bharath Kumar, who was involved in the operation since day one, said that for the first nine days the rescue personnel manually dug up probable places and slushed the debris using portable water pump. Other earth (debris) removing devices were used later. The 25 personnel of the Fire and Emergency Services worked on rotation. “As our search did not yield any result, we (the Firemen and SDRF personnel) wounded up our operation on the 18th day (on February 11) following a visit of Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra,” said Mr. Bharath, who was involved in the search since January 26. The police continued the search with the help of volunteers. Residents of seven Malekudiya tribal families in the vicinity arranged food for the personnel involved in the search operation from day one. Apart from providing a team of volunteers, Mr. Prakash arranged for four-wheel drive vans for the rescue personnel to reach the spot from Didupe village of Malavanthige Gram Panchayat and from Samse village of Chikkamagaluru district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/body-of-youth-who-went-missing-in-landslip-found/article33856328.ece
17 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Local residents continue opposition to toll collection at four plazas||With FASTag being made mandatory from the beginning of this week, local commuters along National Highway 66 in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts continued their opposition to toll collection from local commuters through the highway at four toll plazas. Residents of Sasthan-Saligrama and surrounding villages in Udupi district staged a protest under the banner of “Heddari Jagruthi Samithi” against toll collection for local commuting at Sasthan Toll Plaza on Tuesday. Samithi president Shyam Sunder Nairy said that local residents will continue with their peaceful protest and will not budge from their decision not to pay toll fee. Brahmavar Tahsildar Kiran Gowraiah, Udupi Deputy Superintendent of Police Sudhakar S. Naik, Brahmavar Circle Inspector of Police Ananth Padmanabha and other officials arrived at the spot and made efforts to pacify the agitators. However, the protesting residents ensured vehicles of local residents passed the plaza without paying toll. Memorandum Concerned citizens in Dakshina Kannada submitted a memorandum to Union Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari through MP and State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel in Mangaluru on Tuesday. Demanding immediate closure of the NITK-Surathkal Toll Plaza, they said that the presence of two toll plazas, one at Surathkal and the nother at Hejmady, within a distance of 15 km was against all tenets of natural justice. Moreover, the plaza was located within the municipal limits of Mangaluru City Corporation and hence could not continue to exist, they said. Besides closing down the toll plaza, the amounts so far collected by the National Highways Authority of India should be deposited with the corporation to undertake works of service roads and lighting, they demanded. Mahabala Rai, Dinakar Mithrapatna, Aloysius Monteiro, Prashant Kanchan, M.G. Ramachandra, Harush Aithal, Arjun Mascarenhas, Yathish Baikampady and others were present. Meanwhile, personnel manning the Talapady toll plaza on Karnataka-Kerala border did not allow free passage of vehicles of local residents on Tuesday. Hitherto, residents within the 5 km radius of the plaza were allowed to drive their vehicles through the plaza without paying toll.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/local-residents-continue-opposition-to-toll-collection-at-four-plazas/article33856321.ece
17 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||PNG supply to households in city from May-end||The supply of piped natural gas (PNG) for cooking in households in the city will begin by the end of this May, according to Chief General Manager (City Gas Distribution-Projects), GAIL Gas Ltd., Noida, Kapil Kumar Jain, and General Manager, City Gas Distribution-Projects, Mangaluru, Vilin Zunke. In an informal chat with presspersons after commissioning the first compressed natural gas (CNG) station of Coastal Karnataka at the Netravathi Service Station of Indian Oil Corporation Ltd (IOCL) at Adyar on Tuesday, they said that the Mangaluru City Corporation has permitted the company to lay 60 km long network of pipelines to connect houses. Of this, Mr. Zunke said, 48 km long network of pipelines will have medium density polyethylene (MDPE) pipes and 12 km long network of pipelines will be steel ones. In addition, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has permitted to lay 10 km long steel pipeline on the highway side in the city. The General Manager said that 6.7 km long network of pipelines have been laid in the city. Mr. Zunke said that 54,000 consumers have registered in the city seeking PNG connection. Of them, pipelines have already been laid for 5,300 consumers who are yet to get the gas supply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/png-supply-to-households-in-city-from-may-end/article33856324.ece
17 February 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||PDOs to ensure ORR remains clean||Exasperated by the relentless dumping of garbage along the Outer Ring Road (ORR) despite efforts to spruce it up, the authorities on Tuesday fixed the onus on the Panchayat Development Officers (PDO) to ensure that the road remains clean. At a stakeholders meeting, Mysuru MP Pratap Simha said that the ORR alignment abuts a few village panchayat limits and the garbage from these places are dumped along the roads at night. Hence the PDOs of the respective villages will be held responsible and penalised for any garbage dumping that takes place along the ORR stretch coming within their jurisdiction. Though the entire 43-km stretch of the ORR was recently cleaned and spruced up by various departments, the practice of using the ORR has a dump site has persisted and is a cause for concern, said Mr. Simha. Bulk of the dumping takes place at night and despite efforts by the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) to impose fine, the practice has persisted. Mr. Simha said the PDOs will be expected to carry out periodic inspection of the stretch within their jurisdiction and ensure that the ORR remains garbage-free. The villages of Hinkal, Koorgali, Bogadi, Srirampura, Hosahundi, Hanchya, Alanahalli, Siddalingapura – all of which display semi-urban characteristics and are part of the city suburbs – abut the ORR alignment. In the absence of space for disposing the garbage, the villagers dump it along the road. Mr. Simha said he will strive to identify suitable land for waste disposal and appealed to the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) to allow the garbage generated in the villages along the ORR to be transported to the sewage farm in Mysuru till the completion of the Swachh Survekshan 2021 survey. The ORR will be asphalted again at a cost of Rs. 161 crore released by the Centre and the NH wing of the PWD will take up the task and the cleaning drive comes ahead of the asphalting, said Mr. Simha The waste treatment plant at the sewage farm handles city wastes and has been a cause of rift between the residents and the local authorities. The former want the waste treatment relocated as it is source of foul odour and there have been a slew of protests seeking its relocation. Also, against its capacity to handle around 250 tonnes of garbage daily, the facility receives nearly 400 tonnes and there is spillover. Gurudutt Hegde, outgoing MCC Commissioner, agreed to the suggestion to transport the garbage from these villages provided there was waste segregation at source. He suggested a plant visit of the stakeholders as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pdos-to-ensure-orr-remains-clean/article33855939.ece
17 February 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Poor state of road deplored||Frustrated over the continuing delay by the authorities to take up repair of the potholes-filled Azeez Sait Double Road in Narasimharaja Assembly constituency, residents of the adjoining localities gathered under the aegis of Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) and staged a demonstration on the road. Though the protesters did not block the road, they sat by the roadside holding aloft placards and shouting slogans against the corporators of the adjoining localities, Narasimharaja Assembly constituency MLA Tanveer Sait and Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) for allowing the condition of the road to worsen to such deplorable level. Though the road, which is also known as Mahadevapura Main Road, connecting Udayagiri Circle to Sathgalli Bus Depot on the Outer Ring Road junction, is one of the busiest roads in entire constituency, the commuters on the road have to routinely negotiate large potholes amid heavy vehicular traffic that makes riding an appalling experience. Mishaps often take place on the road, as also traffic snarls and road rages. SDPI leader Abdul Majeed, who led the protest, said the authorities had neither asphalted nor repaired the road for the last eight years. They have not bothered to even fill up the potholes in the last eight years, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/poor-state-of-road-deplored/article33855942.ece
17 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Anti-cow slaughter Act caused no harm to farmers’||A day after the controversial Karnataka Prevention of Cow Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Act, 2020 was notified, Minister for Animal Husbandry Prabhu Chavan on Tuesday claimed that the Act has caused no harm to farmers but to the Congress which is ‘politicising’ the issue. Speaking to reporters in Mysuru after a review meeting of his department, he said no farmer has approached the government with a complaint to the decision taken by the government to safeguard cattle. “Farmers are happy as we are protecting the cows. Only the Congress party is having a problem on the decision taken by us,” Mr Chavan said, in reply to a question on the lack of alternative steps taken on the difficulties of farmers for looking after their aged cattle following the ban. ‘Issue debated’ To a question on the allegations that the Act was notified without a proper debate, the Minister said the issue was debated for over three hours in the Legislative session. “The issue has been discussed but the Congress is now doing politics.” Without elaborating on what the farmers were supposed to do with their aged cattle, following the ban, Mr. Chavan said, “All measures are being taken. We have around 188 private cow shelters in the State and the government will be funding these shelters to look after the aged cattle.” No proposal from zoos Mr. Chavan clarified that he has not received any representation seeking permission for the zoos to obtain beef as procuring alternative meat such as chicken and mutton for their carnivores had increased their expenditures since the ban. “So far, I have not received any communication on this. No zoo has approached me. If they approach me, it will be discussed and suitable steps will be taken.” The Minister replied that the Uttar Pradesh model on safeguarding the cows will be replicated in the State too. Earlier, in the meeting, the Minister sought the Police Department’s support in enforcing the anti-cow slaughter law effectively in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/anti-cow-slaughter-act-caused-no-harm-to-farmers/article33855937.ece
17 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Minister seeks Rs. 5 cr. for Sainik School||A sum of Rs. 5 crore has been sought for the development of Sainik School at Kushalnagar that faced flooding during heavy discharge from Harangi Dam in 2018, the year when Kodagu witnessed its worst floods and landslides. Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekar and Minister for Urban Development B.A. Basavaraj, along with Madikeri MLA Appachu Ranjan, on Tuesday visited the Sainik School. The school authorities told the Ministers about the problems the school faced during Kushalnagar floods. Principal Kannan explained to Mr. Somashekar the damage caused from the floods in 2018 and sought support for the school’s development. Mr. Somashekar immediately telephoned Additional Chief Secretary of Irrigation Rakesh Singh, and explained to him the issue. Mr. Somashekar sought Rs. 5 crore for taking up development works by the school. “The ACS has responded positively to the appeal,” according to the Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-seeks-rs-5-cr-for-sainik-school/article33855944.ece
17 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Jatra at M.M. Hills temple||The Malai Mahadeshwara Temple in Chamarajanagar district will be hosting Maha Shivaratri Jatra in March and Ugadi Jatra in April. Minister in charge of Chamarajanagar district S. Suresh Kumar held a meeting with officials today on the arrangements to be made. The Maha Shivaratri Jatra will be held from March 10 to 14 and the temple will be holding its rathotsava on March 14. The Ugadi Jatra will take place from April 9 to 13. On April 13, the Ugadi Rathotsava will be conducted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jatra-at-mm-hills-temple/article33855947.ece
17 February 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Man murdered over property dispute||A 21-year-old man was murdered by his relatives over what is suspected to be a property dispute in Deevalagudda village in Surpur taluk of Yadgir district on Tuesday. Shivaraj (21) was the victim. The accused are Narasimha Raju, Tatappa and Raghavendra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-murdered-over-property-dispute/article33855838.ece
17 February 2021||February 17 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Turahalli: No scope to change a natural forest to a tree park||Forest and tree parks are two disparate landscapes with different activities and objectives. Natural forests are non-human centric while tree parks are completely human centric. Tree parks cannot be developed at the cost of natural forest. It takes thousands of years for a natural forest to grow and reach its climatic climax. The Turahalli Minor Forest and other surrounding areas are part of the category of dry deciduous forest located at a height of about 850 to 900 meters from sea level. The forest is part of the protection-cum-improvement working circle. One of the objectives of the management of this working circle is to protect, conserve and improve the existing forest, encourage the root stock to flourish, and improve soil and moisture conservation. The creation of a tree park at the cost of Turahalli forest would defeat the objective of the management and in turn violate the prescriptions of the approved working plan. In this forest, the majority of trees are Eucalyptus. In August, Habenaria roxburghii orchids bloom, giving a brilliant white colour to contrast the green of the forest. The rocky terrains are great for lianas, the most common being Opilia amentacea. They bloom during the summer. These are mostly located in the Northern edge of the forest, surrounded by figs Ficus tinctoria, Syzygium cumini and rocks. The most common herb is the Byttneria herbacea, which blooms all through the year. Its flowers attract many beetles. Legumes, specifically Indigofera karnatakana, an endemic species, are found here, while Ixora Pavetta blooms during the summer. Over time, all these species will vanish except eucalyptus if a tree park is created.  Over 80-year history On August 24, 1934, an area of 241.79 hectares located 20 km from the centre of Bengaluru off Kanakapura road notified as Turahalli Minor Forest under the then Mysore Forest Act, 1900. The Supreme Court in its landmark judgment dated December 12, 1996, in writ petition (WP) no. 202 of 1995, directed all the State governments in the country to work the forest area as per the working plans approved under the Forest (Conservation) Act 1980). In this regard, the working plan for the Bengaluru Urban Forest Division was written and approved in a 2015 order by the Central government, Ministry of Forest, Ecology and Environment and Climate Change for the period of 2013-14 to 2022-23 under Section-2 of Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980 subject to certain conditions. Further, the State government issued an order for the said period and conditions. Any change or modification in the working plan rests with the Central government only. Turahalli has been in the news since 2006-07, when certain forged documents were created as if the area was non-forest land and it was granted to certain individuals by the then Maharaja of Mysore. In 2006-07, some BDAs layouts were also formed in this forest area, which was subsequently removed and planting was done. This part of forest land is being developed to take the shape of a tree park though the land belongs to notified forest. As per the working plan, management of forest in the division is to maintain environment stability and ecological balance by adopting measures to protect, preserve and conserve the existing natural forest biodiversity of flora and fauna. To achieve this, forest areas are to be protected by constructing compound walls all around to give full protection mainly from the entry of human beings since the forest areas are surrounded by massive human habitats. There is no scope to change a natural forest to a tree park under the approved working plan.  The writer is a retired IFS official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/turahalli-no-scope-to-change-a-natural-forest-to-a-tree-park/article33856128.ece
17 February 2021||February 17 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Sky-high rates||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sky-high-rates/article33856132.ece
17 February 2021||February 17 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Raghavendra Rajkumar hospitalised||Kannada actor-producer Raghavendra Rajkumar was hospitalised on Tuesday evening. The son of legendary actor Dr. Rajkumar was reportedly suffering from mild palpitations. A press statement from Columbia Asia Referral Hospital, Yeshwantpur, said: “Film star Raghavendra Rajkumar has been admitted in Columbia Asia Referral Hospital Yeshwantpur with mild palpitations on the evening of February 16. He is admitted for observation and is currently stable.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/raghavendra-rajkumar-hospitalised/article33856129.ece
17 February 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||‘Chai wallah’ returns, for his book release||Jalal Rahman stopped formal schooling at the age of 12 to support his family. He did odd jobs including selling tea at Kanjirappally and Kottayam in the following years to make ends meet. In 1982, at 17, he shifted base from Kottayam to Milad-E-Sherif Memorial (MSM) College, Kayamkulam, not to enrol as a student but to assist his uncle in serving tea to college staff. Saudi sojourn After his uncle moved to the Gulf, he inherited the business and managed the college canteen for more than 20 years before relocating to Saudi Arabia in 2004. Seventeen years later, the beloved tea-seller is set to visit the college again. This time not as a ‘chai wallah’ but to release his 235-page memoir titled Oru College Canteenkarante Kurippukal . “All through my struggles, I kept reading, which later helped me build a bit of writing proficiency. One-third of the book is set around the campus where I spent more than two decades as a tea-seller and canteen manager,” says Mr. Rahman, 53, a resident of Thalavady in Alappuzha. Positive vibe Apart from the memories of a person who has seen college life — campus politics, love affairs, friendships — from close quarters, the book also sheds light on the ‘pravasi’ experience. Everything is laced with humour, and there is a positive vibe all through. “In Saudi, I began to note down my experiences and shared some of it on my Facebook page. Friends asked me to compile the jottings and I started to work on the book five months ago. A couple of months ago, I came home on leave and completed the book with the help of my friend Lakshman Madhav, a poet and artist,” he said.  Oru College Canteenkarante Kurippukal will be released by P.A. Hilal Babu, manager, MSM College Trust in a function at MSM College at 4 p.m. on February 17. It will be inaugurated by U. Prathibha, MLA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chai-wallah-returns-for-his-book-release/article33855894.ece
17 February 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||UDF to dissolve Kerala Bank when in power||The Kerala State Cooperative Bank (Kerala Bank) will be dissolved if the United Democratic Front (UDF) comes to power in the State, Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has said. Addressing a press conference here on Tuesday, Mr. Chennithala said the Kerala High Court’s decision to stay the State government’s move to regularise 1,850 temporary employees of Kerala Bank was a jolt to the Pinarayi Vijayan-led government. “The UDF has opposed the formation of Kerala Bank right from the beginning. It is an illegal entity. The government is destroying the cooperative movement in the State in the name of Kerala Bank. If voted to power, we will disband Kerala Bank,” Mr. Chennithala said. The Leader of the Opposition said that if elected, the UDF would review back-door appointments made by the present Left Democratic Front government in the State. “The Chief Minister is not even ready to talk to the protesting Public Service Commission (PSC) rank holders. It shows his arrogance. We are not against CPI(M) workers getting into government jobs. But it should be done through proper channels,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-to-dissolve-kerala-bank-when-in-power/article33855908.ece
17 February 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Community radio for Kuttanad||Kuttanad FM 90.0, a community radio service for farmers, will be launched on Wednesday. The community radio under the Farm Information Bureau of the Agriculture Department will broadcast farm-oriented programmes. A first-of-its-kind in government sector here, the radio station is set up on the premises of the State Seed Testing Laboratory at Kalarcode. It will be available on 90.0 frequency. It will be active within a 20-km radius of the station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/community-radio-for-kuttanad/article33855902.ece
17 February 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||3,906 grievances resolved at adalat||“Santhwana Sparsham”, a two-day adalat of the State government to ensure speedy help to people in distress, has provided relief to thousands of people in the district, Revenue Minister E. Chandrashekharan has said. Speaking after inaugurating the second day of the programme here on Wednesday, Mr. Chandrashekharan said that those grievances that could not be resolved at the adalat would be resolved by the government in a time-bound manner. The Assembly election notification would not be a hurdle to solving the complaints, he said. Excise Minister T.P. Ramakrishnan presided over the function. As many as 3,906 grievances, including 2,249 complaints on Wednesday, were resolved at the adalat . A financial assistance of Rs. 19,87,500 was granted from the relief fund of the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3906-grievances-resolved-at-adalat/article33855864.ece
17 February 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||New building of farmers’ company inaugurated||The new factory building and machinery of Tulunadu Ecogreen Farmers Producer Company, the first venture of Kasaragod farmers fully owned by them to promote processing and value addition of agricultural produce, were inaugurated recently. The company is promoted by ICAR-Krishi Vigyan Kendra and the Central Plantation Crops Research Institute (CPCRI) with financial aid from National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD). The building and machinery were inaugurated by Rajmohan Unnithan, MP, at Pallathinkal in Bedadka panchayat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-building-of-farmers-company-inaugurated/article33855861.ece
17 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||New plan sought to solve waterlogging||With the last scientific study on Kochi’s canal system dating back to 2002, and even that focusing only on the central areas of the city, the Kochi Corporation is set to come up with another plan to troubleshoot waterlogging issues around the canal and drain network. Councillors will identify problem areas and present them to the engineering wing. The assistance of the Department of Town and Country Planning will be sought to prepare a plan, before a cost estimate is drawn up and presented to the Works Standing Committee. Suggestions of the nearly two-decades-old study, done by Esteem Developers, were discussed at a special corporation council meeting on Tuesday. Some measures suggested by the study for the area around the Mullassery canal, which are yet to be implemented, will be completed, and Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) has already set Rs. 10 crore aside for it, said Mayor M. Anilkumar. Incomplete works include using a motor and pipe to divert water from the area around the KSRTC bus yard to the dry thodu nearby, and construction of new drains and culverts that can carry water from M.G. Road to the Vembanad backwaters without burdening the Mullassery, Market and Thevara-Perandoor canals. Areas identified The corporation’s engineering wing presented a report at the meeting which identified the KSRTC bus stand area, the area around the KSEB substation at Kaloor, M.G. Road, Panampilly Nagar and parts of West Kochi, as areas recurrently plagued by waterlogging. At Kaloor, the Karnakkodam and Changadampokku canals were connected earlier, but work on the metro line had disrupted the link, leading to waterlogging. The corporation will approach Kochi Metro Rail Limited to construct a culvert connecting the two canals. Parts of the Changadampokku canal that flows through the KSEB compound have been covered with concrete slabs and these will have to be cleared, the corporation report says.  Operation Breakthrough While the corporation will hand over Rs. 4 crore to the District Disaster Management Authority for work on the Mullassery canal under Operation Breakthrough, the corporation and the Operation Breakthrough team appear to be at odds over increasing the depth of the canal. The Operation Breakthrough team had planned to increase the depth of the canal, while the corporation engineers maintain that increasing depth could alter the slope of the canal and exacerbate waterlogging. The issue would have to be examined further before work can be undertaken, Mr. Anilkumar said. Councillors pointed out at the meeting that the Esteem Developers study omitted several canals where waterlogging has become rampant. Besides, no specific study had been done for the canals in the West Kochi area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-plan-sought-to-solve-waterlogging/article33856306.ece
17 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||State’s film fete arrives in Kochi after 21 years||Critically acclaimed filmmaker K.G. George, along with 24 persons representing the new face of the Malayalam film industry, will light a lamp celebrating 25 years of the International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK) here on Wednesday. Minister for Cinema A.K. Balan will inaugurate through videoconferencing the Kochi leg of the festival at the Saritha theatre complex. The movies will be screened at Saritha, Savitha, Sangeetha, Sreedhar, Kavitha, and Padma 1 in the city. The IFFK has come to Kochi after 21 years. The fourth edition of the festival was held here from April 3 to 10, 1999. It was the first festival held after the formation of the Kerala State Chalachitra Academy in 1998. The IFFK had received the recognition of International Federation of Film Archives when it was held here. The competition section in the festival was also launched in the Kochi festival. 2,500 passes The organisers said that about 2,500 persons were issued delegate passes after receiving their COVID-19 negative certificate. Seats have to be reserved in advance online. The daily screenings will be over by 9 p.m. as per the pandemic protocol prescribed by the Health Department. Filmmaker Jayaraj, chairman of Malayalam Cine Technician’s Association, will inaugurate a photo festival titled IFFK@25 at the Saritha theatre complex on Thursday. Homage section The homage section of the festival will have films by Fernando Solanas, Kim Ki-duk, Irrfan Khan, Rishi Kapoor, Ramachandra Babu, Soumitra Chatterjee, Bhanu Athaiya, Sachy, Shanavas Naranipuzha, and Anil Nedumangad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/states-film-fete-comes-to-kochi-after-21-years/article33856303.ece
17 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||HC notice to Centre on plea of expats||The Kerala High Court has issued notice to the Centre on a writ petition filed by UAE returnees who lost their household items and other personal belongings in a fire at the warehouse of a cargo firm in Dubai. The petition seeks a directive to the Indian Ambassador to the United Arab Emirates to initiate legal action against the cargo company. The petition was filed by Santhosh Kumar A.U. of Palakkad and 14 other UAE returnees. According to him, when they left the UAE by Vande Bharat flights after they lost their jobs in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak, their household and other personal items were entrusted to Ruby Cargo, a packing and moving company based in Dubai, to be delivered to their residential addresses in the country. However, they did not hear anything about the status of their shipments despite several follow-ups with the cargo firm. But, later they learnt that the cargo was destroyed in a fire that broke out at the cargo firm’s warehouse in Dubai on July 6, 2020. The petitioners sought a directive to extend benefits of the Indian Community Welfare Fund and legal assistance to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-notice-to-centre-on-plea-of-expats/article33855910.ece
17 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Multiple locations for film fete not viable: academy||The conduct of the International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK) in multiple locations remains impractical in view of the logistical hurdles in organising it, according to the Kerala State Chalachitra Academy. Pandemic crisis The pandemic crisis had triggered the decision to hold the 25th edition of the festival in four districts. “But it is a challenge for the academy considering the fact that it has only minimal staff to carry out the preparations. We have to bring the support systems from one place to another,” said Kamal, chairman of the academy. Bina Paul, vice chairperson of the academy and artistic director of the IFFK, said it was a difficult task to shift the festival from one location to another. “It was only because of COVID-19 that we had to shift it out of Thiruvananthapuram this time,” Ms. Paul said. Fewer films On the selection of movies this time, Ms. Paul said the number of films was fewer (nearly 80 to 85) compared to normal occasions when it would be around 200 in view of the pandemic situation. “Certainly, the focus on the World Cinema category was to show films that are really known and those people are looking forward to watching,” Ms. Paul said.  Tight process Stating that it was a tight selection process this time, Ms. Paul recalled that smaller and undiscovered films were usually included in the normal editions. “We have now focussed on providing the best of festivals’ kind of approach. In the competition section, we have films by new, young filmmakers. These films were highly appreciated in Thiruvananthapuram. We hope that the Kochi audience would also embrace them,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/multiple-locations-not-viable/article33856301.ece
17 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Budget lays out plan for agriculture growth||The Ernakulam District Panchayat budget for 2021-22 has laid out a clear programme of agricultural development over the next year. A total of nearly Rs. 10 crore has been set aside for agricultural activities. The budget has also focussed on housing for all and welfare of women. The budget was presented by district panchayat vice president Shiny George at a session presided over by Ullas Thomas, president, on Tuesday. The budget allocation for agriculture included Rs. 2 crore for comprehensive farming activities, Rs. 25 lakh for Kera Gramam Programme and Rs. 50 lakh for the one-rice and one-fish agricultural cycle activities. Farmers will be supported with a subsidy of Rs. 17,000 per hectare. There will also be steps to establish rice mills under the aegis of the district panchayat so that farmers can sell the rice produced in their paddy fields. A collective dairy farming unit at Neriamangalam is among the projects envisaged in the budget. A total of Rs. 30 lakh has been set aside for launching a farm that will include 200 cows and 300 buffaloes. The district panchayat will develop and encourage farm tourism through the establishments at the Aluva seed production centre and Neriamangalam and Okkal agricultural farms. Road development The budget has set aside Rs. 64 crore for building new roads and Rs. 10 crore for repair and maintenance works. The budget has also allocated Rs. 3.5 crore for drinking water projects in the district. In addition, fund has been allocated for launching ironing and dry fish units, restaurants, and small fertiliser making units in local areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/budget-lays-out-plan-for-agriculture-growth/article33856305.ece
17 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC moved against regularisation of temporary staff in depts.||The regularisation of temporary employees in various government departments has been challenged before the Kerala High Court. In their petition, two youths, Faizal Kulappadam and Vishu Sunil, on Tuesday contended that the government orders of regularisation were illegal and arbitrary. The services of the temporary employees had been regularised bypassing the regular mode of selection. It was the duty of the Public Service Commission (PSC) to do the recruitment to posts in the government service. The government had violated various procedures and the laws laid down by the Supreme Court in the Umadevi case by regularising the temporary employees. Objections raised The petition pointed out that the government could not resort to regularisation of temporary employees when candidates were available for selection from ranks list published by the PSC. The regularisation was done despite strong objections from the Law and Finance Departments. For example, 296 temporary employees of Keltron were regularised, ignoring the objection of these departments. Likewise, 51 temporary drivers in the Local Self-Government Department were regularised on the ground that they had completed 10 years of service on contract. Besides seeking to set aside the orders of regularisation the petition pleaded for a directive to the State government to take steps to report all the existing vacancies to the PSC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-moved-against-regularisation-of-temporary-employees/article33855909.ece
17 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||LNG terminal approved as dispensing station||The Kochi terminal of Petronet LNG Ltd has become the country’s first LNG dispensing station. The Petroleum Explosive and Safety Organisation has issued permanent licence to the terminal to provide automotive fuel to motor vehicles. The licence was issued after a year-long trial run, which was deemed successful. The company is expected to set up more such stations across Kerala with the support of the State government. LNG stations would ensure development of a green ecosystem that would reduce pollution, Yogananda Reddy, Chief General Manager and Vice President (Plant Head), said. The company has plans to launch a fishing boat operating with LNG as fuel in the marine sector shortly with the support of K-Disc (Kerala Development and Innovation Strategic Council). More LNG dispensing stations would be coming up in the State, as PSU oil marketing companies have shown interest in setting up more such stations in Kasaragod, Thrissur, and Thiruvananthapuram in the next one year, Mr. Reddy said. R.Venugopal, Deputy Chief Controller of Explosives, Kerala, said that usage of LNG would increase in the near future, especially in the automotive and marine sectors. The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation and private buses operating in the State could take the economic advantage of using LNG as fuel, it was said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lng-terminal-approved-as-dispensing-station/article33856307.ece
17 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Minister’s promise a boost for pineapple farmers||Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar on Tuesday said that the Vazhakulam Agro and Fruit Processing Company would be among the first to be considered for licensed production of wine from pineapple in the State. The Minister was inaugurating a group of projects at the company, jointly owned by the government and pineapple farmers. The pineapple processing unit was established in the early 1990s with the European Union’s support and has been producing fruit drinks. The products relaunched on Tuesday included the Jive brand of pineapple and other mixed fruit drinks. The Jive brand of bottled drinking water was also launched by the Minister. The Vazhakulam plant was established with the objective of procuring pineapple when prices fall below sustainable levels. However, the plant had been idling for nearly three years. Pineapple-based wine unit has been a major demand from farmers. Sources in the Vazhakulam plant said that the wine making unit had been proposed to make use of the fruit mostly during the lean season. The project cost is estimated at Rs. 5.89 crore and it will benefit thousands of farmers in the State, who bear the brunt of steep price fall from time to time. The production line at the fruit processing unit, including the extraction line, to produce pulp had been in full steam, and the aseptic filling machine has been brought on stream now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ministers-promise-a-boost-for-pineapple-farmers/article33856308.ece
17 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||3rd approver in actor rape case||Vishnu, 10th accused in the actor rape case, was made an approver on Tuesday. With the special court which is considering the case approving the request of Vishnu, there will be three approvers in the sensational case. Earlier, Vipinlal, another accused, and Anish, a policeman, had turned approver in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3rd-approver-in-actor-rape-case/article33855912.ece
17 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||KCBC||Kerala Catholic Bishops’ Council president Cardinal George Alencherry has written to the Chief Election Commissioner of India requesting him not to conduct elections to the Assembly between April 1 and 6, as they mark important days for Christians. “The dates from Maundy Thursday up to Easter Sunday (April 4) are holy for Christians and since officials and politicians from the Christian community will be required to do election-related work on these days, April 5 and 6 may also be exempted from the election schedule,” Cardinal Alencherry said in his letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kcbc/article33855913.ece
17 February 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Vocational courses||The Centre for Continuing Education, Government Polytechnic College, Ezhukone, has invited applications for AutoCAD, aluminium fabrication, and beautician courses. Application forms are available at its office. The last date for accepting applications is February 25. Call: 94968 46522.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vocational-courses/article33855900.ece
17 February 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Minister to open renovated plant||Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar will inaugurate the renovated plant of Kerala Agro Fruit Products, Punalur, on February 17. Forest Minister K. Raju will preside over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-to-open-renovated-plant/article33855903.ece
17 February 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||895 people get Rs. 1.07-crore aid||Water Resources Minister K. Krishnankutty and Civil Supplies Minister P. Thilothaman led the Santhwana Sparsham, the complaint redressal adalat of the State government, on its second day in the district on Tuesday. During the adalat at Nedumkunnam, the authorities considered complaints from Changanassery and Kanjirappally taluks. Special counters were set up for receiving complaints during the event, held in strict compliance with the COVID-19 protocol. The complaints received on the second day included treatment assistance for patients, conversion of ration cards and so on. District Collector M. Anjana was present. As per estimates, the authorities distributed financial assistance of Rs. 1.07 crore from the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund (CMDRF) fund to 895 applicants. Of this, 592 applicants from Changanassery received Rs. 63.73 lakh while the remaining amount was disbursed to 303 applicants from Kanjirappally. 113 ration cards As many as 113 ration cards too were distributed during the event. Additionally, the authorities also disposed of 886 out of the 1,677 petitions on various other issues. On Monday, the government had allotted a total financial assistance of Rs. 1.18 crore to 1,218 applicants from the Meenachil and Kottayam taluks. As many as 140 ration cards too were distributed. In Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, the adalat on the second day was led by Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran and Local Self-Governance Minister A.C. Moideen. Complainants from Ranni and Konni taluks were considered during the adalat held at Mylapra. Officials said 2,409 petitions were disposed of on the second day and financial assistance of Rs. 18 lakh was distributed. A total of 97 ration cards and six title deeds were also distributed while 235 new applications for BPL ration cards were included on the rank list. On Monday, authorities had disposed of 2,133 applications from Kozhencherry and Adoor taluks. As many as 295 of 313 applications for converting ration cards to the priority list too were cleared.  Authorities also disposed of 886 out of the 1,677 petitions on various other issues||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/895-people-get-rs-107-crore-aid/article33855904.ece
17 February 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Mani: ready to face anyone in Pala||Kerala Congress (M) chairman Jose K. Mani on Tuesday said the party was prepared to face any opponent in Pala, including Mani C. Kappan, in the upcoming Assembly elections. Talking to mediapersons here, Mr. Mani said the party was not really bothered about its rival in the constituency. “As is evident from the historic win the Left Democratic Front (LDF) had registered during the recent local body elections, the ruling coalition is on course to return to power with a huge margin. The KC(M), on its part, also has a major role to play in ensuring the victory of the LDF,” he said. Steering panel meet Later in the day, a meeting of the party's steering committee evaluated its preparedness ahead of the elections, both politically and at the organisational level. Official sources said the regional party would be seeking up to 14 seats, including six in Kottayam. During the previous election, the party had contested in 15 seats and won six seats, including Kaduthuruthy and Thodupuzha, which currently belong to the Joseph group of the Kerala Congress. Besides the six seats in Kottayam, the party will seek to contest from Ranni in Pathanamthitta, Kuttanad in Alappuzha, Perambra and Thiruvambady in Kozhikode, Irikkur in Kannur, Idukki and Thodupuzha in Idukki, Irinjalakuda in Thrissur, and Perumbavoor or Angamaly in Ernakulam. The party chairman is expected to contest from the Pala constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mani-ready-to-face-anyone-in-pala/article33855915.ece
17 February 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||A++ grade for St. Thomas College, Pala||St. Thomas College, Pala, has secured the top A++ grade in the latest assessment by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC). Following a visit by the NAAC peer team on February 10 and 11, the institution received the grade with 3.56 Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) in its fourth cycle of assessment. The team assessed the curricular and extra-curricular aspects, effectiveness of teaching and learning methodology, innovative and best practices, development in research aspects, among other things. Fr. James John Mangalath, Principal, attributed the success to the collective efforts of faculty members, non-teaching staff, students, parents, and alumni.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-grade-for-st-thomas-college-pala/article33855895.ece
17 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Knowledge Park project: oustees stage dharna||People who lost their land for the Kinfra Knowledge Park project at Ramanattukara staged a dharna in front of the office of local MLA V.K.C. Mammed Koya at Cheruvannur on Tuesday. It has been 28 days since they launched a protest in front of the park, demanding their rightful compensation. Full compensation  The 140 landowners who lost their land for the project have reportedly not received a large chunk of the compensation since the government took over the land 12 years ago. The government has even neglected the Kerala High Court order in 2018 that asked the State to pay complete compensation to the landowners, said K. Koyamutti Haji, president of the Ramanattukara Kinfra Knowledge Park Land Losers Action Committee. On Tuesday, a large number of protesters, including senior citizens, marched to the MLA’s office. “These are people who have nowhere else to turn to. The government should consider their plight,” said Mohammed Faisal, coordinator of the protest. ‘Protests to continue’ “We have not had any formal assurance from anyone. There have been rumours that they are considering our issue seriously. However, we will continue to protest until there is a solution,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/knowledge-park-project-oustees-stage-dharna/article33855862.ece
17 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||1,000 govt. primary schools remain headless||The State government has not appointed head teachers in around 1,000 government primary schools in the past one year. Those on the Kerala Public Service Commission rank lists for Lower Primary School Assistant (LPSA) and Upper Primary School Assistant (UPSA) posts are reportedly losing a chance to get a government job because of this. According to sources, the stalemate in recruitment followed a Kerala High Court order on January 27 last year which directed the government to appoint only those who cleared department-level qualification tests as head teachers. Some head teachers, who had not passed the tests, approached the Supreme Court against the order. The apex court ordered to maintain the status quo . The State government has not appointed head teachers in government primary schools since April last year, it is learnt. Rules amended The government, in the meantime, amended rules to exempt teachers aged above 50 from the ambit of the High Court order. Another group of teachers opposed this order, following which the High Court said the present situation should continue until the apex court settles the matter. “Right now, there is some sort of undeclared freeze on recruitment. If the government promotes existing test-qualified teachers as head teachers, it will lead to around 1,000 vacancies in various government primary schools. Those from the PSC rank list for LPSA and UPSA can be appointed to these posts,” K.N. Anand, president of the Kerala Test Qualified Primary Teachers’ Union, told The Hindu . He claimed that by not making appointments, the government was apparently trying to cut the cost on salaries. “However, because of the impasse, many qualified teachers who could have become head teachers are retiring next month without getting a chance for promotion. The wait of those on PSC rank lists is getting longer too,” Mr. Anand said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1000-govt-primary-schools-remain-headless/article33856421.ece
17 February 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||CPI(M) sets eyes on Elathur seat||After the Pala imbroglio, the Elathur segment in Kozhikode has become another bone of contention between the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) in the Left Democratic Front (LDF) for the Assembly polls. The CPI(M) district committee is against allotting to the NCP again the Elathur seat, a carved segment after delimitation a decade ago. NCP leader and Minister A.K. Saseendran had successfully contested from here in the 2011 and 2016 elections. Even before Pala got a bad press, CPI(M) district leaders had been signalling to take over Elathur as they perceived that the NCP had a thin or negligible voter-base in Kozhikode. Furthermore, they yearned to field their own party candidate from the segment considered to be the safest for the CPI(M) amongst the 13 seats in Kozhikode. However, the NCP hopes that the CPI(M) will honour its decision to allot the Elathur seat, especially after the faction led by Mr. Saseendran remained with the LDF during the rift with Pala legislator, Mani C. Kappan. Sources said that big trouble emerging against Mr. Saseendran was that many leaders within his party were against his candidature even as he began a pre-poll campaign in Elathur. He has been in the fray eight times and won in five polls. Mr. Saseendran, a native of Kannur, was brought to the district when A.C. Shanmughadas, who had been continuously standing for the polls, faced a similar situation in Balussery segment in 2006. Sources said that NCP Central leadership would play a crucial role in the selection of the candidates for the Assembly polls. And this would be more of a straight decision unlike its stand on Pala segment which it lost to the Jose K. Mani faction of the KC(M).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-sets-eyes-on-elathur-seat/article33855865.ece
17 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Shashi Tharoor lends an ear to Kozhikode’s concerns||On Tuesday, Shashi Tharoor, MP, interacted with common people in the city as part of efforts to draw up the United Democratic Front’s people’s manifesto for the upcoming Assembly elections. Earlier in the day, he listened to suggestions from merchants and salespersons at S.M. Street and then interacted with the students of St. Joseph’s College, Devagiri. Later, he interacted with people from different strata of society who had assembled at the Sarovaram Biopark. It was environmentalist T. Shobheendran who kick-started the session called ‘Talk to Tharoor’ by airing his concerns regarding the environment. Film-maker V.M. Vinu called for a cut in entertainment tax to pull more crowds to theatres. Hameed Fazal Gafoor, who represented Muslim Educational Society, called for vigil against the mutation of SARS-CoV-2. P.N. Ajitha, representing the medical fraternity, cited the need for government-sponsored cancer detection programmes while Divya Ananthakrishnan, a student, demanded the stepping up of security for women so that they could travel freely.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shashi-tharoor-lends-an-ear-to-kozhikodes-concerns/article33855860.ece
17 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||250 kg of stale fish seized||The health wing of the Kozhikode Municipal Corporation seized 250 kg of stale fish from a shop in central market in the city on Tuesday. The fish, in at least four varieties, was stocked in unhygienic thermocol boxes and damaged freezers. Health officer R.S. Gopakumar said that legal action would be taken against V.P. Ismail, the owner of the shop. The corporation had put a hold on inspections in shops for around a year in the wake of COVID-19 as the health officials were busy fighting the pandemic. However, the squads have been reconstituted and inspections would be regular from now on, the health officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/250-kg-of-stale-fish-seized/article33855863.ece
17 February 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Man stabs wife to death||A 30-year old man of Kodiyathur near Mukkom in Kozhikode district, was arrested on the charge of stabbing his wife to death suspecting her fidelity, the police said on Tuesday. The Mukkom police, who arrested Saheer, said that he stabbed his wife, Muhsila, on her neck after a heated argument over the issue early on Tuesday. Mukkom Circle Inspector S. Nizam said that a case was registered under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code. A post mortem was conducted on the body of the victim at the Kozhikode Medical College Hospital. The accused was subjected to forensic and DNA tests. He would be produced in the magistrate’s court on Wednesday, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-stabs-wife-to-death/article33855854.ece
17 February 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||424 cases in Kozhikode||The active COVID-19 case load from Kozhikode district dropped to 6,394 on Tuesday when 866 people recovered from the infection and 424 new cases were reported. According to the District Medical Officer, there were 413 locally acquired infections. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 155 cases of local transmission, Koodaranhi 27, Eramala 19, and Koyilandy 17. A s many as 6,307 samples were tested and the daily test positivity rate in the district is 6.72%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/424-cases-in-kozhikode/article33855858.ece
17 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Three projects opened at Calicut varsity||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday laid the foundation stone for a building for the Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC) and research directorate and opened the first floor of the newly constructed humanities block building of the Calicut University. The event was held online. Minister for Higher Education K.T. Jaleel, among others, was present at the event. With the opening of the new block, departments such as Sociology, Political Science and Women’s Studies could be shifted there. It had been a long-pending demand to have a separate building for the IQAC and the research directorate as well. Vice Chancellor M.K. Jayaraj said in a release that focus was being given to improving infrastructure on the campus. Stepping up activities of the IQAC is expected to help the university improve its position in the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) grading due in September.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-projects-opened-at-calicut-varsity/article33855855.ece
17 February 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Renovated Kairali-Sree to open tomorrow||Kairali-Sree, the movie complex run by the Kerala State Film Development Corporation in the city, will be opened after renovation on Thursday. According to a release, screening of films will begin there on Friday. The theatres now have a vast lobby space, book stall, push-back seats, a painting gallery by the Kerala Lalithakala Academy, feeding room, VIP lounge, and facility to book car parking space along with movie tickets. A.K. Balan, Minister for Cultural Affairs, will attend the inaugural event. Lyricist Kaithapram Damodaran Namboodiri, who recently received the Padma Shri, and Manoj Kana, who bagged the State Film Award, will be felicitated. Film workers from Kozhikode, who have made a mark in the industry too will be honoured at the event, along with ex-employees of the theatre complex. Only invited guests will be allowed to participate in view of COVID-19 restrictions. The Oscar Award-winning movie 1917 will be screened later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/renovated-kairali-sree-to-open-tomorrow/article33855856.ece
17 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||4,937 fresh cases in the State, TPR down to 6.64%||Kerala reported 4,937 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told the media that 18 deaths in the past few days were confirmed to have been caused by the infection and the number of fatalities due to the pandemic so far had gone up to 4,016. As many as 74,352 samples were tested over 24 hours and the daily test positivity rate (TPR) fell to 6.64%. On Monday, it was 7.31%. The active case pool dropped further to 60,761 on Tuesday when 5,439 people recovered from the infection. So far, there had been 9,46,910 recoveries. Of the new cases, 4,478 were locally acquired infections, 90 people had returned from other States, and the source of 340 others is not known. Ernakulam reported 643 cases, Kollam 547, Pathanamthitta 524, Thrissur 503, Kottayam 471, Kozhikode 424, Alappuzha 381, Thiruvananthapuram 373, Malappuram 345, Palakkad 217, Kannur 182, Wayanad 135, Kasaragod 126, and Idukki 66. U.K. variant None of the newly infected persons were returnees from the United Kingdom. So far 84 people who returned from the country have tested positive for the virus and 70 of them have recovered. Only 10 people have reported the presence of the mutated variant of SARS-CoV-2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/4937-fresh-cases-in-the-state-tpr-down-to-664/article33855906.ece
17 February 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Protest against BEML disinvestment||The Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) will form a ‘human fortress’ in front of Bharat Earth Movers Ltd (BEML) and Instrumentation Ltd (IL) at Kanjikode near here on Wednesday in protest against the Central government move to sell off BEML. The organisers said here on Tuesday that thousands of workers from across the district would attend the protest. CITU State general secretary Elamaram Kareem will inaugurate the ‘human fortress’. P.K. Sasi, MLA, CITU district secretary M. Hamza, other State and district leaders of the CITU, people’s representatives from the district, and Central and State government workers will join the protest. BEML has been a profit-making public sector undertaking engaged in the manufacturing of heavy vehicles used for defence purposes. It is the only Indian company engaged in the making of metro rail coaches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protest-against-beml-disinvestment/article33856378.ece
17 February 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Entries sought for woman social worker award||The Senior Chamber has invited nominations for the third edition of its Vijaya Smriti Awards for outstanding women in social service. For details, contact 9656488899.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/entries-sought-for-woman-social-worker-award/article33856377.ece
17 February 2021||Pathanamthitta,KERALA||524 cases in Pathanamthitta||As many as 524 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Tuesday. Of the fresh cases, 513 persons contracted the virus through local contact and among these, the contact source of 26 cases is yet to be identified. Among the local bodies, Thiruvalla reported 41 cases, followed by Pathanamthitta with 25 cases. The disease claimed five more lives in the district and the victims have been identified as a 78-year-old woman from Kuttapuzha, 88-year-old man from Pathanamthitta, 85-year-old Nedumbram native, 84-year-old woman from Kottanad, and a 43-year-old Koodal native. With 116 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 6,259 active cases. 471 in Kottayam As many as 471 persons tested positive in Kottayam. Of the fresh cases, all persons, including a health-care worker, contracted the virus through local contact. The fresh cases also included 49 children and 90 persons aged above 60. With 87cases, Kottayam municipality led the tally, followed by Ettumanur with 31 cases. With 699 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 4,717 active cases. 381 in Alappuzha Alappuzha reported 381 cases. Among the fresh cases, 361 patients contracted the disease through local transmission. Eleven persons who came from other States and two from abroad also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Meanwhile, 214 persons who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district recovered. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 4,668.  (With inputs from Kottayam and Alappuzha bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/524-cases-in-pathanamthitta/article33855897.ece
17 February 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Sabarimala temple to close today||The five-day rituals in the Malayalam month of Kumbham at the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple will draw to a close on Wednesday. The Travancore Devaswom Board said the temple would be reopened on March 14 evening for monthly pujas and the ten-day annual festival that begins on March 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sabarimala-temple-to-close-today/article33855914.ece
17 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Work on heritage project launched||Kerala Tourism has launched work on the Rs. 100-crore Travancore Heritage Project to conserve and showcase the cultural richness and tangible legacy of the erstwhile Travancore and make the visit to the capital and its surroundings a more riveting experience. Launching the work at Park View, the headquarters of Kerala Tourism, on Tuesday, Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran said Kerala Tourism was making a major stride by presenting to the world the heritage and legacy of the erstwhile Travancore. The project was conceived in such a way that it would provide a complete experience to the visitors, he said. The tourism sector had been passing through its severest crisis for the past three years. However, the government made its best efforts to turn adversities into opportunities. The new projects were expected to make the tourism sector more productive and attractive, he added. Offering felicitations on the occasion, Minister for Ports, Archives, and Archaeology Ramachandran Kadannappally said the project would make a visit to the State capital more attractive. The Archaeology and Museum Department was also involved in the project.   The launch of the project was the result of an effort to firmly mark the rich heritage of the erstwhile Travancore on the world tourism map, said Rani George, Principal Secretary, Tourism. The realisation of the project would enable the visitors to delve into its history and culture. Tourism Director P. Bala Kiran said a slew of tourism projects with a total outlay of Rs. 450 crore were being implemented in Thiruvananthapuram district alone. The project sought to preserve the old-world look of vintage structures. The first phase involved illuminating 30 heritage structures of the city to give them a greater visual appeal. In the next stage, another 20 structures would be illuminated, and each heritage building would be maintained like a museum, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/work-on-heritage-project-launched/article33856402.ece
17 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Academic programme for local body leaders||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurated a six-month-long academic programme for the newly elected leaders of local bodies here on Tuesday. The first-of-its-kind certificate course on decentralisation and local governance is being conducted by Kerala Institute of Local Administration (KILA) in collaboration with the Sree Narayana Guru Open University and the Kerala University of Digital Sciences, Innovation and Technology. Mr. Vijayan said that the innovative programme marked the coming together of universities that would pool in their expertise to enhance the training programme being offered by KILA. Such initiatives were bound to enhance the local body leaders’ understanding of decentralised governance. Minister for Local Self Governments A.C. Moideen presided over the function. Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel said the academic credits and certificate would become a boon for local body leaders who aspired to pursue further education. Mayor enrols Kerala State Higher Education Council vice chairman Rajan Gurukkal P.M. mooted upgrading KILA as a full-fledged university to foster in-depth study and research into grassroots democracy, local governance, and decentralised planning. Thiruvananthapuram Mayor Arya Rajendran enrolled as the first participant of the certificate course. Kerala University of Digital Sciences, Innovation and Technology Vice Chancellor Saji Gopinath, Sree Narayana Guru Open University Vice Chancellor P.M. Mubarak Pasha, State Planning Board members B. Ekbal and K.N. Harilal, Additional Chief Secretaries of Higher Education and Local Self Government Departments V. Venu and Sarada Muraleedharan, Electronics and IT Department Additional Secretary K. Mohammed Y. Safirulla, and KILA Director General Joy Elamon also participated in the inaugural function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/academic-programme-for-local-body-leaders/article33856411.ece
17 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Property tax to be based on land value||Introducing a further change in the property tax assessment system in the State, the Local Self-government Department has decided to make the fair value of the land as the basis for tax calculation. The earlier system of building tax assessment introduced in the 1980s, based on rental value of the building, was changed after a long time in 2011, when a new method was introduced to calculate the property tax based on plinth area. But, even after several years of the previous change in 2011, many local bodies in the State are yet to fully shift to the system. Urban local bodies like the Thiruvananthapuram City Corporation managed to complete reassessment of all buildings in its area only by 2018. With a further change in the assessment method, officials and staff in local bodies have a humongous task before them.  Centre’s conditions The latest change in tax assessment is necessitated by conditions put forward by the Central government to allow the State to have additional borrowing of 2% (including 1% unconditional borrowing) of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) for the financial year 2020-21. These borrowings are subject to State-level reforms, which include reforms for ‘strengthening local bodies.’ The property taxes in urban areas are bound to go up after the latest changes. Earlier, the basic tax rates were fixed by the respective local body councils. Here, the Urban Affairs Department has fixed the basic tax rates for different categories of buildings, including residential, commercial, educational, industrial, hospitals, amusement, mobile towers and theatres. The rate of property tax will be fixed on the basis of fair value for each category of building in accordance with the use of buildings. The annual upward revision in the rate of tax will be 5% or the hike in Consumer Index Price, whichever is lower, from the second year onwards. The earlier tax rates based on plinth area used to vary based on the kind of zones which they are located in, with those in developed areas and buildings which are older having lesser taxes. However, it is not clear whether such variations in rates will be there under the new tax assessment method.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/property-tax-to-be-based-on-land-value/article33855924.ece
17 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||New system to check sea erosion||In a departure from the traditional method of using seawalls to protect the shoreline from coastal erosion, the government has launched a pilot project to build a geotube-based offshore breakwater system at Poonthura. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan launched the project online on Tuesday. “The accelerated erosion along the Poonthura-Valiathura coast and the failure of seawalls as an effective coastal defence mechanism led the government to think of this option,” he said. The Rs. 150-crore project will be funded by the Kerala Industrial Infrastructure Fund Board (KIIFB) and implemented by the Coastal Development Corporation with technical support from the National Institute of Ocean Technology (NIOT).  The pilot phase will cover 700 m off the Poonthura coast. With the loss of sand from the beach, fishermen have been finding it tough to haul their boats ashore. During the monsoon when the sea turns rough, they have no option but to depend on the Vizhinjam harbour to put out to sea. The breakwater will intercept the waves and reduce their intensity to prevent coastal erosion and allow beach nourishment. It will be extended from Valiathura to Beemapally and Shanghumghom later. Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma presided over the function which also saw the inauguration of a project to deposit artificial reefs along the coast to provide a breeding ground for fish. V.S. Sivakumar, MLA, was among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-system-to-check-sea-erosion/article33856416.ece
17 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Grim theatre marks PSC protests||PSC rank holders agitating for government jobs staged a parade replete with stark human representations of “dead bodies” being carried to the grave here on Tuesday. They also displayed effigies of jobseekers hanging from trees in front of the Secretariat to highlight their desperation. Public Service Commission (PSC) rank holders have been on a sit-in strike there for the past 22 days. They transcend party lines. Around 100 persons ranked eligible by the PSC for employment as Civil Police Officers (CPO) joined them recently. The agitation has increasingly become political and threatened to turn youth ire against the government. The Congress and BJP have thrown their weight behind the strikers. Youth Congress and Bhartiya Janata Yuva Morcha workers attempted to storm the Secretariat gate demanding that the government engage the PSC rank holders in talks. The police used water cannons to disperse the activists. They arrested a few Yuva Morcha workers who attempted to scale the Secretariat fence. Congress legislators Shafi Parambil and K.S. Sabarinadhan are on fast under a lean-to at the protest venue. Former Chief Minister Oomen Chandy, who visited them, said the government’s back-door appointments smacked of favouritism. The rank holders have demanded that the government create more last grade posts and extend the current PSC list’s validity by six months. In Thalassery, CPI(M) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan accused the Congress of using the PSC agitation as a cover to inflame passions that incite violence. The Congress had attempted to spread the lie that the LDF government had appointed 3.5 lakh persons via the back door to play on the insecurities of unemployed youth in a bid to drive them to desperate acts. The government had regularised temporary workers who were at their jobs at a meagre wage for the past 10 years or more. Compassion was the sole criteria. Political consideration was not in play, he claimed. The regularisation had occurred in institutions outside the purview of the PSC. The LDF government had appointed 1,57,911 persons via the PSC. It has extended the date of expiry of PSC rank lists. It planned to create a knowledge economy where youth would not lack in jobs, he added.  Opposition parties ask government to engage rank holders in talks||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/grim-theatre-marks-psc-protests/article33855922.ece
17 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tagore corner at KU library||The University of Kerala is set to commemorate the centenary of celebrated poet Rabindranath Tagore’s visit to the State with the launch of a reference section at the university library in Palayam. Culture Minister A.K. Balan will formally inaugurate the reference section at 2 p.m. on February 17. Vice Chancellor V.P. Mahadevan Pillai will preside over the inaugural meeting. K. Jayakumar, former bureaucrat, and founding Vice Chancellor of Thunchath Ezhuthachan Malayalam University, will deliver the keynote address on the occasion. Following several aborted plans, Tagore visited Kerala on November 9, 1922, when he was accorded a grand reception in a three-storied pavilion that had been erected where the library stands today. The recital by C. Kesavan of Divya Kokilam , penned by poet-social reformer Kumaranasan as a tribute to Tagore, added charm to the event. Commemorating the occasion, KU has established the ‘Tagore Niketan Reading Corner’ that will be exclusively dedicated for Tagore studies. The efforts are also part of the university’s endeavour to revive the Tagore Endowment. on the occasion of the poet’s 160th birth anniversary being observed this year. According to Pro Vice Chancellor P.P. Ajayakumar, the endowment that had been established in 1964 with an initial allocation of Rs. 4 lakh has been inactive for long. Efforts were being made to revive the endowment, now renamed as Tagore Niketan, by organising yearly lecture series and a publication.  Rs. 9.8-lakh project The library reference section, established at a cost of Rs. 9.8 lakh allocated in the university’s budget last year, will provide access to a wide range of books by and on Tagore in different languages, including Bengali, biographic materials, copies of rare documents such as correspondence relating to Tagore’s visit in 1922, and albums containing copies of Tagore’s acclaimed paintings. A bust of the poet created as relief art in bronze and ten elaborate panels that document his multifaceted achievements and contributions also adorn the wall of the section. The Tagore Niketan Reading Corner can be accessed by the university’s students, research scholars, staff, and graduate members of the library.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tagore-corner-at-ku-library/article33856410.ece
17 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Demonstrations turn violent in State capital||The agitation surrounding the Kerala Public Service Commission (PSC) rank-holders’ demand for jobs took a violent turn on Tuesday when activists of Opposition parties clashed with the police in the State capital. Several activists of youth organisations affiliated to the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party sustained minor injuries during demonstrations they took out to the Secretariat and the PSC headquarters at Pattom. Four Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha workers were injured during a protracted stand-off with the police outside the Secretariat that resulted in the MG Road being closed down for traffic for close to one-and-a-half hours. While water cannons were used on the protesters seven times, grenades were lobbed at least five times. Motorcycle rally Earlier, Youth Congress activists from Kollam reached the area in a motorcycle rally to pledge support to their State president Shafi Parambil and vice president K.S. Sabarinadhan who have been observing an indefinite fast. They dispersed after being sprayed with jets of pressurised water. Notably, the police displayed much restraint to prevent an escalation that would have imperilled the agitating rank-holders who have been camping in the vicinity. The scene of agitation soon shifted to the PSC office where several Kerala Students Union (KSU) activists attempted to barge into the premises. While some of them snatched shields and canes from the police, two others manage to scale the compound wall where they erected a KSU flag. A wreath was also hung on the PSC emblem. Amidst the fierce clashes, the job aspirants conducted a symbolic funeral procession on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/demonstrations-turn-violent-in-state-capital/article33856405.ece
17 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CM lays foundation stone for KTU headquarters||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan laid the foundation stone of the permanent campus of APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University through videoconference on Tuesday. He said the State’s higher education sector had been witnessing unprecedented growth. The function also marked the completion of 43 projects and the launch of 25 projects, cumulatively worth Rs. 620 crore, across the State. These included infrastructure development at seven universities. Presiding over the function, Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel said the government aspired to transform the State into an education hub. The university’s headquarters is being developed in an area of nearly 100 acres at Vilappilsala at an outlay of Rs. 1,000 crore. Works worth Rs. 175 crore will be undertaken in the initial phase. They include the construction of an administration block, seven academic blocks, library, laboratories, computer centre, study theatres, technology park, technology business incubator, indoor and outdoor stadiums, water sports complex, central recreation park, hostels, flats for the faculty, etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-lays-foundation-stone-for-ktu-headquarters/article33856412.ece
17 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Convention centre at Chempazhanthy||The International Convention Centre developed by the State Tourism Department at Chempazhanthy Sree Narayana Gurukulam, the birth place of Sree Narayana Guru who pioneered the social reform movement in Kerala, was inaugurated on Tuesday. The facility is located near Vayalvaram House, where Sree Narayana Guru was born. Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran inaugurated the convention centre, built at a cost of Rs. 9.90 crore. In three months The Minister said a digital museum, depicting the life and message of Sree Narayana Guru, would be completed in three months. The 15,000-sq ft ground floor of the complex, with a 1898.8-sq ft stage, offers facilities to hold major conclaves, cultural programmes, and other functions. Apart from office rooms and lobby, the complex has a dining hall, two green rooms, separately for men and women, restrooms, and a vast parking area.  Principal Secretary Tourism Rani George said the convention centre would help promote MICE (Meetings, Incentives, Conventions, Exhibitions) tourism in the State. Tourism Director P. Bala Kiran was also present on the occasion. The Museum would have features such as digital video display, wall display with touch pop-up information, and digital table-top display.  Facility built at a cost of Rs. 9.90 crore to help promote MICE tourism in State||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/convention-centre-at-chempazhanthy/article33856415.ece
17 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Give up State’s share of tax on fuel, Chandy tells govt.||All India Congress Committee general secretary and former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy has accused the Central and State governments of burdening the common man through exorbitant taxation on fuel, triggering the rise in petrol and diesel prices. Inaugurating a sit-in led by Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president Mullappally Ramachandran against the fuel price increase, he said the Central and State governments were fleecing consumers by levying tax worth almost three times the basic price of fuel. Previous govt. He urged the State government to give up the tax that would accrue from the recent hike in fuel price. “Only a government that understands the problems of the common man can take such a step,” he said, recalling that the previous United Democratic Front regime led by him had adopted such a move to rein in the spiralling fuel price. Mr. Ramachandran said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had proved themselves to be representatives of the exploitative class. He said the rising price of petroleum products had worsened the plight of the masses already groaning under the impact of the pandemic-induced financial crisis. “Prices of most essential commodities are also steadily rising,” he said. KPCC and District Congress Committee office-bearers participated in the satyagraha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/give-up-states-share-of-tax-on-fuel-chandy-tells-govt/article33856420.ece
17 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||First-phase development of jumbo rehab centre launched||The State has succeeded in reining in wildlife crimes through various steps, including intensified surveillance and enhancement of forest staff, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. Inaugurating the first phase of the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB)-funded development of the Kottoor Elephant Rehabilitation Centre on Tuesday, Mr. Vijayan said Kerala had become a model for forest and wildlife conservation in the country. Citing a study conducted by the Forest Survey of India for preparing for India State of Forest Report, he added that the forest cover in the State increased by 823 sq km in 2019, when compared to a previous assessment two years earlier. Elephant corridors Pointing out that the State accounted for 5,706 out of the country’s wild elephant population of 27,785 (according to a 2019 census), priority was also ensured to develop elephant corridors to prevent the pachyderms from venturing into human habitations. The Chief Minister added that the Rs. 105-crore project to upgrade the elephant rehabilitation centre at Kappukadu would boost the government’s efforts in rescuing captive elephants that were subjected to exploitation and rehabilitating them in their own ecosystem. “The development of the centre across 176 acres of forest area in a manner that enables the accommodation of 50 elephants will make it the largest such facility in the world,” the Chief Minister said. Presiding over the function, Forest Minister K. Raju said four elephant enclosures, parking area, entrance plaza, administration block, elephant-rearing centre, quarantine centre, cafeteria, and a veterinary hospital had been readied at the centre in the first phase of the ongoing project. C.K. Hareendran, MLA, and Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and Head of Forest Force P.K. Kesavan were among those who spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/first-phase-development-of-jumbo-rehab-centre-launched/article33856426.ece
17 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||New projects opened at Neyyattinkara GH||Health Minister K.K. Shylaja on Tuesday inaugurated completed works amounting to Rs. 5.9 crore under various projects at the Neyyattinkara General Hospital through a videoconferencing event. Inaugurating the new facilities, she said there had been a sharp jump in the number of people depending on government hospitals with the improvement in infrastructure there. The facilities that were inaugurated at the hospital include two new pay wards, trauma care, solar power plant, medicine storage centre, HT sub station, generator, toilet block, ICU, renovated operation theatre, and hospital canteen. K. Ansalan, MLA, and others were present at the function.  Ayurvedic Hospital The Minister also inaugurated new facilities at the District Ayurvedic Hospital at Varkala at a total cost of more than Rs. 3 crore. The facilities included a general ward building, solar power plant, and a CCTV system. A new pay ward building was opened at the Government Yoga and Naturopathic hospital at Varkala at a cost of Rs. 7 crore. Ms. Shylaja later inaugurated a new dialysis unit at the Varkala Taluk Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-projects-opened-at-neyyattinkara-gh/article33856406.ece
17 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Minister opens 1,603 upgraded health centres||Minister for Health K.K. Shylaja on Tuesday inaugurated online the upgrade of 1,603 sub-centres into health and wellness centres. A total of 125 sub-centres in Thiruvananthapuram were upgraded as health and wellness centres, 107 in Kollam, 76 in Pathanamthitta, 111 in Alappuzha, 102 in Kottayam, 85 in Idukki, 126 in Ernakulam, 142 in Thrissur, 133 in Palakkad, 166 in Malappuram, 109 in Kozhikode, 121 in Wayanad, 143 in Kannur, and 57 in Kasaragod. Ms. Shylaja also inaugurated laboratories in 212 primary health centres that are to be upgraded as family health centres as part of the third phase of the Ardram mission and other construction work. Ground-level work Minister for Local Self-government A.C. Moideen was present for the inauguration. Ms. Shylaja, in her address, said that the sub-centres would transform into family health sub-centres. Ground-level work was the most critical in health care. Hospital from the sub-centre level had played an important role in COVID-19 prevention activities. Primary health centres had been changed into family health centres to provide the best treatment at the primary level. Health and wellness It was excluding this that the sub-centres were being upgraded into health and wellness centres. These would ensure preliminary check-up, medicines, and medical advice at the local level itself. Better infrastructure, health services till the evening, lab facilities, control of lifestyle diseases, control of communicable diseases, and palliative care services will be provided here. An amount of Rs. 112.27 crore has been sanctioned for the scheme. A total of 1,603 mid-level service providers were being appointed for the smooth functioning of the wellness centres, she said.  An amount of Rs. 112.27 crore has been sanctioned for the Ardram scheme||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1603-health-and-wellness-centres/article33856418.ece
17 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||373 fresh cases, 368 recoveries in capital||The district recorded 373 COVID-19 cases and 368 recoveries as the active caseload stood at 4,248 on Tuesday. The death toll has increased to 798. The district administration placed 1,863 people in quarantine while 2,127 people were permitted to conclude quarantine after completing the mandated period in self-isolation without exhibiting any COVID-19 symptoms. There were currently 26,437 people who were quarantined at their homes and 56 in various institutions in the district. The City police initiated legal action against 147 people for violating COVID-19 protocol. While 54 people were booked under provisions of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020, 90 others were fined Rs. 45,000 cumulatively for failing to wear masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/373-fresh-cases-368-recoveries-in-capital/article33856404.ece
17 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Passing-out parade of 15 police dogs today||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will receive the guard of honour at the passing-out parade of 15 police dogs. The event will be held at the police training college ground at Thycaud on Wednesday at 4.45 p.m. The 15 dogs, of the Belgian Malinois breed, will become a part of the police’s K9 dog squad. They have got training in tracking down thieves and catching explosives and drugs over a 10-month stint. They have also received expert training in recovering dead bodies from disaster sites. Maya, a dog that recovered eight dead bodies after the Pettimudi landslide, will also take part in the passing-out parade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/passing-out-parade-of-15-police-dogs-today/article33856407.ece
17 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital goes up in Smart City rankings||The Thiruvananthapuram city Corporation has improved its national ranking among cities in Smart City project implementation from 90 to 21. Out of the Rs. 1,068.4 crore worth of tendered projects, work orders for projects worth Rs. 1,065.04 crore have been issued. Total funds of Rs. 1,135 crore have been allocated from the State and Central governments and the Corporation. Some of the major projects of the Smart City project, including the development of Connemara market in Palayam, smart roads, warehouses in Chala and development of Rajaji Nagar, will be completed by 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-goes-up-in-smart-city-rankings/article33856414.ece
17 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. mulls slashing of lease due for tennis club||The State government is reportedly weighing a proposal to slash the Trivandrum Tennis Club’s tenancy dues. By some accounts, the club owed the government Rs. 11 crore in lease arrears. Its dues had mounted over the years and attempts to recover the debt had met with little success under successive governments. If the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government approved the proposal, the club would have to pay the public exchequer only Rs. 1 crore. It would get nearly Rs. 10 crore exemption. The institution has also reportedly sought an extension of the lease period. By one account, the Cabinet was likely to take a call on the matter on Wednesday. However, official sources seemed hard-pressed to confirm whether or not the proposal was on the Cabinet agenda. The club had reportedly petitioned the government for rent waiver. It had reportedly argued that it did not use its premises for commercial purposes. Instead, the club rented nine tennis courts at minimal rates to players. The Finance and Revenue Departments had reportedly frowned at the proposal given the State’s pandemic cratered finances. It was unclear whether the departments have objected to the bid in writing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-mulls-slashing-of-lease-due-for-tennis-club/article33856422.ece
17 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KFRI’s on-call help facility for farmers||The Kerala Forest Research Institute (KFRI) at Peechi has launched a single-point contact facility for farmers to seek expert opinion on medicinal plant cultivation and a farmers’ library. For doubts and clarifications, farmers could call 0487 2690333. The farmers’ library will collect knowledge related to medicinal plants and their cultivation and compile it as reference material to make it available to those in need. Minister for Health K.K. Shylaja inaugurated the help centre and the farmers’ library online on Tuesday. In her address, the Minister said this new initiative would help popularise medicinal plant cultivation across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kfris-on-call-help-facility-for-farmers/article33856423.ece
17 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Palm-leaf records museum to be opened today||A palm-leaf records museum, said to be the first in the country, is set to come up at Central Archives, Fort, here. The Central Archives houses one of the largest collections of palm-leaf records in Asia. Minister for Archives Kadannappally Ramachandran will inaugurate the setting up of the museum at 2 p.m. on Wednesday. Mayor Arya Rajendran and Shashi Tharoor, MP, will be the chief guests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/palm-leaf-records-museum-to-be-opened-today/article33856424.ece
17 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Set up more exam centres, CBSE told||The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has directed the CBSE Regional Officer here to sanction new examination centres for CBSE students appearing for their board examinations if sought by them. The direction by commission member K. Nazeer said that many people had to return to the State from abroad or other States owing to loss of jobs in the wake of COVID-19. However, factors unrelated to students that prompted their return should not come in the way of their appearing for the board examinations. As students returning to the State before the board examinations could not sit for them in centres allotted to them earlier, the CBSE Regional Officer should take steps to sanction them new centres on demand, the commission said. The new exam centres should be those sought by the students or those closest to their place of residence, the commission said. It also said that action on such requests should be taken without any delay, and the applicants informed about it. The commission was acting on a complaint by Amal Saji, president of Snehasparsham library at Karuvatta North.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/open-new-exam-centres-cbse-told/article33856417.ece
17 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||GPS tracking for foodgrain vehicles||Food and Civil Supplies Minister P. Thilothaman will on Wednesday inaugurate the GPS vehicle tracking system being implemented with an aim to strengthen the public distribution system (PDS). The new system will ensure transparency in the distribution of foodgrains. It will track the movement of the distribution vehicles from the Food Corporation of India godowns and mills to the Supplyco's godowns and from there to ration shops through pre-determined routes at the scheduled time. The GPS system was implemented with the help of C-DAC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gps-tracking-for-foodgrain-vehicles/article33856413.ece
17 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Awards for performing artistes||The State Kathakali, Pallavur Appu Marar Vadya Puraskaram, and the Keraleeya Nritta-Natya Puraskaram for 2019 and 2020 have been announced. The State Kathakali award for 2019 has gone to Vazhengada Vijayan. The Pallavur Appu Marar Puraskaram has gone to Machad Ramakrishnan Nair, while the Keraleeya Nritta-Natya Puraskaram has gone to V.P. Dhananjayan and Shanta Dhananjayan. The State Kathakali award for 2020 will be presented to Sadanam Balakrishnan. The Pallavur Appu Marar Puraskaram for 2020 has gone to Keezhkoottu Aniyan Marar. The Nritta-Natya Puraskaram has gone to Vimala Menon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/awards-for-performing-artistes/article33855923.ece
17 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||ATM demonstration vans on awareness drive||Two of the 10 demonstration ATM vans provided by NABARD under the financial inclusion fund to Kerala Bank have hit the streets. The vans will be used to create awareness and enable citizens to know the changing technology in the banking sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/atm-demonstration-vans-on-awareness-drive/article33855916.ece
17 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||IAS officers association office-bearers||B. Ashok, Chairman and Managing Director, Kerala Transport Development Finance Corporation, and M.G. Rajamanickam, Managing Director, Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation, have been elected president and secretary respectively of the Kerala IAS Officers Association for 2021-2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ias-officers-association-office-bearers/article33855919.ece
17 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||New posting||Kerala cadre IAS officer and Director of Tourism P. Balakiran has been appointed Director of Census Operations and Director of Citizen Registration, Andhra Pradesh, till March 31, 2023 under the Central Staffing Scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-posting/article33855920.ece
17 February 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||503 new cases in Thrissur||A total of 503 COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Tuesday while 494 people recovered from the pandemic. There are 4,126 active cases in the district and 100 people from the district are undergoing treatment in hospitals in other districts. So far 94,489 COVID-19 cases have been reported from the district and 89,719 people have recovered. According to the official statistics, 491 people, including three health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Tuesday. Of them, 83 people are above the age of 60 and 27 children are below the age of 10. In all, 2,761 people are under home care. 75 admitted A total of 75 people were admitted to the hospital for treatment of the COVID-19 on Tuesday. A total of 6,848 samples were collected for the test on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/503-new-cases-in-thrissur/article33856427.ece
17 February 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||New e-auto launched||Hykon India Ltd has launched ‘Hetto’, the new generation electric Auto rickshaw. Powered with its own manufactured lithium ion battery, Hetto gives a powerful ride, in any terrains, say manufacturers. Hetto is designed with a strong metal body, which gives a jerk free ride and ease through bad roads smoothly. With its powerful motor and 10kWh battery, Hetto gives you 200km mileage in a single charge. Hetto can be charged from a simple 15Amps power plug from your house and it will be fully charged in 5 hrs 50 mins. With a 5kW fast charger, Hetto can be fully charged in less than 2 hrs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-e-auto-launched/article33856375.ece
17 February 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||No role for govt. in jury decision, says akademi||Seeking to put at rest the controversy over the award for novel Meesha , Kerala Sahitya Akademi president Vaisakhan on Tuesday said the novel was selected by a three-member jury. “The government or the akademi had nothing to do with the jury’s decision. The akademi is an autonomous institution and the government had never interfered in its decisions,” he said. Stressing that the akademi had no special interest in S. Hareesh’s novel, Mr. Vaisakhan said the akademi had no vengeance against any religion and the issue had been given communal colour unnecessarily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-role-for-govt-in-jury-decision-says-akademi/article33855927.ece
17 February 2021||February 17 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||In solidarity||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-solidarity/article33856380.ece
17 February 2021||February 17 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Ready for action||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ready-for-action/article33855926.ece
17 February 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sathya Sai hospital gets 2 echocardiography machines||The Sri Sathya Sai Institute of Higher Medical Sciences at Puttaparthi got two state-of-the-art echocardiography machines valued at Rs. 3.6 crore as a new facility for the patients. Sri Sathya Sai Central Trust Managing Trustee R.J. Rathnakar on Tuesday inaugurated the machines at the super-specialty hospital in the presence of SSSIHMS Director Gurumurthy, Department of Cardiology head V.R. Iyer and Department of Cardio-Thoracic Vascular Surgery head Neelam Desai. The state-of-the-art systems are equipped with one-touch live 3D imaging, an automatic strain calculator for all four chambers for the heart, an automatic EF calculator, and one-touch multiple axis views of the heart chambers. The systems also come equipped with advanced transducer technology which provides multiple anatomical views at a single touch. All these features help the cardiologist or cardiac surgeon make better decisions more efficiently. “We at Sri Sathya Sai Central Trust continue the tradition of Bhagawan Baba. We are committed to providing the best medical care to the patients who visit our hospitals,” Mr. Rathnakar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sathya-sai-hospital-gets-2-echocardiography-machines/article33855699.ece
17 February 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP worker ‘ends life’||A TDP senior worker from Cherlopalli village in Settur mandal of the district allegedly ended his life at his house on Tuesday morning, allegedly unable to accept the defeat of party-backed candidates in the recent panchayat elections in the second phase. Settur police said that the man was identified as Eediga Nagendrappa (62). His family members lodged a complaint stating that he was a staunch TDP supporter and was upset over the loss of party-supported candidates in the sarpanch and ward member elections in the gram panchayat. Nagendrappa reportedly took the extreme step when his family was away. When he did not open the door after repeated knocks, they broke the door open to find him dead. He is survived by his wife and two sons. There is always someone to talk to at: 100 or 9989819191. Emails can be sent to ananthapuramupolice@gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-worker-ends-life/article33855700.ece
17 February 2021||ANANTAPUR/KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||346 panchayats go to polls today||Polling in the third phase of the gram panchayat elections will be held in Anantapur and Kurnool Revenue division areas on Wednesday with a large deployment of security personnel to keep the process peaceful. While 23 sarpanches out of 369 in 19 mandals of Anantapur and 26 sarpanches out of 245 in Kurnool were elected unanimously, polling will be held for 346 sarpanches in Anantapur and 219 in Kurnool. Joint Collector Nishant Kumar inspected the arrangements at Gooty and oversaw the distribution of ballot boxes and other polling material at the agriculture marketyard in Gooty. District Collector Gandham Chandrudu held a teleconference with the officials and asked them to ensure that the counting process was videographed and only the candidates and one agent be allowed during counting. Kurnool District Collector G. Veerapandian and Superintendent of Police Fakkeerappa Kaginelli at a joint press conference said that 2,204 polling stations will be manned by 6,604 polling staff and 2,500 security personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/346-panchayats-go-to-polls-today/article33855698.ece
17 February 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two farmers critically injured in jumbo attack||Panic gripped several villages of Puttur, Narayanavanam, Karveti Nagaram and Vadamalapeta mandals in Chittoor district after two farmers were critically injured in an attack by two wild elephants in the fields of Lakshmipuram ST Colony at the Narayanavanam foothills, 15 km from Puttur, in the early hours of Tuesday. A herd of three elephants, known locally as the ‘Bachelor’s Group’, had strayed into the Nagari plains in early January after leaving their habitat at the Pernambut forests of Tamil Nadu, 150 km from Puttur. On February 8, one of the three pachyderms got separated from the group and was roaming in Karveti Nagaram, Puttur and Nagari mandals, while the two elephants had confined their movements between the Narayanavanam hills and Kailasanatha Kona, frequently crossing the Puttur-Chennai national highway. Forest Range Officer (Puttur) K. Subrahmanyam told The Hindu that the herd had emerged into the hilly terrain of Narayanavanam mandal on the night of February 8. “Since then, we are frantically on the trail of the two elephants, while the elusive one has left into Karveti Nagaram range. The hilly terrain makes tracking difficult. The two are raiding paddy and sugarcane fields and retiring into the hillocks at night,” the FRO said. “On the night of February 15, our personnel along with elephant trackers were camping atop a mound, and blasting crackers to prevent the two jumbos from entering the fields below. However, the duo took a detour and entered the fields. From midnight till the early hours of Tuesday, the jumbos devoured the crops in a vast stretch. While returning to the hills, the duo came across two farmers while working at a pumpset. Despite our personnel’s efforts to divert their attention, one of the jumbos caught hold of a 60-year-old farmer named Subramanyam by its trunk. After spinning him in the air, the farmer was flung to a distance. Another farmer named Subbarayalu (45) was pushed to the ground by another elephant. After trampling his chest, the elephant twisted him to the other side, and stomped on his spine. The farmer’s ribs and spinal cord were broken. Both were rushed to hospitals in Tirupati. The forest department will bear the entire medical expenditure,” the FRO said.  Movement near Chennai NH a worry Meanwhile, the movement of the jumbos criss-crossing the Chennai NH and closer to Kailasanatha Kona waterfalls has become a big worry for forest officials due to heavy public movement. Moreover, the presence of a lone elephant, after it was separated from the herd, has only heightened the tension in the Nagari plains, where jumbo movement was unheard of so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-farmers-critically-injured-in-chittoor-elephant-attack/article33855703.ece
17 February 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM for Tirupati tomorrow||Chief minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is scheduled to visit Tirupati on February 18 to take part in a function to felicitate ex-servicemen. District Collector M. Hari Narayanan in a press release said that the Chief Minister would arrive at the Renigunta airport from Gannavaram on Thursday evening and head straight to the Police Parade Grounds in Tirupati at 4.50 p.m. After the programme, he would reach Renigunta airport at 7.10 p.m. and fly back to Gannavaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-for-tirupati-tomorrow/article33855701.ece
17 February 2021||EDURUMONDI (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Police officials visit island villages on poll eve||Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu has appealed to the fishermen to exercise their franchise during the third phase of the gram panchayat elections to be conducted on February 17 in the island villages. Mr. Ravindranath Babu, along with Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) Additional SP Vakul Jindal and Avanigadda DSP Md. Mahaboob Basha, visited the polling stations located in the inaccessible habitations and reviewed the security arrangements on Tuesday. Mr. Ravindranath Babu and his team visited the sensitive and hyper-sensitive polling centres in Nagayalanka, Etimoga, Edurumondi, Krishnapuram and other villages, and interacted with the locals. The community heads greeted the SP, the ASP and other officers on the banks of the Krishna. Cooperation sought “Your cooperation is a must for conducting the elections peacefully. Please cooperate with the police and the polling staff in the island villages,” Mr. Ravindranath Babu said, and enquired with the polling staff about the problems, if any, in the habitations. Avanigadda CI B.B. Ravi Kumar and Nagayalanka SI K. Srinivas explained that boats and ‘pantu’ (raft) had been arranged for the polling staff and security personnel to cross the Krishna and reach the polling booths in the inaccessible hamlets. “You are the first SP to visit our village (Edurumondi) by crossing the river. We will extend our cooperation for the peaceful conduct of elections,” said Nageswara Rao of Krishnapuram village. Earlier, the SP and the ASP explained the do’s and don’ts to the CIs, SIs, constables and the Grama Mahila Samrakshana Karyadarshulu (GMSKs), who were posted at different polling stations in Machilipatnam, Avanigadda, Nagayalanka, Mopidevi and Challapalli. Tight security was arranged in the inaccessible villages in wake of the SP’s visit. Vigil mounted Meanwhile. the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB), Police and the Prohibition and Excise (P&E) department personnel have stepped up vigil on the borders to check flow of liquor into the State during the third phase of gram panchayat elections. Vehicle checking As part of which, vehicle checking was being done at all the 52 checkposts on A.P.-Telangana borders and the SEB officials bound over 9,000 excise offenders, ID liquor and arrack manufacturers, said Krishna district Superintendent of Police(SP) M. Ravindranath Babu. Police also seized about 15,000 liquor bottles and huge quantity of ID liquor so far. The teams destroyed thousands of litres of fermented jaggery wash at Pedana, Avanigadda, Nandigama, Jaggaiahpeta, Mylavaram, Vissannapeta and other mandals, he said. West Godavari district SP K. Narayan Naik said that joint raids were being conducted at the checkposts||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-officials-visit-island-villages-on-poll-eve/article33856455.ece
17 February 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Reach out to people suffering from hearing, speech defects: CM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has asked the officials to make Andhra Pradesh a State where there are no deaf and dumb cases. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy conducted a review meeting at his camp office on the ‘Cochlear implant, deaf-free Andhra Pradesh’ project here on Tuesday. The Chief Minister ordered officials to perform cochlear implant operations. “Identify such defects in advance and perform operations as soon as possible,” he said. “At least 100 children came to me during the padayatra, and all of them underwent operations,” Mr. Jagan said. “The goal is to be of support to those suffering from such a disability,” the Chief Minister said and discussed the policies being implemented in the U.S, the U.K. and Australia to prevent deaf and dumb disability. “Andhra Pradesh is credited with being the first in India to launch the cochlear implant surgeries,” he said. Elderly people ae also suffering from hearing problems. Provide equipment to such persons as well, he said and asked the officials to complete the ophthalmic surgeries that were stopped due to COVID-19. Medical and Health Chief Secretary Anil Kumar Singhal, Health and Family Welfare Commissioner K. Bhaskar, and Chief Minister’s Chief Adviser Nilam Sawhney were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/reach-out-to-people-suffering-from-hearing-speech-defects-cm/article33856356.ece
17 February 2021||Harish Gilai,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC mulls growing vegetables, organic crops in green belts||Officials from the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) are mulling to transform vacant lands into attractive theme parks in the city. As part of it, the corporation has proposed to grow vegetables and other organic crops in the green covers/belts, local parks and open spaces in the GVMC limits. Recently, a team of the GVMC officials have visited smart cities in Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh, where they observed how vacant lands or the green belts were developed into various attractive theme parks. They were impressed about the cultivation of organic crops. GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana said she had directed the Horticulture Department to work on it. Additional Director (Horticulture Department) M. Damodar said that it is too early to say, but the main idea behind the concept is to create a healthy atmosphere and produce organically grown vegetables and also to provide livelihood to the needy. According to him, about 22 km stretch of green cover is available in the city from Hanumanthawaka Junction to Mudasarlova Junction and from Adarsh Nagar Junction to Airport Junction. The plan is to provide an opportunity to the interested to grow vegetables. “We will guide the interested and also help them by providing fertilizers and seeds,” Mr. Damodar said. “In Visakhapatnam, several citizens have been involved in terrace farming or rooftop gardening and growing vegetables and flowers. This is also similar to that. Any Self-Help Groups (SHGs), women groups, and unemployed can be provided an opportunity to grow vegetables. All leafy vegetables can be grown in this green belt,” Mr. Damodar said. According to the officials, many farmers from interior villages in the district grow crops in their locality and bring here to sell. If this plan works out, they can produce and sell their vegetables here. Though the project does not cost much, the GVMC will be taking a call on it after discussing with the Agriculture Department officials. Based on their response and guidance, the proposal is expected to be taken forward.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvmc-mulls-growing-vegetables-organic-crops-in-green-belts/article33856459.ece
17 February 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Candidates backed by rival parties coerced: TDP||With all set for the third phase of panchayat elections on Wednesday, complaints pertaining to sarpanch candidates supported by the rival parties of the YSRCP being coerced by the ruling party functionaries are pouring in the home district of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. “The YSRCP leaders continue to threaten or offer sops to the candidates backed by the opposition parties to not contest the polls,” TDP’s Pulivendula constituency in-charge M. Ravindranath Reddy alleged in a media conference here on Tuesday. Mr. Ravindranath Reddy, on Monday, met Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan and sought police protection for the candidates backed by the TDP. He alleged that the YSRCP functionaries damaged sweet lime orchards of many candidates in Pulevendula constituency. He also accused the police of exerting pressure on the candidates to withdraw from the election to facilitate unanimous polls. Referring to the highest number of seats going unanimous in Punganur constituency, which is being represented by Panchayat Raj Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy, Mr. Ravindranath Reddy said that the ruling party were appeared to be hell-bent on winning the polls by hook or by crook in the Chief Minister’s home turf. ‘False cases’ The situation appears to be no better in Rajampet and Railway Kodur constituencies. “Our candidates were prevented from filing nominations. They were forced to withdraw nominations by revenue and police officials,” alleged Batyala Changalrayudu, TDP in-charge of Rajampet constituency. He also accused the police of stashing liquor bottles and cash in TDP workers’ premises to frame them in false cases. Citing instances from Levaka Panchayat , Mr. Changalrayudu alleged that a witness, who had signed a TDP candidate’s nomination form, later denied having signed the documents later under duress. “We exposed the lie by pointing to her presence in the CCTV footage as well as in the copy of the nomination form that had been forwarded to the RDO of Rajampet, who is also the appellate authority. I was booked for canvassing at a temple when I was talking to a few people,” he claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/candidates-backed-by-rival-parties-coerced-tdp/article33856357.ece
17 February 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mass ‘aksharabhyasam’ at Saraswati Devi temple||A mass aksharabhyasam programme (initiation of education to a child) was performed at the Saraswati Devi temple at Kolanubharathi in Kothapalli Mandal, with hundreds of children and their parents taking part in the ritual on the occasion of auspicious Vasanta Panchami on Tuesday. As per the traditions, Bramarambha Mallikarjuna Swamy Devastham (Srisailam) Executive Officer Karanam S. Rama Rao presented silk robes to the Goddess at Kolanubharathi and initiated children to . aksharabhyasam. He presented vermillion and turmeric powder and bangles to the deity. The ritual is usually performed by the maternal uncle, father or paternal uncle in the presence of family members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mass-aksharabhyasam-at-saraswati-devi-temple/article33856371.ece
17 February 2021||MYLAVARAM (KRISHNA),ANDHRA PRADESH||Termites eat up currency worth Rs. 5 lakh||A pig-rearer who kept the currency notes in an iron safe was shocked after noticing that the notes were destroyed by termites in the Krishna district. One B. Jamalaiah of Mylavaram village saved about Rs. 5 lakh. He stored the money in an iron box. When he opened the box on Tuesday, he found the notes were completely damaged. Shocked with the heavy loss, the family members were seen crying for help and the police visited the house. “I planned to construct a house with my savings,” Mr. Jamalaiah said..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/termites-eat-up-currency-worth-rs-5-lakh/article33856445.ece
17 February 2021||POLAVARAM (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Security tightened at 32 Maoist-hit polling stations||With Maoists giving a call to boycott the panchayat elections in the State, the police have arranged tight security at the polling stations affected by left wing extremism. Eluru Range DIG K.V. Mohan Rao has reviewed the security arrangements with Krishna, East and West Godavari and Rajamahendravaram Superintendents of Police and the Special Officers. Director General of Police D. Gautam Sawang has said that instructions have been issued to the police officers to initiate adequate measures to ensure peaceful conduct of elections. “As the Maoists have launched the tactical counter-offensive campaign (TCOC), additional forces have been deployed in all the vulnerable polling stations. The first and second phase of the elections were conducted peacefully in the State. The police will also conduct the next two phases smoothly,” Mr. Sawang said. West Godavari Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik has said that patrolling has been intensified. The CRPF companies and APSP platoons have been stationed at the inaccessible polling stations and those vulnerable to left wing extremism. Arrangements reviewed “There are 32 Maoist-affected and inaccessible polling stations in the Agency area. Security arrangements have been reviewed in Polavaram, Velerupadu, Buttaigudem, Kukunoor and Jeelugumilli mandals. Instructions have been issued to the polling staff to reach their respective stations a day in advance,” Mr. Naik said. In Krishna district, SP M. Ravindranath Babu, Additional SPs Mallika Garg and Satyanarayana, Special Enforcement Bureau ASP Vakul Jindal visited the sensitive and hyper-sensitive villages in Avanigadda, Mopidevi, Challapalli mandals. “We have already conducted flag march and interacted with the villagers in hyper-sensitive villages. Prohibitory orders under the Section 144 will be in force at all polling stations,” the SP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/security-tightened-at-32-maoist-hit-polling-stations/article33856368.ece
17 February 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sun God temple gears up for Ratha Saptami festival||The historic Sun God temple has geared up for celebrating the Ratha Saptami festival on February 19. The district administration will allow devotees in queues from Thursday night itself to watch Ksheerabhishekam. Over one lakh devotees are expected to come and offer their prayers to Lord Sri Suryanarayana Swamy. Srikakulam Collector J. Nivas said that unauthorised persons will not be allowed in VIP queues. He said that VIPs should obtain passes from the RDO’s office to get proper protocol and darshan. He said that donors would be allowed till Friday 10 a.m. in exclusive queues. Special queues have been created for Rs. 100 ticket holders. Devotees can have darshan in free queues also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/arasavalli-temple-gears-up-for-ratha-saptami/article33856347.ece
17 February 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu initiated privatisation of VSP: Minister||Minister for Fisheries and Horticulture Sidiri Appala Raju on Tuesday dared former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu to write a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant privatisation issue instead of targeting Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy government.  He alleged that Mr. Naidu had met representatives of the POSCO during the TDP regime and now he was changing his stand for political gain over the issue. “Mr. Naidu writes letters to everyone except to Mr. Modi,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-initiated-privatisation-of-vsp-minister/article33856359.ece
17 February 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Universities abuzz as students slowly return after long hiatus||After remaining deserted for a long time due to the lockdown necessitated by COVID-19, the universities in the city bubbled with life this week with students slowly returning to their respective campuses. As the government eased the norms for physical attendance, offline mode of education is back again for most students, who are required to follow the guidelines on wearing masks, washing hands often with sanitiser and maintaining physical distance. Around 60-75% of students at Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences (SVIMS University) have returned to the campus. “We are allowing only those having practical sessions or examinations. The online format continues for those having theory classes,” SVIMS Director and Vice-Chancellor B. Vengamma said. Space constraints Though MBBS students have arrived at Sri Padmavathi Medical College for Women (SPMCW), classes at the SVIMS College of Physiotherapy and College of Nursing are continuing the online mode. Shortage of hostel space is another handicap. “We are accommodating only two inmates in a room against the five in the past to ensure social distancing,” Dr. Vengamma explained. Odd-even pattern More than 900 students have arrived on the Sri Padmavathi Mahila Viswa Vidyalayam (SPMVV) campus. The authorities have made all arrangements to ensure the protocols are followed. “We have segregated the students batch-wise and are conducting classes on the odd-even pattern. With this, students of first batch (first and third semesters) and the second batch (second and fourth semesters) will attend on alternate days,” says SPMVV Registrar D.M. Mamatha. The priority is to complete the syllabus for the final year students, who will have to leave the campus on time to pursue their further ambitions, be it higher education or employment, Prof. Mamatha added. The excited first-year students had fun and frolic at a session conducted by SPMVV Department of Biosciences and Sericulture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/varsities-abuzz-as-students-return-after-long-hiatus/article33855705.ece
17 February 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP supporters held on charge of bootlegging||The relatives of a sarpanch candidate in the fray, owing their allegiance to the TDP, were arrested on the charge of smuggling liquor from Karnataka and hoarding it in their residence on Tuesday. Eswaraiah and Gopi, both relatives of Maheswari, the sarpanch candidate of Mangalam panchayat falling under Chandragiri Assembly constituency, were arrested by the Alipiri police on the charge of smuggling liquor from the neighbouring Karnataka. Though the two denied the charge, they were taken to the police station. Taken aback at the accusation within hours of the panchayat going to the polls, TDP district president Pulivarthi Nani, who is also in-charge of Chandragiri, rushed to the police station and staged a protest, demanding that the two be be released forthwith. Mr. Nani alleged that the two were framed under false cases as they were busy in mobilising support ahead of the elections. “The ruling party is bent on either threatening our candidates with dire consequences or getting them arrested in false cases,” Mr. Nani alleged. He also accused the police of playing sidekick to the ruling party leaders and acting at the whims and fancies of the ruling dispensation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-supporters-arrested-on-charge-of-smuggling-liquor/article33855706.ece
17 February 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Liquor outlet staffer threatens suicide||A liquor outlet employee climbed a cell phone tower and threatened to commit suicide in Tirupati on Tuesday, frustrated over the non-payment of salaries for the last two months. Charan, who is employed with the State-run liquor outlet at Thondavada on Chandragiri Road, complained of not having received his salary pending for two months. All his appeals fell on deaf ears. Vexed over the development, he climbed a mobile phone tower near Tilak Road, creating flutter in the locality. On noticing him atop the tower, the passersby complained to the Tirupati East police, who arrived at the scene with necessary paraphernalia and made all attempts to bring him down.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/liquor-outlet-staffer-threatens-suicide/article33856353.ece
17 February 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD’s Agama adviser dies in Nellore||Sundaravarada Bhattacharya, the Agama adviser to the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), died of cardiac arrest on Tuesday. He was 86. He suffered a heart stroke just before participating in the Vasantha Panchami event organised by the TTD at the AC Subba Reddy stadium in Nellore. He reportedly died before he could be shifted to a nearby hospital for treatment. Mr. Bhattacharya had served the TTD for nearly two decades. The mortal remains will be brought to Tirupati late on Tuesday or in the early hours of Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttds-agama-adviser-dies-in-nellore/article33856372.ece
17 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kids flock to temple on Vasanta Panchami||Goddess Kanaka Durga, the presiding deity of the Sri Durga Malleswara Swamyvarla Devasthanam, was adorned in the attire of Goddess Saraswati as part of Vasanta Panchami celebrations on Monday. Priests performed Saraswati mantra havanam and offered special prayers in the evening. They blessed the students appearing for the examinations at Mallikarjuna Mahamandapam on the temple premises. The temple authorities gave a pen, a photo of Kanaka Durga and prasadam to each student. The temple witnessed good turnout of students. Students and their parents began pouring in at the temple from the early hours of the day to obtain sacred threads that were kept in front of the deity.  The temples wore a festive look as ‘Saraswati Homam’, ‘Sahasra Kumkum’ and ‘Pushparchana’ rituals were performed. ‘Aksharabhyasam’ A mass aksharabhyasam prtogramme was organised at the Sri Trisakthi Peetam, the Maha Kali temple near Pandit Nehru Bus Stand (PNBS), Parents came with their children to take part in aksharabhyasam as performing the ritual on the auspicious ‘Vasanta Panchami’ day is considered as the best day to begin studies for children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kids-flock-to-temple-on-vasanta-panchami/article33856374.ece
17 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BIE notifies last date for payment of exam fee||The Board of Intermediate Education (BIE) has notified the last dates for payment of examination fee for first year regular students (General and Vocational) and attendance-exempted private candidates (without college study) for Humanities groups and candidates with change of group who wish to appear for the ensuing Intermediate Public Examinations, March 2021. The proposed increase in the fee as per a resolution adopted in the Board meeting, is being dropped for this year, along with the waiver of late fee, at the behest of the Chief Minister in view of the coronavirus pandemic. The last date for payment of fee for first year students is March 1. The cost of the examination application form is Rs. 10, examination fee for general courses is Rs. 490, exam fee for vocational courses (Rs. 490 plus Rs. 190 for practicals) is Rs. 680, fee for general/vocational bridge course subjects is Rs. 135, for first year vocational backlog candidates appearing for practicals, it is Rs. 190 and bridge course examination fee to appear for mathematics (for first year BIPC students), it is Rs. 135. Principals of Government Junior Colleges have been instructed to accept exam application forms along with the fee in respect of private candidates (without college study) only after a thorough scrutiny and after being satisfied about their eligibility to appear for IPE in March 2021. The BIE has made it clear that the examination fee once paid would not be refunded or adjusted in case the candidate is found to be ineligible to appear for the exam. Candidates who have a gap of two years after passing the qualifying exam, i.e. SSC or its equivalent, are eligible to appear for both first and second year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bie-notifies-last-date-for-payment-of-exam-fee/article33856360.ece
17 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State sees 60 new COVID-19 cases; no deaths reported||The State reported 60 new COVID-19 in the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning, and there were no fatalities during the period. The tally, therefore, increased to 8,88,959 while the toll remains at 7,163. As 140 patients recovered during the period, the total number of recoveries and the recovery rate increased to 8,81,181 and 99.13% respectively. So far, 1.358 crore samples were tested with a positivity rate of 6.54%. Positivity rate The positivity rate of the 24,311 samples tested in the last one day was 0.25%. While four districts reported no new infections, two districts together reported nearly half of the new cases. While Chittoor reported 16 new infections in 24 hours, Krishna district reported 10. They were followed by West Godavari (8), Guntur (7), Visakhapatnam (7), East Godavari (6), Nellore (3), Srikakulam (2) and Anantapur (1). There were no new cases in Kadapa, Kurnool, Prakasam and Vizianagaram districts. The overall district-wise tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,24,369), West Godavari (94,295), Chittoor (87,229), Guntur (75,627), Anantapur (67,698), Nellore (62,405), Prakasam (62,193), Kurnool (60,847), Visakhapatnam (59,933), Kadapa (55,323), Krishna (48,832), Srikakulam (46,164) and Vizianagaram (41,149).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-sees-60-new-covid-19-cases-no-deaths-reported/article33856369.ece
17 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||South Central Railway GM conducts 120 kmph speed test||South Central Railway (SCR) General Manager Gajanan Mallya conducted an annual inspection of the Gudur–Ongole–Tenali section in Vijayawada division on Tuesday. The GM, along with Vijayawada Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) P. Srinivas and principal Head of the Departments (HoDs) and senior officers of various departments visited the Gudur railway station and proceeded further to Manubolu–Kommarapudi section where he inspected the Road Under Bridge (RUB), level crossing gate and relay room. He inspected the level crossing gate between Kommarapudi and Venkatachalam section, where he reviewed the safety aspects and also interacted with the gateman. Later, Mr. Mallya inspected Venkatachalam railway station and discussed various station developmental plans with the officials. The GM carried out a speed test of 120 kmph between Venkatachalam—Nellore section, and inspected minor bridges between Kommarapudi–Venkatachalam and Alluru–Bitragunta sections. He also inspected the Bitragunta railway station and discussed station developmental plans with the railway authorities. Mr. Mallya inaugurated a crew booking lobby, new freight examination facility and flagged off a goods train. He inspected the new carriage and workshop office at Bitragunta station and enquired about the facilities in the running room. The GM planted saplings at Bititragunta and conducted a speed test between Kavali–Singarayakonda section. He inspected the Road Under Bridge (RUB) and a major bridge between Ulavapadu–Singarayakonda–Tanguturu section. Later, he inspected a bridge over the Romperu between Uppugunduru–Chinnaganjam section and interacted with the track maintainers. Mr. Mallya inspected the level-crossing gate between Tsunduru–Tenali section. The General Manager inspected Tenali railway station, the health unit and reviewed the facilities available. He also visited the staff quarters and Railway Colony at Tenali where he interacted with residents and enquired about the facilities. The GM reviewed overall track maintenance on the entire stretch of Gudur–Tenali section.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/south-central-railway-gm-conducts-120-kmph-speed-test/article33856453.ece
17 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vigil mounted to check liquor flow||The Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB), Police and the Prohibition and Excise (P&E) department personnel have stepped up vigil on the borders to check flow of liquor into the State during the third phase of gram panchayat elections. As part of which, vehicle checking was being done at all the 52 checkposts on A.P.-Telangana borders and the SEB officials bound over 9,000 excise offenders, ID liquor and arrack manufacturers, said Krishna district Superintendent of Police(SP) M. Ravindranath Babu. Police also seized about 15,000 liquor bottles and huge quantity of ID liquor so far. The teams destroyed thousands of litres of fermented jaggery wash at Pedana, Avanigadda, Nandigama, Jaggaiahpeta, Mylavaram, Vissannapeta and other mandals, he said. West Godavari district SP K. Narayan Naik said that joint raids were being conducted at the checkposts on AP-Telangana borders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vigil-mounted-to-check-liquor-flow/article33855709.ece
17 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman jumps off bridge||A woman named Padma reportedly jumped into the Krishna river from Kanakadurgamma Varadhi (bridge) on Tuesday. She was a resident of Yenamalakuduru in the city. The Tadepalli police, who noticed the woman writhing in pain with multiple injuries on the riverbed, rushed her to hospital. Her condition is stated to be critical. The reason for the suicide attempt was not known immediately, the police said. Persons in distress or with suicidal tendency may dial 1091 for help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-jumps-off-bridge/article33856446.ece
17 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Weavers’ body expresses solidarity with farmers||Members of the National Federation of Handlooms and Handicrafts (NFHH) have expressed solidarity with the farmers protesting on Delhi border. In a statement on Tuesday, federation leader M. Mohanrao said the issues raised by the agitating farmers did not pertain to the farmers alone but to the future of food security in the country, as the Public Distribution System and the food entitlements of the average citizen would be compromised for the benefit of a few corporates who would dominate the agrarian markets in all its aspects. As the national body of the handloom weavers, the Cheneta Samakya felt it was its duty to extend support to the food-producers. Mr. Mohanrao pointed out that after agriculture, it was the handloom sector which was the largest provider of employment in the country. “The importance of a sector cannot be assessed merely in terms of the numbers pertaining to GDP. A proper understanding of an economy is possible only when we view it in terms of the livelihoods that different sectors provide.” Call for united struggle Calling for unity and combined struggles, the federation leader said in this historic task, the cooperation and solidarity of the farmers and weavers, two productive communities of the country, was the need of the hour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/weavers-body-expresses-solidarity-with-farmers/article33856450.ece
17 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Renewable energy for desalination of sea water||The government plans to constitute an expert committee for conceptualising the use of Mechanical Vapour Compression (MVC) technology or any other technology based renewable energy-powered plant for desalination of sea water on a pilot basis at Krishnapatnam or any other suitable location in the State. A G.O. released on Tuesday said the Chief Secretary would be the Chairman of this committee while Special Chief Secretary, State Department of Industry and Commerce, Principal Secretary of Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Department, Principal Secretary of Municipal Administration and Urban Development Department, among others will be its members. Coordination The committee will coordinate the project on behalf of the State government with representatives from Union Ministry of MNRE, Central Department of Drinking Water and Sanitation and the Economic Advisory Council to the Prime Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/renewable-energy-for-desalination-of-sea-water/article33856451.ece
17 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||346 problem areas identified in Nuzvid division||The district officials are gearing up to conduct the fourth phase of the gram panchayat elections in the Nuzvid revenue division of the district on February 21. District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz conducted a review meeting on the arrangements with all the officials concerned on Tuesday. He said that polls will be conducted in 150 villages of 14 mandals under the division. He said 373 areas have been identified as problematic and most problematic areas, under which there are 879 problematic polling stations and 840 most problematic polling stations and security arrangements were being made accordingly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/346-problem-areas-identified-in-nuzvid-division/article33856447.ece
17 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘CM should stop privatisation move or resign’||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has asked Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to lead the agitation against privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP).  “The Chief Minister should either make efforts to stop the privatisation, or resign from his post,” he said. The Chief Minister should get the Obulapuram mines allotted to the VSP and save the plant, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-should-stop-privatisation-move-or-resign/article33856457.ece
17 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM will be approached for passing Assembly resolution on VSP issue||The demands made by various trade unions and a few political parties, which include passing a resolution in the Assembly against the proposed strategic sale of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, will be taken up with Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and discussed at length, said YSR Congress Party MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy. Addressing a press conference here on Tuesday, he said that the trade unions and a few political parties also discussed about allotting captive mines to the VSP in the State, and this will also be discussed with the Chief Minister, he said. Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy, pointed out that the VSP was making losses mainly due to non-availability of captive iron ore mines and the heavy debt burden.  Captive mines “The VSP has taken a huge amount of loans to fund its expansion project and it has been paying huge interest on the loans. If the loans are converted into equity and captive mines are allocated, the plant would make profit within a short time,” he said. He also said that efforts are on to take the trade union leaders to the Chief Minister and also find a window to meet the Prime Minister. Taking a dig at TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu, he said, “Mr. Naidu tries to find some kind of political mileage in everything. But at times he should rise above politics to fight for the welfare of the people and the State. His response to VSP’s crisis was lukewarm and loaded with political brownie points.” Maha padayatra Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy said that on February 20, a maha padayatra from the Gandhi statue, near the GVMC, will be taken up in support of the VSP employees and in protest against the privatisation move of the Centre. The yatra would start from Gandhi statue at 8.30 a.m. and culminate at Kurmannapalem near the VSP at around 5 p.m., covering over 23 kilometres. A public meeting will be held at Kurmannapalem and all trade unions and like-minded political parties will be part of it, he said. Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao said that when all political parties are coming on to one platform to fight for VSP, the TDP is staying away. “We even welcome the TDP to join us to fight the privatisation move of the VSP,” he said. Taking a dig at Mr. Nara Lokesh, he said that his visit to Visakhapatnam was only an eyewash. “When he came to visit Palla Srinivas, former TDP MLA, who was on fast-unto-death, he did not care to meet the party workers, who were also on relay hunger strike,” he said. The Minister also asked Mr. Naidu and Mr. Atchannaidu to talk more responsibly. Mr. Srinivasa Rao also said that Mr. Naidu tried to play a game by using the State Election Commissioner (SEC) in holding the panchayat elections. The results were counter productive, as YSRCP -backed candidates have swept both the phases. “Now Mr. Naidu will get a more bitter dose in the coming urban local body elections,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-will-be-approached-for-passing-assembly-resolution-on-vsp-issue/article33856366.ece
17 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Move to privatise steel plant is an insult to martyrs, says Naidu||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu has described the decision to sell the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) as an insult to the sacrifices of those, who had laid down their lives for its establishment. Mr. Naidu flew down to the city on Tuesday afternoon and went straight to the hospital, where former MLA and TDP Parliamentry district unit president Palla Srinivasa Rao was admitted after being forcibly shifted from the hunger strike camp, in the early hours. Mr. Naidu gave juice to Mr. Srinivasa Rao and made him give up his indefinite fast. Later, addressing the party workers and residents of nearby areas, who gathered outside the hospital, Mr. Naidu alleged that while the Centre has put up the VSP for sale, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has run away from his responsibility of protecting the plant. He wondered what was preventing the Chief Minister from opening his mouth on the issue. Representatives of POSCO had come thrice and they met the Chief Minister but he was ‘tight-lipped’ on the issue, Mr. Naidu alleged. The State government should to take up the issue with the Centre, as it was voted to power by the people and the TDP, as an Opposition party, would cooperate in such efforts, Mr. Naidu said. He said the ‘ukku sankalpam’ (steely determination) of the people of the State had led to the setting up of VSP. As many as 32 persons had lost their lives for the plant and farmers had parted with 22,000 acres of land. The land alone is valued at around Rs. 2 lakh crore at present market value. The steel plant has not only provided thousands of jobs to the people but has also contributed crores of rupees in the form of taxes to the Centre and the State over the years, Mr. Naidu said. Referring to the fast launched by Mr. Srinivasa Rao, Mr. Naidu said that the YSRCP leaders and the Ministers had not even bothered to meet him. Describing the VSP as the ‘heart’ of Visakhapatnam, the former Chief Minister recalled his efforts for the protection of the VSP, when it was on the verge of being referred to the Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction (BIFR), by taking up the issue with the then Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee. He claimed to have ensured justice to the evacuees and provision of water to meet the needs of the steel plant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/move-to-privatise-steel-plant-is-an-insult-to-martyrs-says-naidu/article33856363.ece
17 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Development of Vizag is possible only with TDP: Naidu||Former Chief Minister and TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu has expressed the view that the development of Visakhapatnam city is possible only with the TDP. Mr. Naidu was in the city to meet former MLA Palla Srinivasa Rao, who was admitted to a hospital at Sheela Nagar, here, after his condition deteriorated after a six-day fast seeking continuation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant(VSP) in the public sector, on Tuesday. Later he addressed the party workers and residents of nearby areas, who gathered outside the hospital. Calling Visakhapatnam as one of the best cities in the country, Mr. Naidu recalled his plan to develop it as a ‘financial capital’ in the combined State. He alleged that the YSRCP government was trying to reverse the projects initiated by the previous government in the city. He referred to the efforts of his government on the Metro Rail project, IT hub and LuLu group mall. He said: “You (people of the city) are all good people but are not bold enough to question wrongdoers. I am not the one to be cowed down by police threats and our party is ready for any sacrifice for saving VSP.” He spoke of his efforts for securing captive mines for the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant and his efforts to restore power in the city after Hudhud cyclone in 2014. He said, “On my call not to celebrate Deepavali that year as there was a danger of the dried up fallen trees catching fire, the people of the city had responded without a second thought.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/development-of-vizag-is-possible-only-with-tdp-naidu/article33856364.ece
17 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vasanta Panchami celebrated with fervour||Vasanta Panchami was celebrated at Sri Trishakti temple at Ukkunagaram on Tuesday. A number of devotees participated in various pujas held at the temple with utmost devotion. The pujas started with the offering of Panchamrita service to Sri Saraswati Devi, followed by Ashtottara Shata Namarchana and a mass literacy exercise(Aksharabhyasam) for over 400 children. Later, Sahasra Mouktikarchana (puja by offering pearls), Saraswati Homam was performed which was followed by the worshipping of goddess Sri Saraswati by the children. These special pujas ended with Maha Harati. Priests and members of the Trishakti Temple Committee made elaborate arrangements for the convenience of devotees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vasanta-panchami-celebrated-with-fervour/article33856461.ece
17 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP using steel plant issue for political benefit, alleges MLA||Anakapalle MLA Gudivada Amarnath alleged that at a time when all the political parties and various unions are fighting against the Centre’s proposal for privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), Telugu Desam Party (TDP) and its members are using the issue for political benefit. Addressing the media here on Tuesday, he said that after the privatisation issue came to light, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi suggesting ideas to revive the VSP. But Mr. Naidu, who claims himself to have over 40 years of experience in politics, instead of coming up with steps on how to deal with the issue, is trying to provoke people, Mr. Amarnath alleged. He alleged that Mr. Naidu is even unfit to be Opposition leader in the State. Between 1999 to 2004, when Mr. Naidu was the Chief Minister of united Andhra Pradesh and was the NDA convenor as many as 54 government- run institutions were privatised, Mr. Amarnath said. Why did Mr. Naidu remain silent at that time, he questioned. He alleged that despite being the Chief Minister for many years Mr. Naidu didn’t attempt to resolve the VSP’s issues. Gajuwaka MLA T. Nagi Reddy condemned Mr. Naidu’s comments against YSRCP and added that he had no right to talk about the VSP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-using-vsp-issue-for-political-gain-amarnath/article33856354.ece
17 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||National Science Week from February 23||In connection with National Science Day, which is celebrated every year on February 28 to mark the discovery of ‘Raman effect’ by Nobel laureate C.V. Raman, GITAM deemed to be university will be observing a National Science Week from February 23 to March 1. Focal theme This was informed by principal of GITAM Institute of Science, M. Sarathchandra Babu, here on Tuesday. The focal theme of this year is “Future of STI: Impacts on Education, Skills and Work”.On the occasion, GITAM Institute of Science is organising elocution, quiz, poster presentation competitions along with science lectures, he added. The competitions and science lectures are open for school and college students. Students willing to participate in more than one event are requested to submit registration throughhttps://bit.ly/2o8nvto For more details, contact programme coordinator Anima S Dadhich: 09490744427.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/national-science-week-from-february-23/article33856467.ece
17 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stage set for conduct of panchayat polls today||District Collector V. Vinay Chand has said that all arrangements have been completed for the conduct of the third phase of gram panchayat elections in Paderu division in the district on Wednesday. The polling material has been distributed to the mandal headquarters at Anantagiri, Araku, Pedabayalu, Munchingput, Paderu, G. Madugula, Chintapalli, GK Veedhi and Koyyuru mandals under the supervision of Joint Collectors M. Venugopal Reddy, P. Arun Babu and R. Govinda Rao, ITDA PO S. Venkateswar and Narsipatnam Sub Collector N. Mourya. The distribution at mandal centers was distributed by special officers and MPDOs. Polling staff were sent to the polling stations by special buses from 4 a.m. on Tuesday. He said that police bandobust has been arranged in sensitive areas in the Agency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stage-set-for-conduct-of-panchayat-polls-today/article33856462.ece
17 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana Governor, Jagan to visit city today||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is arriving on a short visit to the city on Wednesday. He will land at Visakhapatnam Airport at 11.10 a.m. Sarada Peetham After meeting officials and non-officials at the airport, he will proceed by road to Sri Visakha Sarada Peetham at China Mushidiwada, near Pendurthy. He will participate in the annual festival of the Peetham and return to the airport at 12.45 p.m. and return to Gannavaram. Meanwhile, Telangana Governor Tamilsai Soundararajan is also arriving at Vizag Airport from Hyderabad, at 3.10 p.m. She will proceed by road to Sri Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Simhachalam and have ‘darshan’ of the deity. Later, she would visit Visakha Sri Sarada Peetham at 4.10 p.m. and return to the airport at 5.20 p.m. and return to Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telangana-governor-jagan-to-visit-city-today/article33856463.ece
17 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AU to organise 3-day meet from Feb. 22||The Department of Civil Engineering, Andhra University College of Engineering, will be organising a three-day online workshop on ‘Urban Stormwater Management’ under TEQIP Phase - III from February 22 to 24. Rao S. Govindaraju, Professor at Purdue University and Visiting Professor in the Dept. of Civil Engineering, Andhra University, Nagesh Kumar, IISc Bangalore, and several others will deliver lectures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/au-to-organise-3-day-meet-from-feb-22/article33856464.ece
17 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||65 two-wheelers with altered silencers seized||The city traffic police seized 65 two-wheelers and also booked cases under the Motor Vehicle Act against the owners of those vehicles for altering the silencers and horns of the vehicle. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Ch. Adinarayana said that the traffic police conducted special drives at various parts of the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/65-two-wheelers-with-altered-silencers-seized/article33856465.ece
17 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vigilance officials conduct raid on KGH kitchen||Officials from the Vigilance and Enforcement Department conducted raids at the kitchen of King George Hospital (KGH), which supplies food to patients in the hospital, here on Tuesday. Vigilance team led by Additional SP Swaroopa Rani and DSP A. Narasimha Murthy collected several food samples and said that they would be sent to laboratory for testing. The officials also enquired with the patients about the food quality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vigilance-officials-conduct-raid-on-kgh-kitchen/article33856466.ece
17 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||RINL deploys new system for fly ash dispatch||With a view to simplify procedure, provide easy access and speed up process of fly ash dispatch from Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, the RINL-VSP has developed and deployed a new system, by name Fly Ash Swift Transit System (FAST). The system was launched by General Manager(Safety) M.S.V. Krishnaiah on Tuesday at new PP gate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rinl-deploys-new-system-for-fly-ash-dispatch/article33856468.ece
17 February 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Control steel, cement prices’||Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India-A.P. State general secretary K. Subhash Chandra Bose on Tuesday urged the Union and State governments to establish competent authorities to control cement and steel prices which have been skyrocketing for the last three months. He said that cement and steel companies had jacked up prices in spite of a huge drop in demand due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Bose said that a cement bag was available at Rs. 240 six months ago but now the price of a bag has risen to Rs. 370. “Steel was available at Rs. 38,000 per tonne till August, but is now priced at Rs. 67,000 per tonne. The Union government announced many incentives for companies to reduce prices at least by Rs. 5,000 per tonne. But it is not being implemented by traders in A.P.,” said Mr. Bose. “The government should establish an exclusive competent authority to control the rates. Otherwise, the entire construction activity will be halted for many years. It will have a cascading affect on the livelihood of thousands of workers across the State,” he added. CREDAI Vizianagaram chairman V. Parthasarathy and president Ch. Suryanarayana Raju said that an increase in raw material costs had led to a hike in Rs. 500 per sft, putting heavy burden on buyers of properties. The association secretary said that the CREDAI’s State body had already submitted a detailed note to the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/control-steel-cement-prices/article33856350.ece
17 February 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five ULBs to go to polls||Vizianagaram Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal on Tuesday said that the municipal elections would be held in Vizianagaram district on March 10. Addressing a media conference here, he said that the elections would be conducted for Vizianagaram Municipal Corporation, Bobbili, Parvatipuram, Saluru municipalities and Nellimarla Nagara panchayat. He said that the re-polling, if necessary, would be conducted on March 13 and counting would take place on March 14. Vizianagaram SP B. Rajakumari said law and order would be given top priority during polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/five-ulbs-to-go-to-polls/article33856348.ece
17 February 2021||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||4,000 children participate in aksharabhyasams||Sri Jnana Saraswati temples in Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts wore festive look on the occasion of Vasanta Panchami, considered an auspicious day for aksharabhyasam. The famous Jnana Saraswati temple, situated on the Ring Road in Vizianagaram, was lively with many activities/pujas taking place. The temple trustees made elaborate arrangements for akshrabhyasams for nearly 4,000 students on the premises. They said that annadanam was organised for devotees as many of them had come from faraway places. In Srikakulam’s Jnana Saraswati temple, hundreds of children took part in akshrabhyasam. Temple authorities thanked parents for observing COVID-19 protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/4000-children-participate-in-aksharabhyasams/article33856352.ece
17 February 2021||February 17 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two roads in Palnadu region identified as NH, says MP||Narasaraopet MP Lavu Sri Krishna Devarayalu has said that the Kondamodu-Perecharla and Dachepalli-Macharla roads in the Palnadu region have been identified as national highways. “The Centre will issue gazette notification in a few days,” he told in the media in Narasaraopet on Tuesday. The construction work would be undertaken in phases after the gazette notification. Efforts would be made to complete the stretches as four-lane roads, the MP said. ESI hospital The Central government has already given the green signal for setting up an ESI hospital in Chilakaluripet. The Central committee recently examined the details of the construction works. The District Collector is looking for a suitable site for the project. The MP further said that the hospital was being built in the downtown area as the number of beneficiaries was high. Referring to the Special Category Status (SCS) issue, the MP said that the YSCRP government was trying to convince the Centre in this regard. The Centre has also been urged to sanction Rs. 55,000 crore as per the revised estimate for Polavaram project and release funds for NIT, IIT, IIM, Central Universities and AIMS sanctioned to the State, he said. “In the budget meetings, we have demanded immediate release of the Rs. 700-crore pending funds for the seven backward districts in the State. We have also urged the Centre to withdraw the proposal of privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP),” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-roads-in-palnadu-region-identified-as-nh-says-mp/article33856449.ece
17 February 2021||February 17 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Notification issued for Council poll in Godavari dists.||East Godavari Collector and Returning Officer D. Muralidhar Reddy on Tuesday issued notification for the MLC election to the East Godavari- West Godavari Teachers’ Constituency. The candidates need to submit their nomination papers at the Collectorate in Kakinada till February 23 during the office hours between 11 a.m and 3. p.m. on the working days. The scrutiny of the nomination papers will be completed by February 24 and the aspirants could withdraw the nomination till February 26. The election will be conducted on March 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/notification-issued-for-council-poll-in-godavari-dists/article33856358.ece
17 February 2021||February 17 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||RTC cautions against job fraudsters||The APSRTC authorities have cautioned people against imposters on the prowl. APSRTC Executive Director (Vjayawada zone) G. Venkateswara Rao said that it had been brought to their notice that fake call letters for interviews for the Deputy Superintendent posts in the office of the ED, Vijayawada zone, were being given to job-seekers. Mr. Rao clarified that it was not true as no interviews were being held by the ED's office for any post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rtc-cautions-against-job-fraudsters/article33856361.ece
17 February 2021||February 17 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||For smooth ride||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/for-smooth-ride/article33856470.ece
17 February 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||SCCL gears up for mega green drive||The Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) is all set to plant around 17,000 saplings in the Kothagudem coal belt region comprising four areas on a single day on February 17. The State-owned coal mining company has planned to undertake the mega green drive as part of the State government’s “Haritha Haram” programme. The company has set a target of planting around two lakh saplings in all the 11 areas spread across six districts on a single day on Wednesday. The SCCL has planted nearly 4.59 crore saplings under the Haritha Haram afforestation programme in the entire coal belt region of the State since 2015. It has also initiated a slew of concrete measures to nurture and protect the saplings to expand the green cover across the coal belt, SCCL sources said. The green drive envisages planting of 10,000 saplings in Manuguru area, 5,000 saplings in Corporate area, 1,000 saplings each in Kothagudem and Yellandu areas respectively on Wednesday. Elaborate arrangements have been made to conduct the sapling plantation drive on the overburden dump and the site earmarked for eco-park at Gouthamkhani Opencast Project (GKOCP) at Rudrampur near Kothagudem, sources added. Elsewhere in the coal belt region, the sapling plantation drive will be conducted under the supervision of the SCCL General Managers concerned with the active participation of the SCCL employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sccl-gears-up-for-mega-green-drive/article33856284.ece
17 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Infra projects turning into vanity affairs||A bridge is meant for bridging distances, a sidewalk is meant for people to walk from A to B, a road is meant for zipping ahead especially if it is the eight-lane Outer Ring Road, but Hyderabad has turned these basic infrastructure projects into spiffy glittering showpieces. A few days back, Principal Secretary MA&UD Arvind Kumar tweeted: “Lighting on rocks along with #ORR. 7 additional stretches covering about 3 kms are provided with boulders lighting (254 luminaries)… These are in addition to the existing ones on Gachibowli- Shamshabad stretch. Plus, the LED lighting on median work in full swing.” One netizen demolished the utility of the work with a statement: “Stopping on ORR is prohibited…” While the age-old Deccan rocks are a sight for chauffeured passengers, a moment’s distraction for a driver can prove disastrous. Last year, the inauguration of the suspension bridge over the Durgam Cheruvu led to chaos as motorists stopped or slowed down to see the beauty of the bridge and the light-show thanks to colourful floodlights. On weekends, the mayhem reached such proportions that the Hyderabad Police slapped restrictions on movement of vehicles on weekends. The bridge which cost nearly Rs. 334 crore, if the elevated approach road’s cost is also included, was reduced to a showpiece when it was made a pedestrian-only affair at nights and on weekends.  Traffic problems Now, the stunning photographs of the Tank Bund transformation is drawing thousands of citizens at all hours of the day to the lake promenade. The Rs. 11.61crore project makes cars slow down, bikers stop wherever they can and pedestrians criss-cross the road which happens to be a national highway. The Lake Police patrol team which used to keep an eye on the waters of the lake to prevent suicides and accidents has now been forced to turn its attention to the road. “Bikers slow down and sometimes stop suddenly. We keep asking them to go away. I direct them to that parking lot on the other side of the road. Instead parking and crossing the road, they stop here,” says a traffic constable posted in the site. “What is the need for lighting up the sidewalk if the roads are dark. It is difficult to drive in the evening. It is first a road, then a sidewalk,” says Anuradha Reddy, a resident of Secunderabad, who found it difficult to drive in the twilight hours.  A different V-Day In November 2016, a typographical installation ‘Love Hyd’ was installed on the Tank Bund road amidst much fanfare. The location was one of the busiest stretches in the city. It turned into a spot for lovers, vandals and selfie-takers. Within a few days, traffic police had to be deployed to stop motorists from stopping and blocking traffic. And in a year, the sculpture was moved away to People’s Plaza.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/infra-projects-turning-into-vanity-affairs/article33856265.ece
17 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘New farm laws will turn ryots into labour on own land’||Former ministers, MPs and MLAs to the young future leaders of the Congress party described the 10-day Rajiv Rythu Bharosa padayatra of TPCC working president A. Revanth Reddy from Achampet to Hyderabad as a repeat of Y. S. Rajashekhara Reddy’s historic padayatra in 2002, and the one that turned the Congress leader into a people’s man. The padayatra that culminated into a Rajiv Rythu Ranabheri public meeting at Raviryala on the outskirts of the State capital on Tuesday saw most speakers comparing the walkathon to that of YSR’s padayatra that catapulted Congress party into power. “History will repeat and the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) will be decimated,” they claimed and said Congress was the only hope for the State and the nation to take on the BJP that is working for crony capitalists compromising the interests of the farmers. Addressing the massive meeting, Mr. Revanth Reddy said he was forced to take up padayatra from Nallamalla forests after he realised the nexus of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to continue the farm laws. He also took a jibe at, albeit indirectly, at the leaders who tried to create hurdles in his padayatra. “Yet, the farmers and the Congress cadre turned up in big numbers and it shows how they are worried by the new laws.” The Congress MP pointed out that K. Chandrasekhar Rao has turned his back on the laws after his meeting with Narendra Modi. “KCR has belittled the sacrifices of the Telangana people by siding with Modi to save himself and his corrupt rule,” he alleged. ‘Black laws’ Terming the farm laws as black laws, Mr. Reddy warned that farmers will become victims of the capitalists and turn labourers in their own fields. The sadder part was the behaviour of the BJP government that is not moved by the deaths of more than hundred farmers at the protests site. That is why Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi have come out on roads and are going to the people. “My inspiration for the padayatra is their way of going to the people,” Malkajgiri Member of Parliament said. ‘Power of farmers’ He said farmers’ leader Rakesh Tikait’s tears moved the country and sent shivers down the spine of Narendra Modi and Amit Shah, and that is the power of farmers. “Let’s be with those protesting farmers. It is our responsibility to ensure new farm laws are scrapped.” Turning his ire against Chief Minister Chandrasekhar Rao ‘snatching’ farmers’ lands for the Pharma City, he challenged him to sell his 1,000 acres farm. We are willing to buy for the Pharma city, he said and asked if Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao was ready to sell his land. Mr. Reddy said land was an emotional issue with farmers and it cannot be traded without their consent. He demanded that the CM drop his idea of taking farmers’ lands without their consent, and that too at an unacceptable price. Continue padayatra The Congress leader also announced that he was willing to continue the padayatra in other districts to give confidence to the people, after taking permission from the AICC high command that has already directed the Congress leader and cadre to directly go to the farmers. MLA Seethakka, working presidents Ponnam Prabhakar and K. Kusum Kumar, Congress MLC candidate G. Chinna Reddy, senior leaders Mallu Ravi, Shabbir Ali, Balaram Naik, Rajaiah, T. Rammohan Reddy, Malreddy Ranga Reddy and others spoke. Earlier, Revanth Reddy reached the venue of the public meeting in a massive tractor rally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-farm-laws-will-turn-ryots-into-labour-on-own-land/article33856291.ece
17 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Lot of pending rail infra work in TS & AP||South Central Railway (SCR) is slated to complete about 400 km of electrification by next month-end, but it still leaves 1,314 km of railway lines to be electrified in the Telugu States of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. Another 300 km of dense traffic corridor is to have double lines within March-end and here too, 2,670 km is just single line requiring lot of more effort to double or even triple the lines — which is just 54 km, of the total 6,382 km of railway lines in these two States. General Manager Gajanan Mallya, in a recent media interaction, to announce the details of the ‘Pink Book’ — indicating the precise allocations made for each zone, explained that a huge outlay of over Rs. 7,222 crore has been allotted for electrification, doubling, tripling and other projects in TS Rs. 2,240 crore and AP Rs. 5,812 crore, but as is evident, the infrastructure gaps are too wide to bring railway lines to increase the speeds of trains substantially. Senior railway officials are quite clear that introducing any new services will happen only after the current ongoing projects are completed, yet it will be quite revealing to know the current state of affairs to put things in perspective. The double railway lines in TS and AP are to the tune of 659 km of the 1,828 km and 1,430 km - 2,987 km, respectively. If one takes the non-electrified sections, it is to the tune of 800 km in TS and 582 km in AP, as per the latest official record. If we take the division wise electrification — the super busy Secunderabad division touching Balharshah, Kazipet, Wadi, Jagityal has about 1,094 km of 2,824 km electrified; Vijayawada division touching Visakhapatnam, Gudur and others has 783 km of 2,048 km electrified; Guntakal division touching Tirupati, Nandyal, Bellary has electrified 1,086 km out of 2,452 km; Guntur division has 595 km of 888 km electrified and Hyderabad division got 68 out of 135 km electrified. It also has to be highlighted that much more needs to be done to improve the rail infrastructure in Maharashtra where over 1,000 km is yet to be electrified and 981 km of the 1,100 km is single line. Parts of Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh too come under SCR, but in a limited way in comparison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lot-of-pending-rail-infra-work-in-telangana-and-ap/article33856271.ece
17 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bharat Biotech bags BioAsia’s Genome Valley Excellence award||Vaccine maker Bharat Biotech has been selected for this year’s Genome Valley Excellence Award. A prestigious award, it is an integral part of BioAsia, the biotechnology and Life Sciences conference Telangana government organises every year. Bharat Biotech is being presented the Genome Valley Excellence Award for 2021 for its “breakthrough, pioneering research, development and commercialisation of vaccines, including COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin,” a release said. The company’s CMD Krishna M. Ella and JMD Suchitra Ella will receive the award on February 22, at the inaugural event of BioAsia 2021. A two-day event, this will be 18th edition of BioAsia and is being held virtually for first time. Minister for Industries and IT K.T.Rama Rao said “the Genome Valley Excellence Award is one of the highlights of BioAsia. Over the years, it has been presented to eminent personalities among the global Life Sciences community. We are honoured to present this award to Bharat Biotech for its relentless work towards developing affordable vaccines for the global community and most recently, the remarkable work to help combat the COVID-19”. The International Advisory Board of BioAsia selected the company, for the award, for its vision and commitment to develop the first indigenous vaccine for COVID-19. Covaxin has been developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with Indian Council of Medical Research’s National Institute of Virology (NIV). It is one of the two COVID-19 vaccines being administered in the country since January 16. FABA award The release said the Federation of Asian Biotech Associations, a partner organisation of BioAsia, will be presenting the FABA Special Award to ICMR director-general and secretary to the Department of Health Research, Balram Bhargava. The award is “for his exemplary contributions to medicine and healthcare”. The release said he not only spearheaded the fight against COVID-19 in the country but also commenced several extraordinary marquee projects such as India-Stanford Biodesign programme, c-GMP Centre for Excellence for Stem Cell Studies and Society for Less Investigative Medicine (SLIM). He has pioneered the development of indigenous low-cost coronary stent that has benefited several thousand patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bharat-biotech-named-for-bioasias-genome-valley-excellence-award/article33856251.ece
17 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Top Forest department officials transferred||Ministry of Environment & Forests has issued orders effecting several transfers of senior IFS officers on Tuesday. As per the GO, the Conservator of Forests, Hyderabad and person in charge of Forest College and Research Institute G.Chandrashekhar Reddy has been given posting as the Vice Chairman and Managing Director of the Telangana State Forest Development Corporation, replacing the retired PCCF P.Raghuveer. The Field Director of Amrabad Tiger Reserve A.K.Sinha has been transferred and posted as Additional PCCF, State Trading Circle. B.Srinivas who had earlier been Director, Urban Forestry, HMDA has replaced him as the Field Director of ATR. Chief Conservator of Forests, Nizamabad Vinay Kumar has been given posting as Additional PCCF (IT & Working Plans) in the office of the PCCF (Head of Forest Force), while Chief Conservator of Forests, Bhadradri Kothagudem Circle has been transferred as Director, Telangana State Forest Academy. Chief Conservator of Forests, Warangal Circle M.J.Akbar has been transferred to the same post in Hyderabad Circle. Priyanka Varghese, the Officer on Special Duty in the Chief Minister’s Office, has been given responsibilities as the person in charge of the Forest College & Research Institute, in addition to her regular duties. District Forest Officer, Warangal Urban and Jangaon, G.Ramalingam has been transferred as the Conservator of Forests, Adilabad Circle. District Forest Officer, Rajanna Sircilla & Karimnagar S.J.Asha has been transferred as Conservator of Forests, Warangal Circle. District Forest Officer, Ranga Reddy district D.Bheema has been transferred as Conservator of Forests, Bhadradri Kothagudem Circle, while the existing curator of the Nehru Zoological Park N.Kshitija has been given posting as Conservator of Forests, Mahabubnagar Circle. B.Saidulu, who is presently the Special Commissioner in the Rural Development department has been transferred as Conservator of Forests, Karimnagar Circle. Deputy Conservator of Forests V.V.L.Subhadra Devi has been given the posting as Curator, Nehru Zoological Park.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/top-forest-dept-officers-transferred/article33856258.ece
17 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Awareness workshops by NCW on sexual harassment||National Commission for Women member Rajulben L. Desai has informed that the commission is conducting training classes to generate awareness about sexual harassment in universities and workplaces, and the measures to be taken against it. Addressing a press conference during her two-day visit to the State on Tuesday, Ms. Desai said members of the commission are travelling to all states to increase awareness among universities, government departments, companies and organisations about constitution of Committees Against Sexual Harassment and complaint mechanism. This is the first time that such training sessions are being organised by the commission, Ms.Desai said. She presided over one such workshop at the B.R.Ambedkar Open University during her visit. She also met the DGP and Women’s Safety wing officials, and reviewed the progress in cases pertaining to harassment against women. She praised the work of Bharosa Centres, Sakhi Centres and She Teams in the state. The Commission has received 52 complaints from the State in 2019, which rose to 140 in 2020. This year, 15 complaints have been received so far. Chairperson of State Women’s Commission Sunitha Laxma Reddy said measures will be taken to strengthen and revive the Social Action Committees constituted under the DRDA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/awareness-workshops-by-ncw-on-sexual-harassment/article33856260.ece
17 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC reserves order on Vijaya Dairy assets case||Telangana High Court has reserved orders in a writ petition filed by Andhra Pradesh State government challenging the decision of its counterpart in Telangana taking over assets of Andhra Pradesh Dairy Development Co-operative Federation. In 2016, Telangana government brought out a GO taking over the main assets of Secunderabad’s Lallaguda-based APDDCF office. The AP government challenged the GO stating that it was against the provisions of the AP Reorganisation Act under which separate Telangana State was carved out. AP Advocate-General S. Sriram contended that the federation was under IX schedule and hence its assets should be shared by the two States as per the AP Reorganisation Act. Telangana Advocate-General B.S. Prasad argued that as per Section 53 of the said Act assets located in the geographical jurisdiction of a State belong to the same State. After hearing contentions of the two parties, a bench of Justices M.S. Ramachadra Rao and T. Amarnath Goud reserved judgement in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-reserves-order-on-vijaya-dairy-assets-case/article33856268.ece
17 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||LPG, fuel prices on the boil||Liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) cylinders supplied to households cost Rs. 821.50 each in Hyderabad in the wake of national oil marketing companies increasing the price by Rs. 50 per refill on Monday. It was for the second time cooking gas prices were increased this month – on February 4 they were raised by Rs. 25. But it was not the first time the oil companies had moved away away from the practice of revising the prices once a month. In December, the prices went up twice by Rs. 50. For households in the city, this meant that the 14.2 kg LPG cylinder that they had ordered for Rs. 646.50 in November is now expensive by Rs. 175. How much of the incremental portion will be returned to consumers, eligible to get subsidy, by way of direct benefit transfer is unclear now. Sources in the LPG trade say those eligible were until recently getting Rs. 40 credited to their bank accounts by way of the subsidy transfer. Usually it takes 3-4 days after price change that more clarity is available on the subsidy. Households adjusting Sources claim that the households seem to be adjusting to the frequent revision in the prices. In 2020, the cost of a refill in the city went up from Rs. 769 in January to Rs. 917.5 in February. For the next few months, which in the face of pandemic and declining demand saw international crude prices tumbling, the cooking gas cylinder prices were reduced to Rs. 862 in March; Rs. 796.50 in April; and Rs. 589.5 in May. In June, the price increased to Rs. 641 thus beginning a trend of upward revisions. Refill prices At current level, the price of refill is less than Rs. 180 away from the Rs. 1,000 a cylinder mark. The firming up propane and butane – which together constitute bulk of LPG — prices globally is expected to further push up the cooking gas cylinder cost for households in coming days. Oil companies calculate the prices based on the international prices as well as the US dollar-rupee exchange rate. Spiralling LPG prices is bound to be a cause of concern for households already worrying about the rising fuel prices and the cascading impact it is having on the price of several other products and services. Petrol in particular is expected to touch Rs. 100 a litre. On Tuesday per litre price of petrol in Hyderabad was Rs. 92.82, while for the same quantity of diesel it was Rs. 86.91.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lpg-fuel-prices-on-the-boil/article33856270.ece
17 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Massive green treat planned for K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s birthday||Telangana will get greener with over one crore new saplings to be planted to celebrate the birthday of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Wednesday. The initiative is planned by Rajya Sabha MP J. Santosh Kumar, who floated the Green India Challenge that has spread across the country and also in several other nations where Telugu people reside. His “Koti Vriksharchana” (Planting one crore saplings) appeal has evoked enthusiastic response from people of all walks of life, including film stars from Tollywood and Bollywood, who have joined the chorus for a major green drive as a birthday present to the Chief Minister. Bollywood stars Ajay Devgan and Sanjay Dutt who had been active in the Green India Challenge also tweeted asking their followers to go green. Sanjay Dutt tweeted: “Let’s plant trees and nurture them. Let’s arrest global warming. Let’s save Earth otherwise we are doomed! Join me to say Happy Birthday to KCR.” Ajay Devgan took to Twitter wishing birthday wishes to KCR and asking people to improve greenery. Tollywood actor Akkineni Nagarjuna also apprecited the initiative and urged people to plant a sapling as a gift to the Chief Minister on his birthday. Megastar Chiranjeevi released a video asking his fans and Telugu people to plant a sapling in the name of KCR on his birthday and nurture them to realise the dream of a Green Telangana. Superstar Mahesh Babu went a step ahead posting a video of his family, including his son Gautham and daughter Sitara, planting saplings at his house embracing the “Koti Vriksharchana” initiative. He tweeted: “Planting and nurturing trees is one of the best ways to reduce global warming,” he said appreciating the initiative and wishing the Chief Minister. Meanwhile, Mr. Santosh Kumar gave impetus to the programme distributing medicinal plants to the passengers at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport. Along with RGIA CEO Pradeep Panekar and CISF DG M.K. Singh he distributed the saplings to the passengers arriving from Cochin. He said arrangements have been made to make the initiative a success to honour the Chief Minister on his birthday. He said KCR’s dream is to transform Telangana into a Green state and his ‘Haritha Telangana’ programme to make it sustainable for generations to come has already paid dividends. He urged the people to participate in the programme in large numbers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/massive-green-treat-planned-for-k-chandrasekhar-raos-birthday/article33856289.ece
17 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IT SEZ building in Hitec City set to change hands for Rs. 506 crore||Ascendas Property Fund Trustee Pte on Tuesday said as Trustee-Manager of Ascendas India Trust it has entered into definitive agreements to acquire an IT SEZ building ‘aVance 6’ in Hitec City from the Phoenix Group for Rs. 506 crore. The building has a floor area of around 6,39,495 square feet. Over 98% of aVance 6 has been leased by Amazon Development Center (India). A statement from Ascendas said the definitive agreements, for the proposed acquisition, were executed with the shareholders of Phoenix IT Infrastructure India, the vendor, for a “gross consideration of approximately Rs. 5.06 billion (Singapore dollar 92.03 million).” Fifth building It will be the fifth building that Ascendas India Trust will acquire from the Phoenix Group. In February 2012, it had acquired aVance 1 and 2, totalling 427,700 sq ft; in July 2015 aVance 3 (682,900 sq ft); and in April 2017 aVance 4 (390,000 sq ft). aVance 5 is currently under construction. CEO of the Trustee-Manager Sanjeev Dasgupta said, “The proposed acquisition provides Ascendas India Trust an opportunity to scale up our presence in Hitec City and will add Amazon as a tenant to our IT park portfolio. The improving connectivity and enhancement work being carried out at aVance would benefit our tenants in the future.” “We have already started seeing some leasing traction, with a large US based MNC having executed a Letter of Intent to lease aVance 5,” he said. Ascendas India Trust was listed on the Singapore Exchange Securities Trading (SGX-ST) in August 2007 as the first Indian property trust in Asia. Its principal objective is to own income-producing real estate used primarily as business space in India. It may also develop and acquire land or uncompleted developments primarily to be used as business space, with the objective of holding the properties upon completion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/it-sez-building-in-hitec-city-set-to-change-hands-for-rs-506-crore/article33856266.ece
17 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Farmers fearing for their future: Bhatti||Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Bhatti Vikramarka has warned that the very survival of farmers was at stake due to the new farm laws that will bring in corporate farming driving away small and marginal farmers. Speaking to farmers at Tandra in Kalwakurthy as a part of his ‘Face-to-Face with Farmers’, he said while the farmers were in fear on their future with the new laws none of the Telangana ministers were siding with them in this hour of crisis. In fact, their fears have doubled after Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao announced that the government would not buy the crop from the next season. Is it due to the new farm laws, he asked the CM to clarify. He said his meeting with farmers throughout the State was to understand their fears and raise it in the Assembly seeking answers from the government. Mr. Vikramarka alleged that both the Central and State governments were terrorising the farmers foisting false cases but the Congress party would support the farmers when they need political support the most. Explaining how lack of government support will hurt the farmers, he said tomato farmers in Narayankhed recently had to throw away their produce due to lack of support price. Neither the traders were willing to buy nor the government was helping and they just threw away the produce on the roads. He said both Narendra Modi and KCR were together in cheating the farmers to ensure their crony capitalists benefited. He said BJP was a party of businessmen and Prime Minister Modi was working for Ambani and Adani and such groups at the cost of common man. He said the farm laws will not only harm the farmers but also the consumers at the end of the chain. Manthani MLA D. Sreedhar Babu, former member of Parliament Madhu Yashki Goud, former MLA Vamshichand Reddy, Nagarkurnool DCC president Vamshi Krishna , Kisan Congress chairman Anvesh Reddy were among present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/farmers-fearing-for-their-future-bhatti/article33856293.ece
17 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State raises another Rs. 1,000 crore through OMB||The State government has raised another tranche of Rs. 1,000 crore through open market borrowings (OMB) in the form of State Development Loan from the Reserve Bank of India on Tuesday. The State had notified raising an amount of Rs. 750 crore as SDL, but had accepted another Rs. 250 crore as part of the auction. The State had accepted additional borrowing under the green shoe option and the loan carries cut off yield of 7 % with a tenure of 30 years. Proceeds of the auction would be credited to the State’s account in a day and sources said provision of the green shoe option indicated the confidence of the investors in the State’s financial performance. The tenure of the loan at 30 years indicated that the State changed its earlier course of securing short term loans. The State received appreciation from the Centre for its planning of short-term open market borrowings ranging from five to 10 years in the past but the system had changed since July last year since when the State had been opting for long tenure loans, alternating between 20 and 30 years. The State had been continuously raising open market borrowings to meet the financial commitments since the last couple of months. In January for instance, the State borrowed Rs. 3,000 crore in three tranches of Rs. 1,000 crore each with tenures of 20, 30 and 20 years while it had raised another Rs. 1,000 crore on December 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-raises-another-rs-1000-crore-through-omb/article33856282.ece
17 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Treat agriculture as a business, NAFSCOB chairman tells farmers||Konduru Ravinder Rao, Chairman of National Federation of State Cooperative Banks (NAFSCOB), Telangana State Apex Bank (TSCAB) and district cooperative central bank (DCCB), has called upon the farmers to treat agriculture as a business enterprise to the reap the riches. “Agriculture is not just a substitute in this present world of competition and the farmers should treat it as a business enterprise. The farmers should double their income by cutting down expenditure in farming with the mechanisation, reducing the use of pesticides and fertilizers and by using organic fertilizers and also by cultivating commercial crops,” he pointed out. Mr. Ravinder on Tuesday went on a whirlwind tour of Rajanna-Sircilla district participating in various developmental works of the bank in the interior villages. He inaugurated the DCCB’s 32nd ATM centre in Rudrangi village, participated in a meeting with the PACS members of Chandurthi mandal. Speaking on the occasion, he said that the farmers cannot reap riches by doing farming of cultivating conventional crops like paddy and cotton. They should process and add value to their products through rice mills and ginning mills respectively before branding and marketing, he stated. He also called upon the primary agricultural cooperative societies (PACS) to provide mechanised tools to the farmers on rent to reduce the costs and increase yield.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/treat-agriculture-as-a-business-nafscob-chairman-tells-farmers/article33856397.ece
17 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GM inspects Vijayawada division||SCR General Manager Gajanan Mallya supervised speed tests of 120 kmph between Venkatachalam – Nellore, Kavali – Singarayakonda and the Gudur- Tenali sections and also reviewed overall track maintenance on the entire stretch during his inspection of the Gudur-Ongole-Tenali sections of Vijaywada division on Tuesday. Accompanied by DRM P. Srinivas, he inspected minor bridges between Kommarapudi – Venkatachalam and Alluru – Bitragunta sections, checked the level crossings on Manubolu – Kommarapudi section, Road Under Bridge (RUB), major bridge between Ulavapadu – Singarayakonda – Tanguturu section and bridge over the Romperu river between Uppugunduru – Chinnaganjam section. Major stations on the route and the staff quarters were also inspected and the GM also interacted with the field maintenance staff to understand their issues, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gm-inspects-vijayawada-division/article33856273.ece
17 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Identify issues faced by non-resident Telanganites: CS||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar asked the officials concerned to identify problems and issues faced by the non-residents of Telangana who migrated to different countries, particularly the Gulf. The Chief Secretary sought suggestions from the officials on resolving the problems faced by the NRIs from the State. The suggestions elicited from the officials concerned would be presented to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and NRI Affairs Minister K.T. Rama Rao so that an appropriate policy and necessary procedures could be evolved. Mr. Somesh Kumar reiterated that the Chief Minister and the government was concerned and committed for the welfare of the non-resident Telanganites. The meeting comes in the backdrop of the visit of three-member committee comprising the Chief Secretary, Chief Advisor Rajiv Sharma and Chief Minister’s principal secretary S. Narsing Rao to Kerala to study the schemes and policies brought out by the government for welfare of the non-resident Keralites.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/identify-issues-faced-by-non-resident-telanganites-cs/article33856274.ece
17 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||2.79 lakh covered in one month of vaccination||It has been one month since the COVID-19 vaccination drive was launched in Telangana. From January 16 to February 16, as many as 2,79,518 healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs) have been the first dose. The number of targeted recipients was nearly 6 lakh. Of them, 53,144 HCWs have also received the second dose. According to details provided in media bulletins issued by the Health department, a total of 133 cases of Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI) were reported, including at least 65 minor and two serious cases. Officials did not specify the nature of the remaining 66 cases. Two AEFI-related deaths have been reported in the past month. A 42-year-old male ambulance driver died on January 20, and a 45-year-old female HCW died on January 24. Post-mortem was conducted and viscera, body fluids and a part of a few organs were sent to the Central Forensics Science Laboratory (CFSL), and National Institute of Virology (NIV)-Pune for further examination. Earlier, senior Health officials said it would take at least two weeks to know the cause of the death in both cases, but the reasons are yet to be disclosed. Officials were not available at their office and could not be reached through phone to be asked about the findings. When the drive was launched, the first priority was given to HCWs in the government sector followed by those in private sector. Thousands of them gave the vaccination a miss. Mop-up rounds were held, giving another chance to the HCWs. Only Covishield was administered to them. Covaxin roll-out Health department staff started to vaccinate FLWs from municipality, police, panchayat raj, and revenue department from February 6. Covaxin was rolled out on February 8. The turnout among FLWs was low. HCWs started receiving the second dose from February 13, after a gap of 28 days since the first jab. While 53,144 received the second dose, 14,024 did not take it. Vaccination for those above 50 years, and below 50 years with co-morbidities is expected to begin in March first or second week. Officials said another version of Co-WIN app would be introduced for the general public to self-register.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/279-lakh-vaccinated/article33855933.ece
17 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Many injured as lorry hits divider on ORR||Several persons were injured in a road accident on Tuesday after the driver of the commercial vehicle in which they were travelling lost control and crashed the vehicle into a divider along the Out Ring Road. According to Rajiv Gandhi International Airport Police who are investigating the case, the vehicle, a small lorry, was travelling from Prakasam district in Andhra Pradesh towards Patancheru. The driver of the vehicle, identified as Mohammed Yunus, allegedly lost control and rammed a divider. Police suspect that the driver was in an inebriated condition. “We were told that there were around 25 persons in the DCM. The injured persons have been taken to a hospital where they are being treated. There are no deaths,” police said. A case has been booked under relevant sections of the Motor Vehicle Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/many-injured-as-lorry-hits-divider-on-orr/article33856396.ece
17 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cash-for-vote trial schedule on Friday||ACB Special Court here will fix the schedule for the trial of cash-for-vote case involving legislator A. Revanth Reddy and others on Friday. With this, trial in the one of the widely discussed political scandals in the State would commence nearly six years after it came to light. One of the accused in the case, A. Revanth Reddy, who was MLA from Telugu Desam Party when the case was filed, eventually joined Congress and got elected as Malkajgiri Lok Sabha member. Fixation of the trial schedule would confirm details of the witnesses and the dates they are likely to be examined. This would follow chief examination and cross examination of the witnesses before commencement of final arguments. On Tuesday, the Special Court framed the charges against Mr. Revanth Reddy, Uday Simha and Sebastian. The judge read over the charges framed under Section 12 of Prevention of Corruption Act to the trio present in the court. Charges were also framed against them under sections 120-B (criminal conspiracy) read with 34 of Indian Penal Code. Mr. Reddy and the other two denied the charges.Already, the court framed charges against Sandra Venkata Veeraiah who was also made one of the accused in the case. In year 2015, sleuths of ACB arrested the then TDP MLA A. Revanth Reddy on charge of offering Rs. 50 lakh bribe to nominated MLA Elvis Stephenson to cast vote in favour of TDP nominee for MLC in Telangana. He was arrestedand later came out on bail. In separate matter, Justice G. Sri Devi of Telangana HC adjourned a criminal petition seeking anticipatory bail by Bhargav Ram, husband of former AP minister Akhila Priya, to February 26. Mr. Ram is one of the accused in the alleged abduction of a person in connection with a land dispute. Ms. Akhila Priya was already arrested in the case and was later set free on bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cash-for-vote-trial-schedule-on-friday/article33856285.ece
17 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC outsourced workers protest for pending wages||Outsourced workers employed in the GHMC parks of the city organised a demonstration under the banner of CITU, in front of the corporation’s headquarters on Tuesday, demanding salaries. The workers have not been receiving salaries from the outsourcing agencies for the past two to three months, CITU city vice-president J. Kumara Swamy alleged. When they complained, the agencies are blaming GHMC for not paying them. Besides, the PF and ESI amounts too are not being deposited, he alleged. Penalised GHMC’s Enforcement Wing reportedly slapped penalties on two restaurants for display boards with flash lights on Tuesday. Pista House Bakery & Restaurant in Madina of Charminar has been slapped with Rs. 50,000 fine, while the Lucky Restaurant in L.B.Nagar has been given notices for payment of Rs. 1.5 lakh for use of flash lights or non-static illumination in advertisement, sources informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmc-outsourced-workers-protest-for-pending-wages/article33856277.ece
17 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Dak Seva, PLI/RPLI awards presented||Postal Services Board member (Banking and DBT) K. Sandhya Rani has stressed the need for younger staff of the department of posts to work for strengthening the set up developed by senior officers. There was need for behavioral and attitude change in the staff at all levels as it was vital for their being able to adopt to the new technology roll-out 2.0 in India Posts likely before the end of 2022. Ms. Sandhya Rani was speaking at a function organised in connection with presentation of Dak Seva awards and PLI/RPLI awards for 2020 to meritorious staff here on Tuesday. The awards would be presented in eight different categories to outstanding performers at the State/circle level every year. The main criteria for selecting the awardees was an unblemished record of service, performance and productivity of the employee, devotion to duty, leadership qualities and contribution of the employee in improving the image of the department. TS circle chief post master general S. Rajendra Kumar and Hyderabad region post master general P.V.S. Reddywere present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dak-seva-plirpli-awards-presented/article33856253.ece
17 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Saying it with flowers||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s fans in East Godavari district of neighbouring Andhra Pradesh expressed their affection towards him by extending their greetings on his birthday in a novel way. Owners of Palla Venkanna Plant Nursery in Kadiam Palla Sattibabu, Palla Subramanyam and Palla Ganapathi made a creative portrait of the Chief Minister with flowers of different colours and plants for conveying their birthday wishes. They said they took Haritha Haaram, the brainchild of Mr Rao for making the State green, as inspiration for conveying their greetings in an innovative way. The gesture received appreciation from several non-Telangana people for expressing affection with creativity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/saying-it-with-flowers/article33856255.ece
17 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Virtual seminar on ‘Rule of Law’ from Feb. 20||A virtual seminar on ‘Rule of Law’ organised by Foundation for Democratic Reforms, UoH and ISB spread over eight days focusing on constitutional governance and democratic society is set to kick off from February 20. The seminar will see dozens of legal luminaries, thinkers and policy makers share their insights into the law and policing issues in the country spread over 15 sessions, said former legislator N. Jaya Prakash Narayana. “When Mahatma Gandhi was assassinated, the culprit was hanged within a year. But when Rajiv Gandhi was assassinated it took 12 years for the final judgment. In the Sunanda Pushkar case, it took two years for the DNA test,” said Dr. Narayana, who is the force behind the organisation of the seminar. “In the Disha case they killed the culprits, but we are not sure innocents will not be killed? The Vikas Dubey case is similar. We don’t have sympathy for the criminal. But why these things are happening and how to stop them is part of the seminar,” said Dr. Narayana. “After protecting our borders, the prime duty of the government is protecting citizens. If a government cannot provide the security to its citizens then that government is useless,” said Dr. Narayana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/virtual-seminar-on-rule-of-law-from-feb-20/article33856275.ece
17 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State records 129 new COVID cases on Monday||Telangana recorded 129 COVID-19 cases on Monday, taking the total to 2,96,802. While 24,851 people were examined, results of 516 were awaited. One more patient died, pushing up the fatality figure to 1,619. The new cases include 23 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation and nine from Rangareddy. No case was reported from five districts — Medak, Kumaram Bheem Asifabad, Kamareddy, Jogulamba-Gadwal and Jayashankar Bhupalapally. Of the total cases, 1,643 are active while 2,93,540 have recovered. From March 2 last year, when the first COVID case in the State was detected, a total of 82,36,255 samples were tested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-records-129-new-virus-cases-on-monday/article33856245.ece
17 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Four file papers for MLC polls on first day||Four nominations have been filed for the two Legislative Council seats under the Graduates’ Constituency where elections will be held on March 14. Former minister and senior Congress leader G. Chinna Reddy filed his nomination on behalf of the Congress party from the Hyderabad, Rangareddy and Mahabubnagar constituency on the first day of filing of nominations on Tuesday. Two independents — Syed Fareeduddin and Adapa Surender — also filed their papers on the first day. One independent candidate Bandaru Nagaraju filed his nomination from the Warangal, Khammam, Nalgonda constituency, according to Chief Electoral Officer’s office. Speaking to the Media after the nomination, Mr.Chinna Reddy emphasised on four categories of voters which, he said, will assume importance in these elections, namely the unemployed, the teachers, employees and pensioners. All the four groups have been deceived during the past seven years, he said. Though unemployment allowance had been promised during 2018 elections, till now it has not been fulfilled. Vacancies are not being filled up, nor any other employment benefits for the employees. Promotions have been pending, he said. Nominations for the elections would be accepted till February 23 followed by their scrutiny the next day. GHMC Commissioner and Election Officer D.S.Lokesh Kumar has clarified that the nominations will not be received online for the MLC elections. They should be given directly to Returning Officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/four-file-papers-for-mlc-polls-on-first-day/article33856287.ece
17 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Man damages ATMs as attempt to steal cash fails||After an unsuccessful bid to rob two ATMs on Tuesday, a man allegedly damaged the machines before fleeing the scene. According to Neredmet police who are investigating the case, the incident occurred around 3.30 a.m. on Tuesday at the Neredmet Crossroads. The accused tried to steal cash from the Punjab National Bank and Axis Bank ATMs. However, he failed. Police said that after he was unable to break into the cash chest, he damaged the ATMs, including the CPUs. The accused could not gain access to the ICICI Bank ATM which was nearby. “The incident took place in the early hours of Tuesday. A case has been booked and we have launched an investigation. We are in the process of analysing CCTV footage which is available at the ATMs. As soon as the accused is identified we will take him in custody,” Neredmet Police Detective Inspector Panduranga Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-damages-atms-as-attempt-to-steal-cash-fails/article33856279.ece
17 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Minor sustains ‘self-inflicted’ bleeding injury||A minor boy sustained bleeding injuries after he was allegedly not given a phone by his parents. While no case has been registered so far, Narsingi Police said that the incident took place late on Monday night. It was first suspected that the 12-year-old boy’s mother could have inflicted the injuries on him using a blade. Later, as per the minor’s statement, the injuries were self-inflicted. “So far no complaint has come. We have spoken to the minor boy. He has said that the injuries are self-inflicted. Once a complain comes, we will register a case,” Narsingi inspector of police Gangadhar said. Freak mishap In a freak mishap, a 44-year-old man who was consuming liquor in Madhapur Police Station limits died after an eave he was sitting on collapsed. The victim is Md Inamul Haq. He is a security guard by profession. According to police, the mishap took place on Monday in Siddiq Nagar. The victim was rushed to the hospital where he was pronounced dead, said the police .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/minor-sustains-self-inflicted-bleeding-injury/article33856280.ece
17 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Three constables suspended||Three constables were suspended on Tuesday on allegations of not performing their duties, and also for allegedly getting into an altercation with colleagues in a state of inebriation. According to sources, the constables were posted at Narayanguda Police Station. The suspended constables have been identified as Nagaraju, Shiva Prasad and Vishal. “They were loitering around and not performing their duties well. The constables were in a drunken condition and the decision was taken by Hyderabad City Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar,” the source said, even as he confirmed that the trio got into an altercation with colleagues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-constables-suspended/article33856281.ece
17 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CS for concrete action plan to make TS role model in Health||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has directed Health department officials to prepare a concrete action plan to make Telangana a role model in health sector in the country. The Chief Secretary directed them to focus on antenatal checkups of mothers, control of anaemia, awareness building on breast feeding within one hour of birth and improving nutritional standards among children and mothers in the State. Survey findings The officials were directed to analyse the survey findings and prepare strategy for the improvement in performance on various parameters, Mr Kumar said. Mr. Somesh Kumar held a review meeting with Health officials on Tuesday on the achievements of the State in parameters prescribed in the National Family Health Survey-5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cs-for-concrete-action-plan-to-make-ts-role-model-in-health/article33856252.ece
17 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Prestigious fellowship for pulmonologist||Pradyut Waghray, a prominent pulmonologist from Hyderabad, has secured the prestigious fellowship of Royal College of Physicians, London. He said he was elected in recognition of his academic achievements, professional and research activities in the field of pulmonary medicine, and contribution to the profession. As part of his research, Dr Waghray is working on combining stem cell therapy with standard medical treatment for patients of Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis, known to be incurable lung disease, in collaboration with doctors atMichigan State University, US.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/prestigious-fellowship-for-pulmonologist/article33856247.ece
17 February 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Roundtable for retaining old bus stand||The existing old bus stand should be continued even after the tentatively scheduled inauguration of the new bus station on March 1 to utilise the decades-old facility as the "city and rural bus station", opined speakers at a roundtable held here on Tuesday. Participants representing a cross section of denizens of the city demanded that the old bus stand be retained to protect the livelihoods of scores of street vendors, fruit sellers and other small-time businessmen of the areas surrounding the decades old bus station. The roundtable was presided over by the former Khammam municipal chairperson Afroz Sameena, who is the corporator from the 30th division in the Khammam Municipal Corporation (KMC). Among those who participated include the CPI (M) district secretary N Nageswara Rao, the CPI (ML-ND) district leader A Ashok, and a host of other leaders representing various political parties, vendors’ unions and mass organisations. While welcoming the decision to inaugurate the new bus station, the speakers at the roundtable opposed the reported move on the part of the authorities to shelve the old bus stand after the inauguration of the new one at the NSP camp in the town. It is essential to retain the old bus stand in addition to the upcoming new bus station in view of the fast-growing city and protect the livelihoods of scores of street vendors and small shopkeepers and traders operating in the vicinity of the existing bus stand situated near the railway station, they contended. The roundtable has resolved to organise rallies, a signature campaign and a Praja Ballot among other mass contact programmes above party lines as part of “Save old bus stand campaign” in the KMC limits from February 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/roundtable-for-retaining-old-bus-stand/article33856283.ece
17 February 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Auto rally held to observe Safety month||Transport department deputy commissioner Shivalingaiah has called upon autorickshaw drivers to keep safety in mind while driving vehicles. An auto rally was held Kandi mandal headquarters as part of road safety month being observed here. Motor vehicle inspectors Kiran Kumar Reddy and K. Srinivas gave several suggestions to auto drivers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/auto-rally-for-safety-month/article33856261.ece
17 February 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Mutrajpally farmers refuse to give their land for R&R colony||Even as the government is getting ready to complete the construction of Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) colony houses at Mutrajpally, some of the land owners of this village, now part of Gajwel Municipality, have refused to allow government to resume their land. The government has taken up construction of some 2500 houses in the R&R Colony at Mutrajpally for the oustees from different villages that are ready to get submerged under Mallannasagar, part of larger Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project, being constructed with a capacity of 50 tmcft. The government had already acquired 450 acres in the past and recently issued notification for acquisition of another 102 acres for the same purpose. A notification was issued under Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act – 2013 (LA Act – 2013) on January 31, 2021. In the notification it was also stated that the process of land acquisition was exempted from social impact assessment (acquiring of public opinion) and food security according to 10- A by Irrigation and Command Area Development (CAD) vide G.O. 35, dated 30.06.2017. In a Gram Sabha held on Monday at Gajwel, the farmers openly expressed their objections and passed a resolution against allowing the government to acquire their lands and they handed over a copy of the resolution to the officials present there. “Why is G.O. 35, that excludes conduct of a social impact assesment and payment of any compensation to the persons displaced under Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project, applied to us when it was not applicable to the persons who are actually displaced by the Mallannasagar, a part of the Kaleshwaram Project?” asked a farmer. “Why should we be asked to vacate our lands to help the government fulfil its responsibility of building an R&R Colony which it is exempted from under the G.O. 35 and why is conduct of Social Impact Assessment not applicable for us as construction of houses was part of Kaleswaram Project?” he asked. The farmer also pointed out that a case was still pending with the court on whether the land was government or patta land and that the authorities had yet to give a clarification on it. Will the farmers of Lingarajupet be left with any land once their land was acquired by government, the farmer asked and demanded that the social impact assessment be conducted. “Chief Minister promised to give land to those who are landless. Now the government is acquiring lands. We are not giving up our land come what may,” said another farmer. Some other farmers demanded that they should be paid a package if their lands were acquired. Revenue Divisional Officer Vijayender Reddy and others were present in the Gram Sabha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mutrajpally-farmers-refuse-to-give-their-land-for-rr-colony/article33856295.ece
17 February 2021||February 17 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Medicines work best when you store them properly||How well your medicine works on you depends on where you store them. Medicines need certain storage conditions to prevent them from getting damaged. While oxygen, light, and water are substances that humans need to survive, they can be destructive if you keep them too close to certain medications. Excess heat, air and light can damage some medicines, and compromise their potency or efficacy. Medicines are to be stored in a cool, dry place. Storing in a dresser drawer or a kitchen cabinet away from the heat of the stove or any hot appliances will keep them safe. Some people tend to store their medicines in a bathroom cabinet. This begins a process that ultimately breaks down your drugs. Even turning on the hot water in the sink can allow moisture to filter into the cabinet. Medication in general does not tolerate moisture, and the heat and moisture from the shower, bath, and sink may damage the medicine. It can become less potent, or may go bad before its expiration date. Pills and capsules are easily damaged by heat and moisture. In fact, when you take medicine, it's the moisture in your stomach that breaks it down. Aspirin pills break down into vinegar and salicylic acid. This irritates the stomach. Don't refrigerate a medicine unless the pharmacist, label, or package insert advises refrigeration after opening. The refrigerator is a cool place, but it's also moist and has easy access for curious children. Also, get in the habit of reading drug labels first because there are always exceptions. For example, most types of insulin – a medication used to treat diabetes – need to be refrigerated before opening. Once opened, insulin may be kept unrefrigerated as long as it is stored away from heat and light. Medicines should always be stored in their original containers. The cotton ball in the bottle pulls moisture into the bottle and needs to be taken out.It may be convenient to transfer pills to a small container from a big one, but it is not advisable even if the other bottle has the same prescription label. It is important to know the expiration date of each batch. Some drugs, such as heart medications containing nitrate, should never be put in another container. If they are exposed to oxygen, the nitrate evaporates. Travelling with medicines can pose another big challenge if they are not stored properly. If driving in a car, the medicines should never be kept in the glove compartment. When travelling by air, it is best to carry them in your hand-baggage rather than checking them in with the cargo. Like food products, medicines also have an expiration date. Do take care to replace the medicines that have expired with a new supply, to be sure you are using the most up-to-date product with the most up-to-date instructions for use.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/medicines-work-best-when-you-store-them-properly/article33856299.ece
17 February 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha enhances land ceiling to be acquired by industry||The Odisha government has enhanced the ceiling of land to be directly purchased from farmers and other land owners for setting up of industrial projects in the State. In both rural and urban areas, extent of land to be acquired through direct negotiation has been doubled. As per a resolution published by the government, private companies can now purchase 500 acres in rural areas and 100 acres in urban centres. Earlier, the limit for direct purchase of land was fixed at 200 acres and 50 acres in rural and urban areas respectively. “The government is taking some proactive measures such as the enhancement of the limit for acquiring land through direct purchase for quick and seamless development of industrialization in the State,” says the resolution issued by Revenue and Disaster Management Department. The land limit has been extended by exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 46 of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013 read with rule 47 of the Odisha Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Rules, 2016. The Industrial Promotion and Investment Corporation of Odisha Limited (IPICOL) has recently submitted the State Reform Action Plan — 2020 as stipulated by Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) under Union Ministry of Commerce.  ‘String of reforms’ “Odisha has considerably improved the ease of doing business, through a string of reforms. These, calibrated with the government’s policy initiatives, have helped the State attract investments worth of Rs. 1,20,456.74 crore in the last one year across the six focused sectors,” said the IPICOL. In its 98th meeting, the State Level Single Window Clearance Authority had approved eight industrial projects to the tune of Rs. 1,242.02 crore in the metal and metal downstream, IT, manufacturing, logistics and tourism sectors last week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/odisha-enhances-land-ceiling-to-be-acquired-by-industry/article33856231.ece
17 February 2021||Chandigarh,||No record of trusts headed by PM: PMO||Information on the number of trusts (both public and private) that Prime Minister Narendra Modi heads by virtue of his office (ex-officio) is not maintained by the Prime Minister’s Office. The compilation of this information from different units-files would disproportionately divert the resources of the PMO from the efficient discharge of its normal functions, said a reply to an application filed under the Right To Information Act, 2005.  Online RTI query Hemant Kumar, an advocate at the Punjab and Haryana High Court had sought information about the names of all the trusts (public or private) that are being headed by the Prime Minister by virtue of his office or the post, through online RTI with the PMO on January 19. In its reply, the PMO on February 15, said, “The information available, if any, is not maintained in compiled form in this office. Its collection and compilation from different units-files would disproportionately divert the resources of the office from the efficient discharge of its normal functions, thereby attracting the provisions under section 7(9) of the RTI Act, 2005.” As per section 7 (9) of RTI, Act, 2005, an information shall ordinarily be provided in the form in which it is sought unless it would disproportionately divert the resources of the public authority or would be detrimental to the safety or preservation of the record in question. “While I am unsatisfied over the response, what is more surprising is that beneath the reply even the name of First Appellate Authority in the PMO has not been mentioned where I (RTI applicant), if not satisfied with the reply, can file first appeal... it’s a statutory right provided under the RTI Act,” said Mr. Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/no-record-of-trusts-headed-by-pm-pmo/article33856229.ece
17 February 2021||Guwahati,||Leopard population tracking gets new approach||Wildlife specialists have for long faced challenges estimating the density of leopards in areas where some of the spotted cats are melanistic or black. Experts from three organisations, one of them Assam-based Aaranyak, have come up with a system that helps in properly estimating the leopard population in areas sustaining a mix of rosette and melanistic individuals. Rosettes are jagged black circular marks on the tawny coat of a leopard. Like the tiger’s stripes, the rosettes of each leopard are unique in shape and size, making the species identifiable individually. But melanistic leopards — commonly called black leopards or black panthers or ghongs (Assamese) — have been difficult to estimate as their rosettes are invisible. The Spatial Mark-Resight (SMR) models applied by the scientists of Aaranyak, Panthera and World Wide Fund for Nature-India have provided a way of counting the melanistic leopards too. The new model has been written about in the Animal Conservation journal. U.S.-based Panthera is the only organisation in the world devoted exclusively to the conservation of the world’s 40 wild cat species and their ecosystems. Melanism has been documented in 14 of these species, including the leopard. “When a population has only rosette leopard, estimating their population size becomes easy because all the individuals can be identified. Unlike rosette leopards, a black leopard can often not be reliably identified individually, although special cases exist. We are, therefore, unable to completely estimate population sizes of leopards, a metric that is very critical for their conservation,” Dipankar Lahkar, a tiger biologist with Aaranyak, said.  ‘Acute problem’ “This problem is acute in the tropical and subtropical moist forests of South and Southeast Asia where the frequency of melanistic leopards is high and leopards also face the greatest threat. No precise estimates of leopard population could thus be done in protected areas and non-protected areas in India except on some occasions,” he said. M. Firoz Ahmed, the head of Aaranyak’s tiger research and conservation division, said the team used three years of camera trapping data between 2017 and 2019 obtained from Manas National Park to establish the SMR approach. The population density of leopards in Manas is 3.37 per 100 sq km. In the study, about 22.6% images of the leopards were of the melanistic kind. ‘Major development’ “In the SMR models, we then borrow the capture history of the rosette leopards and apply the information on the melanistic leopards to estimate the entire population size of leopards. This is a significant analytical development that can help assess the population of leopards across a great part of the species range from where population estimates are scant,” said Panthera’s Abhishek Harihar. The SMR method is expected to make it easier to assess the population status of leopards for informed conservation measures by applying the conventional camera trapping field method. It can also be widely applied for other species that exhibit similar colour variation in nature, the wild cat specialists said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/leopard-population-tracking-gets-new-approach/article33856225.ece
17 February 2021||GUWAHATI,||New Assam party takes crowdfunding route to polls||The six-month-old Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP) has taken the crowdfunding route to contesting the upcoming Assembly elections. The party, which seeks to provide a regional alternative in alliance with jailed peasants’ rights activist Akhil Gogoi’s Raijor Dal, has promised to provide donors a weekly update on every paisa spent. “We do not have the money power that the BJP and the Congress have. The people are our wealth and we appeal to them to donate for our party that seeks to give direction to their aspirations,” AJP president Lurinjyoti Gogoi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/new-assam-party-takes-crowdfunding-route-to-polls/article33856234.ece
17 February 2021||GUWAHATI,||Cong. to build memorial for CAA protest ‘martyrs’||The Congress on Tuesday promised to build a memorial for the “martyrs” of the movement against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) if it is voted back to power in Assam. Five people were allegedly killed in police firing during violent protests against CAA in December 2019. They were Azizul Hoque, 45, Ishwar Nayak, 25, Abdul Amin, 23, Dipanjal Das, 19, and Sam Stafford, 17. “The grand memorial for those who sacrificed their lives to save Assamese pride by opposing CAA will be a landmark in Guwahati. This will be message to BJP that Assam does not want CAA,” State Congress president Ripun Bora said. “The memorial shall remember the people’s struggle and sacrifices, protest songs and paintings,” Lok Sabha Member and chairman of the Congress Campaign Committee Pradyut Bordoloi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cong-to-build-memorial-for-caa-protest-martyrs/article33856235.ece
17 February 2021||JAIPUR,||Plan for loan disbursement to farmers revised in Rajasthan||Facing charges of not waiving the debts of all farmers despite its poll-time promise, the Congress government in Rajasthan has revised the plan for agricultural loan disbursement this year. The modified plan will make the money available to the cultivators at the time of sowing of kharif crops. Cooperative Minister Udai Lal Anjana said in the State Assembly that the farm loans would be disbursed from July 15 to facilitate the agricultural activities. The disbursement before July-end would also be helpful in the timely implementation of the crop insurance scheme, he said. The loan disbursement was earlier carried out twice every year in the State, first in mid-August and later on December 31. The central cooperative banks have been sanctioning and distributing loans from September 1 to March 1 for rabi crops and from April 1 to August 31 for kharif crops.  Probe into delay Mr. Anjana said a delay was observed in the registrations for crop insurance scheme this year for the current cycle, into which a team headed by the Cooperative Department’s Additional Registrar would conduct a probe. Reports of some irregularities had been received in particular from Jhalawar district, he said. The State government had launched online registration and disbursement of farm loans from the kharif crop cycle in 2019, which caused a partial delay that year. The loan disbursement for 2020-21 has started from the beginning of the financial year.  ‘In Centre’s court’ More than 20 lakh farmers have received loan waiver for the money which they had borrowed from the cooperative banks, but the waiver of loans obtained from nationalised and commercial banks has not been done. The ruling Congress has maintained that it was in the Centre’s hand to get one-time settlement for the waiver of loans of nationalised banks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/plan-for-loan-disbursement-to-farmers-revised-in-rajasthan/article33856233.ece
17 February 2021||Kolkata,||Teachers’ protest reaches Mamata’s home||Protesters demanding hike in salaries dodged the security and reached Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s residence, wading through knee-deep waters of the Adi Ganga on Tuesday.  Security alarm Five of the protesters, who are teachers of non-recognized madrassas and vocational trainers (siksha mitra), used the river, which has has turned into a canal, triggering a major alarm in the State’s security apparatus. The protesters used the canal from the side of Alipur Correction Home and then crossed using a rope to reach the other end. By the time the security personnel could spot them they have already arrived near Ms. Banerjee’s residence. Kolkata Police Commissioner Soumen Mitra reached the spot and reviewed security. The five teachers were taken into custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/teachers-protest-reaches-mamatas-home/article33856228.ece
17 February 2021||New Delhi,||CM expresses gratitude to Delhiites on first anniversary of third stint||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, on the occasion of the completion of one year of the Aam Aadmi Party Delhi government’s third term in office, shared a video message to express his gratitude to residents on Tuesday. A year ago, Mr. Kejriwal had said the citizens of Delhi gave one of their sons a chance to serve once again. “One year ago, you all gave your son another opportunity to serve everyone. It has been a very tough year but all the citizens of Delhi have worked together. All of us together have made Delhi a model of success in the world,” he said. COVID-19 crisis The Chief Minister said that the Delhi government's work on home isolation, plasma bank and oximeter against the novel coronavirus was being discussed all over the world. “During the COVID-19 pandemic, every citizen of Delhi has worked along with the government. Today the Delhi government’s home isolation model, setting up of the plasma bank and oximeter distribution are being discussed around the world,” he said. The Delhi government, he said, fed millions of people during the lockdown, distributed free ration and arranged transportation for trapped migrant labourers to their home and was able to continue subsidies on electricity and water amidst all the challenges. “Amid all these limitations the government maintained free electricity and water schemes,” he said. Education and health Meanwhile, he said, government school students scored 98% results in board examinations and the people of the city also continued to get good education and affordable healthcare. “Delhi government school students scored 98% in Class 12 and made all the citizens proud. During these six years of development, every child of Delhi is getting quality education. Today, every patient is getting quality and affordable healthcare. Now Delhi gets 24 hours of free electricity,” he also said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cm-expresses-gratitude-to-citizens-on-first-anniversary-of-aaps-third-stint/article33855883.ece
17 February 2021||New Delhi,||BJP attacks Kejriwal govt. for not keeping promises||The BJP and Congress attacked the AAP government for alleged lack of achievement and non-fulfillment of promises made to the people. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta alleged that the AAP government could not name even one achievement on the completion of one year of its government while the Congress recollected “communal mayhem” which had ensued in the Capital within days of its formation last year. “The fact is Delhi has gone back more on development front during Kejriwal’s tenure. Despite being in power for six years now, Delhiites are still waiting for power, drinking water, WiFi, electric buses, pollution free environment, clean Yamuna and adequate health service system,” Mr. Gupta alleged.  Ex-MLA and former Delhi Minister Haroon Yusuf alleged that the report card of the Delhi government’s first year in office of its third term was nothing short of disastrous and exhibited nothing but all-round failures. Communal mayhem “A few days after the AAP government assumed charge in its third term in February 2020, communal mayhem broke out in north-east Delhi and the government remained as mere bystanders,” he alleged. “Its first year of the third term was also notorious for job loss, price rise, air pollution, dirty drinking water, and the court directive to evict 48,000 shanties along the railway tracks in the Capital as the government had failed to properly present the case of these JJ clusters before the court,” he also alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-attacks-kejriwal-govt-for-not-keeping-promises/article33856221.ece
17 February 2021||New Delhi,||Several BJP leaders have joined AAP, claims party||Aam Aadmi Party on Tuesday said that several BJP leaders, including Santlal Chawaria and municipal corporation Sramik Sangh president J.P. Tonke joined the party. Welcoming the new members, AAP leader Durgesh Pathak said: “Former BJP candidate and former Safai Karamchari Commission president Santlal Chawaria is joining AAP. In the last election, he was a BJP candidate and received 34,000 votes. I am happy to announce that J.P. Tonke is also joining. He has been fighting for sanitation workers and for the Dalit community. Inderjeet Yadav, a senior RJD leader, is also joining the party. ”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/several-bjp-leaders-have-joined-aap-claims-party/article33856222.ece
17 February 2021||patna,||Policemen will be dismissed if found drunk, says Bihar CM||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has directed officials to immediately dismiss police personnel from service, if they are caught drinking alcohol or in a drunken state. Opposition parties have slammed the government’s decision to “scapegoat” police personnel. Mr. Kumar’s directive came during a review meeting of the State prohibition, excise and registration department on Monday. “All police personnel across the State have taken a pledge of not drinking liquor in their lifetime. If anyone gets caught drinking alcohol or is found in a drunken state, disciplinary action must be initiated and he or she must be dismissed immediately,” Mr. Kumar told officials during the meeting. As many as 80,000 police personnel working in the State had taken an annual pledge of not drinking or storing alcohol and also ensuring successful implementation of total prohibition. Bihar had become a dry State in April 2016.  ‘Publicise punishments’ While addressing department officials, Mr. Kumar asked them to ensure comprehensive inquiry in all bordering areas to check illegal supply of liquor from other States. The Chief Minister also told officials to publicise the punishment given to people involved in illegal trade of liquor as a warning to others. In the recent expansion of the Cabinet, Sunil Kumar, a former Director-General rank police officer, was made Minister of Excise, Prohibition and Registration. He had won the previous Assembly election as a JD(U) candidate from Bhore constituency in Gopalganj district. Meanwhile, the new instruction to dismiss police personnel caught drinking alcohol, has invited the ire of Opposition party leaders. “Why only police, the government should dismiss all those officials caught in drunken state. Through this new instruction, the police personnel have been made the scapegoat,” alleged RJD leader and party spokesperson Mrityunjay Tiwari. Mr. Tiwari further said, “Prohibition in Bihar has completely failed and the liquor mafia has been running a parallel economy.” However, the ruling party JD(U)’s chief spokesperson Sanjay Singh emphasised that “the government has made laws and is ensuring its effective implementation”. Party leader Suheli Mehta echoed the statement.  Regular affair Of late, seizure of liquor in various parts of the State has become a regular affair. On Tuesday, over 500 cartons of liquor were seized under Chakand police station of Gaya district. “Since 2016, 52 lakh litres of liquor has been seized in the State,” said an Excise Department official. On January 6, Rakesh Kumar Sinha, an official of the State Excise and Prohibition Department, had sent a letter to his seniors accusing lower-rank officials of being involved in illegal supply of liquor. Mr. Sinha, however, was soon transferred from the department. Recently, some people from Haryana and Bihar were arrested in connection with illegal liquor trade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/policemen-will-be-dismissed-if-found-drunk-says-bihar-cm/article33856227.ece
17 February 2021||Mumbai,||Lockdown impact: 12,719 infants died in Maharashtra||A total of 12,179 infants (zero to one year) died in Maharashtra between February 2020 and December 2020, during which the lockdown was imposed in view of COVID-19, a query under the Right to Information (RTI) has revealed. The district-wise figure has shown that Mumbai, Akola, Aurangabad, Nashik, Nagpur, and Pune accounted for 4,411 infant mortalities which is 36.22% of the total deaths. During the period, Mumbai saw the highest number of deaths at 1,097 followed by Akola (783), Aurangabad (729), Nashik (664), Nagpur (587), and Pune (551). Sindhudurg (46), Latur (78), and Washim (89) are the three districts which recorded the lowest infant deaths. The RTI query was filed by Samarthan, an NGO, which has been working in the field of human rights and malnutrition. “The information we have obtained is shocking. While the infant deaths are 12,179, the number of deaths of children between the age group of 1 and 5 is 1,872. The period of February to December last year was of lockdown,” Rupesh Keer, a coordinator with Samarthan, said. Mr. Keer further said that they had been highlighting the problem of malnutrition in rural and tribal belt of the State, but these numbers pointed to the need to work in cities like Mumbai. Samarthan has sent a letter to Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope highlighting the data it had received under the RTI. The letter cited various reasons for the infant deaths, which included preterm birth, malnutrition of mother and child, infection, pneumonia, and problems in breathing. “The higher number of deaths in areas with urbanisation is a concern and steps need to be taken to counter this,” the letter said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/lockdown-impact-12719-infants-died-in-maharashtra/article33855885.ece
17 February 2021||Mumbai,||Bhima-Koregaon case: experts explain how evidence was planted in Wilson’s computer||Five days after a report by Arsenal Consulting, a digital forensic analyst firm  from Chelsea in the U.S., debunked the electronic evidence gathered by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) against all accused in the Bhima-Koregaon violence case, experts said on Tuesday that the NIA’s ‘no malware found’ response to the new forensic report points to its ineptitude. The report is a part of the writ petition filed by Rona Wilson before the Bombay High Court which explains how a hacker exploited the IP addresses provided by one ‘Host Sailor’ and used proxy servers to plant a trojan horse NetWire. This initially subjected Mr. Wilson to surveillance, and later on, remotely through the malware, delivered various files, including the incriminating correspondence with other accused. Addressing the press virtually, Jedadiah Crandall of Arizona State University, who is one of the technical experts that reviewed the Arsenal report, said, “The Arsenal report conclusively establishes that NetWire was the malware used for incriminating document delivery. There is no room for interpretation or doubt about this.” He said, “For an administration that admits to not even finding the instances of malware that are detectable by an ordinary virus scan software, leave alone the more sophisticated and custom installations of NetWire, to call the forensic report a distortion is unfortunate,” he said. Mr. Crandall said that the methods used by the attackers were known tactics, but the exception was the time frame of the attack. Prof Sandeep Shukla of IIT Kanpur said, “The forensic report not only establishes the date and time stamp of when every single one of the top 10 files was placed but is also able to further point to the fact that Mr. Wilson never interacted in any way with these files and that these files were created using versions of software that were not present on Mr. Wilson’s computer.” He said, “What this means is that the evidence has been looked at from several different angles to prove that these files were fabricated and planted on Mr. Wilson’s computer.” Mr. Shukla further said that while phishing is common, in most cases the Bhima-Koregaon accused are not targeted. “However, the current case seems to suggest targeted phishing where the attackers know the social circles of the victims and use it to conduct phishing,” he said. Mr. Shukla also said that he had not seen a case where documents were planted as most hackers were more interested in surveillance, but it was possible since such capability existed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bhima-koregaon-case-experts-explain-how-evidence-was-planted-in-wilsons-computer/article33855888.ece
17 February 2021||Mumbai,||TRP manipulation case: HC reserves order on former BARC CEO’s bail plea||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday reserved its order on a bail plea filed by Partho Dasgupta, former chief executive officer of Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), who is an accused in the television rating point (TRP) manipulation case. A single judge Bench of Justice P.D. Naik was hearing Mr. Dasgupta’s plea filed under Section 439 (special powers of High Court or Court of Session regarding bail) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. It sought bail on merits as the charge sheet in the case has been filed. Special public prosecutor Shishir Hiray opposed the bail on the grounds that WhatsApp chats had been leaked in which there were conversations between him and the Prime Minister’s Office, which showed that he was an influential person and could tamper with evidence and sway witnesses who were either former or current employees of BARC. The WhatsApp chats revealed that Republic TV chief Arnab Goswami and Mr. Dasgupta were thick friends and that Mr. Goswami had called him his alter ego, Mr. Hiray said. However, Mr. Dasgupta’s counsel Aabad Ponda said the chats were mere “loose talks” and reliance should not be placed upon as they were not admissible. “The whole Republic TV group is protected, and I am behind bars,” he said. Pointing out the role played by co-accused and BARC’s chief operating officer Romil Ramgarhia, Mr. Ponda argued that he had an equally important role and he was an active participant. However, he had been granted bail. Mr. Dasgupta was arrested from Pune on December 24, 2020, and is currently lodged in the Taloja Central Jail. On January 20, the City Civil and Sessions Court rejected his bail and on January 4, the additional chief metropolitan magistrate too rejected his bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/trp-manipulation-case-hc-reserves-order-on-former-barc-ceos-bail-plea/article33855890.ece
17 February 2021||Mumbai,||Kangana withdraws suit against BMC notice||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut on Tuesday withdrew her suit filed in a civil court against the notice issued by the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM) for alleged illegal merger of flats. The MCGM, also known as the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), had in March 2018 issued a notice to Ms. Ranaut over merger of three flats owned by her in Orchid Breeze building in Khar. It was alleged that the flats were merged into a single unit in violation of sanctioned plans. In December last year, the Dindoshi civil court had dismissed her application challenging the notice, following which she moved the Bombay High Court. But later Ms. Ranaut withdrew the appeal and told the High Court last week that she would apply to the MCGM for regularisation of changes in the flat. Last year, the civic body had initiated demolition of alleged unauthorised construction at Ms. Ranaut’s bungalow in Pali Hill, but the High Court subsequently termed the action illegal and malicious.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/kangana-withdraws-suit-against-bmc-notice/article33855884.ece
17 February 2021||Navi Mumbai,||6 die in multi-vehicle collision on Mumbai-Pune Expressway||Six people, including a veterinary doctor and his family, were killed and four others sustained injuries in a collision of multiple vehicles on the Mumbai-Pune Expressway in the early hours of Tuesday. According to the police, a little after midnight on Monday, a heavy container vehicle coming towards Mumbai on the second lane lost control and rammed into an Innova which was ahead of it. Dr. Vaibhav Zunjare (41), a veterinary doctor with the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) and his family, were travelling in the Innova, which got sandwiched between the container and the road divider. The container further dashed into a Creta car and then toppled after hitting a tempo. Zunjare, his mother Usha Vasant Zunjare (63), wife Vaishali Vaibhav Zunjare (38), and five-year-old daughter Shriya, died on the spot. His 11-year-old son Arnav who was in the middle of the rear seat has survived with multiple fractures and is in a critical condition at Apollo Hospital. Manju Prakash Nahar (58), a resident of Goregaon (West), who was in the Creta, also died on the spot. The cleaner of the container, Kaluram Jamnaji Jaat, succumbed to injuries during treatment at Ashtavinayak Hospital in New Panvel. The others injured in the accident were Swapnil Sonaji Kamble (30) and Prakash Hemraj Nahar (65), residents of Goregaon (West), who were travelling in the Creta, along with the container’s driver Kishan Chaudhary. Mr. Chaudhary has been severely injured. “One tyre of the container was found to have burst. It is difficult to say if the burst caused the accident or the tyre burst during the mishap,” an officer from Khopoli police station said. When the pandemic broke out, Zunjare had dropped his parents, wife, and children at their home town in Solapur. His father, Vasant Zunjare, is a retired police inspector. The family along with Zunjare’s brother and his family stayed at the NMMC’s staff quarters in Sector 15, Nerul. “A perfect joint family is what they were. He didn’t want to risk the health of his elderly parents and children and thus he had asked them to stay at Solapur. He was infected with COVID-19 and recovered. A few months ago, he had got his wife and children back to Navi Mumbai but since the schools were yet to physically open and the children started missing their grandparents, he again dropped them back,” a colleague of Zunjare said. On Friday, the colleague said, Zunzare went to Solapur to get them back and they started from there on Monday. “His father who had stayed back at Solapur has now come here to be with his grandson in the hospital,” the colleague said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/6-die-in-multi-vehicle-collision-on-mumbai-pune-expressway/article33855886.ece
17 February 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Police constable from Kharghar kills self||A police constable attached to Kharghar police station in Navi Mumbai was found dead at his home in the early hours of Tuesday. This comes two days after an assistant police inspector from APMC police station shot himself dead. Santosh Namdev Patil (47), a resident of Saraswati CHS at Sector 12, Kharghar, was found dead on the ground floor of his two-storey house. “After dinner on Monday, he went to the room on the ground floor while his wife and two children were on the first floor. After some time when she went to call him, she found him dead. It was a case of suicide,” senior police inspector Shatrughna Mali from Kharghar police station said.Another police constable Satish Pawar, who stays in the same locality and is attached to the Vashi traffic police, rushed to Patil’s house and took him to Terna hospital where he was declared brought  dead. According to the police, Patil had been in sick leave for the last 10 days and had domestic issues too. “There was a fight between him, his wife, and mother at night after which he went down. His wife kept telling him to go back to work,” a police officer said. Those who require assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts may contact:  BMC mental health helpline 022-24131212 (24x7); Vandrevala Foundation: 18602662345/18002333330 (24x7); I Call: 022-25521111 (8 a.m. to 10 p.m., Monday to Saturday); The Samaritans Mumbai: 8422984528/8422984529/ 8422984530 (3 p.m. to 9 p.m. all days).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/police-constable-from-kharghar-kills-self/article33855887.ece
17 February 2021||New Delhi,||15,053 get jab, Delhi reports 6 adverse events||A total of 15,053 beneficiaries, including healthcare and front-line workers, took the COVID-19 vaccination in the city on Tuesday. There were six Adverse Events Following Immunisation, said a Delhi government spokesperson. Of the total beneficiaries, 3,501 healthcare workers received the first dose and 2,532 their second dose. Also, 9,020 front-line workers received the first dose of the vaccine. The vaccination of healthcare workers started in the city on January 16 and front-line workers from the first week of February. 94 new cases Meanwhile, Delhi witnessed 94 new COVID-19 cases in 24 hours, taking the tally to 6,37,181, said a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Tuesday. The death toll reached 10,894 after one fatality was reported. A total of 56,944 tests were conducted and of the total cases, 6,25,268 people have recovered and there are 1,019 active cases. Health Minister Satyendar Jain said the Delhi government has firmly fought the war against COVID-19. “We have provided 37 people with aid of Rs. 1 crore, which includes nine corona warriors, 19 police personnel, three Army and BSF personnel,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/15053-get-jab-delhi-reports-6-adverse-events/article33855717.ece
17 February 2021||New Delhi,||2016 JNU sedition case: Delhi court summons Kanhaiya, nine others||A Delhi court has taken cognizance of a chargesheet filed by Delhi Police against former Jawaharlal Nehru University Students’ Union (JNUSU) president Kanhaiya Kumar and nine others in a 2016 sedition case. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate (CMM) Pankaj Sharma also summoned all 10 accused in the case to appear before the court on March 15, the next date of hearing. The court’s order came almost a year after Delhi government gave its nod to police to prosecute Mr. Kumar and nine others for their involvement in a procession where they had allegedly supported seditious slogans raised on the varsity’s campus during an event on February 9, 2016. Prosecution sanction The Aam Aadmi Party government had granted prosecution sanction against 10 accused: Kanhaiya Kumar, Syed Umar Khalid, Anirban Bhattacharya, Aquib Hussain, Mujeeb Hussain Gattoo, Muneeb Hussain Gattoo, Umair Gul, Rayees Rasool, Basharat Ali and Khalid Bashir Bhat. The accused have been charged with offences under Sections 124A (sedition), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record), 143 (punishment for being a member of an unlawful assembly), 149 (being a member of an unlawful assembly), 147 (punishment for rioting) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Sedition carries a maximum punishment of life imprisonment. “Chargesheet alongwith documents perused. The court hereby takes cognizance of offence under Sections 124 A/323/465/471/143/147/149/120B IPC. The sanction to prosecute the aforementioned accused persons has already been filed by Home Department, GNCT vide order dated February 27, 2020,” the judge said. On February 11, 2016, a case of sedition was lodged against unidentified people at the Vasant Kunj (North) police station on complaints from BJP MP Maheish Girri and the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/2016-jnu-sedition-case-delhi-court-summons-kanhaiya-nine-others/article33855711.ece
17 February 2021||new delhi,||Akbar-Ramani case: verdict likely today||A Delhi court is likely to pronounce on Wednesday its verdict in M.J. Akbar's criminal defamation complaint against journalist Priya Ramani for her allegations of sexual harassment against him. Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Ravindra Kumar had on February 1 reserved judgment for February 10. However, the court deferred the judgment for February 17, saying the verdict was not complete since both the parties filed their written submission late. Ms. Ramani had accused Mr. Akbar of sexual harassment, in 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/akbar-ramani-case-verdict-likely-today/article33855718.ece
17 February 2021||New Delhi,||HC asks lower courts if they can hold hybrid proceedings||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday asked its subordinate courts here whether they have the infrastructure for holding hybrid proceedings in which hearings can be held both physically and through videoconferencing simultaneously. Justice Prathiba M. Singh called for the report on a plea moved by several lawyers who are senior citizens suffering from co-morbidities and apprehensive of attending physical hearings during the pandemic. The lawyers want the district courts to allow them to attend hearings through videoconference on days when they hold physical proceedings. On January 14, the High Court, which oversees the functioning of all districts courts in the Capital, had issued a notification directing all subordinate courts to hold physical hearings on every alternate day. The court on Tuesday asked whether there was sufficient availability of internet connectivity and devices in the court premises and residences of the judicial officers to hold hybrid proceedings.  The High Court will hear the matter on February 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-asks-lower-courts-if-they-can-hold-hybrid-proceedings/article33855712.ece
17 February 2021||Noida,||Man kills teen for rejecting his proposal||A 25-year-old man has been arrested in U.P.’s Greater Noida for killing a 15-year-old girl for allegedly rejecting his advances, the police said on Tuesday. The accused, Sunil Yadav, had recently moved into rented accommodation in Surajpur in the same building where the teenager lived with her family, they said. The family said she went missing on Feb. 8 following which an FIR was lodged. "Probe led us to Yadav. In the past also, he had made advances towards her for a relationship, but she had rejected his proposals; this had made him angry, and he committed the crime,” said DCP (Central Noida) Harish Chander. The accused from Ghazipur has been produced in a court, which has sent him to jail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/man-kills-teen-for-rejecting-his-proposal/article33855715.ece
17 February 2021||February 17 2021 00:00 IST,||First day, first show||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/first-day-first-show/article33856237.ece
17 February 2021||Yangon,||Police file a second charge against Suu Kyi||Myanmar’s deposed leader Aung San Suu Kyi was hit with another charge on Tuesday, after the military imposed a second straight overnight Internet shutdown in an attempt to grind down an anti-coup uprising. In the two weeks since the Generals ousted Ms. Suu Kyi and put the civilian leader under house arrest in the administrative capital Naypyidaw, big cities and isolated village communities alike have been in open revolt. The military justified its power seizure by alleging widespread voter fraud in November elections that Ms. Suu Kyi’s party won. After her detention in a dawn raid on February 1 — the day of the coup — she was charged under an obscure import and export law, over walkie talkies that were found in her home during a search. The Nobel laureate’s lawyer told AFP on Tuesday she had been hit with a second charge, of violating the country’s disaster management law. “She was charged under section 8 of the Export and Import law and section 25 of the Natural Disaster Management law as well,” Khin Maung Zaw told AFP. While it was unclear how the disaster law applied in Ms. Suu Kyi’s case, it has been used against deposed President Win Myint — also arrested on February 1 — relating to a campaign event that the junta alleges broke coronavirus-related restrictions. ‘In good health’ Mr. Khin Maung Zaw added that Ms. Suu Kyi and Mr. Win Myint, both of whom he has yet to have any contact with, were expected to appear via video conference during a March 1 trial. Both defendants were in a “safer place” and “in good health”, according to military spokesman Zaw Min Tun. “It’s not like they were arrested — they are staying at their houses,” the Brigadier General, who became Vice-Minister of information after the coup, said during a press conference. “Our objective is to hold an election and hand power to the winning party,” he said. “We guarantee... that the election will be held,” he added. More than 420 people have been arrested since the coup, according to a list of confirmed detentions from the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners monitoring group. There are numerous unconfirmed reports of other arrests. Security forces have used increasing force to quell huge nationwide street protests and a disobedience campaign encouraging civil servants to strike. Protests continue Troops have fanned out around the country in recent days. They fired rubber bullets to disperse one rally in Mandalay, Myanmar’s second-largest city, hours before authorities again cut Internet access. “They shut down the Internet because they want to do bad things,” said 44-year-old Win Tun, a resident of commercial capital Yangon. “We didn’t sleep the whole night so we could see what would happen.” The Internet blackout came after another day of protests in Yangon and Mandalay, where police used slingshots against protesters and fired rubber bullets into the crowd. At least six were injured in the clashes. Crowds returned to the streets of Yangon and around the country on Tuesday morning. “I want more people to join the protests, we don’t want to be seen as weak,” said university student Thwe Ei Sann.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/police-file-a-second-charge-against-suu-kyi/article33855592.ece
17 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Oxford jab gets WHO green light||The World Health Organization (WHO) late on Monday night listed two versions of the AstraZeneca-Oxford COVID-19 vaccine for emergency use, giving the green light for them to be rolled out globally through COVAX. The vaccines are produced by AstraZeneca-SKBio (Republic of Korea) and the Serum Institute of India (SII). WHO said the Emergency Use Listing (EUL) assessed the quality, safety and efficacy of the vaccines, a prerequisite for COVAX Facility vaccine supply. “It also allows countries to expedite their own regulatory approval to import and administer vaccines,” it said. “Countries with no access to vaccines to date will finally be able to start vaccinating their health workers and populations at risk, contributing to the COVAX Facility’s goal of equitable vaccine distribution,” Mariângela Simão, WHO Assistant-Director General for Access to Medicines and Health Products, said in a release. It said there was a need to keep up the pressure to meet the needs of priority populations everywhere and facilitate global access. “To do that, we need two things — a scale-up of manufacturing capacity and developers’ early submission of their vaccines for WHO review.” The world body had also listed the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine for emergency use on December 31. SII’s head Adar Poonawalla on Monday tweeted about awaiting regulatory approvals from Canada to. “Fly out COVISHIELD in less than a month; I’m on it!,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/oxford-jab-gets-who-green-light/article33855638.ece
17 February 2021||COLOMBO,||Sri Lanka considering India’s grant instead of China project||In an apparent bid to displace a Chinese company that had won the contract to install renewable energy systems in three small islands off Jaffna Peninsula in northern Sri Lanka, India has offered a grant of $12 million to execute it, Colombo-based media reported. Sri Lanka’s Minister of Power Dullas Alahapperuma has recently said that the government would consider India’s proposal, and that he would present a Cabinet paper on the matter soon. Newspaper reports quoted him as saying that receiving a grant “is an advantage” that would ease the burden on the Treasury, as opposed to an Asian Development Bank (ADB) loan, as per the original project proposal, that would have to be repaid. The development comes less than a month after the Cabinet cleared a project to install hybrid renewable energy systems in Nainativu , Delft or Neduntheevu , and Analaitivu , located in the Palk Bay, some 50 km off Tamil Nadu. The Cabinet decisions taken on January 18, published officially, included a proposal to award the contract to Sinosoar-Etechwin Joint Venture in China, with funding from the ADB. ‘Security threats’ Meanwhile, a group of northern Tamil political parties have voiced opposition to Chinese involvement in the project, citing “security threats” to Tamil people and India. “We are not opposed to China but given that India has known security concerns in this regard, and also because the project is to come up very close to Tamil Nadu, we oppose Chinese involvement,” Jaffna parliamentarian Dharmalingam Sithadthan told The Hindu . “The people of Tamil Nadu have been lending unconditional support to the Tamil cause, so their security, as well as that of India, is very important to us,” the Tamil National Alliance (TNA) legislator said, adding that India was a “long-term friend” of the Tamil people of Sri Lanka. It remains to be seen if India’s proposal gets official clearance, but India’s swift offer comes in the wake of being ejected — along with Japan — out of the East Container Terminal (ECT) development project at the Colombo Port, following another Cabinet decision taken on February 1 this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-considering-indias-grant-instead-of-china-project/article33855597.ece
17 February 2021||Dhaka,||Dhaka court sentences 5 to death for killing writer||Five Islamist extremists were sentenced to death on Tuesday over the brutal murder of a Bangladeshi-American writer and rights activist six years ago. Avijit Roy, a prolific blogger and the author of 10 books including the best-selling Biswasher Virus (“Virus of Faith”), was hacked to death outside Bangladesh’s largest book fair by machete-wielding extremists in February 2015. The murder, part of a reign of terror by extremists at the time, enraged the Muslim-majority nation’s secular activists who staged days of protests. The judge at Dhaka’s Special Anti-Terrorism Tribunal found six people guilty, sentencing five to death and one to life in prison, prosecutor Golam Sarwar Zakir said. Two of them were tried in absentia, including sacked army officer Syed Ziaul Haque who was accused of leading the group that carried out the attack — known as Ansarullah Bangla Team, or Ansar al Islam. Roy was born in Bangladesh in 1972 and moved to the U.S. in 2006 from where he continued to criticise the government for the jailing of atheist bloggers. A defence lawyer said they would appeal the verdict in a higher court. It comes less than a week after eight Islamist extremists were sentenced to death for the murder of a publisher who brought out books by secular writers, including two by Roy. The attacks were part of a wave of violence between 2013 and 2016 targeting secular activists, bloggers and atheist writers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/dhaka-court-sentences-5-to-death-for-killing-writer/article33855595.ece
17 February 2021||Riyadh,||Biden effect: Riyadh makes up with rivals||Under a new U.S. glare, Saudi Arabia is rushing to release some political prisoners and make up with regional rivals, attempting to clean up its act as it braces for a policy reset in Washington. U.S. President Joe Biden pledged during his campaign to make the kingdom a “pariah” after it got a free pass under Donald Trump, but observers say he is instead adopting a middle path. While scrutinising human rights, his new administration is expected to work to preserve a valuable security partnership while it moves to reboot nuclear talks with Riyadh’s arch-enemy Tehran. Saudi Arabia has provisionally freed some political prisoners — including activist Loujain al-Hathloul, famed for her campaign to end the ban on women driving — in what many see as a nod to Mr. Biden. Saudi Arabia also led its allies last month to end a bitter three-year dispute with neighbouring Qatar, partly at the urging of the U.S. which wants them to present a united front against Iran. The kingdom is also keen for detente with America’s NATO ally Turkey, following a public boycott of Turkish goods last year as their rivalry intensified in the wake of Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi’s 2018 murder in Istanbul. To manage ties with Washington, Saudi Arabia is on a hiring spree for lobbyists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-effect-riyadh-makes-up-with-rivals/article33855594.ece
17 February 2021||Paris,||France passes Bill to battle extremism||Lawmakers overwhelmingly approved on Tuesday a Bill that would strengthen oversight of mosques, schools and sports clubs to safeguard France from radical Islamists and ensure respect for French values — one of President Emmanuel Macron’s landmark projects. The vote in the lower house was the first critical hurdle for the legislation that has been long in the making after two weeks of intense debate. The Bill passed 347 to 151 with 65 abstentions. The Bill that covers most aspects of French life has been hotly contested by Muslims, lawmakers and others, who fear the state is intruding on essential freedoms and pointing a finger at Islam, the nation’s second major religion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/eu-france-separatism-bill/article33855596.ece
17 February 2021||Seoul,||‘North Korean hackers target vaccine tech’||North Korean hackers attempted to steal information about coronavirus vaccines and treatments, South Korea’s intelligence service said on Tuesday, but it denied a lawmaker’s claim that vaccine maker Pfizer Inc. was targeted. Earlier on Tuesday, Ha Tae-keung, a Member of Parliament’s intelligence committee, told reporters that the National Intelligence Service told him and other lawmakers during a closed-door briefing that North Korea hacked Pfizer to obtain COVID-19 vaccine technology. After Mr. Ha’s comments made headlines, the NIS said it didn’t mention any pharmaceutical company by name when it told lawmakers that North Korean hackers were going after coronavirus vaccine information. In an unusual rebuke, the NIS public affairs office called Mr. Ha’s comments “wrong.” Mr. Ha stood by his claim when contacted by The Associated Press, saying the NIS documents he was shown said that “North Korea stole Pfizer (vaccine information) and attempted to steal (technology) from South Korean vaccine and pharmaceutical firms.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/north-korean-hackers-targeted-vaccine-tech/article33855599.ece
17 February 2021||Washington,||Congressman sues Trump for Capitol attack||A senior Democratic Congressman sued former President Donald Trump on Monday, accusing him of violating the 19th century “Ku Klux Klan Act” by supporting the January 6 attack on the U.S. Capitol. Bennie Thompson accused Mr. Trump, his lawyer Rudy Giuliani, and extremist groups the Proud Boys and Oath Keepers of violating the 1871 act by supporting efforts to stop Congress from certifying Joe Biden as the new U.S. President. Mr. Thompson, who is Black and the chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, cited a law originally created to protect the rights of African Americans after the Civil War and the end of slavery. The lawsuit was filed in federal court in Washington two days after Mr. Trump was acquitted of supporting insurrection in an impeachment trial in the Senate. The act was designed to give the U.S. President powers to oppose violently racist groups like the Ku Klux Klan, which sprung up in the wake of the 1861-65 Civil War to oppose equal rights for Black Americans. One seldom-invoked clause of the act, 1875, forbids conspiracy to obstruct federal officeholders from performing their jobs. Mr. Thompson alleged that Mr. Trump, Mr. Giuliani and the two groups conspired “by force, intimidation and threats” to prevent him from discharging his official duty to carry out the certification of Mr. Biden’s election win.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/congressman-sues-trump-for-capitol-attack/article33856107.ece
17 February 2021||Paris,||5G phones may interfere with aircraft: French regulator||The latest generation of smartphones, 5G, can interfere with aircraft altitude instruments, the French Civil Aviation Authority warned on Tuesday as it recommended they should be turned off during flight. "The utilisation of 5G devices onboard aircraft could lead to risks of interference that could potentially result in errors in altitude readings," a spokesman for the agency told AFP.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/5g-phones-may-interfere-with-aircraft-french-regulator/article33856106.ece
17 February 2021||February 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Looking ahead after the Ladakh walk back||In the end, the murmurs of an imminent breakthrough after the last round of military-diplomatic talks between India and China on January 24 were finally confirmed last week when Beijing made the announcement of the start of disengagement between the two armies, the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) and the Indian Army, in Ladakh. New Delhi followed suit the next day with a selectively detailed announcement by the Defence Minister in Parliament, where he again took no questions, confirming that the two Himalayan neighbours had started walking back from the brink in Ladakh. This is not the end of the 10-month-old military stand-off yet but, palpably, the beginning of the end. It is a welcome move because heightened tensions between the two nuclear-armed Asian powers serve no useful purpose for anyone, certainly not India’s. Political priority The current disengagement is limited to two places on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh: north bank of Pangong lake and Kailash range to the south of Pangong. There are three other sites of contention on the Ladakh border where the PLA had come in — Depsang, Gogra-Hot Springs and Demchok — and talks will be held to resolve these after the current phase of disengagement is completed. There have been regular clashes between the soldiers of both sides at the north bank of Pangong lake, and nearly a quarter of all the Chinese transgressions on the LAC between 2014 and 2019 have taken place in the area. It has limited strategic importance, but is a popular tourist spot after the climax of the superhit Hindi film, 3 Idiots , was shot there. Moreover, unlike other areas of contestation, there are habitations in the vicinity of the north bank which can observe any Chinese ingress. These sightings have been reported by the elected Ladakhi representatives to the media, including in this newspaper, to the embarrassment of the central government which has been keen on keeping the news of Chinese control of Indian territory off the news cycle and out of public sight. This means the disengagement at north bank was a political priority — imagine the impact of tourists visiting the area again to signal normalcy — and led to it being clubbed with the Kailash range to the south of the lake. While Chinese troops had moved into the Indian side of the LAC in the other areas, the Kailash range was the only place where Indians had taken the initiative to hold hitherto unoccupied peaks in end-August. A heavy deployment of troops and tanks caught the Chinese by surprise who responded by their own deployment, with the two sides separated by a few yards. A stance that is unclear With soldiers and tanks in eyeball range, the Kailash range was a tinderbox that could spark off a much bigger crisis with a minor accident. The Chinese have been insistent in the talks that the two sides disengage from this area first. Knowing that this was the only leverage it had, New Delhi had resisted taking that call until now, instead seeking a simultaneous resolution of all the flashpoints on the Ladakh border. In its statement, the government has not clarified the reasons for its change of stance which was clearly dictated by something more than the desire to remove the most dangerous flashpoint on the border. Even though it does not restore the status quo ante of April 2020 and the details about the south bank are sketchy, the disengagement deal on the two banks of Pangong is a fair deal for India when seen from the limited prism of only these areas. But when considered from the perspective of the whole LAC in Ladakh, it raises questions about the wisdom of giving up the only leverage India had for the sake of disengagement at north bank. Depsang issue, buffer zones The Indian military leadership is aware of the strategic importance of the Depsang plains in the Daulat Beg Oldi (DBO) sector, not only due to its proximity to the Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldie (DSDBO) road, the DBO airstrip and the Karakoram Pass, but because of the threat it poses to Indian control over the Siachen glacier. This remains the only area on the Indian landmass where China and Pakistan can physically collude militarily, and has been identified by former northern army commanders as tough to defend in case of a Chinese military attack. The excuse that the Depsang problem precedes the current crisis on the LAC and thus must be treated separately holds little water, for it would be in India’s interest to club them together and find a holistic solution. Moreover, even the current crisis on the north bank of Pangong lake has been there since at least October 2019 though it flared up substantially in May 2020. The current disengagement plan provides us with a window into the mindset of the Indian decision makers who prefer the creation of a ‘no patrol’ zone or buffer zone as a solution to the tensions on the LAC. Before the buffer zone was created at the north bank of Pangong, a similar buffer zone was created in Galwan in July 2020 around the place where India lost 20 soldiers in a deadly clash a month earlier. That buffer zone has held good till date, even though it denies India access to the areas up to PP14 which it patrolled earlier. There are worries that such buffer zones would lie majorly on the Indian side of the LAC, thus converting a hitherto Indian-controlled territory into a neutral zone. A no patrol zone has not been announced, at least publicly by the Defence Minister, for the Kailash range and that exposes the limitations of any plan to create such buffer zones in all the contentious border areas for the sake of peace and tranquility on the LAC. Owing to the disputed nature of the border and a lack of trust between the two sides, any perceived violations of ‘no patrol’ zones can lead to deadly outcomes as seen in Galwan on June 15, 2020. At best, these buffer zones can provide a temporary reprieve but are no alternative to the mutual delineation of the LAC and a final settlement of the Sino-Indian boundary. A power differential As the Indian media highlighted the rapid pace of the PLA’s withdrawal from disengagement sites, obliquely suggesting a Chinese weakness, the response from Chinese experts was in the form of a threat. Qian Feng, director of the research department at the National Strategy Institute at Tsinghua University was quoted in the Global Times saying that if the PLA can withdraw this many armaments and ground forces in one day, it can also return equally swiftly. It goes to the nub of New Delhi’s weakness vis-à-vis Beijing: India does not have the military capacity and the political will to evict the Chinese troops out of its territory. Because of the power differential with China, India’s best-case scenario is to deploy sufficient troops to prevent any PLA ingress as was done with a massive deployment on the LAC after May 2020. The option of undertaking a prompt quid pro quo military operation in Chinese territory, as advocated by the Non-alignment 2.0 strategy document produced by Centre for Policy Research in 2012 (https://bit.ly/37BGGTB), contains escalatory risks which an India in economic recession lacks the appetite for. The enduring impact The Ladakh border crisis of 2020 will leave a lasting impact on India’s strategic calculus. The political imperative of defending every inch of territory, while lacking the wherewithal to reverse a Chinese ingress, is likely to favour an enhanced deployment of the Indian Army all along the LAC, from Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh. Not only will it stretch the Army, it would divert scarce resources towards the continental border away from the maritime domain. With India’s attractiveness to the United States and the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, better known as the Quad, firmly anchored in the Indian Ocean, such a move would work to China’s advantage. It is another matter that having struck a disengagement deal with China, New Delhi itself may no longer be as enthusiastic about the Quad as it was a couple of months ago when the Chinese threat was imminent. Will it lead to a reset of ties with Beijing? By seeking the restoration of peace and tranquillity on the LAC instead of a reversion to the status quo ante as of April 2020, the Narendra Modi government has made a political choice in Ladakh. It will have to bear the strategic consequences of that choice. Sushant Singh is a Senior Fellow at the Centre for Policy Research. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/looking-ahead-after-the-ladakh-walk-back/article33855577.ece
17 February 2021||February 17 2021 00:00 IST,||In cricket gear, a snapshot of India today||On February 11, after Wasim Jaffer, former Test opener and the country’s most prolific first-class batsman, was made to defend himself against allegations by a State cricket official of communal bias in coaching, Indian cricket was left peering over the edge of its abyss. It’s not a place visited often because elsewhere Indian cricket remains shiny and happy. The national team is dominating England, the IPL’s mini-auction promises large payouts and fans don’t care what administrators do. Except last week, an official was allowed to pull off the grotesque. Cricket Association of Uttarakhand (CAU) secretary Mahim Verma framed Indian cricket with a familiar political narrative meant to reinforce stereotype, destroy reputation, cause damage and protect his own skin. What he actually did was reveal the venality of our cricket administration and the shallowness of its wealthy and influential. A snapshot of contemporary India, except clad in cricket kit. The events This is what happened: On February 9, Mr. Jaffer emailed his resignation as coach of the Uttarakhand team citing “interference and bias of selectors and secretary in the selection matters for non-deserving players.” He said Mr. Verma was “pushing the names of players for selection who were not at all deserving.” Mr. Verma’s response on February 10 was headlined on the front page of the Hindi daily, Dainik Jagran, as ‘Coach Wasim Jaffer caught in a religious dispute’. Mr. Verma accused Mr. Jaffer, their Muslim coach, of dividing the team with “ mazhabi gatividhi (religious/ communal activity)”, fighting with officials and using coercion to replace captain Kunal Chandela with fellow Muslim, Iqbal Abdullah. Team manager Navneet Mishra told Jagran that maulvis had turned up for Friday prayers during a training camp. On February 11, Mr. Jaffer called the allegations “lowly” and “sad.” It was chief selector Rizwan Shamshad and his panel who had put forward Mr. Abdullah’s name as captain to him. The maulvi had been called in by Mr. Abdullah. Mr. Jaffer would not move practice for the Friday afternoon prayer for the team’s Muslims and told Mr. Abdullah that if wanted a maulvi in after training, he needed official permission. Mr. Mishra gave Mr. Abdullah permission saying, according to The Indian Express , “No problem, Iqbal, prayer and religion are most important.” Maybe Mr. Abdullah shouldn’t have asked for the maulvi. Maybe Mr. Verma shouldn’t have allowed it. Maybe there is actually a bad time or a wrong place to show bhaichaara (brotherhood) or indeed faith itself. In the exchange between Mr. Mishra and Mr. Abdullah lie Indian cricket’s routinely messy multifaith entanglements. Its varied religious demographic has always stood for India’s once-celebrated plurality. A 1980 poster for communal harmony featuring Kapil Dev, Maninder Singh, Mohammmad Azharuddin and Roger Binny read: “If we can play together, we can live together.” In the Jammu and Kashmir team, regardless of political trouble, Hindus from Jammu and the Muslims from the Valley remain united not just by cricket but by having to cope with their shabby administration. In 2013-2014, as J&K neared their first Ranji Trophy knockout qualification, crowds packed into Srinagar’s Sher-e-Kashmir stadium. News crews gathered to record a tight chase and chants of ‘ Azaadi, Azaadi ’ broke out for the cameras. The J&K batsmen, one Muslim and one Hindu, joked mid-crease, “ Yaar, lekin jeetenge-haarenge, azaadi kahan se aayegi? [Whether we win or lose, where will freedom come from?]” In a recent tribute on Ishant Sharma’s 100th Test, Munaf Patel spoke of how Ishant as a rookie wanted to bunk with Munna bhai on tour because he wasn’t used to sleeping alone even in sealed-off luxury. Timidity of players But Indian cricket does not always smell of politically correct roses. Sniff around and the word ‘ miyavaad ’ (roughly translated as Muslim-centricness) appears. As Mumbai captain, Mr. Jaffer knew that if he made a case for cricketers who happened to be Muslim, people would mutter. In his press conference, he said, “It was the selectors who had selected them… Iqbal was a part of the India Under-19 World Cup squad and when Sachin Tendulkar took Rahil Shaikh to Mumbai Indians, nobody spoke about that.” Young Muslim cricketers, like Muslims in India today, know that knives can arrive without warning. With Mr. Jaffer, they see, no matter their achievements, neither their institution nor the majority of their peers will speak for them. A State official makes grievous, unsubstantiated accusations against a giant of the Indian game, but the BCCI president Sourav Ganguly says nothing in public. If a player president won’t speak for a teammate, why expect secretary and dynast administrator Jay Shah to bother? Or the many ethics officers and ombudsmen around Indian cricket? The mute Indian Cricketers Association is now proven lily-livered. Players’ bodies elsewhere would have protested vociferously and demanded official apologies. It is no surprise either that only a handful of former players, Anil Kumble being the most prominent, spoke up for Mr. Jaffer. As an excuse, it’s argued that cricketing celebrities have much “at stake”, “to lose.” What they guard so preciously with their wallets is timidity. Rarely outspoken on anything outside cricket, we see them today as hollow men even inside their sport, reduced to rapidly retreating feet, always backing away to leg. Several have joined politics to receive new training in trolling. Two days after Mr. Jaffer’s conference, Mr. Verma denied making communal accusations, to a Jagran rival, Amar Ujala : “I have got tired of replying to this question, this is completely baseless… Why is he making these accusations against me, I cannot understand.” Understand instead CAU’s ‘chronology’: Mr. Jaffer is the third Uttarakhand coach in its three years. Previous coaches, K.P. Bhaskar and Gursharan Singh, had good first seasons but were not given longer runs. When Mr. Jaffer called out selectoral malpractice, Mr. Verma chose India’s latest and most efficient diversionary tactic — the ‘Muslim card’ — to dodge real issues: about Mr. Jaffer’s complaints; why CAU picks 56 probables for two limited-overs tournaments; why its website is useless, minus annual accounts; what its elected officials squabble over. In its first year, the BCCI oversaw Uttarakhand cricket as four factions fought for recognition. The group headed by Mr. Verma’s father P.C. Verma (over 70 and ineligible for office) won that contest. Verma Jr., previously a sports co-ordinator at the Uttarakhand Technical University, was named Mr. Ganguly’s BCCI vice-president, but quit in April 2020. He returned to where the real power plus access to the annual Rs. 30 crore BCCI subsidy rested — with CAU. His BCCI replacement was Rajeev Shukla, a ‘non-retiring director’ in the Uttar Pradesh Cricket Association, where before its cricketing statehood, Uttarakhand was a mere district association. Mr. Shukla, mover and shaker in the region, with voluble Indian cricket omnipresence and enjoying unconstitutional dual roles, has no words on Mr. Jaffer either. Politicians involved in Indian cricket usually sought clout, office, money and match passes. The Jaffer affair exposes our game to the poison-spreading day job of its political volk. Mr. Verma’s casual induction of Mr. Jaffer’s Muslim-ness in a debate over cricketing competence injects a new toxicity that could corrode Indian cricket from its roots. One petty official, one corrupt association at a time. There is no shortage of those. Sharda Ugra is an independent sports journalist based in Bengaluru||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/in-cricket-gear-a-snapshot-of-india-today/article33855589.ece
17 February 2021||February 17 2021 00:00 IST,||In telehealth, scaling up the Indian advantage||In the novel coronavirus pandemic, health-care providers have been reassigned from other specialties to COVID-19, restricting high quality care for other conditions. Simultaneously, lockdowns and fear of transmission have dampened demand for non-emergency care. A survey conducted by the World Health Organization (WHO) in 105 countries in July 2020 (https://bit.ly/3aqKJ6R) showed that essential services were disrupted in the majority of countries, with immunisation, antenatal and childcare services among the most widely affected. About 45% of low-income countries incurred at least partial disruption of over 75% of services, relative to only 4% of high-income countries. Almost 60% of services were at least partially disrupted in South East Asian countries. COVID-19 impact In India, detection of tuberculosis cases was down by 50% in April-December of 2020 relative to the same period in 2019, and antenatal care visits were down by 56% in the first half of 2020. With stoppage of routine follow ups, blood sugar control for diabetics was at risk, increasing the chances of adverse events requiring hospitalisation, including worse outcomes in the case of COVID-19 infection. Cancer care has been badly affected in many countries, as well as diagnosis and treatment of other non-communicable diseases. Further, the pandemic has exacerbated inequalities — people living in rural and remote areas were further disadvantaged by not being able to travel to cities to seek specialist care. The pre-existing shortage of specialists in many rural areas led to care being delayed or not happening at all. Enhance technology use The acceleration in the use of digital technologies has mitigated the impact of COVID-19 to some extent. Virtual consultations avoid the risk of COVID-19 transmission and are helping to bridge this socio-economic divide. The Indian government’s eSanjeevani platform offers both provider-to-patient interactions and provider-to-provider interactions, where patients visit smartphone-equipped community health officers in rural health and wellness centres; these in turn connect to general practitioners and specialist doctors through a hub-and-spoke model. Private providers and non-governmental organisations have also expanded virtual access to underserved populations. Yet, given the scale of unmet demand, there is an urgent need to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of every minute spent in virtual care interactions. There are lessons we can learn from the pandemic that can be applied usefully to how we deliver health care. Remote-shared medical appointments in which multiple patients with similar medical needs meet with a clinician at once, remotely, and where each receives individual attention, can greatly increase telehealth capacity by eliminating repetition of common advice. Utilising shared appointments Remote shared medical appointments essentially virtualise in-person shared medical appointments (SMAs) which have been offered successfully in the United States for over 20 years. Patients get more time with their clinician, albeit not in private. SMAs enable peer support and peer-to-peer learning. Providers who have offered SMAs have found them to improve both productivity and outcomes for many conditions, notably diabetes. SMAs could help tackle India’s widespread “sugar” problem. The Aravind Eye Hospital in Puducherry has successfully trialled in-person SMAs for patients with glaucoma, a disease that causes gradual, irreversible blindness. Glaucoma progression can be slowed through regular follow up and taking prescribed medications. The eye hospital found that in shared appointments, patients spur one another to engage more and ask more questions. Such (virtual) peer interaction could be welcome in the current paradigm of social distancing. eSanjeevani and other telehealth platforms could consider offering virtual shared medical appointments. Patients in different villages, with similar conditions can be seen at once remotely by a generalist or specialist, during the pandemic. Once transmission risk subsides, seeing patient groups within each village centre will help build supportive bonds, enable sharing of local knowledge, and likely attract supplementary providers (physiotherapists, optometrists, etc) due to scale. Testing and vaccine adoption is stymied by misinformation. Providers can offer virtual group information sessions accessible via smartphone in which a health-care worker explains the benefits of COVID-19 testing and vaccination and answers questions, reaching potentially quite large audiences. Engaging in real time with a care provider in an interactive format will likely encourage safe behaviours to a greater extent than if the same information is provided without interaction. Switching to radically different care delivery models requires rigorous testing combined with mentoring, training and behaviour change for both patients and providers. Adoption of in-person shared medical appointments has been slow. The unique telehealth capacity crisis which COVID-19 has created is drawing interest to virtual SMAs. Training platforms such as ECHO, which train primary-care providers in many States through an online platform — can accelerate adoption and should also guide implementers on how to gather data that can be used to scientifically validate this care model. Patients who choose to attend an in-person SMA often like the experience and return for more. This is likely for virtual SMAs too. Trialling and acceptance of this model could amplify the impact of health systems both during the pandemic and beyond. The plusses Relative to other nations, India is well poised to ramp up telehealth. Data plans are cheaper in India than anywhere. It is possible to get 1.5GB of data a day for a few hundred rupees a month, and Indians from all socioeconomic groups regularly enjoy group video chats with friends and relatives. Having a group interaction with a care provider on an appropriately secure platform is certainly conceivable. WHO’s Global Strategy on Digital Health, adopted by the World Health Assembly, is a call to action providing a road map for nations to rapidly expand digital health services. With innovation in systems thinking, learning and adaptation, new digital tools bring an opportunity to leapfrog into a reality of ‘Health for All’. Kamalini Ramdas is Deloitte Chaired Professor of Innovation and Entrepreneurship at London Business School. Dr. Soumya Swaminathan is Chief Scientist at the World Health Organization. This article draws on an article by the same writers that appeared in the January 2021 issue of Nature Medicine; https://rdcu.be/cdwgq||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/in-telehealth-scaling-up-the-indian-advantage/article33855580.ece
17 February 2021||February 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Combating vaccine hesitancy||After a year of unprecedented changes, chaos and panic, COVID-19 vaccines are the most awaited products of 2021. But though mass vaccination drives have begun, the response has been lukewarm despite the availability, affordability, and accessibility of the jabs to healthcare, sanitation, and frontline workers. To date, two vaccines have been approved for inoculation in India: Pune-based Serum Institute’s Covishield and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. While Covishield has completed phase 3 trials, the latter has been rolled out with its phase 3 trials still ongoing. In fact, Bharat Biotech had announced recently that the vaccine may not be suitable for those with a history of allergies, bleeding disorders, pregnant/lactating women, and even for people on blood thinners and other immunity-based medication. Similar information is found in the Covishield fact sheet. An adequate supply of vaccines is in place at least for the first phase, but procurement is just half the battle won — the trickier part is to persuade the population to roll up their sleeves for the two jabs. Social media has seen a rising number of self-proclaimed experts who have been decoding the ingredients and efficacy of the vaccines through unsubstantiated claims. Refusal to vaccinate According to the World Health Organization, vaccine hesitancy is defined as a reluctance or refusal to vaccinate despite the availability of vaccine services. Like Western nations, vaccine hesitancy has been a cause of concern in the past in India as well. For instance, U.P. witnessed a sudden dip in the uptake of oral polio vaccines when the Muslim community was struck by misconceptions that the vaccine led to illness and infertility. Similar hesitancy was witnessed in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, which are otherwise familiar with the concept of vaccines. Hesitancy for the MMR (measles, mumps, and rubella) vaccine was sufficiently high in the Malappuram district of Kerala to render community immunisation a challenging goal. Vaccine hesitancy is as old as the concept of vaccination itself. However, in times of uncertainty, people are particularly susceptible to misinformation due to an intricate combination of cognitive, social and algorithmic biases i.e., information overload and limited attention spans. The debates around hesitancy for COVID-19 vaccines include concerns over safety, efficacy, and side effects due to the record-breaking timelines of the vaccines, competition among several companies, misinformation, and religious taboos. According to a survey conducted by LocalCircles in December, a community social media platform, about 69% of the respondents said they will not rush to vaccinate themselves against the pandemic. Another survey indicates that 55% of healthcare professionals are hesitant to take the vaccine; 64% prefer to do an antibody test before vaccination. Despite negligibly low cases of adverse effects reported so far, such notions have silently wormed into our vaccination efforts. People can choose to not be inoculated, but to break the chain of transmission, it is imperative to have the right strategy in place. Hence, it is suggested that we adopt the idea of libertarian paternalism, a concept of behavioural science, which says it is possible and legitimate to steer people’s behaviour towards vaccination while still respecting their freedom of choice. Vaccine hesitancy has a different manifestation in India, unlike in the West. According to the World Economic Forum/Ipsos global survey, COVID-19 vaccination intent in India, at 87%, exceeds the global 15-country average of 73%.  The way forward Instead of anti-vaxxers, the target audience must be the swing population i.e., people who are sceptical but can be persuaded through scientific facts and proper communication. The second measure is to pause before you share any ‘news’ from social media. It becomes crucial to inculcate the habit of inquisitive temper to fact-check any news related to COVID-19 vaccines. The third measure is to use the celebrity effect — the ability of prominent personalities to influence others to take vaccines. Studies suggest that celebrities can serve as agents of positive social change, erasing scepticism associated with vaccine adoption and prompting information-seeking and preventative behaviours. We can start with politicians and government officials who are next in line for vaccination. Celebrities can add glamour and an element of credibility to mass vaccinations both on the ground and on social media. The infodemic around vaccines can be tackled only by actively debunking myths, misinformation and fake news on COVID-19 vaccines. Rakesh Dubbudu is the founder of the fact-checking initiative Factly and Nanditha Kalidoss is Health Fellow (Misinformation) at Factly||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/combating-vaccine-hesitancy/article33855585.ece
17 February 2021||February 17 2021 00:00 IST,||The viability of two proposals||Speaking at a roadshow in Kolkata on January 23, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee asked why India should have only one capital and suggested that there be four. She directed Sudip Bandyopadhyay, MP and leader of the Trinamool Congress in the Lok Sabha, to raise the issue in Parliament. She suggested that Parliament sessions should be held in each of the four capitals in a rotating manner. While Ms. Banerjee has the right to have her opinion on the issue, she doesn’t seem to have given much thought to the feasibility of the proposal. A plan the nation cannot afford Four capitals would obviously mean having Parliament buildings in three other regions, too. If there are four capitals, accommodation for all the MPs and the adjunct staff will have to be constructed. While those from the northern parts of the country would prefer to be comfortably ensconced in the existing residential accommodation in New Delhi, those from other parts of the country may prefer to settle in the capital of the region to which they belong. During Parliament sessions, MPs will descend in droves to the envisaged capitals and fly out, leaving these residential accommodations vacant for months after every session. Add to this the huge expenditure involved in all the MPs and their staff having to fly to and from these capitals every now and then. Providing security to all the MPs will be a huge burden for the State Police. Even the vacant accommodations where the MPs don’t reside will have to be guarded round the clock. Depending on the risk factor, enhanced security will have to be necessarily provided to a fair number of them, many of whom manage to get top security cover merely for their imprudent utterances. Calcutta (now Kolkata) was once a capital of this country until King George V announced in December 1911 that Delhi would be the new capital. Parliament House was opened in 1927 and the magnificent Viceroy’s residence (now Rashtrapati Bhavan) and the government buildings were inaugurated in 1931. One of the factors that may have weighed in favour of New Delhi could be its proximity to the summer capital, Shimla. But today, even shifting a State capital would involve huge expenditure. In the 1980s, the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister proposed to shift the State capital to Tiruchirappalli in central Tamil Nadu. The plan was ultimately shelved when the huge burden it would impose on the State exchequer became apparent. The cost to the government exchequer to have capitals in three other States will be mind-boggling and our nation can ill-afford this. A proposal to be considered A similar request was made in January 2021 when the Bar Councils of the five southern States called for a Supreme Court bench in south India. This has been a long-standing demand. Unlike the proposal to establish four capitals, this one merits serious consideration given the prohibitively long distance between the southern States and Delhi. Not many can afford to travel all the way to New Delhi to engage lawyers and plead their cases. The exorbitant fees of the Supreme Court lawyers in New Delhi is another deterrent. While speaking at an online event last year, Attorney General K.K. Venugopal suggested that four benches of Court of Appeal with 15 judges each be created across the country to reduce the burden of the Supreme Court. This would enable judges to go through each case thoroughly and deliver a well-thought-out verdict. Setting up these courts would call for an amendment in the Constitution. Though the demand is to set up a bench in the south, southern Bar Councils may later take up the issue of setting up separate appellate benches in regions in the south. Such an arrangement would leave the apex court free to deal with constitutional issues. With cases mounting in various courts, a viable solution needs to be worked out. Easy accessibility to justice for every citizen is a right that cannot be countered. M.P. Nathanael is Inspector General of Police (Retd), Central Reserve Police Force||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-viability-of-two-proposals/article33855586.ece
17 February 2021||February 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Freedom and security||By calling on social media platforms operating in India to follow the law of the land, as it did last week in Parliament, the government has not just stated the seemingly obvious but also delivered a warning to Twitter that it ought not to defy its orders again, the way it did in early February, when the government wanted certain handles blocked for spreading incendiary content. “We respect criticism… you can criticise even the Prime Minister,” said Minister of IT and Communications Ravi Shankar Prasad in Parliament on Thursday. “But if social media is used to propagate hate, then action will be taken.” Further, he asked, why “when police act in Washington’s Capitol Hill ransacking, a micro blogging site stands in their support, but when a similar action is taken at Red Fort, our national pride, the platform opposes it?” That the government wanted problematic hashtags blocked is understandable, given the tense situation on the ground on the day of the farmer protests, but what is difficult to appreciate is that it also wanted handles of some journalists, activists and politicians to be blocked. Twitter eventually complied, but not fully. “We have not taken any action on accounts that consist of news media entities, journalists, activists, and politicians,” it said in its blog. “To do so, we believe, would violate their fundamental right to free expression under Indian law.” After all this, the issue is still in the realm of statements and counter-statements. While keeping up the pressure on Twitter by threatening to take action, the government, at least for the time being, seems to have stopped short of taking action. And while being defiant initially, Twitter also seems to have stopped short of escalating it and going to court. This is significant because if either one of the parties had decided to escalate the issue, the contentious law under which social media platforms are required to comply with blocking orders could come under legal scrutiny. The reference is to Section 69A of the Information Technology Act, 2000, under which the government can order a digital intermediary to block any content on grounds including security of the state and public order. Sure, the Supreme Court did uphold the constitutionality of Section 69A in the Shreya Singhal vs. the Union of India case in 2015, but criticism over the secrecy of the process and the arbitrariness with which it has been used over the years has never ceased. This Section, in a way, represents the wide censorship powers that the government has. It is, therefore, important that freedom of speech is not seen as the antithesis of security of the state, but as one of its key facilitators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/freedom-and-security/article33855572.ece
17 February 2021||February 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Ominous precedent||Donald Trump has survived, by a mere 10 votes, the Senate trial that might have convicted him for inciting insurrection. All 50 Democrats of the Upper Chamber voted ‘guilty,’ and seven Republicans joined them, yet the tally fell short of the two-thirds necessary for conviction. The charges framed against the former U.S. President came from the House of Representatives, which impeached him — for the second time — last month, this time for goading on a mob to attack the U.S. Capitol building on January 6. The attack came after months of sloganeering by Mr. Trump on Twitter to the effect that the mail-in voting, a necessary feature of the pandemic-era election, was fraudulent and that his supporters ought to #StopTheSteal. Statistics from every previous presidential election suggest that this claim is entirely unfounded. The result was that a woman was killed at the site of the siege, and four others died during the course of the attack and its aftermath, including a police officer. Beyond the loss of life, the attack was recognised by President Joe Biden as an “unprecedented assault” on the soul of American democracy. In a sense, it marked the culmination of Mr. Trump’s relentless disregard of the traditions and norms of governance whether in terms of harsh immigration policies, the rejection of major global alliances and multilateral forums, a willingness to spark off trade wars and exacerbate tensions over tariffs, or to brazenly use his public position for personal gain. The fact that Mr. Trump survived the vote to convict him of high crimes and misdemeanours and potentially bar him from running again, leaves ominous questions regarding the future of the Republican Party. Its leader in the Senate, Mitch McConnell, waxed eloquent about Mr. Trump’s culpability for incitement yet failed to grasp the irony that he had led the majority of his party to acquit the very man he claimed to denounce. This potentially raises at least two scenarios. The first is that Congressional Republicans are not, as a group, convinced that the harm that Mr. Trump did to the presidency and the fabric of American society warrants banning him from the highest office in the land. Second, even though they might secretly believe that Mr. Trump’s views were not in line with mainstream conservative values, they fear that convicting him and banning him from a second run for the White House might have the reverse effect on his supporter base — strengthening the Make America Great Again “movement”. After all, Mr. Trump did end up garnering over 74 million votes in last year’s election, and he mobilised these numbers through a relentless barrage of rhetoric fuelling nativist populism and a sense of disenfranchised white privilege, a political phenomenon not seen in recent decades. Unless the Grand Old Party pivots away from this Trump-centric view of its political fortunes, the bitter polarisation of the past few years will almost certainly make an ugly revival by 2024.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/ominous-precedent/article33855573.ece
17 February 2021||February 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Beer and crime||Lahore, Feb. 16: The following communique has been issued by the Punjab Government:- Two private soldiers of an Ammunition Column about to proceed as part of an escort to ammunition from Campbellpur to Rawalpindi by the evening goods train on 14th February on being placed by the warrant officer under arrest for concealing beer in the wagon began firing at random from the shelter of wagon at about 8 P.M. The station staff and the few passengers about took cover, but unfortunately a passenger who was crossing the line was shot dead a few yards from the wagon. A railway menial servant was slightly injured in the head. Military aid arrived from cantonements and the men were disarmed and confined. A British solder got a bullet through his cap in making the arrest. The O.C.R.A. and two other officers of the R.A. with the D.C. and D.P. arrived at the station and a joint military and police enquiry began which continued till next day. The case will be dealt with by civil courts and Commital proceedings will be held this week in the court of the District Magistrate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/beer-and-crime/article33855581.ece
17 February 2021||February 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Cows join EEC meet in Brussels||Common market cows yesterday [Brussels, February 16] were herded carefully up three flights of stairs to join E.E.C. Ministers in their deliberations on the Community’s agriculture problems. About 100 Belgian opponents of the Community’s food prices policies drove the cows up the staircase straight into the centre of the chamber where the Ministers had just settled down for what was planned a routine meeting. Ushers struggled with demonstrators as the protesters shouted, “We want to live”, “Give us a fair price”, and “Hang Mansholt” (E.E.C. official in charge of farm affairs). Apart from the cows, Mr. Sicco Mansholt seemed the calmest person present. Around him raged the storm, as ushers tried to persuade the cows to leave peacefully. Calm was restored by the police — who held about 20 demonstrators for questioning. In all the protest lasted a little over an hour. Chairman Michel Cointat of France then ordered the session suspension for mopping up operations, since cows, it was noted, will be cows. — AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/cows-join-eec-meet-in-brussels/article33855582.ece
17 February 2021||MUMBAI,||‘NBFCs’ stressed assets may rise to Rs. 1.5-1.8 lakh cr. by March-end’||Stressed assets of non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) are likely to touch Rs. 1.5-1.8 lakh crore, or 6-7.5% of their assets under management (AUM) by the end of this fiscal, says a report. However, the one-time COVID-19 restructuring window, and the micro, small and medium enterprises’ (MSME) restructuring scheme of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) will limit the reported gross non-performing assets (GNPA), Crisil Ratings said. “This fiscal has brought unprecedented challenges to the fore for NBFCs. Collection efficiencies, after deteriorating sharply, have now improved, but are still not at pre-pandemic levels.  Increase in overdues “There is a marked increase in overdues across certain segments and players,” the agency’s senior director Krishnan Sitaraman said in the report. He expects gold loans and home loans to stay resilient, with the least impact among segments. The RBI, in its Financial Stability Report released last month, had said GNPAs of NBFCs increased to 6.3% as of March 2020 from 5.3% as of March 2019. The report had said the asset quality of NBFCs is expected to deteriorate further due to disruption of business operations caused by the pandemic, especially in the industry sector, a major recipient of NBFC credit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nbfcs-stressed-assets-may-rise-to-rs-15-18-lakh-cr-by-march-end/article33855559.ece
17 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Amazon to manufacture Fire TV stick at Chennai facility||U.S. e-commerce major Amazon on Tuesday said it plans to begin manufacturing electronic devices including the Fire TV stick, in India, by the end of this year. The contract facility at Chennai would be Amazon’s first production line in India. Cloud Network Technology, a unit of Foxconn, would start contract manufacture of the Amazon devices later this year, the e-commerce company said in a blogpost. The announcement followed a virtual meeting between Union Minister for Communications and IT Ravi Shankar Prasad and Amazon’s Global Senior Vice-President and Country Head for India Amit Agarwal. “Range of issues related to the digital sector were discussed during this meeting,” the government said in a release. “After this meeting, Amazon India has made an announcement to start manufacturing of electronics products from India. To begin with, Amazon is going to start manufacturing Amazon Fire TV stick,” it added. “India is an attractive investment destination and is poised to become a major player in the global supply chain in the electronics and IT products industry,” Mr. Prasad said. “We welcome Amazon’s decision... as it will enhance domestic production capacities, and create jobs, ” he added. ‘Own production’ “What we understand is Amazon would first manufacture the devices through contract manufacturer Foxconn and later might start their own production,” a senior Tamil Nadu government official said. “We are delighted to announce Amazon’s first manufacturing line in India to produce hundreds of thousands of Fire TV Stick devices every year,” Mr. Agarwal said. “This further reiterates our commitment to the Government of India’s ‘Make in India’ initiative.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/amazon-to-manufacture-fire-tv-stick-at-chennai-facility/article33855563.ece
17 February 2021||MUMBAI,||GDP to contract 1% in Q3: BofA||Against the majority view of a rebound in the growth numbers for the December quarter, the house economists at the Wall Street brokerage Bank of America Securities on Tuesday pencilled in a 1% contraction in India’s GDP for the third quarter. On an average, economists at almost all the rating agencies and brokerages have forecast a 0.4-0.7% positive growth for the economy that had contracted by a record 23.9% in the first quarter and 7.5% in the second quarter of the current fiscal. The contraction in the first half of the current financial year ending March 31 was 15.7%. Expecting a rebound in the second half, Bank of America Securities India has pencilled in a contraction of only 7-7.7% for the year, still making it the worst on record and the third since Independence. BofA’s negative 1% GDP growth assessment comes despite its activity indicator recording a 1.7% growth in December after declining for nine months on the trot. As per BofA, credit growth slipped to 5.6% in late January from 6.2% on January 1. This shows that the economy remains weak and the only relief is that the real lending rates are coming off with the real MCLR falling by 230 basis points since March 2019 on sustained RBI easing, the brokerage added. On balance, BofA said that it expects the RBI to remain on hold throughout FY22 and raise rates by 100 basis points in FY23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gdp-to-contract-1-in-q3-bofa/article33855557.ece
17 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Telcos ask government to defer net neutrality rules||The COAI has urged the government to bring over-the-top (OTT) service providers such as WhatsApp under the licensing regime and defer net neutrality rules on telecom operators till the time ‘same service, same rules’ are applied on the applications. The COAI wrote to the Telecom Department on February 9 in response to the recommendation of the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India on OTT players that no regulations should be imposed on the calling and messaging apps till the time clarity emerges in the international jurisdictions. “Till the time any decision is taken regarding licensing of OTT communication providers, the unequitability between TSPs (telecom service providers) and OTTs should not be increased further. “Till such time, no new licensing conditions, including that of traffic management practices for net neutrality etc., should be imposed on TSPs,” Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI) said.  The net neutrality principles prohibit service providers from discriminating against Internet content and services by blocking, throttling or according preferential higher speeds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/telcos-ask-government-to-defer-net-neutrality-rules/article33855561.ece
17 February 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Adani firm completes acquisition of Dighi Port||Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone Ltd. on Tuesday said it had completed the acquisition of 100% stake in Dighi Port Limited (DPL) for Rs. 705 crore. It also made a commitment to invest Rs. 10,000 crore to develop it into an alternative gateway to JNPT in Mumbai. DPL became the 12th port to come under the Adani umbrella. Located in Maharashtra’s Raigad district, the port is on the banks of the Rajpuri Creek on India’s west coast, located 42 nautical miles from Mumbai Port and 170 km south of Mumbai by road. DPL was developed by industrialist Vijay Kalantri but became a stressed asset. The National Company Law Tribunal had approved the resolution plan in March.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/adani-firm-completes-acquisition-of-dighi-port/article33855565.ece
17 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||IBM, TechM to deepen collaboration||IBM and Tech Mahindra on Tuesday said they would ‘deepen’ their collaboration, including in five strategic areas of 5G, automation, hybrid cloud, cyber security, data and artificial intelligence. The partnership would likely help each rake in $1 billion in revenue over 3 years, they said. At a virtual conference, IBM Chairman and CEO Arvind Krishna and Tech Mahindra MD and CEO C.P. Gurnani said telco and 5G would drive 40% of revenue while other sectors would account for the rest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ibm-techm-to-deepen-collaboration/article33855554.ece
17 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Twitter starts voice message testing for DMs||Micro-blogging platform Twitter has started testing use of voice messages for sending direct messages or DMs in India. The experiment will be rolled out in phases to Indian audiences, making India one of three countries to have access to the feature alongside Brazil and Japan. “We’re excited to bring the voice messages in DMs experiment to the country and give people a new way to express themselves and help them connect through the nuances, emotion, and empathy built by hearing someone’s voice,” Manish Maheshwari, MD, Twitter India, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/twitter-starts-voice-message-testing-for-dms/article33855555.ece
17 February 2021||new delhi,||Nestle India net rises 2.3% to Rs. 483 crore||FMCG major Nestle India Ltd. on Tuesday reported a 2.3% rise in net profit to Rs. 483.3 crore for the fourth quarter ended December. The company, which follows the January-December financial year, had posted a profit of Rs. 472.6 crore in the same period a year ago, Nestle said. Net sales rose 9.2% to Rs. 3,417.5 crore during the quarter under review. Export sales dipped 7.7% to Rs. 156.8 crore. Its board recommended final dividend of Rs. 65 per equity share of Rs. 10 each for the year 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nestle-india-net-rises-23-to-rs-483-crore/article33855560.ece
17 February 2021||New Delhi,||SAT stays SEBI ban order on Biyani, others||The Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) has stayed the order passed by market regulator SEBI, that had put a one-year ban on Future Retail Chairperson Kishore Biyani and some other promoters from the securities market. The SAT also directed Future Group promoters to deposit Rs. 11 crore as an interim measure. “The [SAT] stayed the... operation of SEBI’s order accusing the promoters of the Future Group of insider trading in the context of purchases of Future Retail shares made in March 2017,” Future Corporate Resources Pvt. Ltd. said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sat-stays-sebi-ban-order-on-biyani-others/article33855566.ece
17 February 2021||New Delhi,||Honda Motorcycles unveils new bike at Rs. 1.96 lakh||Honda Motorcycle & Scooter India said it will be introducing mid-sized motorcycle, CB350RS, in India in March at Rs. 1.96 lakh. The model, that premiered globally on Tuesday, is the second bike under the ‘CB’ portfolio to be ‘Made in India for the World.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/honda-motorcycles-unveils-new-bike-at-rs-196-lakh/article33855553.ece
17 February 2021||Chennai,||Ashok Leyland buys stake in solar energy firm||Ashok Leyland Ltd. (ALL) has picked up a 26% stake in Prathama Solarconnect Energy Pvt. Ltd. (PSEPL) by investing Rs. 18.66 crore. The commercial vehicle manufacturer, in a filing, said PSEPL was engaged in solar power generation business and the investment had been made for purchase of solar power at a subsidised rate under group captive scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ashok-leyland-buys-stake-in-solar-energy-firm/article33855551.ece
17 February 2021||New Delhi,||Tatas to acquire 68 pc stake in BigBasket for Rs 9,500 cr: Sources||The Tata group will acquire 68% stake in online grocery platform BigBasket for about Rs. 9,500 crore, sources said. The group has signed an agreement, the sources added. The agreement puts BigBasket’s enterprise value at more than Rs. 13,500 crore.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tatas-to-acquire-68-pc-stake-in-bigbasket-for-rs-9500-cr-sources/article33856105.ece
17 February 2021||Chennai,||Axar puts the finishing touches to India’s stirring comeback||Axar Patel lived a dream in the field of dreams; a five-wicket innings haul on debut that fired India to a victory in the second Test at the M.A. Chidambaram Stadium on Tuesday. India completed the formalities soon after lunch on day four, winning by a massive 317 runs. The series is level 1-1 after two Tests. The caravan now moves to Motera for the third Test — a day/night affair from February 24. India needs to win the series 2-1 to make the World Test championship final. Major difference The difference between the two sides was Rohit Sharma’s iridescent 161 in the first innings after India won a crucial toss on a dusty surface that turned from day one. Then home boy R. Ashwin held centrestate with a century and an eight-wicket match haul. Things happened quickly on day four of the second Test at Chepauk. And left-arm spinner Axar got the prize wicket of Joe Root (33) with a delivery that bounced more and kissed the glove even as the batsman pushed forward. Control is the tall Axar’s strength and he gets extra bounce too releasing the ball from a high-arm action. Axar has an easy relaxed release, spins the ball away from the right-hander and throws in variations in speed and trajectory. Importantly for a left-armer, he possesses an arm ball. Axar’s extra bounce drew the error from Ollie Pope too; his attempted sweep resulted in a catch to deep mid-wicket. Pant’s stature grows Moeen Ali (43) struck some lusty blows before stepping down to wrist spinner Kuldeep Yadav, missing and Rishabh Pant pulling off an acrobatic stumping to end the Test. Pant has grown in stature as a ’keeper in the match. Ashwin bowled with rhythm and skill. He is employing more body in his action which, consequently, gives him greater bite off the surface. Pivoting better Now, Ashwin is more side-on in his release which means he is pivoting better with a more pronounced hip drive. Ashwin imparted serious revs on the ball and there was flight, dip and turn in his bowling. And his release points are excellent. His seam position is good and he can bowl both top spin [upright seam] and side-spin [the release point is from a lower arm and the seam does not face the ground]. With top spin, he gets the ball to dip. With side spin, Ashwin gets the sphere to drift. Ashwin struck early in the day when he got one to turn through Dan Lawrence’s legs — he releases the ball a tad late and could have, from the corner of his eyes, seen Lawrence stepping out. Nailing Lawrence He fired a quicker one, and the fighting Lawrence (26), missed his flick and Pant pulled off a difficult leg-side stumping. Ben Stokes was a big wicket and Ashwin got the left-hander with a fuller length slider from round the wicket. Among Ashwin’s strengths is his use of the crease and the ability to harness the angles. Man-of-the-Match, he was.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/axar-puts-the-finishing-touches-to-indias-stirring-fightback/article33855665.ece
17 February 2021||February 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Batting or bowling, Ashwin is very very special too||The definition of the term ‘all-rounder’ in cricket is quite simple. Would the player find a place in the team on the basis of either of his skills (batting, bowling, wicket-keeping) alone? If he does, then he is. Top of the ICC’s ranking is Ben Stokes, and he can play for England either as a batsman or as a bowler. His incredible catching is a bonus. Sixth on the list is R. Ashwin, and we have been reluctant to call him an all-rounder despite his five centuries and 11 fifties. We called another great spinner S. Venkatraghavan an all-rounder on the basis of just two fifties. This is partly Ashwin’s fault, as between centuries he gave the impression he was not focussed on batting. Now he has told us he has rediscovered the joy of batting — hinting that he is going to take this aspect of his game more seriously. Once you enjoy something, communicating that enjoyment is part of a performer’s instinct. Rare intelligence Had Ashwin not been the bowler he is, it is likely that he might have played as a batsman alone. There is something of V.V.S. Laxman about his touch and natural sense of timing. He is a player of rare intelligence. In Australia recently he showed he has a big heart to go with his sharp mind, taking blows on his body and carrying the team on his shoulders — and fingers and hands and chest — in an unexpected draw that set up the series win in the final Test. When he speaks, he gives the impression of being an intelligent sportsman — and he doesn’t care who knows it. He has given his bowling deep thought, and worked out the angles and release points that suit him best. Like all top bowlers he remembers every wicket, and it doesn’t take him long to retrieve past dismissals from the storage place in his mind. Such profound involvement in his craft can be intimidating; but the seriousness is lightened by a sense of fun that comes naturally to a certain kind of person born and bred in Chennai. Ashwin was born a day before the tied Test began in Chennai; he has been tied to history and cricket ever since, getting to the various landmarks quickly as he made up for a late start (he was 25 on debut). He is six wickets short of the 400-mark. Muttiah Muralitharan made it in 72 Tests. Richard Hadlee and Dale Steyn got there in 80; Chennai was Ashwin’s 76th. Ashwin might once have nurtured dreams of leading India. He is better qualified than many who have. But the bias against bowler-captains stood in the way. And once Virat Kohli, a younger man took charge, that road was shut. If he was disappointed in not getting the chance to pick up ten wickets as India won the Test, he didn’t show it. In Australia, Tim Paine had sledged Ashwin saying (in effect): nobody likes you in your team. You only had to see the manner in which the non-striker Mohammed Siraj celebrated his century to see how laughable that was. The man-of-the-match is an all-rounder. Let us say that without embarrassment. Ashwin has done it before — a century and eight wickets — but it is doubtful if he has batted better. Regardless of what former England captains and Australian leg-spinners think sitting thousands of kilometres away, the second Test in Chennai wasn’t played on the beach. When teams lose in India it is because the pitch is doctored, when India lose in England it is because batsmen lack the technique. This trope has outlived its utility either as an explanation or as a joke. India averaged over 300 per innings while England didn’t manage even half that. When a number eight batsman scores a century in the second innings on a seemingly poor track, the opposition shouldn’t waste time looking at the pitch. There are more relevant issues to look at. To be fair, the England team and management didn’t think the track was unplayable, their skipper Joe Root saying, “We were outplayed in all three departments. It’s a bit of an education…” Enviable roster India’s conveyor belt of players is enviable. A replacement (for Ravindra Jadeja), Axar Patel begins his career with a five-wicket haul. The replacement of a replacement (Shahbaz Nadeem), Kuldeep Yadav who has been sitting idle for two years while going around with the team, picks up two and might have had Root himself early on but for a dropped catch. It is remarkable that sitting among the reserves in Chennai were K.L. Rahul, Mayank Agarwal, Jasprit Bumrah, Wriddhiman Saha, Washington Sundar, Hardik Pandya, Shardul Thakur, all top performers in recent years. Indian cricket never had it so good.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/batting-or-bowling-ashwin-is-very-very-special-too/article33855569.ece
17 February 2021||LAUSANNE,||Olympic boxing qualification event cancelled||A global boxing qualifying tournament for the Tokyo Olympics has been cancelled and an European event has been postponed from April to June. The International Olympic Committee said on Tuesday plans were changed because of “current challenges to international travel and related restrictions in many countries” during the coronavirus pandemic. Boxers worldwide were to compete for 53 places in the Tokyo line-up at a tournament in Paris in June. Those places will now be allocated equally across continents by World rankings based on results since 2017, the IOC said. Olympic entries from Africa and the Asia-Oceania region will now be allocated by rankings while boxers in the Americas and Europe can still earn qualifying places in the ring. An Americas tournament is scheduled for May 10-16 in Buenos Aires, Argentina, and the European qualifiers should be in June at a venue to be decided. The European event began in London last March then was stopped after three of 11 scheduled days when the pandemic was declared. London was to have hosted the postponed event this April. An IOC-appointed panel is organising the Tokyo boxing tournaments after recognition of the International Boxing Association (AIBA) was suspended over governance and finance issues. There will be eight men’s weight classes and five women’s weight classes at the Tokyo Olympics, which is set to open on July 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/olympic-boxing-qualification-event-cancelled/article33855866.ece
17 February 2021||CHENNAI:,||Tudor Treasure may score an encore||Tudor Treasure, who maintains form, may score again in the V.S. Dhanasekar Memorial Cup (1,600m), the main event of the extra day’s races to be held here on Wednesday (Feb. 17).  FIELD GAME PLATE (Div. II) , (1,400m), 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45, 2-00 p.m.: 1. Magical Wish (3) A. Imran Khan 60, 2. Song Of Glory (7) A.M. Alam 59.5, 3. Baden Baden (2) B. Nikhil 58, 4. Platini (4) P. Sai Kumar 58, 5. Sprit Of Zion (10) Jagadeesh 57.5, 6. Beauty Of The Turf (5) H. Rahul 55, 7. Amicus Curiae (9) Manikandan 54.5, 8. Wonderful Era (8) Nakhat Singh 54.5, 9. Beforethedawn (1) Azfar Syeed 54 and 10. Asian Empress (6) A. Ayaz Khan 52.   1. MAGICAL WISH, 2. PLATINI,   3. BEFORETHEDAWN   FIELD GAME PLATE (Div. I) , (1,400m), 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45, 2-30: 1. Branka (1) T.S. Jodha 60, 2. Chaitanya (3) H. Rahul 58.5, 3. Agnes (7) B. Nikhil 57.5, 4. Dominant (6) A.M. Alam 57.5, 5. Arithmetica (8) Jagadeesh 57, 6. Ertugrul (9) Shahar Babu 56.5, 7. Fort St. George (2) P. Sai Kumar 56, 8. Swiss Agatta (4) K. Mukesh Kumar 56 and 9. Amaterasu (5) S. Hussain 53.5.  1. BRANKA, 2. DOMINANT,   3. FORT ST. GEORGE   BELVEDERE PLATE (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms), 3-00: 1. Beauteous Maximus (10) Nakhat Singh 56, 2. Gold Speck (1) Irshad Alam 56, 3. Knott So Knotty (8) Arshad Alam 56, 4. Maranello (2) Antony Raj 56, 5. Maximus Star (9) Shahar Babu 56, 6. Mystical Magician (7) T.S. Jodha 56, 7. Stage Craft (4) Azfar Syeed 56, 8. Beauregard (3) Farhan 54.5, 9. Kristalina (5) Brisson 54.5 and 10. Strong Breeze (6) Akshay Kumar 54.5.  1. BEAUTEOUS MAXIMUS,   2. STRONG BREEZE,   3. MYSTICAL MAGICIAN   BLAZE THE TRACK PLATE (Div. I) , (1,200m), 5-y-o & over, rated 40 to 65, 3-30: 1. Catelyn (6) Antony Raj 60, 2. Texas Rose (1) K. Mukesh Kumar 59, 3. Demerara (10) Azfar Syeed 58.5, 4. Vintage Brut (8) A. Imran Khan 58.5, 5. Wonder Blaze (2) Manikandan 57.5, 6. Crown Of Stars (11) S. Shareef 56.5, 7. Royal Rules (3) Brisson 56.5, 8. Rosebrook (9) Arshad Alam 56, 9. Glorious Champ (4) Farhan 55.5, 10. Booms Lang (5) B. Nikhil 55 and 11. Queens Hall (7) P. Sai Kumar 54.  1. DEMERARA, 2. QUEENS HALL,   3. ROYAL RULES   M.J. IQBAL MEMORIAL CUP (1,400m), maiden 4-y-o only, rated 20 to 45, 4-00: 1. Cavallo Vincente (5) Akshay Kumar 60, 2. Naomi (9) T.S. Jodha 58, 3. Awesome Gift (2) Farhan 56, 4. Star Chieftain (3) Nakhat Singh 56, 5. Talan (1) S. Shareef 56, 6. Country’s Moon (8) Arshad Alam 55.5, 7. Fine Teak (11) Muazffar 55.5, 8. Golden Streak (7) B. Nikhil 55.5, 9. Icy River (4) Jagadeesh 55.5, 10. Indian Temple (6) Zulquar Nain 55.5, 11. Moment Of Life (12) Antony Raj 55 and 12. Propahlady (10) Rajendra Singh 55.  1. CAVALLO VINCENTE, 2. NAOMI, 2. MOMENT OF LIFE   V.S. DHANASEKAR MEMORIAL TROPHY (1,600m), rated 80 & above, 4-30: 1. Glorious Destiny (6) T.S. Jodha 60, 2. Bernardini (4) A. Imran Khan 59.5, 3. Hope And Glory (5) H. Rahul 59.5, 4. Tudor Treasure (2) Nakhat Singh 59.5, 5. Durango (3) Arshad Alam 52 and 6. Royal Currency (1) Akshay Kumar 51.5.  1. TUDOR TREASURE,   2. ROYAL CURRENCY   BLAZE THE TRACK PLATE (Div. II) , (1,200m), 5-y-o & over, rated 40 to 65, 5-00: 1. Butterfly (11) A. Imran Khan 60, 2. Desert Hawk (9) P. Sai Kumar 60, 3. Victoria’s Secret (6) S. Shareef 59, 4. Magnificent Star (1) A.M. Alam 58.5, 5. Olympicduel (3) Lakhan K 58.5, 6. Pinewood (4) A. Ayaz Khan 58.5, 7. Rush More (7) Jagadeesh 58, 8. Pappa Rich (2) Arshad Alam 57, 9. Star Proof (8) Akshay Kumar 57, 10. Henrietta (5) H. Rahul 56.5 and 11. Shadow Of Love (10) Azfar Syeed 56.5.  1. BUTTERFLY, 2. DESERT HAWK,   3. STAR PROOF  Jkt: 3, 4, 5, 6 & 7; Mini Jkt: 4, 5, 6 & 7; Tr (i): 2, 3 & 4; (ii): 5, 6 & 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tudor-treasure-may-score-an-encore/article33855721.ece
17 February 2021||Chennai,||Ajinkya told me I was overthinking it, reveals Ashwin||After scoring his fifth Test century on Monday, R. Ashwin felt that a return to basics had helped him rediscover his batting form, the first signs of which were evident in his match-saving Sydney epic. “I'm someone who tries hard. When it doesn't go my way, I try harder. A lot of my batting was about me internally thinking about what was happening with the crease, the set-up, the technique and all that sort of stuff. “Whereas my batting was more about hands, getting through the ball and sort of thinking tactically rather than thinking technically,” said Ashwin. Sydney set the tone “[Batting coach] Vikram Rathour came in and Ajinkya [Rahane] played a crucial role in terms of telling me that I’m overthinking it and have to just get it done. All those things played a massive role but that innings Sydney really set the tone for me,” he added. On his partnership with Virat Kohli in the second innings, Ashwin said, “Virat was playing well and I was looking to support him. I just wanted to go out there and carry out the plans I had practised before the game. I played with a bit of a counter-attacking streak, as once I got in I understood what can be done.” The wily spinner, who picked up eight wickets in the match, said it was the mind-games with the batsmen that did the trick more than the deliveries that spun sharply. “I thought the balls that were doing much weren't getting wickets. It was more the balls that followed it and we had to play on the minds of the batsmen to get those wickets,” he said. The cricketer from Chennai also felt that it was the most special of his four Tests at home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ajinkya-told-me-i-was-overthinking-it/article33855667.ece
17 February 2021||TENHIPALAM,||Three new records on day two||Three new meet records marked the second day of the State athletics championship here on Tuesday. The records were set in the girls’ Under-20 4x100m relay, boys’ Under-16 discus throw and girls' Under-14 shot put.  The winners: Men: 100m: Amal Prakash (Klm) 11.14s. Long jump: T.P. Amal (Pkd) 7.36m. High jump: T. Aromal (Klm) 2.04m. Pole vault: A.K. Sidharth (Kkd) 4.60m. 4x100m relay: Ernakulam 43.14s.   Women: 100m: S.S. Sneha (ktm) 12.49s. 800m: Aswathy Binu (Ktm) 2:24.60. Long jump: Ancy Sojan (Tsr) 6.19m. High jump: K.A. Rubeena (Mlp) 1.66m. Pole vault: Divya Mohan (Ekm) 3.30m. Javelin: Shani Shaji (Ktm) 35.32m. 4x100m relay: Kottayam 55.72s.   Under-20: Boys: 100m: C.R. Abdul Razak (Pkd) 10.98s. Long jump: T.J. Joseph (Ekm) 7.57m. High jump: V.C. Aswin (Pkd) 1.98m. Pole vault: Alan Biju (Ekm) 3.90m. Javelin: Jibin Thomas (Ekm) 58.02m. 4x100m relay: Palakkad 44.87s.   Girls: 100m: P.D. Anjali (Tsr) 12.26s. 800m: C. Chanthini (Pkd) 2:22.90. High jump: Gayathry Sivakumar (Ekm) 1.63m. Pole vault: Arathy A. Nair (Ekm) 3.10m. Javelin: Thaleetha Kummi Sunil (Ekm) 33.27m. 4x100m relay: Thrissur (Ancy Sojan, P.D. Anjali, T.J. Jamsheela & Ann Rose Tomy) 47.17s: NMR; OR: 48.50s, Pathanamthitta, 2000.   Under-18: Boys: 100m: Joy K. Saimon (Alp) 11.20s. Long jump: S. Abhinand (Pkd) 6.95m. Pole vault: Anand Manoj (Ekm) 3.90m. Javelin: Joshy Joy (Ekm) 48.70m.   Girls: 100m: Reshmi Jayaraj (Ktm) 13.10s. Long jump: V.M. Abhirami (Kkd) 5.74m. Pole vault: Nekha Eldho (Ekm) 2.79m. Javelin: Aiswarya Suresh (Knr) 36.80m. Medley relay: Kozhikode 2:22.23.   Under-16: Boys: 100m: Calvin Roswan (Alp) 11.64s. Discus: K.C. Sarvan (Kgd) 51.07m: NMR; OR: 43.32m, Sam Varghese (Ekm), 2000.   Girls: 100m: Sandra Mol Sabu (Ktm) 12.76s. High jump: Alba Manoj (Kkd) 1.51m. Discus: Akila Raju (Kgd) 34.60m.   Under-14: Boys: 60m: Ayush Krishna (Pkd) 7.68s. 600m: Abhinav Manoharanan (Kkd) 1:34.35. Shot put: K.K. Mohammed Nisham (Alp) 11.36m.   Girls: 60m: Alphonsa Treesa Terin (Ktm) 8.27s. 600m: P.T. Samredha (Kkd) 1:46.20. Shot put: Henin Elizabeth (Ekm) 11.56m: NMR; OR: 9.81m, Megha Mariyam Mathew (Tvm), 2013 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/three-new-records-on-day-two/article33855844.ece
17 February 2021||Chennai,||It was the perfect game for us, says a delighted captain Kohli||Captain Virat Kohli called it the perfect game after India cruised to a 317-run win over England and levelled the four-Test series 1-1 here on Tuesday. “Our application with the bat was outstanding. The conditions were challenging for both sides, but we showed more application with the bat,” Kohli told the host broadcaster after the match. “We didn't panic out there looking at the turn and bounce; we showed grit, got into the game and scored 600 runs in the game. We know our bowlers are going to do the job for us if we put up these runs in home conditions.” Toss not a factor Kohli also felt the toss did not play as much of a vital role as it did in the first game. “The toss wouldn't have mattered much in this game, because if you looked at our second innings, we still applied ourselves and got [close to] 300 as well.” After being bowled by Moeen Ali for a duck while trying to drive through the covers, Kohli did not play the cover-drive in the second innings, where he made a vital 62, until he was well-set. “I take a lot of pride in improving myself and correcting my mistakes quickly. If I make an error, I make sure I iron it out in the very next innings.”  The crowds make a big difference. When the fans are behind you, you push more as a team. The Chennai crowd is very intelligent, they understand their cricket really well||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/it-was-the-perfect-game-kohli/article33855669.ece
17 February 2021||February 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Hyderabad blasts Kerala||Victory tastes particularly sweet after a long wait. It is sweeter when it comes at a critical juncture of a difficult campaign, as Hyderabad FC found out on Tuesday night. The 4-0 victory against Kerala Blasters at the Tilak Maidan Stadium, Vasco da Gama (Goa), could not have come at a better time. All the goals came in the second half. After Fran Sandaza struck twice, Aridane Santana and Joao Victor completed the rout. The thumping win has taken Hyderabad’s tally to 27 points and the third spot in the ISL table, behind ATK Mohun Bagan (36) and Mumbai City (34). The team is well placed now to take one of the two remaining playoff spots available. As for Blasters, it remains second from the bottom, with 16 points.  The men from Kochi began well, forcing a couple of corners within 13 minutes. But, they but lacked sharpness in the final third, and clearly missed Sahal Abdul Samad. , who has been one of their busiest men on the field this season. It proved a horrible second half for Blasters, which once again was guilty of poor defending. Bakary Kone’s failure to clear the dangerous long ball away from Joel Chianese paved the way for the first goal. Another defender, Costa Nhamoinesu fared hardly any better, allowing Sandaza to slot the ball home. Just five minutes later, the Spanish striker struck again, this time from the penalty spot; goalkeeper Albino Gomez had brought down Chianese. The last two goals came from free-kicks, both taken brilliantly by substitute Lluis Sastre.  The result: Hyderabad FC 4 (Fran Sandaza 58 & 63-p, Aridane Santana 86, Joao Victor 90) bt Kerala Blasters 0.   Wednesday’s match: FC Goa v Odisha FC, 7.30 p.m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hyderabad-blasts-kerala/article33855725.ece
17 February 2021||DUSSELDORF,||Neutral venues not an ideal solution||German teams hosting English opponents in Hungary. Arsenal and Benfica playing in Italy and Greece. Atletico Madrid entertaining Chelsea in Romania nearly 2,500 kilometers (1,550 miles) from home. The coronavirus has shaken up the Champions League and Europa League again, causing five games this week to move to neutral venues across the continent, with more relocations to come. It's a confusing series of workarounds to national border restrictions on the spread of virus variants. Some politicians are worried by what they see as privileged soccer stars evading the spirit of the law. “Professional soccer, and other sports too, seem to be living in another cosmos where consideration is a foreign word,” said Dagmar Freitag, who chairs the German parliament's sports committee. Meeting in a neutral country is a handy solution for the clubs and UEFA, which is desperate to keep the European schedule on track.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/neutral-venues-not-an-ideal-solution/article33855959.ece
17 February 2021||LONDON,||Chelsea moves to fourth||Chelsea notched up its fourth league win in a row under new coach Thomas Tuchel on Monday and striker Timo Werner ended his goal drought as the Blues beat Newcastle United 2-0 to leapfrog Liverpool into the Champions League qualifying places and into fourth place on Monday. Bayern Munich had to battle back from two goals down to rescue a 3-3 draw against struggler Arminia Bielefeld in the Bundesliga. Bayern is still five points clear at the top.  The results:   Premier League: Chelsea 2 (Giroud 31, Werner 39) bt Newcastle 0; West Ham 3 (Rice 41-pen, Diop 58, Fredericks 90+6) bt Sheffield United 0.   Bundesliga: Bayern Munich 3 (Lewandowski 48, Tolisso 57, Davies 69) drew with Arminia Bielefeld 3 (Vlap 9, Pieper 37, Gebauer 49).   LaLiga: Cadiz 0 lost to Athletic Bilbao 4 (Berenguer 4, 29, Lopez 15, Williams 52).   Serie A: Hellas Verona 2 (Grassi 13-og, Barak 61) bt Parma 1 (Kucka 8-pen) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chelsea-moves-to-fourth/article33855567.ece
17 February 2021||Chennai,||We take it as a bit of education, says Root||England skipper Joe Root conceded that his side was outplayed in all three departments of the game and that the match was an education for his side. “It is important that we learn. We take it as a bit of education and look at how they [India] go about things on a surface that has spun a huge amount and had more bounce than we expected,” said Root. Root also felt the toss was a crucial factor although it did not decide the winner. “It was a challenging wicket. The toss was an important one to win, but it wouldn’t guarantee us a win. India showed that you can score runs on it and found a way of managing the tricky surface. We have got to learn from that and take bits from India,” he said. Exciting cricket On the criticism the pitch attracted from some quarters, Root said, “I wouldn't say it was a good pitch, but it made for very exciting cricket. But that is not the reason why we lost the game. We were outplayed. We have to be very honest about that.” He also felt that his bowlers needed to have done a better job in the first innings and been tighter. “On day one, we could have squeezed the game, tried to make it difficult for them to rotate the strike and create pressure that way.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-take-it-as-a-bit-of-education-says-root/article33855670.ece
17 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Indian team for shooting World Cup||All the 15 Olympic quota winners earned their berth with good scores as the National Rifle Association of India (NRAI) announced a 57-strong Indian team for the World Cup in rifle, pistol and shotgun to be staged at the Dr. Karni Singh Range from March 18 to 29. The National federation had announced as part of its policy that the Olympic quota winners would be fielded in any case irrespective of their fare, especially in the selection trials. The NRAI had to use its discretionary powers to put rapid fire pistol shooter Anish Bhanwala in the team, even though he had slipped to seventh in the averages. Ranked World No. 12, Anish can aspire to make the Olympic cut with his rank. The rest of the 11 events saw the top-5 making the team. World No.1 in women’s air rifle, Elavenil Valarivan has been able to climb to the No.1 spot in the team ahead of World Championship silver medallist Anjum Moudgil, and multiple World Cup gold winner and world record holder Apurvi Chandela. The relative strength of the Indian team can be gleaned from the fact that entries had been received from 280 shooters of 42 countries, when the deadline closed on Monday.  The team:   Men: 10m air rifle: Divyansh Singh Panwar, Arjun Babuta, Deepak Kumar, Pankaj Kumar, Aishwary Pratap Singh Tomar.   50m rifle 3-position: Sanjeev Rajput, Aishwary Pratap Singh Tomar, Niraj Kumar, Swapnil Kusale, Chain Singh.   10m air pistol: Saurabh Chaudhary, Abhishek Verma, Sarabjot Singh, Ravinder Singh, Shahzar Rizvi.   25m rapid fire pistol: Vijayveer Sidhu, Gurpreet Singh, Anish Bhanwala, Arpit Goel, Adarsh Singh.   Trap: Kynan Chenai, Lakshay Sheoran, Prithviraj Tondaiman, Zoravar Singh Sandhu, Namanveer Singh Brar.   Skeet: Angad Vir Singh Bajwa, Mairaj Ahmad Khan, Gurjoat Singh Khangura, Karam Sukhbir Singh, Amrinder Singh Cheema.   Women: Air rifle: Elavenil Valarivan, Anjum Moudgil, Apurvi Chandela, Shriyanka Sadangi, Nisha Kanwar.   Rifle 3-position: Tejaswini Sawant, Sunidhi Chauhan, Anjum Moudgil, Gaayathri Nithyanandam, Shreya Saksena.   Air pistol: Manu Bhaker, Yashaswini Singh Deswal, P. Shri Nivetha, Shweta Singh, Esha Singh.   Sports pistol: Manu Bhaker, Rahi Sarnobat, Chinki Yadav, Neeraj Kaur, Abhidnya Patil.   Trap: Rajeshwari Kumari, Shreyasi Singh, Manisha Keer, Kirti Gupta, Neeru.   Skeet: Ganemat Sekhon, Parinaaz Dhaliwal, Karttiki Singh Shaktawat, Darshana Rathore, Zahra Mufaddal Deesawala .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-team-for-shooting-world-cup/article33855731.ece
17 February 2021||February 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Sacred story of Dhruva||The Bhagavata Purana contains many instances of how Divine Grace is sought through prayer, worship, practice of meditation and dhyana, performance of yagas and yagnas, etc. Sage Narada sings the praises of his disciple Dhruva in the sacrificial hall of Prachetasas. He hails the story of Dhruva for the many lessons it imparts and inspires, pointed out Sri R. Krishnamurthy Sastrigal in a discourse. As a child of five years, whose earnest wish is to receive his father's love, he is pained when the step mother Suruchi speaks sharp words. Seeing no way out of the situation, he goes to the forest with the aim of propitiating the Lord. Narada guides him in the path of meditation and penance and imparts the sacred Dwadasa mantra. Based on the sage's teachings, Dhruva does severe penance that is beyond the limits of a child. The determination and sincere prayer of the child wins for him the darshan of the very Lord within a short period. It is something not attained by any Kshatriya even through many long years. Dhruva is overawed by the Lord's presence and, unable to speak anything, he falls prostrate at His feet. The Lord touches the child's head with His conch and this gives Dhruva the jnana and power to express this in words. He praises the Supreme Lord by whose power he is now able to speak of His glories. His words echo the very essence of what the Vedas proclaim. By seeking the holy feet of the Lord and by meditating on His auspicious qualities one can get out of samsara. The Lord grants the child his desire and also a permanent place of residence in the constellation of stars known as Dhruva Mandala. Narada explains that this sacred story increases devotion, reduces miseries, washes off all sins and promotes good will and good conduct.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sacred-story-of-dhruva/article33855659.ece
17 February 2021||Melbourne,||Mixed luck for Ankita Raina||Qualifier Ankita Raina lost 6-3, 3-6, 6-4 to Australian Kimberly Birrell in the second round of the Phillip Island Trophy WTA 250 tournament here. In the doubles draw, Ankita and Russia's Kamilla Rakhimova beat Mihaela Buzarnescu and Patricia Maria Tig of Romania 6-1, 7-6(3) to progress to the second round.  The results: Phillip Island Trophy WTA 250, Melbourne: Second round: Kimberly Birrell (Aus) bt Ankita Raina 6-3, 3-6, 6-4. First round: Ankita Raina bt Elisabetta Cocciaretto (Ita) 5-7, 6-1, 6-2.   Doubles: First round: Kamilla Rakhimova (Rus) & Ankita Raina bt Mihaela Buzarnescu & Patricia Maria Tig (Rou) 6-1, 7-6(3); Gabriella da Silva Fick (Aus) & Y. Pranjala w/o Misaki Doi & Nao Hibino (Jpn).   $52,080 Challenger, Potchefstroom (South Africa): First round: Akira Santillan (Aus) bt Prajnesh Gunneswaran 6-3, 3-6, 7-5.   $15,000 ITF women, Monastir (Tunisia): First round: Melis Yasar (Swe) bt Zeel Desai 0-6, 6-4, 7-6(1) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mixed-luck-for-ankita-raina/article33855868.ece
17 February 2021||MELBOURNE,||Federer is the ‘Champion of his era’: Laver||Tennis legend Rod Laver on Tuesday said Roger Federer will always be “the champion of his era” and expects him to win more tournaments even though Rafael Nadal is just three matches away from overtaking his 20 Grand Slam title haul. The 39-year-old Swiss has been out of action for a year and shelved plans to compete in the Australian Open as he continues his recovery from two knee operations, targeting a comeback at Doha next month. He won the last of his 20 Slams at Melbourne Park in 2018 and Nadal will go one better if he lifts the title on Sunday. “For me, I think Roger is the champion of his era,” he told Fox Sports. “I think he’s certainly...you know, you look at his record and there’s a lot to say he’s the best of all time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/federer-is-the-champion-of-his-era-laver/article33855869.ece
17 February 2021||BENGALURU,||Rohan’s ton highlights Dharwad’s win||Rohan Yareshmi’s 102 helped Dharwad Zone defeat Mysore Zone in the KSCA inter-moffusil under-19 tournament here.  The scores: Shimoga Zone 124 in 35.2 overs (Yashwanth Gowda 34, Bheem Rao 3/35, Thippa Reddy 3/19) lost to Raichur Zone 128/2 in 24 overs (Niteesh Kumar 34 n.o., Vijaya Raj 31, S.P. Shreyas 46 n.o.).   Tumkur Zone 158 in 44.5 overs (T.P. Prapul 38, Shubhang Malakkal 38, M.A. Wasaaf 33) bt Mangalore Zone 114 in 38.2 overs (Chandan Raj 29, Hrishith Shetty 35, Hemanth Kumar 5/8).   Dharwad Zone 269/8 in 50 overs (Kedar Usulkar 34, Rohan Yareshmi 102, Vaibhav Kuribagi 70, Abhay Rangan 3/45) bt Mysore Zone 195 in 48.4 overs (Manvanth Kumar 25, M.K. Yashwanth 45, Aryan Kaveriappa 25, G.R. Abhinandan 25, Sujal Patil 3/56).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rohans-ton-highlights-dharwads-win/article33855929.ece
17 February 2021||CHENNAI,||Bairstow and Wood back||England selectors on Tuesday brought in wicket-keeper Jonny Bairstow and pacer Mark Wood to its squad for the day/night Test against India, starting in Ahmedabad on February 24. The selectors also decided to send all-rounder Moeen Ali, who played in the second game, back to England as part of their rotation policy to manage workload of the players. Bairstow was given a rest after the two-Test series against Sri Lanka, where he had scores of 47, 35 not out, 28 and 29.   The squad for third Test:   Joe Root (Capt.), James Anderson, Jofra Archer, Jonny Bairstow, Dominic Bess, Stuart Broad, Rory Burns, Zak Crawley, Ben Foakes, Dan Lawrence, Jack Leach, Ollie Pope, Dom Sibley, Ben Stokes, Olly Stone, Chris Woakes, and Mark Wood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bairstow-wood-back-moeen-to-return-home/article33855662.ece
17 February 2021||CHENNAI,||Gill injured||Shubman Gill did not come out for fielding here on Tuesday. Mayank Afarwal did the job for him. The BCCI said Gill had taken a hit on his forearm while fielding at short-leg during the England second innings on Monday. Gill was in considerable pain later and underwent precautionary scans, the results of which are yet to come. Cheteshwar Pujara, injured during batting, has made a good recovery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gill-injured/article33855663.ece
17 February 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Manika advances||Manika Batra and Archana Kamath, along with upcoming talent Diya Chitale, represent the present and future of Indian women’s table tennis. Now that the competitions are back after 11 months, their performances this week will reflect their hard work done during the COVID-break. On Tuesday, the trio won their opening round matches in the National table tennis championship at Panchkula, near here, in contrasting styles. If former champion Manika and Archana looked rusty for the better part of campaign-openers, the reigning National youth and junior champion Diya gave nothing away to Tamil Nadu girl N. Vidya. Manika survived three game-points in the first set, a five-point deficit in the second and a dropped fourth set to stop Andhra’s Kajol Ramjali. Archana looked far from convincing during her 4-2 victory over Swastika Ghosh, a junior international with a bright future. Another ex-winner National champion K. Shamini could not find the high gear and made a first-round exit. Looking vulnerable throughout the league phase, Shamini could not match Telangana youngster Varuni Jaiswal’a firepower on this day. Unlike Shamini, former champions Madhurika Patkar and Ankita Das found their touch in time to win in six games against Yashaswini Ghorpade and Snehal Patil. Seeded 15, Reeth Rishya tossed away two match-points in the fifth game against a fighting Munmun Ghosh before getting her act right in the deciding seventh game for a 4-3 victory.  Leading results: First round: Manika Batra bt Kajol Ramjali 13-11, 11-9, 11-5, 7-11, 11-3; Priyadarshini Das bt C.R. Harsha Vardhini 11-3, 11-5, 11-6, 11-6.   Archana Kamath bt Swastika Ghosh 13-15, 12-10, 11-9, 4-11, 13-11, 11-5; Diya Chitale bt N. Vidya 11-4, 11-6, 11-9, 11-4; Pooja Sahasrabudhe bt Suhana Saini 11-8, 11-6, 9-11, 1-11, 11-6, 11-7.   Madhurika Patkar bt Yashaswini Ghorpade 7-11. 11-4, 11-2, 12-10, 9-11, 11-7; Manasi Chiplunkar bt Anargya Manjunath 11-6, 11-6, 9-11, 4-11, 14-12, 15-13; Krittwika Sinha Roy bt T. R.Shruthi 11-6, 11-6, 11-5, 11-8; Ankita Das bt Snehal Patil 8-11, 11-4, 11-3, 7-11, 11-6, 11-7; Varuni Jaiswal bt K. Shamini 11-8, 9-11, 11-6, 12-10, 11-6.   S. Selenadeepthi bt Maria Rony 11-5, 11-8, 11-9, 14-12; Reeth Rishya bt Munmun Kundu 11-9, 12-10, 15-13, 9-11, 11-13, 6-11, 11-8.   Nikhat Banu bt Trisha Gogoi 11-6, 11-5, 6-11, 11-8, 11-4; Sutirtha Mukherjee bt Khushi Jain 11-5, 11-3, 11-8, 11-7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manika-scrapes-through/article33855845.ece
17 February 2021||February 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Noida Wonders lifts Skillz Youth trophy||Man-of-the-Match Ritwik Joshi’s 148, and a five-wicket haul by Uzair Malik saw Noida Wonders beat Skillz Academy by 14 runs to lift the Skillz Youth Cup Under-19 trophy. Ankit Kumar was named best batsman and Man-of-the-Tournament while Suraj Kumar was best bowler.  The scores: Noida Wonders 267/9 in 40 overs (Ritwik Joshi 148, Sagar Kumar Dhojia 3/45) bt Skillz Academy 255 in 39.3 overs (Ankit Kumar 64, Tarun Bisht 55, Lakshay Aggarwal 38, Uzair Malik 5/34) .      Parth Kumar scored 73 not out and Sunny Kumar picked up three wickets as Darling Frontline beat Northern District by eight wickets in the CSM T20 tournament.  The scores: Northern District 134/9 in 20 overs (Harshit Bansal 30, Sunny Kumar 3/19, Aryan Chaudhary 2/20) lost to DFA 138/2 in 14.3 overs (Parth Kumar 73 n.o., Shubham Sharma 30) .    Kunal Sangwan’s half-century helped Sporting Club beat Endurance Academy by seven wickets in the Endurance Under-15 Cricket League. In another match, Harry Academy beat Friends Academy by 10 runs.  The scores: Endurance Academy 127/7in 35 overs (Govind Rathi 26) lost to Sporting Club 128/3 in 18.2 overs (Kunal Sangwan 58); Harry Academy 178/9 in 35 overs (Ishmeet Singh 36, Ashish Kumar 29, Daksh Kumar 4/29) bt Friends Academy 168/4 in 35 overs (Daksha Taneja 54, Vansh Sharma 49, Ikjot Singh 31) .    Ishan Negi slammed a 107-ball 144 and Rohan Kumar made 82 not out as West Delhi Academy beat Telefunken Club by 46 runs to enter the final of the RCC Under-13 tournament. In the other semifinal, M-10 Academy beat Delhi Cricket Hub by 21 runs.  The scores: WDA 262/2 in 40 overs (Ishan Negi 144, Rohan Kumar 82 n.o.) bt Telefunken Club 216/9 in 40 overs (Saksham Negi 56 n.o., Shaurya Seth 42, Aryaveer Kohli 3/45); M-10 Academy 134 in 39.3 overs (Jaspreet Singh 4/24) bt DCH 113 in 36.2 overs (Naman Arora 3/17, Naman Mittal 3/17) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/noida-wonders-lifts-skillz-youth-trophy/article33856202.ece
17 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM:,||Thippapur wins trophy||Richmond Riders scored a 21-run win over Avengers in the YSR Premier League T-20 cricket championship here.  The scores: Bennith Warriors 205/6 in 20 overs (Lakshmi Prasad 75, Anwar Raza 68) bt MC Fighters 184 in 19.3 overs (Sagar 55, R. Thatha Babu 3/35).   Richmond Riders 168 in 20 overs (Venkat Murali 56, L. Sravan 40, V. Singh 3/35, Hemal Vatekar 3/33) bt Avengers 149 in 20 overs (S.V. Rahul 50, P. Satya 63, Lakshay Choudary 4/19)     K.H. Veera Reddy cracked a century (125, 120b, 16x4, 1x6) to help Anantapur score an emphatic, eight-wicket win over Rapthadu and enter the semifinal of the Ananta Premier League one-day cricket championship for junior boys here. In another match, Atmakur scored a 33-run win over Kanekal to make it to the last four stage.  The scores: Atmakur 151/8 in 50 overs (Sai Dheeraj 50, Teja 5/37) bt Kanekal 118 in 39.2 overs (H. Azith 37, Ajith 6/34).   Rapthadu 252 in 48.3 overs (Vignesh Dinakar 48, Kareem Baba 44, Charan Sai Teja 34 n.o., Bhargav 32, K. Venkat Lokesh 3/49) lost to Anantapur 253/2 in 40.2 overs (K.H. Veera Reddy 125, T. Satish Kumar 78).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/thippapur-wins-trophy/article33856239.ece
17 February 2021||February 17 2021 10:35 IST,||Sudoku — February 17, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-february-17-2021/article33857516.ece
17 February 2021||February 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Mistakes and magic||If like the charming teens, Mark and Margaret, they play in sci-fi rom-com, The Map of Tiny Perfect Things , Kathryn Newton and Kyle Allen had a chance to relive a day on loop, which day would they choose? “Well I recently had the best day of my life,” Kathryn says on video chat from Los Angeles, USA. “I played a good game in this golf tournament here yesterday at Pebble Beach. I played with Jordan Spieth [golfer] and learned so much. I think I could do this every day. And I have a movie coming out. To have a movie coming out every day would be pretty cool.” “I was actually going to say that,” Kyle chimes in from his car in LA. “Today is a pretty incredible day and if I could live it a couple more times that would be good.” While Groundhog Day and the Back to the Future series are Kathryn’s favourite time travel movies, Kyle votes for the Tom Cruise-Emily Blunt starrer, Edge of Tomorrow . “I remember going in cold to that movie and being blown away. I did not think it was going to be as good as it was.” Margaret, Kathryn says, is in her own world. “She has excellent taste in music and is very smart. She is the kind of person you would want to be friends with but you would have to work really hard at it as she is shy. She is on her own track, is strong and has big goals. She wants to be an astronaut — when you have goals like that, you have to be pretty sure of yourself. She is the kind of person that I would want to be my friend.” A grounded story The 24-year-old Big Little Lies actor says if she was like Margaret she would be an astronaut by now. “Instead I am here in my pyjamas having my second cup of coffee. So we are pretty different. I bet however, Margaret drinks coffee. I bet she drinks a lot of coffee so we are pretty similar, but she is way cooler than me. Your turn Mark…” “Exactly!” says the 27-year-old Kyle with an easy laugh. “They are interchangeable. People call me Mark, because they don’t see a differentiation between me and the character. I am exactly like him. He is a younger version of me — curious, ridiculous, he likes to pick things up and twirl them around.” “When Kyle walked in the door to audition, it was like his energy was already there as Mark,” adds Kathryn. “Kyle was the perfect person to create that harmony and chemistry between Mark and Margaret, which is really what the story is grounded in. On my first meeting with Ian (Samuels, director) I said, ‘if people don’t believe these two kids are in love, there is no real movie. Kyle is an amazing dancer and this movie moves like a dance. I wanted an actor who was going to be able to literally carry me, to move through this movie in a different way rather than just acting opposite me.” Though the credits mentions a COVID assistant Kyle says, “We finished filming, just before everything shut down in America. We had one more day to shoot and were unable to do so until October, when we were able to safely continue that last day of production. We finished just before everything shut down. We went in from our little bubble into the quarantine bubble.” The Map of Tiny Perfect Things is streaming on Amazon Prime Video.   Kathryn Newton says that Margaret (the character she plays in The Map of Tiny Perfect Things ) is the kind of person she would want to be friends with||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/mistakes-and-magic/article33855871.ece
17 February 2021||February 17 2021 00:00 IST,||The real rockstars||Ee nallani raalalo, ye kannulu dhaageno, Ee bandala maatuna, ye gundelu mrogeno… (In these black stones, whose eyes are hiding, on these slabs, whose heart is ringing…) are lines incorporated into the short film Other Kohinoors – The Rocks of Hyderabad . The lyrics from a soulful song rendered by Ghantasala for the 1964 Telugu film Amara Silpi Jakkanna , resonates in the pleas of rock activists who have been on a mission to protect the rock treasure of Hyderabad. Independent filmmaker Uma Magal directed and co-produced the film and plans to have a unique promotion to reach out to the audience. Back in 2014, Uma and Mahnoor Yar Khan (co-producer) interviewed a host of people and experts from all walks of life who had a connection with the rocks. Uma followed this up by writing a series of articles for The Hindu under the column Rockscape, on some of the people who were interviewed. “It’s a labour of love, as we have been working on it for the last seven years. We are hopeful that we can save the rocks that remain in the city.” Conversation series A series of events called ‘I am Here to Wonder’, is presented by Goethe Zentrum and Moving Images and is set to begin from February 18 and will be hosted every third Thursday of the month for an online audience. The conversation-based ‘baithaks’ will showcase the themes of the film highlighting how rocks are interwoven into the culture of the area. The first session is on songs and rocks – aptly called Geet Gayan Patharon Ne , which features a multi-genre music ensemble presented by singers Dr Mahesh Joshi, Harini Rao, Keith D’Rosario, Rohit PVNS, Lady Skavya and Sriram Mudambi. An extract from the oft-quoted line by Goethe — ‘I am here to wonder’, expresses one of his profound intuitions about the relation of human beings to the earth, shares Uma and adds, “We are planning each of these conversations to serve as triggers to remind us of all this. Particularly, by recognising, enjoying and celebrating how our region’s unique natural heritage— the rocks — are linked to its culture. Each session will focus on a different aspect. There will be experts in the particular topic at hand, to lead the way for a participatory experience.” The session on March 18, 2021, is called A Rocking Cuisine! — a focus on how Dakhni cuisine draws from the local landscape. Specific focus will be on pathar ka gosht and imli. The skill of the s il batta (stone grinder) and the waddars who make them, and a demo of making the chutney of raw tamarind, garlic and red chilli pounded together on the sil batta , will be part of the day’s events. Geet gayan patharon ne, is on February 18 between 6.30 pm and 7.30pm. Register for the event at https://tinyurl.com/yhusmo2w||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-real-rockstars/article33855874.ece
17 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Protesting farmers prepare for summer||Over the last couple of days, protesting farmers at the Singhu border have started pitching tents on vacant grounds along the highway, in a bid to combat the changing weather. A group of farmers from Punjab have cleared a piece of vacant land — which was earlier covered with shrubs and bushes — and pitched tents to avoid direct sunlight on the highway. Basic comfort Maninder Singh, a farmer from Punjab’s Patiala district, said, “We are gradually shifting to this open ground mainly because of the natural shade that we are getting here. The tents are freshly installed and it is more conducive under the shade instead of directly under the sun.” Mr. Singh, who is also volunteering for the Hemkunt Foundation which provided tents for the “Tent City” which came up at the protest site in December, added, “Till now the tents at the petrol pump were sufficing us. However, as the weather is gradually changing, it is becoming difficult. While we have installed around 10-15 tents as of now, we have plans of adding more to provide some basic comfort to the farmers.” Around four to five larger tents, which can accommodate 15 people, have also been installed at this site. “We have a constant stream of people who approach us for accommodation at the tents. The bigger tents that we have installed also have lights inside them to facilitate the farmers,” said Mr. Singh. Two tractors and around 15 people were involved over the span of three to four days, to clear the area of shrubbery, the protesting farmers said. While the tents have been provided by NGOs, farmers said that they were in the process of procuring tents themselves as well. Some have also moved their trolleys on the ground to avoid the heat. Manjeet Singh Shergill, from Patiala’s Bahal district said, “We used our own tractors and diesel to get the area cleared and liveable. We have also shifted our trolleys here, which were earlier parked on the highway. With the change in weather it is becoming difficult and so we thought of shifting.” “As the stir continues, we are becoming more innovative also in terms of modifying trolleys. We have already installed fans and if need be, we will get air conditioners as well. Apart from the trolleys, we have tents as well. So we are sharing and using it as per need. The only thing we need to sort out is to install toilets so that it becomes more convenient for us.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/protesting-farmers-prepare-for-summer/article33856217.ece
17 February 2021||Patna,||Act tough if police personnel found drunk, orders Nitish||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has directed officials to immediately dismiss police personnel from service if they are caught drinking alcohol or in a drunken state. The Opposition parties have slammed the government’s decision to make “scapegoat” of the police personnel. Mr. Kumar’s directive came during a review meeting of the State Prohibition, Excise and Registration Department on Monday. “All police personnel across the State have taken a pledge of not drinking liquor in their lifetime. If anyone gets caught drinking alcohol or is found in a drunken state, disciplinary action must be initiated and he or she must be dismissed immediately,” Mr. Kumar told officials during the meeting. Annual pledge As many as 80,000 police personnel had taken an annual pledge of not drinking or storing alcohol and also ensuring successful implementation of total prohibition. While addressing the Department officials, Mr. Kumar asked them to ensure comprehensive inquiry in all bordering areas to check illegal supply of liquor from other States. He also told officials to publicise the punishment given to people involved in illegal trade of liquor as a warning to others. The new instruction has invited the ire of the Opposition leaders. “Why only police officials, the government should dismiss all those officials caught in drunken state. Through this, the police personnel have been made the scapegoat,” alleged RJD leader and party spokesperson Mrityunjay Tiwari. JD(U) chief spokesperson Sanjay Singh emphasised that “the government has made laws and is ensuring implementation”. Party leader Suheli Mehta echoed the statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/act-tough-if-police-personnel-found-drunk-orders-nitish/article33855881.ece
17 February 2021||New Delhi,||2016 JNU sedition case: Delhi court summons Kanhaiya and nine others||A Delhi court has taken cognizance of a chargesheet filed by Delhi Police against former Jawaharlal Nehru University Students’ Union (JNUSU) president Kanhaiya Kumar and nine others in a 2016 sedition case. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Pankaj Sharma also summoned all 10 accused in the case to appear before the court on March 15, the next date of hearing. The court’s order came almost a year after Delhi government gave its nod to police to prosecute Mr. Kumar and nine others for their involvement in a procession where they had allegedly supported seditious slogans raised on the varsity’s campus during an event on February 9, 2016. The Aam Aadmi Party government had granted prosecution sanction against 10 accused: Kanhaiya Kumar, Syed Umar Khalid, Anirban Bhattacharya, Aquib Hussain, Mujeeb Hussain Gattoo, Muneeb Hussain Gattoo, Umair Gul, Rayees Rasool, Basharat Ali and Khalid Bashir Bhat. The accused have been charged with offences under Sections 124A (sedition), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record), 143 (punishment for being a member of an unlawful assembly), 149 (being a member of an unlawful assembly), 147 (punishment for rioting) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code. Sedition carries a maximum punishment of life imprisonment. “Chargesheet alongwith documents perused. The court hereby takes cognizance of offence under Sections 124 A/323/465/471/143/147/149/120B IPC. The sanction to prosecute the aforementioned accused persons has already been filed by Home Department, GNCT vide order dated February 27, 2020,” the judge said. On February 11, 2016, a case of sedition was registered against unidentified people on complaints from BJP MP Maheish Girri and the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/2016-jnu-sedition-case-delhi-court-summons-kanhaiya-and-nine-others/article33856208.ece
17 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Minister lauds police for handling of protests, riots||The Delhi police celebrated its 74th Raising Day on Tuesday with Minister of State for Home Affairs G. Kishan Reddy as chief guest. Police Commissioner S.N. Shrivastava was also in attendance. Mr. Reddy lauded the force for their handling of communal riots which broke out a year ago, the pandemic-induced lockdown and January 26 violence. “Mr. Reddy said Delhi is always at the centre of all activities and hence, it is always at the target of intolerant forces that do not like the process of nation building. However, Delhi Police has led by example while handling violent organisations in anti-CAA protests with firm hands,” said Pubic Relations Officer Chinmoy Biswal.  The recently constituted all-women police band was the main attraction of the parade. Jan Sampark Vahan was also launched on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/minister-lauds-police-for-handling-of-protests-riots/article33856213.ece
17 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||DCW notice to police over Disha Ravi arrest||The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) on Tuesday issued notice to Delhi Police over the arrest of climate change activist Disha Ravi. Taking suo motu cognisance of the matter, the women’s panel in its letter to police has sought reasons as to why a transit remand was not sought. “Please provide reasons for allegedly not providing a lawyer of her choice when she was produced before the Delhi court,” the notice read. The DCW also sought copies of the FIR and a detailed action taken report by February 19. DCW Chairperson Swati Maliwal said: “As per media reports, Disha was not given a lawyer of her choice neither were rules followed during her arrest. Police should inquire into the matter. However, it is extremely sad and unfortunate if Disha has been arrested because of her support for the protesting farmers.” A statement issued by the panel read: “Going by media reports, there has been severe and shocking abdication of judicial duties immediately after the arrest of Disha.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dcw-notice-to-police-over-disha-ravi-arrest/article33856218.ece
17 February 2021||GUWAHATI,||Cong. to build memorial for CAA protest ‘martyrs’||The Congress on Tuesday promised to build a memorial for the “martyrs” of the movement against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) if it is voted back to power in Assam. Five people were allegedly killed in police firing during the violent protests against CAA in December 2019. They were Azizul Hoque, 45, Ishwar Nayak, 25, Abdul Amin, 23, Dipanjal Das, 19, and Sam Stafford, 17. ‘A message to BJP’ “The grand memorial for those who sacrificed their lives to save Assamese pride by opposing CAA will be a landmark in Guwahati. This will be message to BJP that Assam does not want CAA,” State Congress president Ripun Bora said. “The memorial shall remember the people’s struggle and sacrifices, protest songs and paintings,” Lok Sabha Member and chairman of the Congress Campaign Committee Pradyut Bordoloi said. Debabrata Saikia, the Congress Legislature Party leader in the outgoing Assembly, said the resentment of the people against CAA has ensured that the “dark days of BJP’s oppression of the Assamese people” would be over soon. Launching the Congress campaign from eastern Assam’s Sivasagar on February 14, Rahul Gandhi had said the Congress would respect the Assam Accord and not let the “botched-up CAA” to be implemented after being voted to power. Congress leader Bobbeeta Sharma said the party’s firm resolve against CAA on Tuesday was a step towards its “Save Assam” campaign. The party had on February 12 launched Axom Basaon Ahok (Let’s save Assam) — a two-week bus yatra to “free” the State from “Nagpuria influence”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cong-to-build-memorial-for-caa-protest-martyrs/article33855880.ece
17 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||AISA protests outside police HQ against activist’s arrest||The All India Students’ Association (AISA) on Tuesday held a demonstration at the Delhi Police headquarters against the charges of sedition on climate change activist Disha Ravi. Terming the arrest as an “anti-democratic agenda”, protesters also submitted a memorandum demanding the release of Disha Ravi, Nodeep Kaur and others. The memorandum submitted to the Delhi Police read, “In a highly condemnable act, the Delhi police has arrested Disha Ravi, 21-year-old Bengaluru-based environment activist for supporting the farmers’ movement. All activists such as Shiv Kumar and others, arrested for merely supporting the farmers’ movement must be released.” The students’ organisation said, “The arrest of Disha Ravi on the basis of a ‘toolkit’ is an atrocious manifestation of RSS-BJP’s anti-democracy agenda. Toolkits have been a common tool of agitation and the malicious ploy to term it an ‘international conspiracy’ is BJP’s way of defaming the mass farmer protest.” A public meeting was also held at the protest site. Madhurima Kundu, a student of Jawaharlal Nehru University said, “The slander campaign against Ms. Disha is shameful. The false links to an “international conspiracy” is a prime toolkit of fascist politics.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aisa-protests-at-police-hq-against-arrest-of-activists/article33856211.ece
17 February 2021||New Delhi,||HC asks lower courts if they can hold hybrid proceedings||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday asked its subordinate courts here whether they have the infrastructure for holding hybrid proceedings in which hearings can be held both physically and through videoconferencing simultaneously. Justice Prathiba M. Singh called for the report on a plea moved by several lawyers who are senior citizens suffering from co-morbidities and apprehensive of attending physical hearings during the pandemic. The lawyers want the district courts to allow them to attend hearings through videoconference on days when they hold physical proceedings. On January 14, the High Court, which oversees the functioning of all districts courts in the Capital, had issued a notification directing all subordinate courts to hold physical hearings on every alternate day. The court on Tuesday asked whether there was sufficient availability of internet connectivity and devices in the court premises and residences of the judicial officers to hold hybrid proceedings. The High Court will hear the matter on February 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-asks-lower-courts-if-they-can-hold-hybrid-proceedings/article33856209.ece
17 February 2021||new delhi,||Independent MP says she got ‘threat letter’||Delhi Police has registered a case based on the complaint of Independent MP Navneet Ravi Rana stating that she has been threatened. The MP said she got a threatening letter, written on the letter head of Shiv Sena, at her premises in North Avenue. The complainant said the letter warned of dire consequences for speaking against the Shiv Sena in the Lok Sabha. An investigation is under way, said the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/independent-mp-says-she-got-threat-letter/article33856210.ece
