18 February 2021||New Delhi,||Case against Priya Ramani rejected||A Delhi court on Wednesday threw out a criminal defamation case filed by former Union Minister M.J. Akbar against journalist Priya Ramani for her tweets accusing him of sexual harassment. “The woman has a right to put her grievance at any platform of her choice and even after decades,” said Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Ravindra Kumar Pandey, while accepting Ms. Ramani’s argument that she spoke out against Mr. Akbar after two decades of the incident “in public interest and for the public good”. The court also accepted Ms. Ramani’s contention that Mr. Akbar “is not a man of stellar reputation” on the basis of her testimony and testimony of senior journalist Ghazala Wahab, who too claimed being sexually harassed by Mr. Akbar. “Despite how well-respected some persons are in society, they in their personal lives could show extreme cruelty to the females,” the court observed. Mr. Akbar had said that Ms. Ramani’s tweets lowered his reputation. After the verdict, Mr. Akbar, who came with his battery of lawyers, left the courtroom without speaking to the media. D||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/case-against-priya-ramani-rejected/article33866280.ece
18 February 2021||MUMBAI,||Nikita Jacob gets 3-week transit anticipatory bail||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday granted transit anticipatory bail for three weeks to advocate Nikita Jacob in connection with climate campaigner Greta Thunberg’s ‘toolkit’ related to the farmers’ protest. A single bench of Justice P.D. Naik granted her relief after reserving the order on Tuesday. Senior advocate Mihir Desai, appearing for Ms. Jacob, submitted the order of Justice Vibha Kankanwadi of the Aurangabad bench that granted 10 days of transit anticipatory bail to co-accused Shantanu Muluk in the same case on Tuesday. Mr. Desai said Ms. Jacob was involved in preparing the toolkit, but then it did not contain any violent acts or anything pertaining to taking over the Red Fort. Counsel for the Delhi police Hiten Venegavkar raised questions about the maintainability of Ms. Jacob’s application. He said there was no provision for transit bail under the Code of Criminal Procedure. The offence was registered in Delhi, he said, adding that under Section 438 (direction for grant of bail to a person apprehending arrest) of the Cr.P.C., the court did not have the power to grant anticipatory bail for cases outside its jurisdiction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nikita-jacob-gets-3-week-transit-anticipatory-bail/article33866282.ece
18 February 2021||new delhi,||Self-registration for COVID-19 vaccine soon: Health Ministry||Version 2.0 of the CO-Win digital app for self registration of COVID-19 vaccine beneficiaries is ready and will be launched soon, the Health Ministry said on Wednesday. Plans to involve private sector healthcare facilities in a significant way in the ongoing vaccination drive was also under way, it said. “This will enable registration of the population in the 50 yrs+ category for COVID vaccination, which is the third population priority group after healthcare workers and front line workers that are presently taking the vaccine,” said the Ministry in its release issued following a high-level meeting chaired by P.K. Mishra, Principal Secretary to the Prime Minister. The meeting reviewed the progress of the COVID-19 vaccination drive in detail, and said that 68.3% of all healthcare workers had been administered the first dose and 37.6% of eligible healthcare workers the second dose. Among frontline workers, 28.2% had been administered the first dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/self-registration-for-covid-19-vaccine-soon-health-ministry/article33866954.ece
18 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,||Forgave my father’s killers, says Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said while the assassination of his father and former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi by the LTTE still hurt, he forgave the perpetrators. “I don’t have anger towards anybody. Of course, I lost my father and for me, it was a very difficult time. It is like someone has cut your heart out. I felt tremendous pain. But I don’t feel angry. I don’t feel any hatred. I forgive,” he said at an interaction at the Bharathidasan Government College for Women in Puducherry. His remarks come at a time when there is a demand for the release of the seven life convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. To a student’s question on his feelings towards the LTTE members who assassinated his father in 1991, he spoke from his own life experience to underscore his message about the meaningless nature of violence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/forgave-my-fathers-killers-says-rahul/article33866285.ece
18 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Lawyer couple hacked to death||A lawyer couple practising at Telanagna High Court here was hacked to death by two persons in broad daylight on the main road near Kalvacherla village in Peddapalli district, 210 km from here, on Wednesday. The killing of Gattu Vaman Rao, who was in his early 50s and his wife P.V. Nagamani, left the legal fraternity shocked. Video clips showing two persons indiscriminately inflicting injuries on Rao with sharp-edged weapons had gone viral on social media. ‘Dragged out of car’ Rao, accompanied by his wife, attended a case in Manthani court and was returning by car to his home in Bowenpally of Hyderabad with a driver. The killers, who came in another four-wheeler, intercepted Rao’s car around 2.30 p.m. Reconstructing the sequence of the double murder, police surmised the killers dragged Rao outside and attacked him. Investigators suspect that though the attackers wanted to eliminate Rao, they even killed his wife apparently worried that she might depose against them. Lying on the road with multiple deep wounds, Rao told an onlooker that one Kunta Srinivas was behind the attack. They were rushed to Peddapalli government hospital. Doctors said they died while undergoing treatment. The prime accused Kunta Srinivas and Rao hail from Gunjapadugu village near Manthani. “Rao’s father lodged complaint stating that Srinivas and one Kumar carried out the killing at the instance of one Vasanth Rao,” Ramagundam Police Commissioner V. Satyanarayana told The Hindu . The double murder was condemned by all the Bar Associations of the State including that of the Telangana High Court. A protest demonstration was organised outside the HC gate. Possible motive Speculation was rife about the possible motive behind the killings. While police were pursuing all angles, it is said that recent dispute over the construction of a temple in Rao’s village could be one of the reasons. Rao and Nagamani appeared as counsels in different petitions in the HC. In May last, a letter written by Nagamani about the alleged custodial death of a Dalit Sheelam Rangaiah in Manthani police station of Ramagundam police commissionerate was taken up as PIL petition by the HC. The couple, during the previous hearing of the plea a few days ago, told the Chief Justice that police were harassing them by summoning to different police stations in false cases. They also said that they had threat to their lives. Police said that two associates of the prime accused Srinu were picked up for questioning. “We will catch all the accused and crack the case,” said the police exuding confidence.  Video clips showing two persons indiscriminately inflicting injuries on Rao with sharp-edged weapons had gone viral on social media||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lawyer-couple-hacked-to-death-in-broad-daylight-in-telangana/article33866590.ece
18 February 2021||Special Correspondent Pune,||Spike continues, Maharashtra records nearly 5,000 cases||Fresh cases continued to soar in Maharashtra, with 4,878 new Covid-19 cases recorded on Wednesday as opposed to 3,853 patients being discharged. The State’s active cases rose to 38,013. The total case tally now stands at 20,76,093. With 40 fatalities, the death toll climbed to 51,631. The cumulative recoveries stood at 19,85,261 while the State’s recovery rate marginally declined to 95.62%. “Of a total 1,54,55,268 laboratory samples tested thus far, 20,76,093 (with the case positivity rate down to 13.43%) have returned positive with over 59,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate, adding that the case fatality stood at 2.49%. After more than a month of reporting relatively low cases, Pune reported over 800 new cases to take its total case tally to 3,96,571. As per State Health Department figures, four deaths were reported as the total death toll remained at 8,018. However, as per district authorities, the active case tally rose to 4,835 with a recovery rate of 96.47%. In one of its highest single-day spikes in more than 45 days, Mumbai city reported 721 new cases to take its total case tally to 3,15,751 of whom 4,530 are active. Three fatalities saw the city’s death toll reach 11,428. Mayor’s move Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar, who earlier warned that the city would go under a lockdown if people continued to flout pandemic norms, personally travelled in a local train today to check if regulations were being followed and to spread awareness about use of masks. Before boarding the train at Byculla station, Ms. Pednekar took errant citizens and vendors to task for violating norms. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported more than 500 new cases, taking the district’s case tally to 1,41,375 of whom 4,590 are currently active. Seven deaths saw the fatalities rise to 3,437. Amravati district reported more than 700 fresh cases and seven deaths, taking its tally to 27,141 of which 3,468 are active. The death toll rose to 419. Rising cases in Vidarbha, especially Nagpur, Amravati and Buldhana have contributed to around 30% of the latest surge across the State, causing authorities to discourage assemblies and large gatherings. In western Maharashtra, the pandemic still appeared to be relatively under control. Satara reported no deaths while 86 fresh cases saw the case tally rise to 57,639 of whom just 833 are active. The death toll in the district stands at 1,833. Neighbouring Sangli reported just 15 cases and one death as the district’s reported cases reached 51,104 of whom only 525 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,789. Kolhapur reported just 16 cases and no fatalities as its case tally reached 49,400 of whom 163 are active. The death toll stands at 1,674. Dr. Awate informed that currently 1,95,704 people across the State were in home quarantine and 1,664 were in institutional quarantine facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/spike-continues-maharashtra-records-nearly-5000-cases/article33866951.ece
18 February 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam election: Congress vows to collect 50 lakh anti-CAA ‘ gamosas’||Intensifying the fight against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act in poll-bound Assam, the Congress has set a target of collecting 50 lakh‘gamosas’(scarf-towels) to be displayed at the proposed memorial for people killed during the anti-CAA movement in December 2019. “We are building an anti-CAA memorial in Guwahati. I request every Assamese to sharegamosaswith your anti-CAA message on it and send it to us,” Kaliabor MP and former Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi’s son, Gaurav Gogoi, said at a party meeting in north-eastern Assam’s Bihpuria town. Congress workers have also been asked to visit every household and collect the gamosas . “We have our ears on ground and we expect the party to collect the gamosas, which will be displayed at the upcoming memorial,” State Congress president Ripun Bora said, asserting that the sacrifices to save “Assamese pride” will not be forgotten. Pradyut Bordoloi, Nagaon MP and chairman of the Congress Campaign Committee, said eachgamosadonor can have his or her name on it besides the message.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/assam-election-congress-vows-to-collect-50-lakh-anti-caa-gamosas/article33866583.ece
18 February 2021||Mumbai,||HC extends protection to Eknath Khadse till Feb. 24 in land deal case||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday extended till February 24 the interim protection from coercive action granted to Maharashtra NCP leader Eknath Khadse in a land deal case. The former BJP minister approached the High Court in January urging it to quash the summons issued by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in an Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) registered by the agency in October 2020. Last month, the ED had opposed Mr. Khadse’s plea, saying it was “not maintainable”. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, who appeared for the ED, had told a Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and Manish Pitale that an ECIR was not like an FIR but an internal document. Therefore, there was no question of quashing of the ECIR, Mr. Singh had said. The summons and the ECIR pertain to a case the ED had lodged in connection with the 2016 land deal involving Mr. Khadse's family in Pune’s Bhosari area. Senior advocate Abad Ponda, who appeared for Mr. Khadse, argued on Wednesday that the NCP leader was entitled to seeking every relief from the High Court, including the quashing of summons. The court adjourned further hearing in the case to February 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-extends-protection-to-eknath-khadse-till-feb-24-in-land-deal-case/article33866952.ece
18 February 2021||Belagavi,||Two youths rescue five from drowning||Two young farmers, Amol Chougale and Sandeep Banne, rescued two washermen and three women who were drowning in the Doodha Ganga river in Sadalaga near Chikkodi in Belagavi district on Wednesday. The two friends who were going on their bike near the river bank heard the cries of the women who were drowning. The victims had come to the bank to wash clothes. But two of them slipped and the other three who tried to save them also fell into the river. The two youth jumped into the river and rescued each one of them by turns, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-youths-rescue-five-from-drowning/article33866385.ece
18 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Turahalli tree park plan dropped temporarily||Giving in to public pressure, the Forest Minister has announced that the government’s plan to create a tree park in Turahalli forest has been “temporarily dropped”. Minister Aravind Limbavali, who visited the area on Wednesday, made the announcement even as his trip was preceded by objections and protests from citizens over the project. However, the Minister said that as the proposal was listed under the Mission 2022 plans, he would discuss with the Chief Minister the matter of shifting the tree park elsewhere in the same constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/turahalli-tree-park-plan-dropped-temporarily/article33866780.ece
18 February 2021||JAIPUR,||Petrol price crosses Rs. 100 mark in Rajasthan||The price of petrol on Wednesday crossed the Rs. 100 per litre mark in Rajasthan’s Sriganganagar district. While petrol was priced at Rs. 100.13 per litre, the price of diesel soared to Rs. 92.13 in the district. In M.P.’s Anuppur, petrol was priced at Rs. 99.90 per litre and diesel at Rs. 90.35. Rajasthan has one of the highest value added tax (VAT) rates on fuel among the big States in the country, despite the State government having reduced VAT on both petrol and diesel by 2% last month. The petrol rates touched record high in Sriganganagar apparently because of transportation cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/petrol-crosses-rs-100-mark-in-rajasthan/article33866584.ece
18 February 2021||Mumbai,||Be strict, BMC tells housing societies||With a surge in number of novel coronavirus cases in Mumbai, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has issued guidelines to certain areas in the city directing that safety norms be followed strictly. This week, Mumbai city registered 493 fresh cases on Monday and 461 on Tuesday. However, on Wednesday the number increased to 721. Officials of M-west ward — which covers Chembur area in eastern suburbs — has appealed to housing societies to strictly follow COVID guidelines and restrict entry of outsiders to the minimum. The society must enforce strict quarantine of 14 days for those who test positive and their family members. The BMC will test other symptomatic persons in the society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/be-strict-bmc-tells-housing-societies/article33866948.ece
18 February 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra green signal for caravan parks||Maharashtra Cabinet on Wednesday gave clearance for a caravan tourism policy under which special caravan parks will be developed and use of such vehicles regulated. As per the policy, private or government land can be used by the owner or a developer for such caravan parks. Special water, power and road connection will be provided for these parks including a tourist help-desk. The park owner/developer will be responsible for the safety of tourists. Such parks can be developed at the lands available with Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC) hotels, or open spaces with agriculture, and tourism centres, among others. Local civic bodies have been authorised to provide the necessary permissions for the same. The caravans will be registered with the transport commissioner. Both the vehicle and the park will also have to be registered with the tourism directorate. According to the policy, different types of single axle conventional caravans, twin axle caravans, tent trailers, folding caravans, and camper trailer will be able to access the parks. These caravans have built-in kitchen, toilet, and furniture like sofa, table and beds. “The decision has been taken under the Tourism Policy-2016. All concessions granted under the policy of concessions in stamp duty, State GST reimbursement, concession in power tariff are part of it. The tourism directorate will extend training of marketing, sanitation and management to the professionals interested to be part of the project,” said an official from the tourism department. He said that the government is promoting caravan tourism against the backdrop of COVID-19 spread as it has been observed that people now prefer private vehicles for travelling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-green-signal-for-caravan-parks/article33866949.ece
18 February 2021||MANGALURU,||Residents demand toll exemption for local vehicles at Hejmady||Residents of Hejmady and surrounding villages in Udupi district on Wednesday held a protest demonstration demanding exemption from payment of toll for NH 66 at the Hejmady toll plaza. Assembling under the banner Hejmady Nagarika Hitharakshana Samithi, the residents held a sit-on protest near the toll plaza after the NHAI making FASTag mandatory for all vehicles passing through toll plazas. The former Minister Vinay Kumar Sorake, who earlier represented Kaup Assembly constituency, samithi president Harish Puthran, Janata Dal(S) district president Yogish Shetty and others led the demonstration. On this occasion, the samithi submitted a memorandum to National Highways Authority of India officials demanding exemption from payment of toll for vehicles of residents of Mulki, Hejmady, Padubidri and surrounding areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/residents-demand-toll-exemption-for-local-vehicles-at-hejmady/article33866929.ece
18 February 2021||CHENNAI,||Class XII board exams in Tamil Nadu from May 3||The Directorate of Government Examinations on Wednesday announced that the Class XII board exams for State board students would be held from May 3 to May 21. There will be at least one day’s break between the exams. After the exam on May 11, students will get a five-day break before attempting several papers, including maths, on May 17. The exams would commence at 10 a.m., and students would be given 15 minutes to read the question paper. They would then write the exam from 10.15 a.m. to 1.15 p.m. This year, students taking the board exams would have a reduced syllabus, which was released in January. The exams for students in schools affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education begin on May 4. The exams would commence at 10 a.m., and students would be given 15 minutes to read the question paper. They would then write the exam from 10.15 a.m. to 1.15 p.m. After being shut for nearly 10 months due to the COVID-19 outbreak, schools in Tamil Nadu reopened for Classes X and XII on January 19. Teachers had long been demanding that the government announce the schedule for the board exams. This year, students taking the board exams would have a reduced syllabus, which was released in January. The exams for students studying in schools affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) are set to begin on May 4. While the CBSE schools have been given the flexibility to conduct practical exams from March 3, the State board schools are yet to get a schedule for the same.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/class-xii-board-exams-in-tamil-nadu-from-may-3/article33866315.ece
18 February 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Cong. sweeps Punjab municipal elections||The ruling Congress swept the municipal elections in Punjab, winning seven out of eight municipal corporations. While the BJP’s former alliance partner, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), emerged as the principal Opposition party in most municipal bodies, the BJP’s performance was dismal. Ahead of the Punjab Assembly poll, due in early 2022, the victory of the Congress, which forcefully supported the ongoing farmer’s stir against the Centre’s controversial farm laws, is being seen as a major boost for its electoral prospects.  71.39% voter turnout Municipal elections were held across Punjab on February 14, which saw a voter turnout of 71.39%. The results were announced on Wednesday. According to an official statement, the Indian National Congress won 271 wards of the total 351 of the seven municipal corporations — Abohar, Batala, Kapurthala, Hoshiarpur, Pathankot, Moga and Bathinda and by-election to one ward in Amritsar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cong-sweeps-punjab-municipal-elections/article33866283.ece
18 February 2021||Visakhapatnam,||Will stand by trade unions against VSP sale, says CM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has assured the protesting trade unions that the State government will stand by them till the Centre drops the decision to privatise Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP). Interacting with the union leaders here on Wednesday, he said, “I have personally written to the Prime Minister, suggesting a road map for the revival of the plant, while ensuring that it continues to be run by the government.” The State BJP leaders should support the movement by exerting pressure on their leadership to revoke the decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/will-stand-by-trade-unions-against-vsp-sale-says-cm/article33866275.ece
18 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Lawyer couple hacked to death in Peddapalli||A lawyer couple practising at Telanagna High Court here was hacked to death by two persons in broad daylight on the main road near Kalvacherla village in Peddapalli district on Wednesday. The gory killing of Gattu Vaman Rao, who was in his early 50s and his wife P.V. Nagamani, left the legal fraternity shocked. Rao, accompanied by his wife, attended a case in Manthani court and was returning by car to his home in Bowenpally of Hyderabad with a driver. The double murder was condemned by all Bar Associations of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lawyer-couple-hacked-to-death-in-peddapalli/article33866848.ece
18 February 2021||Bengaluru,||HDK opposes ‘unauthorised’ collection for temple||A day after alleging that those raising funds for Ram temple at Ayodhya were marking those who do and do not pay, the former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Wednesday said that in the name of god too many unauthorised people were collecting money and there was no transparency or accountability in the process. Addressing a press conference, he described this as religious corruption. Meanwhile, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa advised those criticising the fund collection to keep silent since building of the temple is as per the Supreme Court direction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hdk-opposes-unauthorised-collection-for-temple/article33866547.ece
18 February 2021||kolkata,||Vaccination of polling staff to begin on February 22||The COVID-19 inoculation process of polling officials who will be involved in the ensuing Assembly elections in West Bengal will commence from February 22, according to a senior health official. “All polling officials are considered as frontline workers and as per the rule, must be vaccinated before the election process starts in West Bengal. We will commence the inoculation programme for such workers from Monday,” he said. State Health Secretary N.S. Nigam had recently held a virtual meeting with the district magistrates and health officials in this connection, sources in the Health Department said. All district magistrates have been directed to send the lists of polling officials who will be inoculated first, he said. Nearly 4.5 lakh polling officials will be involved in the election process in the state, a source in the Chief Election Office said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaccination-of-polling-staff-to-begin-on-february-22/article33866470.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,||‘A historic moment’||Social media was flooded with messages congratulating Priya Ramani and her lawyer Rebecca John. “This is a historic moment in the struggle for equality at the workplace,” senior lawyer Vrinda Grover said.page 13||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-historic-moment/article33866277.ece
18 February 2021||Agartala,||No alliance with INPT, says Tripura royal scion||Tripura royal scion Pradyot Kishore Debbarman on Wednesday dismissed reports that his party, the Tripura Indigenous People’s Regional Alliance (TIPRA), had forged an alliance with the Indigenous Nationalist Party of Tripura (INPT) for the upcoming elections to the Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous district Council (TTAADC). INPT president Bijoy Hrangkhawl recently claimed that they had reached to an electoral understanding with the TIPRA. An electoral alliance should not be just limited to the TTAADC elections, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-alliance-with-inpt-says-tripura-royal-scion/article33866472.ece
18 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Conversion laws: SC to hear petition by Jamiat||The Supreme Court on Wednesday agreed to hear Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind after it submitted that a spate of laws across several States that criminalise religious conversion through marriage have become a source of harassment of Muslim youth. The Bench allowed the Jamiat to intervene in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/conversion-laws-sc-to-hear-petition-by-jamiat/article33866587.ece
18 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Traffic police to relaunch drunk driving tests||After a gap of almost a year, the Bengaluru Traffic Police have decided to restart special drunk driving checks across the city. The decision was taken after several instances of fatal accidents where motorists were later found to be driving under the influence of alcohol. The checks were stopped last March with the enforcement of the COVID-19 guidelines and keeping in mind the safety of the personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/traffic-police-to-relaunch-drunk-driving-tests/article33866782.ece
18 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Farmers call for ‘rail roko’ from noon to 4 p.m. today||Farmer unions have called for a nationwide rail roko on Thursday, between noon and 4 p.m., against the three farm laws. The Railways have focussed on Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Bengal in the deployment of 20,000 additional security personnel ahead of the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmers-call-for-rail-roko-from-noon-to-4-pm-today/article33866586.ece
18 February 2021||Mumbai,||Mumbai nearby||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday asked the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation for how long motorists would pay the toll on the Mumbai-Pune Expressway. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and G.S. Kulkarni was hearing a public interest litigation petition filed by advocate Pravin Wategaonkar and three others challenging the toll collection on the expressway. Mr. Wategaonkar said that the collection of toll had been illegal since August 10, 2019, and sought an exemption from payment for light motor vehicles till the matter was heard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mumbai-nearby/article33866953.ece
18 February 2021||HUBBALLI,||Two killed in road accident near Gadag||Two persons, including a woman, were killed and three of a family were injured in a road accident involving a car and truck near Gadag on Wednesday. The accident occurred near the Hulakoti Rural Engineering College. The deceased have been identified as Prema Ishwaragouda Patil (55) and driver of the car Anwar. Ishwaragouda Rudragouda Patil, Shivabai Melagirigouda Patil and Majarajagouda Melagirigouda Patil, who suffered injuries, have been admitted to Gadag Institute of Medical Sciences and Hospital. They were returning to Dharwad after visiting their farmland in the village, when the accident occurred.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-killed-in-road-accident-near-gadag/article33866386.ece
18 February 2021||MYSURU,||CESC’s move to hike power tariff opposed||The associations representing industries and consumers on Wednesday strongly opposed the Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation’s (CESC) move seeking an average hike in tariff of Rs. 1.44 a unit for all categories of consumers for dealing with the revenue deficit of Rs. 1,005 crore the electricity supply corporation is expected to face in the financial year 2021-22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cescs-move-to-hike-power-tariff-opposed/article33866549.ece
18 February 2021||Thoothukudi,||Edappadi promises free houses to the poor||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said DMK president M.K. Stalin, who was not able to highlight the achievements of the “violent DMK administration” between 2006 and 2011, was levelling baseless allegations against the AIADMK government to hoodwink the people and get their votes in the Assembly poll. He promised free houses to the poor on returning to power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/edappadi-promises-free-houses-to-the-poor/article33866317.ece
18 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Probing data of Nikita: police||The Delhi police on Wednesday said they were examining over 100 GB of data retrieved from gadgets of Mumbai-based advocate Nikita Jacob, an accused in the toolkit document case. The police had visited her Goregaon residence on February 11 and seized two of her laptops and one mobile phone. The police said the data revealed that the toolkit had been referred to as “comms package,” which, according to investigators, meant communication package. “It has been found that several applications were used for communication — including Telegram, Signal, Proton, Cyberghost, and Signal.” ‘To amplify movement’ A senior police officer said Ms. Jacob got climate change activist Disha Ravi involved in creating the toolkit because she knew her to be a well-known climate activist and also close to Greta Thunberg who could help them amplify their movement or voices. “They basically wanted to approach Greta through Ms. Ravi. It has also been found that Ms. Jacob was operating e-mail account of Poetic Justice Foundation,” added the officer. Sources said Ms. Jacob was in touch with U.S. activist Pieter Friedrich and also exchanged conversation with him. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Manishi Chandra said Mr. Friedrich had been on their radar since 2005. His name — in the toolkit — appeared alongside all the social media handles to follow including fact-checking websites, “left wing” news websites. The officer said the conversation was about the use of VPN (Virtual Private Network). The Delhi police have sought details from WhatsApp regarding members on the group created allegedly by Ms. Ravi which she is accused of deleting later. Details have also been sought from Zoom regarding a call which was organised on January 11 and was attended by Ms. Jacob and another accused Shantanu Muluk, a Beed native engineer-cum-activist. The police said that while going through the mobile phone data of Ms. Jacob, they had found two more names, Shubham and Thilak, who were also the part of the 70-member WhatsApp group that was formed to amplify the toolkit..  SFJ video In a related development, the banned group “Sikhs for Justice” released a three-minute video on YouTube in support of Ms. Ravi, actor Deep Sidhu, Ms. Jacob, and activist Nodeep Kaur. All but Ms. Jacob are lodged in jail in different cases related to the farmers’ protest. Police sources said on Tuesday that while no link between the SFJ and “pro-Khalistani” group Poetic Justice Foundation had been found so far, they were probing if there was any.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/probing-data-of-nikita-police/article33866240.ece
18 February 2021||Srinagar,||Envoys visit J&K amid cheers, protests||The J&K government showcased “deepening democracy” to visiting 24 foreign diplomats, who arrived on a two-day tour of the Union Territory (UT) on Wednesday amid a spontaneous shutdown in Srinagar and alleged detention of recently elected National Conference (NC) district council members in Budgam. Welcomed by women singing traditional Kashmiri songs and showering petals on them, the team of diplomats from different continents, headed by European Union (EU) Ambassador Ugo Astuto, started the tour by attending a “Block Divas” function at a college at Magam in in Budgam. The diplomats were apprised by District Development Council (DDC) chairman Nazir Ahmad Khan of “the positive measures” taken by the Centre post August 5, 2019, when the Centre ended the special constitutional position of J&K. “J&K has seen many remarkable positive steps after August 2019. The significant step is putting in place a three-tier system by conducting the DDC polls. J&K is witnessing strengthening of democracy,” Mr. Khan said. Nazir Ahmad Jahra, NC leader and DDC vice-chairperson from Budgam, however, alleged that six elected DDC members of the party were detained on the occasion. “Two were not allowed to move outside their homes. We have been locked up for the last three days,” Mr. Jahra said. During this visit, the main focus of the envoys, who are coming to J&K for the fourth time in the past 18 months, was to hear from the elected representatives of the urban local bodies, block development councils and DDC heads in Srinagar. Elected DDC chairpersons associated with the NC, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the Peoples Conference (PC) also interacted with the envoys. No invitation was extended to any senior party leaders such as Farooq Abdullah, Mehbooba Mufti or Sajad Lone. “J&K has seen empowerment. There has been a free and fair election recently, which is the biggest attestation of empowerment of democracy here,” said Apni Party leader and Srinagar Mayor Junaid Azim Mattu. Officials said most envoys were impressed by the inputs of the elected representatives. “We could sense that democracy is taking shape here. Local actors are part of it now. We are happy (to see that). There were decisions made (in 2019) and the focus should be on other sectors like health sector, empowerment etc. now,” an envoy was quoted as saying during the interaction. Meanwhile, PDP president Mehbooba Mufti, who addressed a rally in Handwara, said, “Instead of meeting selected groups, the envoys should meet the common people.” The Hurriyat, headed by Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, urged the visiting 24 foreign diplomats to “push for a dialogue” on the Kashmir issue. A spontaneous shutdown was observed in Srinagar. The city’s main commercial hubs remained closed. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/envoys-visit-jk-amid-cheers-protests/article33866249.ece
18 February 2021||LUCKNOW,||2 PFI men held on terror charge||The Uttar Pradesh police on Wednesday said they have arrested two Kerala-based members of the Popular Front of India who were planning to target leaders of “Hindu” outfits and conduct terror strikes at sensitive spots in the State. The Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force claimed that it had recovered heavy explosives from the duo and foiled attacks planned by them. The PFI on Wednesday dismissed the claims of the Uttar Pradesh police and alleged that the two Kerala youth were picked up by the State police and illegally detained days before their formal arrest while they were on a Mumbai-bound train from Bihar. Identified as Ansad Badruddin and Firoz Khan of Pathanamthitta and Kozhikode districts in Kerala, the accused were arrested near the Kukrail tri-junction in the Gudamba area of Lucknow at 6.30 p.m. on Tuesday, the Uttar Pradesh STF said. Sixteen high grade explosive devices with battery detonators and red wires, one bundle of red wire, a 32 bore pistol and seven live cartridges were recovered from the duo, the police alleged. The STF alleged that the two were assembling deadly weapons and explosives to eliminate top office-bearers of Hindutva outfits as well as strike at some “very important and sensitive” places in Uttar Pradesh. Those arrested are linked to the PFI outfit, said Prashant Kumar, Uttar Pradesh Additional Director-General of Police, Law and Order. Mr. Kumar said they were arrested on inputs that PFI members were planning a criminal conspiracy, forming a terror group to challenge the unity, integrity and sovereignty of the country, wage war against the government and spread social discord. ‘Fake story’ Anis Ahmed, general secretary, Popular Front of India, termed the STF allegations a “bizarre and fake story,” and said Badruddin and Khan were PFI members touring West Bengal and Bihar for the outfit’s expansion. The STF claimed that the two were also recruiting members in different parts of India for their plans. On February 11, the two boarded a train from Katihar in Bihar at 5.40 a.m. to Mumbai. According to their family, on February 11 evening, they spoke to them for the final time and their phone went out of reach after that, Mr. Ansari said in a statement.  On February 16, the family members registered a missing complaint regarding the two at a police station in Kerala and after that the Uttar Pradesh STF hurriedly called a press conference and presented it as a story of a foiled terror attack, Mr. Ansari said. “It is apparent that on February 11 evening when the train was passing through Uttar Pradesh, the STF kidnapped the two from a railway station in the State and tortured them in illegal detention,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2-pfi-men-held-on-terror-charge/article33866229.ece
18 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||No records of chilla adjacent to Charminar, says ASI||The Bhagyalakshmi Temple abutting the Charminar ‘came into into existence’ after the merger of Hyderabad State with the Union of India, and there are no records of the chilla at the monument , the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has stated. The ASI was responding to a Right to Information query filed by YouRTI.in, a portal which helps individuals and activists obtain information by means of the RTI Act. “Bhagyalakshmi Temple came into existence after taking over of Hyderabad by the Govt. of India adjacent to South Eastern minaret of the Centrally Protected Monument. No records are available in this office about the Chilla adjacent to Charminar (sic),” the ASI response reads. In its response, the ASI stated that the Charminar was declared a centrally protected monument 1951 under the Ancient Monuments Preservation Act of 1904. “There have been a lot of questions in connection with the both the temple and the chilla . These include the nature of these structures, and whether the ASI has any records of them. This led our team to file an RTI,” said Mohammed Akram, from YouRTI.in. Previous RTI A separate but similar RTI query was filed in December 2012. The RTI applicant, S Q Masood who is an independent activist, sought to know the ‘status’ of the temple. In its response the ASI stated, “As per the AMASR Act 1958, Rules 1959, AMSR Act, 2010 (Amendment and Validation) the construction of temple adjacent to the south eastern minar of the Charminar has considered by the Archaeological Survey of India as an unauthorised construction (sic).”  Official records show that in December 1968, ASI Superintending Archaeologist (SA) M. Idrisullah wrote to the Commissioner of erstwhile Municipal Corporation of Hyderabad, seeking its assistance in the removal of ‘unauthorised brick construction on the south-eastern side of the monument, Charminar, which has abutted and to some extent encroached into the monument itself’. Similarly in May 1977, the then SA wrote to the Inspector General of Police reiterating that a complaint against an individual was sent to the Commissioner of Police in connection with ‘forcible’ entry into the ‘fenced area of the protected monument namely Charminar’. The SA urged suitable instructions be given to the Commissioner of Police and that the individual be removed. “An early action in the matter is requested as the progress of the works at the above protected monument of National importance are held up. Any delay in showing the due progress of the works and proper maintenance would be viewed seriously by the Government and attract criticism from the public,” the letter reads. No timely action According to Mr Masood, who obtained the documents, lack of timely intervention by authorities in connection with dealing with unauthorised constructions, irrespective of which faith they belong to, has led to problems. “Had timely action been taken while dealing with religious structures in monuments, including Charminar, the situation would have been different. Political and communal mileage would not have been drawn from them,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-records-of-chilla-adjacent-to-charminar-says-asi/article33866227.ece
18 February 2021||Tapovan (Uttarakhand),||Search operation at Tapovan slows down||Ten days after an avalanche here barrelled down from a breaking glacier leading to the death of 58 people and causing at least 200 to go missing, rescue and relief operations aimed at recovering bodies have slowed to a crawl. Many of those missing were reportedly workers on the Sunday shift at the 520-MW Tapovan Vishnugadh hydroelectric project and swept away by a storm of ice, water and debris. A majority of these workers are believed to have been trapped in one of the intake tunnels of the under-construction project. “The tunnel is at least two km long, and we have so far been able to dig through barely 150 metres,” said a disaster response officer working at the site. Nearly 50 of the 58 bodies recovered and identified as of Wednesday have been from this stretch. “We are regularly pumping out water from the tunnel to carry on the search for other workers. The bodies of 11 persons have been recovered from the tunnel so far. We have been able to clear the tunnel off sludge and debris till about 150 metres,” said a search team official. Then there are workers believed to be trapped near the barrage of the plant, and locals say it was only after an agitation that officials began digging looking for bodies. Rescue operations are being led by the National Thermal Power Corporation, which is building the power plant. “Their priority is to clear the tunnel and get the dam functional as soon as possible rather than look for bodies,” said Atul Sate, an activist at Joshimath, the tehsil where the disaster unfolded. “In the first three days since the flood, there was no coordination among the various agencies — the Army, State and national disaster response force and the company. In that time, lives were lost and bodies became unreclaimable.” Earlier, the search team had drilled a hole to determine if a silt channel located 12 metres below the main tunnel could be used to reach the place where the workers were said to be trapped. “It didn’t work out as the channel was also filled with water and mud,” an official said. Dipika Nath has come to Tapovan looking for her nephew. “My relatives and I aren’t allowed into the site. With all this equipment it is difficult to believe that the pace of recovery is so slow,” she told The Hindu while perched on a bridge with some relatives, overlooking the dam site. The site is buzzing with excavators and other heavy machinery and has rescue officials of several companies working round the clock. Social organisations such as the SEWA International have organised volunteers from villages surrounding Tapovan to cook meals for them. However, booths and tents set up for disseminating information are empty. Two more human body parts of those killed in the flash floods have been found by the search teams. The identities of 30 bodies have been established so far, while 26 body parts have been recovered from different places. The Joshimath police station has registered 204 missing reports.  (With inputs from      Devesh Pandey)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/search-operation-at-tapovan-slows-down/article33866256.ece
18 February 2021||Kolkata,||Bengali cinema and TV stars join BJP||A host of actors from Bengali cinema and television industry joined the BJP on Wednesday in the presence of party’s national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and party vice-president Mukul Roy. Those who joined the party included actors Yash Dasgupta, Papiya Adhikari and Soumili Ghosh Biswas. “Politics is about change and if you want to change the system, you need to be a part of the system. The BJP is a party that has always given the youth a chance and has placed its faith in the youth. It is the youth that can bring about a change,” Mr. Dasgupta, who is star of the Bengali cine industry, said. Senior actress Anjana Basu, who had joined the BJP months ago, alleged that she had faced discrimination in the industry due to her support for the party. “One of my serials was taken off air and no producer in the industry had the courage to hire me for work since then... This kind of thing must end,” Ms. Basu said at the event. So far, the Trinamool Congress has maintained its hold over the State’s entertainment industry but now the BJP has been trying to reach out to the actors ahead of State’s Assembly polls. Prosenjit denies rumours BJP leader Anirban Ganguly met actor Prosenjit Chatterjee at his residence on February 16, sparking off fresh speculation about him joining the party. “There is neither any political inclination nor any agenda apart from meeting and greeting Dr. Ganguly. I stay focused on what I know best — acting,” Mr. Chatterjee said. In a related development, on February 17, veteran actor and Trinamool MLA from Barasat, Chiranjeet Chakraborty, announced that he does not want to contest the upcoming Assembly polls. Mr. Chakraborty said he had informed Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee about his decision and maintained that he is not interested in joining the BJP. “There is no question of switching parties, because I am not a politician. Even if I leave this party, I will not be joining any other party. I will go back to being what I was before, a non-political person..,” the actor-turned-politician said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengali-cinema-and-tv-stars-join-bjp/article33866592.ece
18 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Farmers call for ‘rail roko’ from noon to 4 p.m. today||Farm unions have called for a nationwide ‘rail roko’ on Thursday, between noon and 4 p.m., which they hope will force the government to break the deadlock over the three farm laws. However, the response to a similar highway protest earlier this month suggests that the mass impact of such blockades may be limited to a few States. The Railways have also focussed on Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal in the deployment of 20,000 additional security personnel ahead of the protest. The call has been issued by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella group of most of the unions participating in the agitation. Remain peaceful: Tikait “From 12 noon to 4 p.m., farmers will stop trains by going to the nearest railway station. They will welcome the trains with flower garlands and then communicate with passengers. They will also provide water, milk and tea to the passengers,” said Bharatiya Kisan Union-Tikait leader Rakesh Tikait, on the eve of the protest. He appealed to the farmers to remain peaceful and to commuters to take time to listen to the farmers’ demands. “A successful rail roko will force the government to break the deadlock,” said Kul Hind Kisan Sabha leader Baldev Singh Nihalgarh. The SKM leaders hope that the series of mahapanchayats, or large rural gatherings, of the last two weeks will bear fruit in increased involvement in the ‘rail roko’ In a statement, the SKM alleged that “goons” from the Vishwa Hindu Parishad had attacked a peaceful protest that was being organised by a farmers’ group called the All India Krushak Khet Mazdoor Sangathan in Muzaffarpur on Wednesday. “I appeal to everyone to maintain peace,” said Arun Kumar, DGP of the RPF.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-call-for-rail-roko-from-noon-to-4-pm-today/article33866242.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,||India to gift 2 lakh vaccine doses to UN peacekeepers||India announced a gift of 2,00,000 doses of vaccine to the UN Peacekeeping Forces on Wednesday. The announcement was made by External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar during his remarks at a UN Security Council open debate on the implementation of resolution 2532 (2020), passed last year, noting the impact of COVID-19 globally and calling for the cessation of hostilities around the world to help combat the pandemic. The debate was attended by the Foreign Ministers of UNSC member countries. “Keeping in mind the UN Peacekeepers who operate in such difficult circumstances, we would like to announce today a gift of 2,00,000 doses for them,” Mr. Jaishankar said. The Minister said India had already sent vaccines to 25 countries under its Vaccine Maitri programme and that 49 more countries would be supplied in the coming days. Until February 9, India had supplied 62.7 lakh of a total of 167.7 lakh of its vaccines as gifts, the remainder being sent on commercial terms, Minister of State for Health Ashwini Choubey told Parliament last week. Mr. Jaishankar told his counterparts that COVAX (a global initiative to develop, purchase and deliver vaccines worldwide) would need to be strengthened, to ensure equitable distribution of vaccines. He also called for coordination between countries on “genomic surveillance” (tracking viral mutations) and addressing resistance to vaccines. “Vaccine-related information must be contextual, empathetic, and culturally sensitive, while providing scientific and accurate facts to allay the fears and concerns of the public,” Mr. Jaishankar said. However, the government has been criticised for getting ahead of the science. Its approval of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin vaccine for emergency use authorisation in India before its efficacy was established via Phase-III trials had created a stir last month. At the UNSC on Wednesday, Mr. Jaishankar called for an end to “vaccine nationalism” and the hoarding of vaccines. “Stop ‘Vaccine nationalism’; indeed, actively encourage internationalism,” he said. “Hoarding superfluous doses will defeat our efforts towards attaining collective health security.” Several rich countries have ordered more vaccine doses than required for their population, depriving developing economies of access to these doses. Just its orders of the Moderna and Pfizer vaccines alone are enough to cover all adults in the U.S., Axios reported recently. This still leaves its orders of AstraZeneca, Novavax and Johnson and Johnson vaccines, which add up to over 500 million more doses. “There currently exists a glaring disparity in accessibility of vaccines globally. Equity in access to vaccine is important for mitigating the impact of pandemic,” Mr. Jaishankar said, citing a figure of 60 million for the people at risk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-to-gift-2-lakh-vaccine-doses-to-un-peacekeepers/article33866243.ece
18 February 2021||Chennai,||HC dismisses case challenging Chidambaram’s 2009 poll win||The Madras High Court on Tuesday dismissed an election petition filed against the victory of former Union Minister P. Chidambaram from Sivaganga parliamentary constituency in May 2009. Justice Pushpa Sathyanarayana rejected the petition pending in the court for nearly 12 years after holding that the charges of corrupt practices were not proved. The case had been filed by the then AIADMK candidate R.S. Rajakannappan who joined the DMK recently. The petitioner had lost to Mr. Chidambaram in the 2009 election by a margin of 3,354 votes and then filed the case accusing the returned candidate of having manipulated the vote counting process. He alleged that the Returning Officer had illegally added the votes secured by him in the Alangudi Assembly segment into the kitty of Mr. Chidambaram. If such illegality had not occurred, the petitioner was confident of having won the seat by a margin of 7,034 votes. He claimed that AIADMK cadres had agitated against the illegal decision right at the counting centre but they were beaten up by the police. The petitioner had also challenged the election of Mr. Chidambaram on the ground of bribing of voters. However, during the course of a full-fledged trial, Mr. Chidambaram entered the witness box and stoutly denied all allegations levelled against him and termed them to be a figment of imagination of the petitioner. He also stood his ground during elaborate cross examination by the counsel for the petitioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-dismisses-case-challenging-chidambarams-2009-poll-win/article33866589.ece
18 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala govt. freezes staff regularisation||The Kerala Cabinet on Wednesday decided to halt regularising temporary employees with more than 10 years of service in various government institutions. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the decision was political. It was aimed at depriving Opposition parties of ammunition to target the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government in the run-up to the Assembly elections. The Cabinet decided not to play into the Opposition's hands. Mr. Vijayan asked remaining temporary workers due for regularisation not to feel let down. They would not lose their jobs. The LDF would regularise them when voted back to power. The government had regularised persons who had worked on daily wages for a decade and more in State-run institutions outside the Kerala Public Service Commission’s (PSC) purview. However, he said, the Opposition portrayed this as “illegal backdoor appointments.” The provisional employees were ill-suited for new jobs and experienced in their respective fields. The government could not abandon them and their families to chance, the Chief Minister said. It set a minimum 10 years of service as the norm for regularising them. ‘Stoking anger’ The Opposition had provoked a section of the PSC rankers to go on the warpath against the government, he said. They had attempted to stoke youth anger by convincing them that the regularisation measure would whittle down employment chances via the PSC. The Opposition gave false hope to the youth by lying that the government could revive obsolete PSC rank lists, he alleged. Some anguished youth, misled by Opposition plots, staged “funeral processions” in front of the Secretariat believing the government had done them injustice. Mr. Vijayan asked the youth not to fall prey to the intrigues of those who seek to wager their future to reap political advantage. The government had opened new avenues of employment for youth via the PSC. The Cabinet had created 3,051 posts in various departments. Mr. Vijayan pegged the number of permanent posts made by the LDF government at 30,000. The government had employed more than 50,000 people during its term, including temporary employees, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-govt-stops-regularising-staff/article33866224.ece
18 February 2021||KALPETTA,||Court mulls fresh probe into killing of suspected Maoist||The Wayanad district and sessions court has ordered the District Collector to submit a report on the possibilities of a fresh magisterial probe into the death of C.P. Jaleel, a suspected Maoist, in the wake of a petition filed by his brother C.P. Rasheed. Jaleel was shot dead at a private resort at Vythiri in the district on March 6, 2019 in an alleged police encounter. While considering the petition, the court directed the Collector to submit the report before March 1. Mr. Rasheed said in his petition that the magisterial report was an arbitrary one, giving a clean chit to the police and the Thunderbolt commandos who had participated in the encounter. “The procedure adopted and the findings reached in the inquiry by the District Magistrate are incorrect, illegal, and improper. The relatives of Jaleel were not allowed to be present at the inquiry,” Mr. Rasheed said. Also, the report was contrary to ballistic and forensic findings. According to recent forensic and ballistic reports, all cartridges used for firing were from service rifles and not from a smooth-bore breech loading gun allegedly found on Jaleel’s body, Mr. Rasheed said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/court-mulls-fresh-probe-into-killing-of-suspected-maoist/article33866225.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Don’t certify key Bills as money Bills, Cong. writes to Om Birla||In a pre-emptive move, the Congress has written to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, urging him not to bypass the Rajya Sabha by declaring seven key Bills, including one on the privatisation of two public sector banks, as money Bills. The Budget session of Parliament is in recess and will resume on March 8. The Rajya Sabha has limited powers to legislate on a Money Bill. The Lok Sabha is free to accept or reject amendments made by the Rajya Sabha on a Money Bill. Rajya Sabha Chief Whip for the Congress Jairam Ramesh said, “I am writing to you well in advance to humbly request you not to certify any of these Bills as ‘money bills’ under Article 110 of the Constitution.” The letter reopens the debate on the legislative powers of an “indirectly elected” House versus a “directly elected” one. Mr. Ramesh had unsuccessfully challenged in the Supreme Court the certification of the Aadhaar Bill as a Money Bill. One of the Bills seeks to replace the University Grants Commission with a Higher Education Commission. The others seek an amendment to the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act, the setting up of a Development Finance Institution, the Securities Markets Code that will merge all market regulatory laws and the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation Act that provides insurance cover for bank account holders and amendments to bring Initial Public Offering of LIC. Mr. Ramesh said the Bills needed to have detailed debate in the standing committees before being passed in Parliament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dont-certify-key-bills-as-money-bills-cong-writes-to-om-birla/article33866236.ece
18 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Pangong disengagement will be completed in 2 or 3 days: official||The disengagement between Indian and Chinese troops on the north and south banks of Pangong Tso (lake) would be completed in two or three days, a government official said on Wednesday, stating that much of the withdrawal on both the banks had been completed. Majority of de-induction of troops from the frontline had been completed, and most of the personnel now left there are those involved in logistics and movement, the official said, adding that it was quite a humongous tank given the scale of the build-up and the stocking that had been undertaken. No tanks On the south bank, all tanks and mechanised elements have moved out. There are also no tanks on the north bank. Tents, bunkers and other positions have been cleared in most areas, a second official said, adding that the cleaning up and the ground restoration work would take a few more days. Latest satellite images released by Maxar Technologies of several areas of Pangong Tso show a stark difference on the ground, with the massive build-up and armaments now been cleared. Constant communication There is constant communication between the local commanders to ensure that the process continues smoothly and joint verification is on. For now there is a moratorium on patrolling in these areas by both sides as per the agreement. The resumption of patrolling would be worked out by both sides subsequently through diplomatic and military talks. The official said new patrolling guidelines would have to be worked out by both sides in the backdrop of recent developments to ensure such instances do not occur again. There is a lot of distrust that has to be addressed, the official added. With quick progress in the disengagement at Pangong lake, both sides are also gearing up for the next round of Corps Commander talks which will take place as soon as the disengagement is complete, as stipulated in the agreement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pangong-disengagement-will-be-completed-in-2-or-3-days-official/article33866237.ece
18 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Self-registration for COVID-19 vaccine soon: Health Ministry||Version 2.0 of the CO-Win digital app for self registration of COVID-19 vaccine beneficiaries is ready and will be launched soon, the Health Ministry said on Wednesday. Plans to involve private sector healthcare facilities in a significant way in the ongoing vaccination drive was also under way, it said. “This will enable registration of the population in the 50 yrs+ category for COVID vaccination, which is the third population priority group after healthcare workers and front line workers that are presently taking the vaccine,” said the Ministry in its release issued following a high-level meeting chaired by P.K. Mishra, Principal Secretary to the Prime Minister. The meeting reviewed the progress of the COVID-19 vaccination drive in detail, and said that 68.3% of all healthcare workers had been administered the first dose and 37.6% of eligible healthcare workers the second dose. Among frontline workers, 28.2% had been administered the first dose. Additionally it was noted that India had supplied COVID-19 vaccine to 13 countries as grants through the Ministry of External Affairs. These countries are Bangladesh, Myanmar, Bhutan, the Maldives, Nepal, Mauritius, the Seychelles, Sri Lanka, Bahrain, Oman, Afghanistan, Barbados and Dominica. Also the vaccine had been supplied to 14 countries (Bangladesh, Myanmar, Morocco, Brazil, Egypt, Algeria, South Africa, Kuwait, the UAE, Saudi Arabia, Mexico, Dominican Republic, Saudi Arabia and El-Salvador) under commercial contract, the Ministry said. It added that a total of 91,86,757 vaccination doses had been administered till 6 p.m. on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/self-registration-for-covid-19-vaccine-soon-health-ministry/article33866253.ece
18 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Tool for automated diagnosis of COVID-19 lung infection||A new software tool that reveals the severity of lung infections in COVID-19 patients has been developed by researchers from the Departments of Computational and Data Science (CDS) and Instrumentation and Applied Physics at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), in collaboration with colleagues from the Oslo University Hospital and the University of Agder in Norway. The software tool, which is freely available to the public, has been described in a recent study published in the journal IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks and Learning Systems. While it is known that COVID-19 can cause severe damage to the respiratory systems, and methods such as X-ray or CT scans can prove helpful in determining how bad the infection is, an IISc release said that the software tool, called AnamNet, can ‘read’ the chest CT scans of COVID-19 patients and estimate how much damage has been caused in the lungs by searching for specific abnormal features. Such a tool can provide automated assistance to doctors and help in faster diagnosis and better management of COVID-19. “AnamNet employs deep learning and other image processing techniques, which have now become integral to biomedical research and applications. The software can identify infected areas in a chest CT scan with a high degree of accuracy,” the release explained. A sample demo of the tool can be found on: https://github.com/NaveenPaluru/Segmentation-COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tool-for-automated-diagnosis-of-covid-19-lung-infection/article33866388.ece
18 February 2021||New Delhi,||Women lawyers, activists hail verdict||Leading women lawyers and activists on Wednesday welcomed a Delhi court’s judgment acquitting journalist Priya Ramani in a defamation case filed by former Union Minister M.J. Akbar. Speaker to mediapersons outside the court, senior advocate Rebecca John, who was also Ms. Ramani’s lawyer, said: “I think probably this is the most important case of my career.” Congratulating Ms. John and Ms. Ramani for “fighting the good and very tough fight for all women”, senior lawyer Vrinda Grover on social media said, “MJ Akbar tried to use the law of criminal defamation to silence women. Women’s truth has won in court today. This is a historic moment in the struggle for equality at the workplace.” Soon after the judgment was passed, social media was flooded with congratulatory messages. Senior journalist Namita Bhandare tweeted: “Truth prevails. What a resounding victory for India’s women, for all who spoke up and continue to do so. For Priya Ramani for refusing to be intimidated and giving courage to so many more who will continue to speak up.” Actor Simi Garewal also took to Twitter to congratulate Ms. Ramani. “...looking at past history, I was skeptical that justice would be served. But thank you judge Ravindra Kumar Pandey for respecting a woman’s right...something Akbar may be oblivious about...” she said. Lawyer Karuna Nandy said the judgment would set an important precedent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/women-lawyers-activists-hail-verdict/article33866245.ece
18 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Kumaraswamy opposes ‘unauthorised’ collection for temple||Saying that the country was witnessing “religious corruption” in the name of Lord Ram, former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy, who had earlier questioned the donation drive for the construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya, on Wednesday asked what was the guarantee that the money being collected would actually reach the Vishwa Hindu Parishad for the temple’s construction. He said the government was responsible for “monitoring the collection drive”. “How do you account for the money that is collected on the streets?” he asked, after receiving a backlash from religious heads, Ministers, and BJP leaders over his statement that the homes of those not contributing were being marked. “In this country, NGOs raising funds are accountable to the government. The donation drive could have been done online. These days, everyone has a bank account, including accounts opened under the Jan Dhan scheme... This could have prevented the sticking of labels on homes. Don’t you require guidelines for donation collection? There are no ID cards and you do not know who they are. What I have suggested to them is to have transparency in collection. Have I insulted Lord Ram? It is you who have misused him,” he said. “I have not named the BJP or the VHP or any other organisations. All I suggested was to prevent the loot on the streets by individuals in the name of Lord Ram.” Reiterating that neither his family nor his party was against the donation drive, he said, “Several members of the JD(S) have already given donation. Even my family and I will donate if authorised persons approach us.” Earlier this week, Mr. Kumaraswamy had said that the houses of those not contributing towards the Ram Mandir construction were being marked, in a fashion similar to how the Jews were marked in Nazi Germany.  The donation drive could have been done online. These days, everyone has a bank account... This could have prevented the sticking of labels on homes. Don’t you require guidelines for donation collection? H.D. Kumaraswamy, former Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kumaraswamy-picks-holes-in-ram-temple-fund-collection/article33866216.ece
18 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Social media issues come under Centre’||Social media is an “uncontrollable medium” with a potential to even destabilise society, but “response” to such a problem should be national in nature and come from Parliament, the Centre argued before the Supreme Court on Wednesday. Appearing before a Bench led by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said the Delhi Legislature’s Committee on Peace and Harmony may lack the jurisdictional competence to pass recommendations to regulate social media. The Centre was responding to a petition filed by senior Facebook official Ajit Mohan against his summons by the Committee to testify about any role played by social media platforms in the events leading up to the Delhi riots in February last year. Mr. Mehta said Parliament has already passed the Information Technology Act which deals with social media intermediaries. “Offences pertaining to social media intermediaries are statutorily defined by Parliament. The field is occupied by a Central Act,” he said. The court will continue to hear the case next week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/social-media-issues-come-under-centre/article33866263.ece
18 February 2021||GUWAHATI,||Cong. to collect 50 lakh anti-CAA “gamosas”||Intensifying the fight against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) in poll-bound Assam, the Congress has set a target of collecting 50 lakh ‘gamosas’ to be displayed at the proposed memorial for people killed during the anti-CAA movement in December. “We are building an anti-CAA memorial in Guwahati. I request every Assamese to share gamosas with your anti-CAA message on it and send it to us,” Kaliabor MP and former Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi’s son, Gaurav Gogoi, said at a party meeting in north-eastern Assam’s Bihpuria town. Mr. Gogoi is the chairman of the Congress Manifesto Committee. Congress workers have also been asked to visit every household and collect such gamosas or woven scarf-towels. “We have our ears on ground and we expect the party to collect them which will be displayed at the upcoming memorial,” State Congress president Ripun Bora said, asserting that the sacrifices to save “Assamese pride” will not be forgotten. “The CAA will be rooted out,” he said. Pradyut Bordoloi, Nagaon MP and chairman of the Congress Campaign Committee, said each gamosa donor can have his or her name on it besides the message. The CAA seeks to provide citizenship to non-Muslims who allegedly fled religious persecution in Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan and took refuge in India till December 31, 2014.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-to-collect-50-lakh-anti-caa-gamosas/article33866837.ece
18 February 2021||Bengaluru,||96 taluks still remain backward in Karnataka||Despite Rs. 27,346.32 crore being spent on backward taluks under the Special Development Plan (SDP) over the Past 12 years, the socio-economic conditions and infrastructure development remain below par in 96 taluks of the State. Budgetary and additional funding of Rs. 37,124.35 crore was given to 114 backward taluks under the SDP since 2007-08. Out of this, Rs. 27,346.32 crore has been spent, according to official sources. The backward taluks had been identified by the D.M. Nanjundappa committee on regional imbalance. During a review meeting chaired by K.C. Narayana Gowda, Minister for Planning and Statistics, it was revealed that 29 taluks still remained “most backward” — eight in Bengaluru division, three in Kalaburagi division, and 18 in Belagavi region. While 24 taluks have remained “more backward”, 43 are “backward.” Lack of will to undertake development is cited as one of the major reasons for the poor socio-economic development in the 96 taluks. Ahead of the State Budget, the Minister reviewed the progress under the SDP and said these taluks were lagging behind in having schools, colleges, libraries, classrooms, labs, computers, and other essentials for quality education. Official sources said funds had not been released as per the plan to priority sectors. The quantum of funds allocated to education was 5%, while it was 5% for health, 1.6% for women and child development, 6.05% for agriculture, and 0.89% for self-employment/business, sources added. In 2007-08, the SDP proposed to spend Rs. 2,000 crore on tourism during the first eight years, but it was allocated Rs. 599 crore. A sum of Rs. 25 crore proposed for sports remained only on the paper. Given the poor execution of projects, the Minister has told officials to prepare a plan for the next three years and allocate more funds to priority sectors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/96-taluks-still-remain-backward-in-karnataka/article33866389.ece
18 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Amendment for greater academic freedom for autonomous colleges||The Cabinet on Wednesday decided to promulgate an Ordinance to amend the law governing autonomous colleges in the State. Though the amendment to the University Laws (Third Amendment) Act, 2014 seeks to guarantee greater academic freedom by adopting the provisions laid down by the University Grants Commission (UGC), its implementation will nullify the existing Autonomy Approval Committee chaired by the Higher Education Minister that is mandated with inviting and considering applications for autonomy. Pointing out that the UGC (Conferment of Autonomous Status upon Colleges and Measures for Maintenance of Standards in Autonomous Colleges) Regulations, 2018 had rendered the panel invalid, official sources said colleges can hereafter apply for autonomy at any time of their choice by submitting applications to the respective university. Upon receipt of the application, the Syndicate must entrust it to an expert committee within seven days. Following a detailed assessment, the VC can decide to recommend autonomy to the UGC or turn down the application after informing the same to the UGC, the government and the college. The institution can then reapply for autonomy after a year. An expert committee chaired by the Pro VC must be constituted to consider applications, commence new courses and review the curriculum of the existing ones. The panel must comprise a Syndicate member, an academic expert nominated by the VC and three nominees of the college. The governing body will include a nominee each of the government, Kerala State Higher Education Council and university, and the college union chairman. Board of Studies The institution’s Board of Studies must include a representative of the university’s Board of Studies who is nominated by the Syndicate and academic experts recommended by the college. A grievance redressal cell must also be formed with the Principal, PTA nominee and college union chairman as its members. While the panel must resolve complaints within 14 days, its decisions can be appealed before the VC, who will then be required to take a decision within 60 days after hearing the parties concerned.  A panel must be constituted to consider applications, commence new courses and review the curriculum||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amendment-for-greater-academic-freedom-for-autonomous-colleges/article33866494.ece
18 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Lawyer couple hacked to death in Telangana||A lawyer couple practicing at Telanagna High Court here was hacked to death by two persons in broad daylight on the main road near Kalvacherla village in Peddapalli district, 210 kms from here, on Wednesday. The gory killing of Gattu Vaman Rao, who was in his early 50s and his wife P.V. Nagamani, left the legal fraternity shocked. Video clips showing two persons indiscriminately inflicting injuries on Rao with sharp-edged weapons had gone viral on social media. Rao, accompanied by his wife, attended a case in Manthani court and was returning by car to his home in Bowenpally of Hyderabad with a driver. The killers, who came in another four-wheeler, intercepted Rao’s car around 2.30 p.m. Reconstructing the sequence of the double murder, police surmised the killers dragged Rao outside and attacked him. Investigators suspect that though the attackers wanted to eliminate Rao, they killed even his wife apparently worried over she deposing against them. Lying on the road with multiple deep wounds, Rao told an onlooker that one Kunta Srinivas was behind the attack. They were rushed to Peddapalli government hospital. Doctors said they died while undergoing treatment. The prime accused Kunta Srinivas and Rao hail from Gunjapadugu village near Manthani. “Rao’s father lodged complaint stating that Srinivas and one Kumar carried out the killing at the instance of one Vasanth Rao,” Ramagundam Police Commissioner V. Satyanarayana told The Hindu . The double murder was condemned by all Bar Associations of the State including that of Telangana High Court. A protest demonstration was organised outside the HC gate. Speculation was rife about the possible motive behind the killings. While police were pursuing all angles, it is said that recent dispute over the construction of a temple in Rao’s village could be one of the reasons. Rao and Nagamani appeared as counsels in different petitions in the HC. In May last, a letter written by Nagamani about the alleged custodial death of a dalit Sheelam Rangaiah in Manthani police station of Ramagundam police commissionerate was taken up as PIL petition by the High Court. The couple, during the previous hearing of the plea a few days ago, told the Chief Justice that police were harassing them by summoning to different police stations in false cases. They also said that they had threat to their lives. Police said that two associates of the prime accused Srinu were picked up for questioning. “We will catch all the accused and crack the case,” said the police exuding confidence.  Rao’s father lodged complaint stating that Srinivas and one Kumar carried out the killing at the instance of one Vasanth Rao. V. Satyanarayana, Ramagundam Police Commissioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lawyer-couple-hacked-to-death-in-telangana/article33866215.ece
18 February 2021||Guwahati,||Nagaland Assembly forms 7-member panel||The Nagaland Assembly has formed a seven-member drafting committee on the Naga political issue that has been hanging fire for more than two decades. Set up by Speaker Sharingain Longkumer on February 16, the panel comprises MLAs from ruling and Opposition parties, besides an independent. The MLAs who are part of the committee are Toshi Wungtung and Neiba Kronu of the Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP), Pangnyu Phom and Jacob Zhimomi of the Bharatiya Janata Party, Chotisu Sazo and Imkong L. Imchen of the Naga People’s Front (NPF) and Tongpang Ozukum, an Independent. Several rounds of talks have, however, failed to yield a solution to the political problem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nagaland-assembly-forms-7-member-panel/article33866262.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Case against Priya Ramani dismissed||“It was me the victim who had to stand up in the court as an accused. I thank everyone who stood by me, especially my witness Ghazala Wahab who came to the court and testified on my behalf,” Ms. Ramani told reporters. Mr. Akbar had in his criminal defamation complaint claimed that Ms. Ramani’s tweet and her article accusing him of sexual harassment were defamatory, and lowered his reputation. He also said that Ms. Ramani didn’t produce any evidence to prove her story. However, Ms. Ramani pleaded that truth was her defence in relation to the allegations of sexual harassment against Mr. Akbar. She said her tweet and subsequent article alleging Mr. Akbar of sexual harassment during his previous role as newspaper editor was made in “good faith” and for public good. Right of dignity The court agreed with Ms. Ramani. “The woman cannot be punished for raising voice against the sex abuse on the pretext of criminal complaint of defamation as the right of reputation cannot be protected at the cost of the right of life and dignity of a woman as guaranteed in the Constitution,” the court said. Judge Pandey also noted the submission made by Ms. Ramani that many victims opt not to lodge complaint of sexual harassment considering their social status, powerful position of the abusers, and to avoid social stigma attached to the sexual harassment. “Most of the women who suffer abuse do not speak up about it or against it for simple reason ‘the shame’ or the social stigma attached to the sexual harassment and abuse,” the court said. The court, in its 91-page judgment, highlighted that, “Sometimes the victims themselves do not understand what is happening to them or what is happening to them is wrong.” The court acknowledged that the #MeToo movement provided a platform to the women sexually harassed to break their silence and Ms. Ramani was one of such women. “The attack on the character of sex abuser or offender by the sex abuse victim is the reaction of self defence after the mental trauma suffered by the victim regarding the shame attached with the crime committed against her,” it said. At the height of the #MeToo movement in 2018, Ms. Ramani accused Mr. Akbar of sexual harassment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/case-against-priya-ramani-dismissed/article33866230.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Nikita Jacob gets 3-week transit anticipatory bail||Mr. Desai, representing Ms. Jacob, had urged the court to look at the limited purpose of granting transit anticipatory bail as the NBW was issued by the Tis Hazari court. He said they (Delhi Police) had raided Ms. Jacob’s house and seized electronic devices. He contended that she was an advocate of this court and an environment enthusiast. Ms. Jacob had filed her plea through advocate Sanjukta Dey on Monday that mentioned that she had not received a copy of the complaint or the FIR, if filed by any authority, and when she tried to procure one, it was denied to her. On February 11, cyber cell unit personnel, accompanied by a constable from the Vanrai police station, came to her house with a search warrant and seized personal documents and electronic gadgets, which had confidential information protected by attorney-client privilege. On February 4, the Delhi police registered a complaint against Ms. Jacob and alleged that Ms. Thunberg’s organisation — Poetic Justice Foundation — had contacted her to organise a “tweet storm” in support of the farmers’ protest. The police claim to be in possession of some documents of the toolkit that were allegedly edited by Ms. Jacob for ‘anti-national movement’. She has been booked for sedition under the Indian Penal Code. The toolkit has certain documents and ways for protesting outside Indian embassies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nikita-jacob-gets-3-week-transit-anticipatory-bail/article33866231.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Congress sweeps Punjab municipal elections||SAD secured 33 wards, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) 9, the BJP 20 and Independents 18. The result of Sahibzada Ajit Singh Nagar, the eighth municipal corporation, will be declared on February 18, as the State Election Commission had directed re-polling in two wards. The swing in favour of the Congress in comparison to the 2015 municipal elections in Bathinda, Hoshiarpur, Moga and Pathankot districts is manifest in the fact that from 11 seats back then, the party’s tally has improved to a whopping 149 now. The statement said that as per the results of 109 municipal councils and nagar panchayats, the Congress won 1,078 wards, while the SAD got 251 and the AAP 50. The BJP won 29 wards and Independents bagged 375 wards. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said the Congress’s victory was not just a validation of his government’s development-oriented policies and programmes but also a total rejection of the anti-people actions of the major Opposition parties, namely the SAD, the AAP and the BJP. SAD alleged that the Congress had secured a win in the municipal elections by resorting to State-sponsored repression even as it lauded Akali workers for asserting themselves boldly and ensuring that SAD emerged as the main Opposition. Senior AAP leader Harpal Singh Cheema said the results were a good sign as the party’s base in urban areas had increased. “This is a good sign for the party that the Aam Aadmi Party will be even stronger in the urban areas by 2022.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-sweeps-punjab-municipal-elections/article33866232.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Forgave my father’s killers, says Rahul||To another question related to his political career despite losing his father and grandmother, former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, in assassinations, Mr. Gandhi said: “Understand something ... violence cannot take away anything from you. It doesn’t have that power. You can give up something... A lot of things you have heard today, they came to me from my father. So my father is talking through me. So, it’s not as if that my father is not here today.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/forgave-my-fathers-killers-says-rahul/article33866233.ece
18 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||No deaths in 18 States||Eighteen States/UTs — Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, J&K (UT), Jharkhand, Puducherry, Himachal Pradesh, Lakshadweep, Manipur, Ladakh (UT), Assam, A&N Islands, Sikkim, Tripura and Mizoram — have not reported any COVID-19 deaths in the last 24 hours, said the Health Ministry on Wednesday. India reported 100 fatalities with six States accounting for 81% of the deaths. Maharashtra saw the highest of 39. Kerala follows with 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-deaths-in-18-states/article33866246.ece
18 February 2021||Kolkata,||Bengal Minister injured in bomb explosion||West Bengal Minister of State for Labour Jakir Hossain was injured in a bomb attack on Wednesday at Nimtita in Murshidabad district. Mr. Hossain, MLA from Jangipur in Murshidabad, is a prominent industrialist who owns one of the biggest beedi manufacturing factories in the State. According to reports, Mr. Hossain was targeted when he was boarding a train to Kolkata at the Nimtita station. He sustained serious injuries and has been admitted to the Jangipur Subdivision Hospital. Videos of the attack that surfaced on social media and were aired by local television channels showed the Minister, along with his supporters, walking on platform number two of the station when the explosion occurred. Eyewitnesses said Mr. Hossain sustained injuries in the leg and attempts were being made to bring him to Kolkata for treatment. Trinamool Congress district president of Murshidabad, Abu Taher, said the party had requested the police to take action against those responsible for the attack. Leaders condemn attack State Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh condemned the attack and raised questions about the law and order situation in West Bengal. This is the first instance in recent times when a Minister of the State government has been attacked publicly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengal-minister-hurt-in-bomb-attack-at-station/article33866471.ece
18 February 2021||New Delhi,||Cong. veteran Satish Sharma passes away||Veteran Congress leader and former Union Minister Captain Satish Sharma passed away, party’s chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala informed on Wednesday. “Deeply saddened at the demise of Capt. Satish Sharma, former Union Minister. Capt. Sharma epitomised dedication and loyalty. Condolences to the family and friends,” Mr. Surjewala tweeted late on Wednesday evening. News agency ANI in a tweet reported that the 73-year-old Congress leader passed away in Goa. A former Union Petroleum Minister (1993-1996) in the P.V. Narasimha Rao government, Capt. Sharma was known to be a long-time Gandhi family loyalist and a personal friend of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi. Capt. Sharma, a former airline pilot, had represented the Amethi Lok Sabha constituency in 1991 after the assassination of the former Prime Minister. Later, he had shifted to Rae Bareli before Congress president Sonia Gandhi started contesting from the seat since 2004. Capt. Sharma was also given a Rajya Sabha berth by the Congress before he faded out of active politics. “Sad to hear about the passing away of Captain Satish Sharma. Always warm and encouraging towards his younger colleagues. He will be missed. May he rest in peace,” Congress leader from Uttar Pradesh Jitin Prasada tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-veteran-satish-sharma-passes-away/article33866777.ece
18 February 2021||New Delhi,||Sikh pilgrims denied permission to visit Pak.||The Union Home Ministry has denied permission to a Sikh jattha (group) of nearly 600 pilgrims to visit Pakistan for the 100th anniversary of the Saka Nankana Sahib. The group was expected to visit five gurdwaras in Pakistan from February 18 to 21. The Shiromani Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee (SGPC), an apex Sikh religious body, had sought permission from the Ministry. In a letter sent to Bibi Jagir Kaur Begowal, president, SGPC, on Wednesday, it said “recent inputs indicate threat to the safety and security of Indian citizens visiting Pakistan... As the jattha which may have nearly 600 members is scheduled to visit five gurdwaras across Pakistan over a period of a week, we apprehend considerable threat to the safety of a large number of our citizens during this visit.” The letter said that traffic on the India-Pakistan International Border remained suspended since March 2020 following the COVID-19 pandemic. Case count “While the pandemic continues to persist, it is pertinent to note that Pakistan has so far recorded over half a million cases, with 10,000-plus deaths due to COVID. Considering the capacity of the health infrastructure in Pakistan, it is not advisable for a large group of our citizens to visit Pakistan for a week during pandemic,” it said. It added that the Ministry had not accorded permission to the group for crossing over to Pakistan, which was mandatory in the wake of the suspension of traffic between the two countries due to the pandemic. According to a 1974 bilateral protocol with Pakistan, four Sikh jatthas visit important gurdwaras in Pakistan every year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sikh-pilgrims-denied-permission-to-visit-pak/article33866260.ece
18 February 2021||KOCHI,||Police assn. to move HC against transfers||The Kerala State Police Officers’ Association (KSPOA) has decided to approach the Kerala High Court against the directives issued by the Election Commission on transfer of police officers in view of the upcoming elections to the State Assembly. The association on Wednesday claimed that the commission stipulations totally disrupted the family life of police officers as well as the police administration as a whole. Cascading effect C.R. Biju, general secretary of the association, said the transfer orders were such that it would not only affect the families of the personnel but also investigations currently being done into various criminal and other cases in the State. The commission order on transfers ahead of the polls was effective for sub-inspectors and those above the rank.  Mr. Biju said that officers from sub-inspectors and above would be seriously affected by the transfer rules issued by the commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-assn-to-move-hc-against-transfers/article33866495.ece
18 February 2021||Srinagar,||Civilian hurt in militant fire||Unidentified militants opened fire upon 22-year-old Akash Mehra, a civilian and the son of the owner of the noted eatery Krishna Dhaba, in Srinagar on Wednesday evening, less than 3 km from the venue where the visiting diplomats held meetings during the day. The police said the militants fired from a pistol. “Two empty cartridges were recovered from the spot,” the police said. A case has been registered, and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/militants-open-fire-in-srinagar-injure-civilian/article33866264.ece
18 February 2021||GUWAHATI,||Modi to lay foundation for longest bridge||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Thursday digitally lay the foundation stone of the fifth bridge across the Brahmaputra that would be India’s longest. The 19.282 km four-lane bridge, expected to be completed by 2026-27, will connect Phulbari in Meghalaya and Dhubri in poll-bound Assam. The initiation of work on the bridge will be among a slew of projects that the BJP-led government in Assam has been pushing through ahead of elections to the 126-member Assembly. The polls are to be held by May. Officials said the bridge would be built at an estimated cost of Rs. 4,997 crore. “It will be a strategic bridge close to the border with Bangladesh and would drastically cut travel time for people of both the States,” a government spokesperson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-to-lay-foundation-for-longest-bridge/article33866593.ece
18 February 2021||Bhopal/Rewa/Sidhi,||Toll in M.P. bus mishap rises to 51||The death toll in the bus accident in Madhya Pradesh’s Sidhi district has gone up to 51 with the recovery of four more bodies on Wednesday, officials said. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan also left from Bhopal to visit the accident spot in Sidhi. On Tuesday, bodies of 47 people, including 20 women and two children, were recovered after the packed private bus skidded off the road and plunged into a water-filled canal in Sidhi. Four more bodies, including of a woman and six-month-old girl, were recovered on Wednesday, taking the toll to 51, Sidhi Collector Ravindra Kumar Choudhary said. Three bodies were swept away and found in canal in adjoining Rewa district, while one was found about six km from the accident spot, the police said. The bus driverhas been detained, said the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/toll-in-mp-bus-mishap-rises-to-51/article33866594.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Special occasion||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/special-occasion/article33866784.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Aerial treat||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aerial-treat/article33866235.ece
18 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||More financial powers for senior officers||The Cabinet on Wednesday approved enhanced delegation of financial powers for capital procurement to senior officers below the rank of Vice-Chief of armed forces, a Defence Ministry statement said. Under the Other Capital Procurement Procedure of Defence Acquisition Procedure-2020, financial powers up to Rs. 100 crore have been delegated to Army Commanders and equivalent of other services and regional Commanders, Coast Guard; and powers up to Rs. 200 crore have been delegated to Deputy Chief of Army Staff (CD &S), Master General Sustenance, Chief of Material, Air Officer Maintenance, Deputy Chief, Integrated Defence Staff and additional director general of Coast Guard. The Cabinet also approved enhanced financial powers in the Make-I category under which funding up to 70% of the prototype cost is available for development of equipment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/more-financial-powers-for-senior-officers/article33866238.ece
18 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC to hear petition filed by Jamiat||The Supreme Court on Wednesday agreed to hear Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind after it submitted that a spate of laws across several States that criminalise religious conversion through marriage have become a source of harassment of Muslim youths. “Why do you need to be heard?” Chief justice of India Sharad A. Bobde asked advocate Ejaz Maqbool, for the Jamiat. “A large number of Muslims are being harassed all across the country,” Mr. Maqbool replied. The Bench permitted the Jamiat to intervene in the case. The court also allowed NGO Citizens for Justice and Peace to amend its plea and include the Himachal Pradesh Freedom of Religion Act, 2019 and the Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Ordinance, 2020 in the list of statutes under challenge. In an earlier hearing, the Bench did not stay the implementation of the U.P. Prohibition Of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, and the Uttarakhand Freedom of Religion Act, 2018, despite fervent pleas made by petitioners that “rampaging mobs are lifting off people in the middle of wedding ceremonies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-to-hear-petition-filed-by-jamiat/article33866247.ece
18 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||ISL dictionary with 10,000 terms released||From names of banks, political parties, websites and apps to fast food dishes like pani puri and momos, the third edition of the digital Indian Sign Language dictionary launched on Wednesday included 10,000 terms across six categories. The dictionary, prepared by the Indian Sign Language Research and Training Centre under the Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry, included terms of daily use, academic, legal and administrative, medical, technical and agricultural terms, SJE Minister Thaawarchand Gehlot said releasing the dictionary virtually. Available as a Google document and videos on YouTube, the dictionary includes the sign, the English term and pictures wherever relevant, a Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities statement said. The dictionary also includes terms used in different regions, including momos from Dehradun, bandit from Munger, Bihar, and tug of war from Haryana. Arranged marriage, break-up and live-in relationship also find a mention. The first edition was launched in March 2018 with 3,000 terms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/isl-dictionary-with-10000-terms-released/article33866254.ece
18 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Char Dham project, floods not linked’||The government on Wednesday denied in the Supreme Court any link between the Char Dham road-widening project in Uttarakhand and the recent flash floods in the Rishiganga valley. The denial, before a Bench led by Justice Rohinton Nariman, came from Attorney-General K.K. Venugopal, in response to a communication from a high-powered committee (HPC) chairperson Ravi Chopra, connecting the tragedy with the Char Dham project. The court asked the government to file a response in two weeks. The 899-km-long project that connects the shrines of Gangotri, Yamunotri, Kedarnath and Badrinath in Garhwal Himalayas is under the Supreme Court’s scanner after NGO Citizens for Green Doon raised environmental concerns over the cutting of trees and harm to the fragile Himalayan ecology by the widening of the existing mountain roads. The HPC was formed to be the eyes and ears of the Supreme Court on the project. However, it had not been unanimous in its views. Centre’s view In January, the government supported a majority view within the committee favouring the need to broaden the Himalayan feeder roads to the Indo-China border to facilitate troop movement. The Ministry of Defence, in an affidavit in court, had said it was unfortunate that three of the HPC members gave a minority view to reconsider a December 15, 2020 circular of the Ministry of Road and Transport and Highways, which fixed the carriageway width of the feeder roads at seven metre with a paved shoulder spanning 1.5 metre on either side. The minority view had said the December 15 circular needed a rethink, considering its “long-term impacts on the fragile Himalayan terrain and sensitive ecosystem”. The Centre, in its affidavit, said it was “unfortunate” that the HPC members, who were in the minority, had given such an opinion “notwithstanding the security of the country and the need of the defence forces to resist possible external aggression”. An earlier affidavit of the government said a double lane road with a width of 7 to 7.5 metre was necessary to meet the Army’s requirements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-denies-link-between-char-dham-project-floods/article33866258.ece
18 February 2021||Kolkata,||Many Bengali TV and film stars join BJP||A host of actors of Bengali cinema and television industry joined the BJP on Wednesday in the presence of national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and vice-president Mukul Roy. Those who joined the BJP included Yash Dasgupta, Papiya Adhikari and Soumili Ghosh Biswas. “Politics is about change and if you want to change the system, you need to be a part of it. The BJP has always given the youth a chance and has placed their faith in them. It is the youth that can bring about a change,” Mr. Dasgupta, who is a star in the cine industry, said. Senior actor Anjana Basu, who had joined the BJP months ago, alleged that she had faced discrimination in the industry due to her support for the BJP. “One of my serials was taken off air... Such kind of things must end,” she said at the event. So far, the Trinamool Congress has maintained its hold over the entertainment industry but now the BJP has been trying to reach out to the actors. Party leader Anirban Ganguly met Prosenjit Chatterjee at his residence on Tuesday sparking fresh speculation. “There is neither political inclination nor agenda apart from meeting and greeting Dr. Ganguly. I stay focused on what I know best — acting,” Mr. Chatterjee said. Veteran actor and Trinamool MLA from Barasat, Chiranjeet Chakraborty, on Wednesday announced that he does not want to contest the polls. He said he had informed Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee about his decision and maintained that he is not interested in joining the BJP. “There is no question of switching parties, as I am not a politician. Even if I leave this party, I will not be joining any other party,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/many-bengali-tv-and-film-stars-join-bjp/article33866259.ece
18 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cabinet nod for changes in juvenile law||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved a slew of amendments to the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, empowering the District Magistrates (DM) to issue adoption orders as well as monitor the implementation of the law. The amendments are aimed at “strengthening Child Protection set-up to ensure best interest of children”, according to a press statement. These include empowering the DMs and the additional DMs to monitor the functioning of agencies responsible for implementing the JJ Act. The District Child Protection Units will function under the DMs. Before someone sets up a shelter home for children and sends their proposal for registration under the JJ Act to the State, a DM will have to assess their capacity and conduct a background check, Minister for Women and Child Development Smriti Irani said at a press briefing. A DM could also independently evaluate the functioning of the Child Welfare Committee, Special Juvenile Protection Units and registered childcare institutes, the Minister stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cabinet-nod-for-changes-in-juvenile-law/article33866261.ece
18 February 2021||Hyderabad,||No differences with seniors: Revanth||Congress MP and TPCC working president A. Revanth Reddy denied any differences with seniors in the party over his just concluded padayatra. At a press confernce here, he said the alleged differences were just a propaganda and they are all one and the same when it comes to fighting against the central and State governments on their anti-people and anti-farmers rule. Thanking all the Congress leaders and the cadre who supported the padayatra, he said he would participate in any programme taken up by other Congress leaders elsewhere in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-differences-with-seniors-revanth/article33866849.ece
18 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,||Fulfilled Constitutional responsibilities, says L-G||Outgoing Lt.-Governor Kiran Bedi on Wednesday said whatever she did during her stint in Puducherry was “a sacred duty, fulfilling my Constitutional and moral responsibilities”. In a parting message, Ms. Bedi said: “I thank the Government of India for a life-time experience in serving Puducherry, as its Lt. Governor”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fulfilled-constitutional-responsibilities-says-l-g/article33866588.ece
18 February 2021||Bengaluru,||NIA files chargesheet against 11 in JMB case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday filed a chargesheet against 11 terror suspects, reportedly members ofthe Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh, in connection with a series of dacoity cases that were reported in Bengaluru in 2018. According to the NIA, the accused were raising funds for the JMB. In April last year, the NIA had re-registered four cases against the accused for dacoities committed by the JMB members: one each in K.R. Puram and Kothanur and two in Attibele police station limits. According to the NIA, the main accused, Jahidul Islam, who hails from Bangaldesh, “disclosed” all the hideouts where he and his associates had taken shelter and identified shops from where they had procured material to break into houses and commit acts of dacoity. “Investigation also revealed that Jahidul is the main conspirator and leader of the JMB, involved in promoting the activities of the outfit in India,” said the NIA in a release. Accused in serial blasts According to NIAofficials, he is one of the prime accused in serial blasts in Bangladesh carried out by JMB in 2005 and the main conspirator in the Burdwan and Bodh Gaya blast cases. “The investigation established the broad network forged by JMB terrorists in India for committing terrorist and subversive activities by procuring arms and explosives, recruiting youth, and conducting training camps,” said the NIA in the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-files-chargesheet-against-11-in-jmb-case/article33866412.ece
18 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Work on palm leaf records museum launched||The State’s history going back centuries and contained within invaluable palm leaf records is all set to be democratised through a palm leaf records museum that will come up at Central Archives, Fort, here. Minister for Archives Kadannappally Ramachandran inaugurated online the construction on Wednesday. An amount of Rs. 4 crore has been set aside for the museum, said to be the first palm leaf records museum in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/work-on-palm-leaf-records-museum-launched/article33866891.ece
18 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Ramoji Film City all set to reopen today||Ramoji Film City is set to resume its tourism operations and will be open to visitors from February 18 (Thursday), offering fun-filled cinematic, entertainment and leisure offerings like live stunt shows, gardens, games and rides, studio tour; make believe sets, locations etc., with wide ranging stay options to suit all budgets, be it luxury, comfort, economy or super economy. COVID-19 precautions will be in place across entertainment zones. Physical distancing markers, disinfection and sanitation of high-contact surfaces and personnel trained with safety procedures will guide visitors. For details, one can visit ramojifilmcity.com or call 1800-120-299.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ramoji-film-city-all-set-to-reopen-today/article33866858.ece
18 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro brings back share autorickshaws||After a long hiatus, Metro Rail has resumed the operation of share autorickshaws for a flat fare of Rs. 10 as a last-mile connectivity option for commuters. According to officials of Chennai Metro Rail Ltd (CMRL), the autorickshaws have begun operating in the Koyambedu, Thirumangalam, Ekkatuthangal, Alandur, St. Thomas Mount, Little Mount, Ashok Nagar and Guindy stations. They will operate from 8 a.m. till 8 p.m. There will be two vehicles in each station, except in Thirumangalam and Guindy, where four will operate as they have higher footfalls. “We will soon expand this facility to more stations in the coming weeks. The footfalls in stations have risen from 10,000 initially to 55,000 and now to almost 75,000 a day. If we want more people to travel on the Metro, we must extend affordable last-mile connectivity,” an official said. Though the vehicles’ routes were limited, they would link important locations, he said. For instance, from Guindy and Alandur, vehicles will ply to MIOT, Chennai Trade Centre and DLF. Similarly, from St. Thomas Mount, some crucial junctions like Thillai Ganga Nagar subway, Nanganallur Anjaneyar temple, Vanuvampet junction, Puzhithivakkam railway station and Velachery MRTS station will be covered. “We plan to run at half hour intervals. This will be increased if there is good patronage. Also, commuters can get off wherever they want and board anywhere along this route. Commuters can just pay in cash unlike before,” a CMRL staff said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metro-brings-back-share-autorickshaws/article33866797.ece
18 February 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Coast Guard rescues five fishermen off Karaikal||The Indian Coast Guard Region (East) on Wednesday rescued five fishermen in distress at sea after their boat was stranded 205 nautical miles east of Porto Nova, Karaikal coast, due to an engine breakdown. The Andaman and Nicobar-registered fishing boat, Madhana Sea Foods , was reported to be in distress. A sea-air coordinated rescue operation was swiftly launched. A Coast Guard Dornier aircraft was launched and ICGS Annie Besant sailed from Chennai to undertake a search and rescue operation. Additionally, the International Safety Net was activated to alert passing merchant vessels in the area about the stranded vessel, a Defence press release said. The ICG aircraft located the vessel and ICGS Annie Besant undertook damage control to arrest flooding in the engine room of the boat and towed the boat to safety.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/5-fishermen-rescued-by-coast-guard-after-boat-develops-snag/article33866813.ece
18 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Election case against Chidambaram dismissed||The Madras High Court on Tuesday dismissed an election petition filed against the victory of former Union Minister P. Chidambaram from Sivaganga parliamentary constituency in May 2009. The court held that neither the charge of bribing voters nor the allegation of having manipulated the counting process could be proved against him. Justice Pushpa Sathyanarayana rejected the election petition filed by R.S. Rajakannappan, who had contested the polls as an AIADMK candidate in 2009 but joined the DMK last year, after holding that no credible evidence whatsoever had been produced by him before the court to declare the election of Mr. Chidambaram as null and void. Stating that the returned candidate had secured 3,34,348 votes as against 3,30,994 votes secured by the election petitioner, the judge said the election could not be set aside just because the victory margin of 3,354 votes was small. She stressed that the law requires the charge of electoral malpractices to be proved beyond doubt. “An election petition is a quasi-criminal proceeding… The standard of proof required for proving corrupt practice for all intent and purpose is equated with the standard expected in a criminal trial. The burden of proof on the election petitioner can be said to have been discharged only when there is a cogent and reliable evidence to prove the charges. “Therefore, the charges must be proved beyond reasonable doubt and not merely by preponderance of probabilities as in a civil action… It is evident that the election petitioner herein has not proved the charges of corrupt practice against the first respondent by adducing clear-cut, cogent, credible and reliable evidence,” the judge held. Though the petitioner had relied upon five instances of alleged bribing of voters by the former Minister, he had given up four of them during the course of trial due to lack of sufficient evidence to prove them. The petitioner relied heavily upon a sole instance that reportedly took place Rajagambeeram village on May 12, 2009, a day before the day of polling. According to him, the returned candidate’s son Karti P. Chidambaram and his men were allegedly caught distributing money to the voters on that day by Anbazhagan of AIADMK. The latter was beaten up when he questioned the illegality and the victim could easily identify those who had assaulted him on that day, the petitioner claimed. However, Mr. Anbazhagan, during cross examination, contradicted the claim and said that he could not identify any person who attacked him. Referring to the inconsistency in the deposition, the judge said the election petitioner did not have any direct knowledge about the Rajagambeeram incident and all that he had averred was on the basis of hearsay. Similarly, the petitioner had failed to substantiate his claim that Mr. Chidambaram, who was the Union Home Minister at the time of election, had influenced the Returning Officer to manipulate the counting process in favour of him after coming to know that the Congress party was about to come to power in the Centre for the second time, the judge observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/election-case-against-chidambaram-dismissed/article33867033.ece
18 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Government doctors wear ‘demand badges’ to work||Doctors affiliated to the Federation of Government Doctors Association (FOGDA) launched a protest on Wednesday by wearing ‘demand badges’ to work. They will continue wearing the badges till February 28 to draw the attention of the State government to their pending demands. P. Saminathan, general secretary of the Service Doctors and Postgraduates’ Association and a convener of FOGDA, said they had been raising four demands for nearly two years. One of the demands was pay band-4 at 12 years of service. “A review of Government Order 354 has been pending for the last few years. This will ensure a hike in remuneration and promotions for government doctors through the Dynamic Assured Career Progression and pay band-4 at 12 years of service. The Health Department wants us to accept allowances instead of pay band-4 compression, which is not acceptable to us because the younger of generation doctors who toil at primary health centres will be at a loss,” he said. FOGDA is planning a demonstration here on February 28 to demand that the State government fulfil the pending demands. A. Ramalingam, convener of FOGDA, said they had gone on an indefinite strike for the same demands in 2019. “We deferred the strike following an assurance from the government to fulfil our demands. It has been more than a year, and this is a way to remind the government of its assurances,” he said. The association has been demanding that the government pass a Special Ordinance for 50% service quota in post-graduate medical education, super specialities and dental specialities in the Assembly. It has also demanded rectification of discrepancies following a restructuring exercise through G.O. 4 (D) 2 and transparency in transfer and promotion counselling.  The Health Department wants us to accept allowances instead of pay band-4 compression, which is not acceptable to us P. Saminathan General secretary, Service Doctors and Postgraduates’ Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/government-doctors-wear-demand-badges-to-work/article33866802.ece
18 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Efforts being made to achieve zero fatality in road accidents: Police Commissioner||City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal on Wednesday said the traffic police was making every effort to achieve zero fatality in the city and reduce the accident rate. He was participating in an even to mark the conclusion of a month-long road safety awareness programme organised by the traffic police. “In the city, the number of fatal accidents decreased by 18 in January, compared to the corresponding period last year. Though fatal accidents are decreasing and our efforts are yielding results, we will not stop until we achieve zero fatality. We will take continuous efforts to achieve the goal to reduce fatalities in road accidents,” he said. Four-pronged method Stating that a four-pronged strategy was being adopted in the city, he said effective enforcement of traffic rules by police personnel, correction of engineering designs of roads, creating awareness among the public and emergency care during the so-called golden hour were duly followed to reduce accidents and fatalities. He also sought public cooperation to follow rules, so that zero fatality could be achieved. Mr. Aggarwal said the traffic police’s zero-violation traffic junction initiative had received a good response from the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/efforts-being-made-to-achieve-zero-fatality-in-road-accidents-police-commissioner/article33866809.ece
18 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Major reshuffle of IPS officers ahead of Assembly election||The Tamil Nadu government has transferred and reshuffled 54 IPS officers across the State ahead of the Assembly election. T.S. Anbu has been posted as Inspector General of Police (IGP)/Commissioner of Police, Tirunelveli city. K. Shankar has been posted as IGP, North Zone, Chennai. R. Dhinakaran has been appointed IGP, West Zone, Coimbatore, in place of K. Periaiah, who is now IGP, General, Chennai. Santosh Kumar has been posted as IGP/Commissioner of Police, Salem city, in place of T. Senthil Kumar, who will be the Additional Commissioner of Police, Law and Order, North, Chennai. Vidya Jayant Kulkarni has been posted as IGP/Additional Commissioner of Police, CCB, Greater Chennai Police. P.C. Thenmozhi is posted as IGP, Crime Branch CID, Chennai. N. Kannan, Additional Commissioner of Police, Traffic, Chennai, has been given Law and Order, South, Chennai. K. Bhavaneeswari will replace him as Additional Commissioner of Police, Traffic, Chennai. Officers have also been given new postings at the Deputy Inspector General (DIG)/Joint Commissioner of Police rank. S. Rajendran is now DIG Intelligence (Internal Security), Chennai. Apart from a reshuffle in Chennai, R. Sudhakar has been appointed DIG, Madurai, and M. Pandian as DIG, Villupuram. R. Krishnaraj will be Superintendent of Police (SP), Tirunelveli district; N. Manivannan, SP, Thoothukudi district; V. Baskaran, SP, Ariyalur district; and P. Rajan, SP, Tiruchi district, among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/major-reshuffle-of-ips-officers-ahead-of-assembly-election/article33866811.ece
18 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Art forms used in awareness drives for waste management||In a bid to create awareness about solid waste management and source segregation, Urbaser Sumeet, the company that partially manages Chennai’s waste, has started using traditional art forms — Therukoothu , Kattaikal , Thappattam and Oyilattam — at the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) tenements. It is also in the process of making Lock Nagar a model tenement for source segregation. The city generates over 5,500 tonnes of garbage every day, and source segregation has been a challenge. Urbaser Sumeet has been awarded a total of seven zones in Chennai (zone 9 to 15) and these alone generate close to 3,000 tonnes of garbage per day. “To educate the residents of the city, especially TNSCB tenements in Kabali Thottam, Venkatapuram, Pallakumaniyam and Govindarajapuram, we have started information, education and communication [IEC] activities in all the zones. Apart from dance forms, we have been holding door-to-door awareness campaigns daily. A bi-weekly trash walk exercise with resident participation is also being conducted,” said V.R. Hari Balaji, head of the information, communication and education department, Urbaser Sumeet. S. Sumathi Manimaran, zone 9, IEC department in-charge, said they are in the process of making the Lock Nagar TNSCB tenements litter-free, with proper source segregation. “We are adapting a 4C Strategy — contact, connect, convince, change. We are educating 7-year-old to 15-year-old children in the locality on waste segregation and they will be the internal change agents. Women’s teams have also been formed as a monitoring team to achieve our goal,” she said. College students and Urbaser Sumeet staff have also been conducting assessments in the tenements. “A rapid need assessment to find out what the locality needs and an empathy canvas exercise to understand the reason people are not segregating their waste are being done. This will help us improve our functioning,” said Shammy Jacob, behaviour change architect, Urbaser Sumeet. Automatic announcement systems have also been introduced in the battery-operated vehicles used for collecting waste. “It runs for over two minutes and explains concepts of source segregation,” added Mr. Balaji.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/art-forms-used-in-awareness-drives-for-waste-management/article33866987.ece
18 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK in no rush to finalise seat allocation||The AIADMK appears to be in no mood to rush through the process of seat sharing with its allies for the Assembly election. Senior leaders of the ruling party said that the leadership wants to “let the principal Opposition party, DMK, finalise seat-sharing arrangements with its partners first,” even though the AIADMK is not expecting any dramatic change in the composition of its allies. As of now, the ruling party’s panel, entrusted with the task, has not held any formal meeting, even though its members are discussing likely scenarios informally and individually. Another reason cited for the AIADMK’s approach is that Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami is attaching priority to the presentation of the vote on account and interim budget in the Assembly. Once this is completed, likely by the end of this month, the attention will naturally turn to the seat-sharing process. As the party has called for applications from February 24 to March 5, a senior office-bearer said the whole exercise of seat-sharing and identification of candidates was expected to be completed by mid-March. As existing legislators are naturally expecting re-nomination, what surprised many functionaries is the way the Chief Minister reportedly pulled up district secretaries in Chennai for not having mobilised enough cadre to attend the event that was presided over by Prime Minister Narendra Modi over on Sunday. It remains to be seen whether this episode will have any bearing on the selection of candidates in constituencies in Chennai, a veteran office-bearer said.  As of now, the ruling party’s panel, entrusted with the task, has not held any formal meeting, even though its members are discussing likely scenarios||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-in-no-rush-to-finalise-seat-allocation/article33866342.ece
18 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State reports 454 fresh cases; six more persons succumb to infection||As many as 454 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday, taking its tally to 8,46,480. Of the fresh cases, Chennai accounted for 147. A total of 38 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore, while Tiruvallur saw 35 cases and Chengalpattu 33. There were 26 cases in Kancheepuram and 20 in Erode. Among other districts, Kallakurichi recorded no new case, while four other districts — Ariyalur, Pudukottai, Ramanathapuram and Theni — reported one each. Six more persons succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 12,438. Of the deaths, Kancheepuram recorded two, while Chennai, Tiruvallur, Tiruppur and Virudhunagar saw one each. One of the deceased, a 60-year-old man from Tiruppur, did not have co-morbidities. A total of 462 persons were discharged after treatment across the State. Till date, a total of 8,29,850 persons have been discharged. The State accounts for 4,192 active cases, of which 1,604 are in Chennai, 417 in Coimbatore and 314 in Chengalpattu. In the last 24 hours, 52,350 samples were tested, taking the total figure to 1,69,16,170. The number of healthcare workers and frontline staff vaccinated in the State crossed three lakh on Wednesday as 19,097 more persons received the vaccines. So far, 3,09,143 persons have been vaccinated — 2,53,090 healthcare workers, 33,414 frontline staff and 22,639 police personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-reports-454-fresh-cases-six-more-persons-succumb-to-infection/article33866350.ece
18 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC adjourns two cases against S.P. Velumani after Assembly polls||The Madras High Court on Wednesday adjourned to June 21 the hearing on two cases filed against Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani accusing him and some officials of indulging in massive irregularities in award of several contracts for civil works by the Greater Chennai and Coimbatore Municipal Corporations in the last few years. Jayaram Venkatesan of Arappor Iyakkam, a non-governmental organisation, and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam organising secretary R.S. Bharathi had filed the cases in 2018. When they were listed before Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy, advocate V. Suresh, representing Mr. Venkatesan, urged the court to fix a date for hearing. However, senior counsel Mukul Rohatgi, took strong exception to such a plea and accused the petitioners of indulging in “mischief” despite the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) having given a clean chit to the Minister in its preliminary inquiry and the government too having decided to drop all further proceedings after accepting the inquiry report. “The mischief is that they [petitioners] want to keep the pot boiling when elections are round the corner. Nothing survives in these petitions when the government itself had accepted DVAC’s preliminary inquiry report and dropped all further proceedings. The petitioners must seek further remedy in accordance with law,” the senior counsel told the first Division Bench. On their part, Advocate General Vijay Narayan and State Public Prosecutor A. Natarajan also brought it to the notice of the court that the State too had specifically taken out an application urging the court to close the two cases since a detailed preliminary inquiry had already been conducted on the complaints lodged by the petitioners and they were found to be frivolous. Rebutting their contentions, Mr. Suresh claimed that the preliminary inquiry by the DVAC was orchestrated to get the present cases closed and hence such an inquiry could not be taken at its face value. He said the government was even resisting his client’s plea to furnish a copy of the inquiry report to him so that he could point out its fallacies. After recording their submissions, the first Bench said the two cases had been dealt with by other Division Benches of the High Court in the last two years and hence it may not be appropriate for it to take them up for final hearing when elections were round the corner. Deciding to hear the cases after the summer vacation for the court in May, the judges ordered their listing on June 21. They also made it clear that mere pendency of the two cases should not be regarded as any adverse inference having been drawn against the Minister just as the petitioner’s counsel had contended that mere obtaining of the preliminary inquiry report would not absolve the Minister of all charges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-adjourns-two-cases-against-sp-velumani-after-assembly-polls/article33866362.ece
18 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sasikala seeks early hearing in civil suit against Chief Minister, others||Former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s close aide V.K. Sasikala and her nephew T.T.V. Dhinakaran have approached the Registry of the city civil court seeking early listing of a civil suit filed by them challenging AIADMK-related decisions taken by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and others. The suit, which was filed in the Madras High Court in 2017, sought to declare that Mr. Palaniswami, Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, Forest Minister Dindigul C. Sreenivasan, former Minister S. Semmalai and AIADMK presidium chairman E. Madusudhanan are not members of the party. The plaintiffs also sought for a direction to restrain the defendants from operating the bank accounts of the AIADMK. Passing interim orders in the suit on November 2, 2017, Justice C.V. Karthikeyan had directed the managers of three bank branches, in which the AIADMK had accounts, to furnish details of transactions carried out between December 29, 2016, and November 29, 2017. Manager of AIADMK headquarters P. Mahalingam was also directed to submit a list of records and registers and ensure that they were not tampered with. “Subsequently, the case got transferred from the High Court to the city civil court in December 2020 due to the pecuniary jurisdiction of the High Court having been increased from Rs. 25 lakh to Rs. 1 crore. In 2017, we had valued the suit to be Rs. 25 lakh. Now that it had been transferred, we gave a letter to the registry of the city civil court on Monday for early listing of the case and the case has been listed for hearing on March 15,” said their counsel N. Raja Senthoor Pandian.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sasikala-seeks-early-hearing-in-civil-suit-against-chief-minister-others/article33866821.ece
18 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Archaeology students of Madras varsity stage protest||Students from the Department of Ancient History and Archaeology of the University of Madras are on a sit-in protest since Tuesday, demanding that the head of department look into their grievances. A dozen students of the department’s postgraduate programme claimed they were either failed or given low marks in the online semester exams. They had demanded rescheduling of their internship as it clashed with their exams. “We were shocked that in the research methodology paper, all eight candidates who had sought a change in schedule had been failed,” a student said. The department did not upload the results nor display it on the notice board or send it by mail. Instead, students were told to call and find out the status. “We were at an excavation site in Vellore when the results were released. When we called, we were given our grades only and our request to provide details of internal marks were ignored,” an affected student said. “Since we wrote the exams online, we had the option of either handing the answersheets in person or sending them by mail. We handed it over in person and also signed in a register to that effect. However, when we asked to see our transcripts we were told that they were lost,” a student said. The students approached registrar N. Mathivanan with their complaint. They claimed that the registrar had urged the head of department to re-evaluate the papers and show the students their answer transcripts. Since neither happened, the students decided to protest until the university responded to their demand. University Vice-Chancellor S. Gowri said the issue had been sorted out with the students being assured that their papers would be re-evaluated. The revised results would be provided to them on Thursday, he assured them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/archaeology-students-of-madras-varsity-stage-protest/article33866799.ece
18 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PIL alleges arbitrary allocation of funds to Minister’s constituency||The Madras High Court on Wednesday directed the State government to explain by Thursday the reason for having reportedly allotted Rs. 20.61 crore for improvement of roads and creating other infrastructure in Kumarapalayam Assembly constituency from where Electricity Minister P. Thangamani had got elected and not allotting even a single rupee to three other Assembly constituencies in Namakkal district. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy accepted a request made by State government Pleader V. Jayaprakash Narayanan to grant him just a day’s time to get instructions from the Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Secretary. The judges warned that they would pass interim orders in favour of a public interest litigant if the government’s explanation was not satisfactory. V. Thamaraiselvan, president of Animur Panchayat in Tiruchengode Taluk of Namakkal district, had filed the case alleging colourable exercise of power in allotment of public funds. His counsel J. Ravindran told the court that no fund whatsoever had been allotted to improve the infrastructure facilities in Rasipuram, Tiruchengode and Namakkal Assembly constituencies in the district. Stating that Namakkal had totally six Assembly constituencies, Mr. Thamaraiselvansaid a small sum of Rs. 30.60 lakh and another Rs. 3 crore had been allotted to Paramathi Velur and Sendamangalam constituencies respectively. The lion’s share out of the total sum had gone to Kumarapalayam constituency, the petitioner said and claimed that such allocation was arbitrary and unfair.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pil-alleges-arbitrary-allocation-of-funds-to-ministers-constituency/article33866363.ece
18 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Start-up offers free test series for UPSC aspirants||ExcelOnAcademy, incubated at the Indian Institute of Technology Madras (IIT-M) has launched a smart test series for Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) exam aspirants to help them clear preliminary stages. It offers 4,200 questions, complemented by a data-driven analysis for each aspirant for every test taken. Four tests The academy has developed an algorithm that provides analysis of strong and weak areas based on candidates’ test performance to enable them revise precisely. It offers four tests covering static, current affairs and CSAT, along with three levels of test analysis, free of cost to all UPSC aspirants. The founders of the academy have proposed to offer all the four modules free of cost to 20 candidates from economically weaker background. Details of the criteria may be obtained by writing toinfo@excelonacademy.com. The smart test series can be accessed athttps://www.excelonacademy.com/ modules. The start-up was co-founded by T. Uday Kumar, an IIT-M alumnus who cleared the UPSC Indian Engineering Service 2000 in his first attempt and Muthu Kumar Raju, a U.S.-based tech entrepreneur specialising in building cutting-edge technology platforms for start-ups and aspiring business. 5,000 aspirants Over 5,000 civil service aspirants are already using ExcelOnAcademy services for their preparations. The founders can be reached with specific questions atinfo@excelonacademy.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/start-up-offers-free-test-series-for-upsc-aspirants/article33867045.ece
18 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rajinikanth visits Ilaiyaraaja's new studio||Actor Rajinikanth visited Ilaiyaraaja’s new studio in T. Nagar in Chennai. The actor had initially met Mr. Ilaiyaraaja at his residence on Monday and decided to visit the new studio. He was given a tour of the new studio on Kodambakkam High Road in T. Nagar. A spokesperson for Mr. Ilaiyaraaja, in a statement, said that Mr. Rajinikanth appreciated the new facility and said that it felt like he was in a temple. On Tuesday, Mr. Rajinikanth once again visited the new studio and spent some time with the music composer. Videos and photos released of his visit also showed the actor observing musicians at the studio. Earlier this month, the music maestro began working out of his new studio after he was forced to move out of Prasad Studios from where he had composed songs for more than 1,000 films from the late 1970s. At the new studio, he began composing for director Vetrimaaran’s upcoming film. The space was previously the M.M. Preview theatre and had been renovated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rajinikanth-visits-ilaiyaraajas-new-studio/article33867036.ece
18 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man asphyxiated||A man was asphyxiated in Alapakkam on Wednesday while he was cleaning the well of a house. The police said Nithya, owner of the house located in Bagyalakashmi Nagar, had hired two workers to clean a 30 foot well in her house. The water was mixed with sewage due to a leak from a sewerage pipeline, which runs along the well. The workers, Ravi, 52, and Kasi, 50, from Maduravoyal, began work early on Wednesday. In the process, they inhaled noxious fumes and fell unconscious, the police said. Neighbours alerted the personnel of the Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services, and the duo were retrieved from the well. Ravi was found dead while the unconscious Kasi was rushed to a hospital. Personnel from the Maduravoyal police station registered a case and sent the body to the Government Kilpauk Hospital for a post-mortem examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-asphyxiated-while-cleaning-well-in-alapakkam/article33866798.ece
18 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man gets jail term for teak smuggling||A man was sentenced to undergo two years’ imprisonment and two others were awarded a fine for felling and smuggling teak trees from Pamini river in Serukalathur in Tiruvarur district. The teak trees belonged to the Forest Department. A case was filed in 2014 and on Tuesday, Mannargudi judicial magistrate V.C. Kuberarsundar convicted C. Somasundaram and two others under Section 248 (ii) of the Code of Criminal Procedure and Section 28 A of the Tamil Nadu Forests Act. District Forest Officer K. Arivoli said regular monitoring of the case and monthly meetings to mobilise evidence resulted in the conviction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-gets-jail-term-for-teak-smuggling/article33866814.ece
18 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Madras HC issues warrant against ex V-C||The Madras High Court has issued a bailable warrant against former Vice-Chancellor (V-C) of Anna University A. Kalanidhi for not appearing before the court. The warrant was issued to ensure his presence on February 25 in a case related to the assignment of a land belonging to the University. The court passed interim orders on a writ appeal by the Indian Society for Technical Education. Justice T.S. Sivagnanam had last year dismissed a writ petition filed by ISTE. When the writ appeal was listed before a second Division Bench on February 2, University’s counsel told the court that it had received a letter from ISTE on January 23, stating that it had not authorised the former V-C to file the appeal on its behalf.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madras-hc-issues-warrant-against-ex-v-c/article33866815.ece
18 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Information Commissioners appointed||P. Dhanasekaran and M. Sreedhar have been appointed as State Information Commissioners in the Tamil Nadu Information Commission. Their appointment comes after R. Dhakshinamurthy and G. Murugan ceased to hold the posts. According to a G.O., Mr. Dhanasekaran and Mr. Sreedhar will hold office for a term of three years from the date on which they assume office or the date on which they attain 65 years of age, whichever is earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/information-commissioners-appointed/article33866817.ece
18 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State lifts restrictions on domestic flights||Tamil Nadu has lifted all the restrictions on the number of inter-State and intra-State domestic flight operations in respect of all airports in the State. Acting on a request made by the Ministry of Civil Aviation, Chief Secretary Rajeev Ranjan, in a letter, conveyed the State’s decision to lift the restrictions on the number of domestic flight operations that were imposed in view of COVID-19. After the complete lockdown due to the pandemic, the State had capped the allowed number of domestic flights to Tamil Nadu at 50. However, on a request made by the Chennai Airport Director it was increased to 145 arrivals in September. Subsequently, the number of inter-State flight operations to Chennai Airport was enhanced to 150 and the operation of 50 intra-State flights was also permitted across airports in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-lifts-restrictions-on-domestic-flights/article33866804.ece
18 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bedi’s removal was a belated decision: DMK||The removal of Kiran Bedi as the Puducherry Lt. Governor was a belated decision, said DMK president M.K. Stalin on Wednesday. He said it was a great mistake to retain her in the position for so long since she “derailed the rule of the Constitution” and ridiculed democracy. In a statement in Chennai, he said she never allowed the duly-elected government to function and created crises on a day-to-day basis. “It is a farcical drama on the part of the BJP government [at the Centre] to remove her just three months before the Assembly election since it allowed her to function as a rival Chief Minister and crippled the development of Puducherry,” the DMK chief said. Mr. Stalin said her removal was a last-ditch attempt to cheat the people of Puducherry. “People will not forgive the BJP government’s act of using Ms. Kiran Bedi to play dirty politics,” Mr. Stalin added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bedis-removal-was-a-belated-decision-dmk/article33866983.ece
18 February 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Freight charges set to increase||The Tamil Nadu Lorry Owners’ Federation plans to increase freight charges by 30% from March 3. They cited various issues, including the steep hike in fuel prices. The Federation plans to hold a consultation meeting in the city on March 3 to discuss long-pending demands. Some of the demands include a reduction in fuel prices and bringing petrol and diesel under the purview of the Goods and Services Tax (GST). Murugan Venkatachalam, president of the federation, said, “We have made several representations about our demands. We will also take a decision on boycotting the Assembly election during the meeting.” There are plans to increase freight charges by 30%. For instance, trucks plying a distance of more than 100 km would increase charges by Rs. 250 per tonne. The vehicle-scrapping policy would affect 20 lakh families dependent on the trade in the State. The government must provide jobs to one of the affected family members as compensation, he said. The federation also wanted toll collection to be stopped on the expiry of agreements. It also plans to launch a series of agitations after the meeting to press the demands.  We will also take a decision on boycotting Assembly elections during the March 3 consultation meeting Murugan Venkatachalam President, Tamil Nadu Lorry Owners Federation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lorry-owners-to-hike-freight-charges-by-30/article33866810.ece
18 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TARATDAC to resume stir from Feb. 23||The Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of All Types of Differently Abled and Caregivers (TARATDAC) have announced that they will be resuming their protests from February 23. TARATDAC had begun indefinite protests across Tamil Nadu from February 9, demanding that the monthly financial allowance given to persons with disabilities in the State be increased to Rs. 3,000. “On February 10, the Social Welfare Department Secretary met with us,” said S. Namburajan, general secretary, TARATDAC. But since their demands had not yet been considered by the State government, they would continue their protests, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/taratdac-to-resume-stir-from-feb-23/article33866990.ece
18 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC poser to ECI on applications for postal ballot||The Madras High Court on Wednesday directed the Election Commission of India (ECI) to explain why it had decided to invite applications from the physically challenged and those above 80 years of age for exercising the option of voting through postal ballot only after the publication of the notification for the Assembly election. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy directed ECI counsel Niranjan Rajagopalan to ensure that a counter-affidavit is filed by the Commission by Friday, explaining the reason for not starting the process well in advance. The interim direction was issued on a writ petition filed by DMK principal secretary K.N. Nehru, seeking a direction to the ECI to furnish an Assembly constituency-wise list of voters above 80 years of age and those who are physically challenged, who have been categorised as ‘absentee voters’ and permitted to cast their votes through postal ballot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-poser-to-eci-on-inviting-applications-for-postal-ballot/article33866360.ece
18 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Ampere to set up e-mobility manufacturing facility at Ranipet||Electric vehicle manufacturer Ampere Electric will set up an e-mobility manufacturing facility at Ranipet. Ampere Electric, which was acquired by Greaves Cotton two years ago, has signed a Memorandum of Understanding in this regard with the Tamil Nadu government. According to a press release, the company proposes to invest Rs. 700 crore over 10 years at the facility. With more than 1.4 million sq.ft, the plant will be one of the largest state-of-the-art e-mobility manufacturing plants in the country when commissioned. The press statement said that Ampere Electric’s Ranipet plant will have the capacity to manufacture one lakh units in its first year of operation and potential to scale up to one million units an year. This facility is expected to be operational in 2021. Nagesh Basavanhalli, Group CEO and MD of Greaves Cotton, said, “This is a historic milestone for Greaves Cotton, as we outline our investment to transform the clean mobility landscape in India...This move aligns with our mission of decarbonising last mile transportation for a cleaner planet and uninterrupted mobility. Roy Kurian, COO of E-Mobility Business (two and three wheelers), Ampere Electric, said in the release, “We have strengthened our leadership position in e-mobility segment and getting ready to cater to the growing demand of customers, channel partners, both in B2B and B2C segments. The manufacturing facility in Ranipet will help us expand our offerings to an ever increasing customer base not just in India but also in other parts of the world.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ampere-to-invest-at-ranipet/article33866380.ece
18 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Almost all vehicles have Fastag’||With Fastag mandatory from Tuesday for vehicles passing through toll plazas, almost all the vehicles passing through Kaniyur toll plaza have the tag. According to an official of the National Highways Authority of India, there are counters near the toll plaza for almost six months now for vehicles to get the tag on the spot. Since Tuesday, the cash counter at the plaza is closed. In case vehicles do not have the tag, they are stopped and the Fastag can be purchased on the spot. Since the vehicles will have to pay a penalty if there is no tag, every one uses it. "This is mandatory across the country. We have crossed 85 % to 90 %. There is no congestion at the toll plaza as almost all vehicles have the tag now," the official said. "If there are vehicles without Fastag we stop them, convince them and they can buy the tag at the spot. Then there is no penalty," the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/almost-all-vehicles-have-fastag/article33866824.ece
18 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Fuel price hike will have no impact on polls’||The hike in fuel prices will not have any impact on the upcoming Assembly election, said BJP State president L. Murugan in Coimbatore on Wednesday. Mr. Murugan said prices of fuel and LPG cylinders would soon be controlled. “The Central government is monitoring the hike in petrol price,” he said. Union Ministers of State and BJP’s election in-charges for Tamil Nadu G. Kishan Reddy and V.K. Singh arrived here to monitor preparatory works ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Coimbatore on February 25. They participated in a ground-breaking ceremony at the CODISSIA Trade Fair Complex grounds on Avinashi Road, where Mr. Modi is slated to address a public meeting. Mr. Murugan, along with national president of BJP Mahila Morcha Vanathi Srinivasan, took part in the event. Speaking to mediapersons after the ceremony, he said the State BJP would take a call on total prohibition after the election. “As far as the BJP is concerned, total prohibition is our fundamental policy,” he said. The Central government has approved the categorisation of seven Scheduled Caste communities as ‘Devendrakula Velalar’, he said, adding that the demand for delisting these communities from the SC list was under consideration, and “people’s wishes” would be fulfilled. Regarding the recent political developments in Puducherry, Mr. Murugan said people were “unhappy” with the government. Addressing the BJP cadre, Mr. Reddy said voters would reject dynastic politics in the State in the upcoming election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fuel-price-hike-will-have-no-impact-on-polls/article33866344.ece
18 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Pollachi sexual assault case: custody of three accused extended||The Mahila Court here on Wednesday extended the judicial custody of three accused in the Pollachi sexual assault case till March 5. Legal sources said that Judge R. Nandhinidevi ordered the extension of custody via videoconferencing as the three accused – K. Arulanantham (34), Haron Paul (29) and P. Babu aka ‘Bike’ Babu (27) – were lodged at district prison at Gobichettipalayam, Erode district. On January 5, the CBI arrested the three while five others were arrested in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pollachi-sexual-assault-case-custody-of-three-accused-extended/article33866383.ece
18 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Those opposed to Ram temple also keen to help, says Bhagwat||The fund collection drive for the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya has met with “overwhelming response”, with those politically opposed to the cause also “keen” to help, said Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat in Coimbatore on Wednesday. Book released He released a book titled ‘ Intha Mannil Vilaintha Magathana Sinthanai’ authored by former Meghalaya Governor V. Shanmuganathan at an event here. “Even those who – due to political reasons – opposed, they are also very keen to help,” he said during his address. Mr. Bhagwat arrived in Coimbatore on Wednesday afternoon as part of a three-day visit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/those-opposed-to-ram-temple-also-keen-to-help-says-bhagwat/article33866364.ece
18 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Meeting discusses preparatory works for jallikattu||Ahead of the jallikattu to be held at Chettipalayam on February 21, District Collector K. Rajamani chaired a meeting with officials from various departments on the preparatory works at the Collectorate on Tuesday. A press release said that he instructed the organisers to ensure that the double barricades in front of the spectator gallery must be at least eight feet tall. The Public Works Department should ensure that adequate space is available between the wooden gallery and the jallikattu arena. The Health Department must set up separate camps to screen the tamers and to treat those injured. District Police must deploy adequate number of personnel at the venue. Around 1,000 bulls and 900 tamers are expected to participate in the event on a ground near the Coimbatore Bypass at Chettipalayam. District Revenue Officer Ramadurai Murugan, Superintendent of Police Ara Arularasu and Deputy Director of Health Services G. Ramesh Kumar took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meeting-discusses-preparatory-works-for-jallikattu/article33866825.ece
18 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two dupe woman of jewellery||Miscreants, who pretended to be police officers took away the gold jewellery of a woman at Gandhipuram on Tuesday. The police said that the two men approached Saraswathy (59) and introduced themselves as police officers. They allegedly volunteered to pack her jewellery to prevent it from being stolen. The woman obliged and offered her two gold chains weighing a total of five sovereigns, following which the duo escaped from the spot. Kattoor police registered a case based on her complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-dupe-woman-of-jewellery/article33866833.ece
18 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Gold seized at airport||Customs officials seized one kg of gold in paste form from a passenger who arrived at the Coimbatore International Airport from Sharjah by Air Arabia flight on Wednesday. Assistant Commissioner of Air Intelligence Unit here Jayachandran said, based on the instructions of Commissioner of Customs D. Anil, the team was keeping surveillance at the airport. They stopped a passenger Vikram, who was going out of the arrival hall after passing through the green channel. He was searched based on suspicion and the officials recovered gold valued at nearly Rs. 40 lakh. The passenger is from Chennai and investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-seized-at-coimbatore-airport/article33866381.ece
18 February 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Police stations in Cuddalore get sanitary pad vending machines||In an initiative said to be the first of its kind in the State, the district police have installed sanitary pad vending machines for its personnel at 59 places across Cuddalore. “The move is a part of the Cuddalore district police’s welfare initiative for its personnel and is aimed at ensuring sensitivity towards women officers within the force,” Superintendent of Police M. Sree Abhinav said. The project was inaugurated with the installation of a sanitary pad vending machine at the District Police Office (DPO) in Cuddalore on Tuesday. Mr. Abhinav said as many as 59 machines, sponsored by the Sanmar group, were installed at the DPO, the Armed Reserve station, 46 police stations, six All-Women Police stations and four traffic police stations across the district. The facility has also been installed in a mobile toilet for women personnel. A pad can be obtained by depositing Rs. 5 in the machine. According to a police officer, women police personnel, especially those in the constabulary ranks, are deployed during law and order situations and bandobust duties when VIPs visit. They face difficulties in procuring pads while on duty. The facility has been installed in all police stations to ensure a conducive work environment for them, he added.  The move is a part of the Cuddalore district police’s welfare initiative and is aimed at ensuring sensitivity towards women officers M. Sree Abhinav Superintendent of Police||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-stations-in-cuddalore-get-sanitary-pad-vending-machines/article33866985.ece
18 February 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Murder accused killed in ‘encounter’ near Panruti||A 31-year-old man Krishna, the main accused in the beheading of a history-sheeter K. Veera alias Veerangan, late on Tuesday, was killed in an alleged police “encounter” at Kumudiyankuppam near Panruti on Wednesday morning. The ‘encounter in self-defence’ took place in the Pudupettai police station limits. Cuddalore Superintendent of Police M. Sree Abhinav said that the police had tracked five of the 10 accused, including Krishna, within few hours of the beheading incident. The arrested were identified as Arun Pandian, 27, Sudhakar, 23, Ramanan, 24 and Rajasekhar, 23. According to the police, when asked about the whereabouts of others involved in the murder, Krishna took the police on a wild goose chase to different places. “Subsequently, Krishna took them to the site of the incident where he allegedly pulled out a knife and assaulted Deepan, a Sub-Inspector on his right forearm and hit him on the knee resulting in a ligament tear. The SI in self-defence opened fire,” Mr. Abhinav claimed. Krishna was taken to a Primary Health Centre and referred to the Government Villupuram Medical College and Hospital where doctors pronounced him brought dead. Police said Veerangan, who owned a fruit shop in Cuddalore, was the main accused in the murder of one Satish Kumar in 2014. He had several cases against him. On Tuesday night, Veerangan was returning home on his two-wheeler when a 10-member gang waylaid and hacked him to death. The gang decapitated Veerangan and dumped the head in front of the house of Satish Kumar at Kuppankulam. Police said that it was a ‘revenge killing’ organised by Krishna. He had hatched the plan to eliminate Veerangan to avenge the murder of his cousin Satish Kumar. Meanwhile, Judicial Magistrate II, Panruti, R. Manivarman visited the spot to assess the circumstances and the sequence of events leading to the cause of death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-accused-of-beheading-history-sheeter-killed-in-encounter/article33866359.ece
18 February 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Kanimozhi embraces woman from Arunthathiyar caste, wins hearts||The scars of relentless caste discrimination bared themselves for all to see when a young woman had an emotional outburst in front of DMK women’s wing leader M.K. Kanimozhi at the party’s ‘Makkal Gram Sabha’ meeting in Eriyur on Wednesday. It all began when the woman picked up the mike to voice her grievances. Choked by her emotions, she identified herself by her Arunthathiyar caste and spoke of untold discrimination faced by her community every day. “They won’t even let me take the aarti . Everyone sees us through our caste. They call themselves upper castes, and we are lower castes. Yes, we are lower castes only,” she said in tears. At that point, a visibly disturbed Kanimozhi walked up to the woman and embraced her. Those present at the event were moved by her gesture. “All we need is jobs for our children,” said the woman as she wiped the tears rolling down her cheeks. Another woman from the Arunthathiyar community said, “In our village, there is no one from our community who has a government job. Please do something.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kanimozhi-embraces-woman-from-arunthathiyar-caste-wins-hearts/article33866352.ece
18 February 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Women cooks allege being dismissed on frivolous ground||Twelve women cooks, supported by the CITU, staged demonstration here to protest their summary dismissal from Amma canteen, where they were employed, here on Wednesday. The women were dismissed on frivolous grounds that they did not cook well, the CITU’s joint Secretary Selvam told The Hindu . The 12 women were summarily dismissed on February 11 from the Amma canteen functioning near the bus stand here on the charges that the food quality was bad. However, the women have maintained that they cooked with the supplies in stock at the canteen. Mr. Selvam said he took up their case with the Assistant Commissioner of Labour in Krishnagiri, Maadeshwaran. “Around the same time of the meeting, some representatives from Dharmapuri commissioner’s office had come. The Labour Commissioner requested the Municipality to hire them back on compassionate grounds. While the municipality agreed to the Labour Commissioner, the workers were not reinstated.” According to Mr. Selvam, on the other hand, the Municipal Commissioner of Dharmapuri told us that the women had given in writing that they did not need the job,” Mr. Selvam said. However, the women have vehemently denied having given any such undertaking in writing. The women employed for a paltry wages of Rs. 250 per day at the Amma canteen, have now been thrown out forced to struggle for a living. “Even if there was a minor lapse on part of the women, such punitive action by way of dismissal does not hold the municipality in good stead,” says Mr. Selvam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/women-cooks-allege-being-dismissed-on-frivolous-ground/article33866379.ece
18 February 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Nethaji vegetable market to be modernised at Rs. 26.01 crore||Modernisation of Nethaji Vegetable and Fruit Market on R.K.V. Road at Rs. 26.01 crore is expected to commence soon with provision for underground vehicle parking here. Shops for the wholesale and retail markets were constructed in 1935 and were renovated by the Corporation in 1992. In the absence of parking space, vehicles were parked indiscriminately on the busy R.K.V. Road causing frequent traffic congestion. Also, the market lacks basic amenities including toilets, drinking water facilities, drainage facility and turns slushy during the rainy season. Around 580 shops function on the premises while over 100 shops function on the road in the early morning everyday. Under the smart city mission project, the Corporation had proposed to modernise the market at Rs. 12.54 crore, carry out improvement works around the market at Rs. 12.48 crore and also install solar panels, cold storage and generators in the market at Rs. 99 lakh. Tenders were floated for the works as three packages and the civic body had received documents which are being scrutinised. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu that since vehicle parking continues to be a major concern for motorists in the market area and also to people who visit textile showrooms and commercial establishments, the new building will have a dedicated underground vehicle parking while the ground floor will have an open hall where shops would function. After issuing the work order, the project has to be completed within 18 months, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nethaji-vegetable-market-to-be-modernised-at-rs-2601-crore/article33866368.ece
18 February 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Erode dist. reports 20 cases||Erode district on Wednesday reported 20 new cases taking the district’s tally to 14,658. While 21 persons were discharged, 131 persons continue to be under treatment. Salem district reported 12 cases taking the district’s tally to 32,611. While 15 persons were discharged, 60 persons continue to be under treatment. Namakkal district reported seven cases taking the district’s tally to 11,756. A total of six persons were discharged, while 49 persons continue to be under treatment. Krishnagiri district recorded three new cases taking the two discharged cases. This has taken the total number of cases to 26 and the total number of COVID infections in the district to 8,125. Dharmapuri recorded four new cases and two discharged cases. This has taken the total number of cases to 28 cases and total number of infections to 6,635 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-dist-reports-20-cases/article33866370.ece
18 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Class X exam dates will be announced soon: Minister||School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan on Wednesday said that the schedule for Class X board examination will be announced soon. Regarding the Plus Two examination schedule announcement, the Minister told reporters that since the CBSE had announced the exam schedule for Classes X and XII, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami held discussions with the department officials and approved the schedule. He added that there was no confusion over the release of the schedule. It is to be noted that the School Education Department had earlier said that the schedule for board examinations would only be released after the dates for the Assembly elections were announced. The Minister, who also holds the Youth Welfare and Sports Development portfolio, said that the State government had sanctioned Rs. 67 crore for encouraging sports and added that infrastructure would be created in all the 12,522 gram panchayats and 528 town panchayats in the State. He also said that financial assistance had been sought from the Central Government for constructing stadiums in all the districts. Earlier, Mr. Sengottaiyan inaugurated an indoor stadium constructed at a cost of Rs. 3 crore at Krishna Nagar in Gobichettipalayam Municipality. Aavin chairman K.K. Kaliappan, Gobichettipalayam Revenue Divisional Officer Jayaraman, District Sports and Youth Welfare Officer R. Satheesh Kumar and other officials were present during the inaugural function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/class-x-exam-dates-will-be-announced-soon-minister/article33866366.ece
18 February 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Advt. boards disrupting vehicle movements removed||Advertisement boards that were placed on KNK Road by shopkeepers disrupting vehicle movements were removed by traffic personnel here on Wednesday. A team led by Deputy Superintendent of Police (Traffic) Uthayakumar found advertisement boards placed on the road disrupting vehicle movement. Hence, personnel removed the boards and warned shopkeepers not to encroach the road. Officials said that encroachments in all the major roads in the city will be removed everyday and asked commercial establishments and shopkeepers not to disrupt vehicle movement. They also asked the establishments to regulate vehicle parking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/advt-boards-disrupting-vehicle-movements-removed/article33866374.ece
18 February 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Cong. to take out bike rally||Members of the Erode South District Congress Committee will take out a rally on February 18 and 19 covering 200 villages in the district condemning the Centre’s anti-people policies. It’s president Makkal G. Rajan said that the rally will urge the Central government to revoke the three farm laws and also urge the State government to permanently close textile processing units that discharge effluents into River Bhavani, River Cauvery and other water bodies. He said that the units not only pollute the rivers, but also pollute the underground water and hence closure of the units is essential to protect the environment. The rally will also urge the government to waive the students’ educational loan, he added. Participants will create awareness among the people on the anti-people policies of the government, he said. The rally that will be flagged off by All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary and party’s Tamil Nadu in-charge Sanjay Dutt at Moolapalayam on February 18 at 9.30 a.m. The rally will pass through 200 villages in the Assembly constituencies of Perundurai and Modakurichi and will conclude at Koonampatti on February 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cong-to-take-out-bike-rally/article33866372.ece
18 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Due to maintenance works, power supply will be disrupted in the following areas from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.:  Thingalur sub-station, February 19: Thingalur, Grey Nagar, Kallakulam, Vettaiyankinaru, Pappampalayam, Mandiripalayam, Nallampatti, Suppaiyanpalayam, Thandacoundanpalayam, Mettur, Sukkakaranpalayam, Seenapuram West areas only, Dasampudur, Chellapampalayam, Veerachipalayam, Veeranampalayam, Karandipalayam, Thalayampalayam, Ponmudi, Naduvalasu, Ayicoundanpalayam, Kullampalayam, Netta Chellapalayam, Keezheri Palayam, Kombaiyan Valasu, Velankadu, Manoorkadu and Mamutti Thoppu.  Erode sub-station, February 20: Erode Town all areas, Surampatti Valasu, Veerappanchatiram, Edayankattu Valasu, Municipal Colony, Teachers Colony, Perundurai Road, Sampath Nagar, Vettukattuvalasu, Manickampalayam, Andikadu, Pandian Nagar, Sakthi Nagar, Vakil Thottam, Periyasemoor, Ram Nagar, Palayapalayam, Periyavalasu, Papathikadu, Bharathidasan Street, Muniyappa Kovil Street, Kothukaran Thottam, 16 Road, Narayanavalasu, Kumalankuttai, Towerline Colony, Thirumal Nagar, Ashokapuram, Vairapalayam, Karungalpalayam, KNK Road, Moolapattarai, Sakthi Road, Nethaji Road, Gandhiji Road, Periyar Nagar, EVN Road and Mettur Road.  Kasipalayam sub-station, February 20: Kasipalayam, Anicut areas,  Sudanandan Nagar, Surampatti Valasu, Jeganathapuram Colony, NGGO Colony, Uzhavan Nagar, Marappa Street 1st and 2nd, K.K. Nagar, Muthampalayam Housing Unit Phases 1,2 and 3, Anna Nagar, Rail Nagar, Balaji Garden, Ambigai Nagar, Annai Nagar, Nallipalayam, Chennimalai Road, Diesel Shed, Periya Thottam, Kalyasundaram Street, Vivekanandar Nagar, Aavin Feeds godown, Old Railway Station Road, Shastri Nagar, Bharathi Nagar, Moolapalayam, Nadarmedu, Lakshmi Garden, Lakshmi Nagar, Ramani Garden, Cheran Nagar, Rangampalayam, Ring Road, Sadayampalayam, Ganapathi Nagar and Krishna Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article33866375.ece
18 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Is Madurai in Japan or India?’||Launching a scathing attack on the BJP-led Centre for the inordinate delay in commencing construction work of the AIIMS building in Madurai for want of sanction of funds by a Japanese agency, DMK president M.K. Stalin wondered whether Madurai was in Japan or India. “Does Prime Minister Narendra Modi wonder why the Centre should allocate funds to Tamil Nadu when neither the BJP nor its ally can come to power in the State?” he asked on Wednesday. ‘Seven years of pretense’ Addressing party cadre at “ Ungal Thoguthiyil Stalin ” (Stalin in your constituency), the DMK’s Assembly poll outreach programme, Mr. Stalin asked whether the project’s implementation in Madurai depended on funding from Japan. “The BJP has been showing pretense for seven years with just one project,” he said. He said the project had been a non-starter after it was twice announced by the Centre in Parliament in 2015 and 2018. Ahead of the Parliamentary election in 2019, Mr. Modi laid the foundation stone for it in Madurai. A gazette notification on the project was published last June. However, nothing much has happened except for the allocation of a meagre Rs. 12 crore, the DMK president said. Listing the allocation of funds for similar AIIMS projects in other States, Mr. Stalin said the Centre had allocated Rs. 762 crore for Andhra Pradesh, Rs. 932 crore for Maharashtra, Rs. 702 crore for Uttar Pradesh, Rs. 597 crore for Punjab, Rs. 341 crore for Assam and Rs. 750 crore from Himachal Pradesh. Stating that there were largescale irregularities in the Smart City project, under implementation in Madurai, he said neither officials nor Ministers had denied the charges. ‘Projects for a cut’ The right development projects for the city had been ignored and only those that could bring in commission had been chosen, Mr. Stalin said. A congested spot in the city that badly requires a flyover has been ignored since land acquisition will take longer, Mr. Stalin said. “Since getting commission will take long, they have planned to construct a bridge at a place where it is not required,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/is-madurai-in-japan-or-india/article33866348.ece
18 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||NCB directed to pay relief to accused for delay in trial||Taking note of the fact that an accused in a case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act was remanded in judicial custody in 2018 and the trial was yet to commence in the case, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed that the petitioner’s right to speedy trial had been infringed. Justice G.R. Swaminathan observed that the prosecution had to be called to account and must pay for the lapse. It directed the Narcotics Control Bureau to pay a sum of Rs. 1 lakh as compensation within a period of four weeks to the wife of the petitioner and the trial should be concluded within a period of three months. It was hearing a bail petition filed by M. Ananthan. The petitioner and two others were apprehended by the Narcotics Control Bureau, Madurai. The vehicle of the accused was intercepted near Valavanthankottai toll plaza in Thuvakudi in Tiruchi district. The contraband was seized in 2018. The judge said the accused were remanded in judicial custody and a charge sheet was filed. The trial in the case was to begin in 2019, but did not take off. The accused were in no way responsible for the non-commencement of the trial. The High Court had not stayed the proceedings and no quash petition was filed. There was no justification whatsoever for not commencing the trial in time, the judge said. The court said the case on hand was one under the NDPS Act and involved commercial quantities of ganja. Therefore it could not be quashed and bail also could not be granted. The judge observed that when one of the accused in the case earlier moved the High Court for bail, the petition was dismissed with a direction to expedite the trial and conclude the same on merits within a period of six months. That period expired in 2020,.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ncb-directed-to-pay-relief-to-accused-for-delay-in-trial/article33867034.ece
18 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Don’t put up shops in parking area: plea||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday allowed Madurai Corporation to go ahead with the auction/tender process for constructing 10 additional shops at the Smart City Fruit Market in Mattuthavani here. But the process should not be confirmed. There was a proposal to construct 10 additional shops in the market. Secretary of Madurai Pazha Commission Vanigargal Sangam G. Kanthaiah in his petition said the proposed shops in the market were to come up in the existing parking area of the market. The move would lead to traffic hindrance and cause hardship to the public and merchants. Also, the tender notification was published in a lesser known Tamil daily, the plea said. The petitioner sought a stay on the tender notification and a direction to restrain Madurai Corporation from putting up any constructions in the parking area of the market. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi ordered notice to Madurai Corporation and sought response in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dont-put-up-shops-in-parking-area-plea/article33866915.ece
18 February 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Tale of the statue||Even as DMK president M.K. Stalin showered encomiums on his party functionaries and a few senior advocates for getting the statue of Kalaignar installed in a public place in the city, political observers had a tale to narrate on this count. In 2020, according to them, AIADMK functionaries put up their leader Jayalalithaa’s statue at K.K. Nagar near the Corporation’s welcome arch, where there is already a statue for MGR. Under the pretext of giving a facelift to MGR’s statue, the AIADMK leaders installed Jayalalithaa’s statue. Since then, for almost a year, DMK functionaries raised eyebrows and, on some occasion, even criticised the ruling party for neglecting the court directives on the issue, political observers said. Meanwhile, the DMK functionaries said after the demise of former DMK president M. Karunanidhi, Mr. Stalin conveyed his wish to all district secretaries in Tamil Nadu to install the statue of the late leader in all districts. In a bid to get credit, the party functionaries in Madurai set the tone by getting order from the authorities and installed Karunanidhi’s statue in a public place under the guidance of the advocates’ wing. After unveiling the statue, Mr. Stalin attacked the AIADMK for creating hassles. Responding to it, AIADMK leaders Sellur K. Raju and R.B. Udaykumar said it was Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami who signed the order for installation of the statue at Simakkal. The AIADMK had been magnanimous, they claimed. However, the political observers opined that in a bid to silence their arch rivals and settle scores, the AIADMK gave the nod for installation of the DMK leader’s statue, especially with elections round the corner. The DMK leaders, criticised installation of the Jayalalithaa's statue. Now, it had been squared. DMK city secretary G. Thalapathi maintained that they had obtained the orders as per the law. Hence, the party installed it in Madurai Central Constituency within about a week’s time and proudly stood on top of the board by getting the statue in a public place. He thanked senior leader A.V. Velu, P.T.R. Palanivel Thiagarajan and others for working tirelessly with him. It is another statue in the city for voters, but for the political parties it is an “achievement”, the observers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tale-of-the-statue/article33866921.ece
18 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court directs Narcotics Control Bureau to pay compensation to accused||Taking note of the fact that an accused in a case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act was remanded in judicial custody in 2018 and the trial was yet to commence in the case, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed that the petitioner’s right to speedy trial had been infringed. Justice G.R. Swaminathan observed that the prosecution had to be called to account and must pay for the lapse. The court directed the Narcotics Control Bureau to pay a sum of Rs. 1 lakh as compensation within a period of four weeks to the wife of the petitioner and the trial should be concluded within a period of three months. The court was hearing the bail petition filed by M. Ananthan. The petitioner and two others were apprehended by the Narcotics Control Bureau, Madurai, in 2018. The trial in the case was to commence in 2019, but did not take off. The accused were in no way responsible for the non-commencement of the trial. The court said that the case on hand was one under the NDPS Act and involved commercial quantities of ganja. Therefore it could not be quashed and bail also could not be granted, the judge said. The judge observed that when one of the accused in the case had earlier moved the High Court for bail, the petition was dismissed with a direction to expedite the trial and conclude the same on merits within a period of six months. That period expired in 2020, the judge observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-directs-narcotics-control-bureau-to-pay-compensation-to-accused/article33867043.ece
18 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Set up direct purchase centres for hill garlic’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday ordered notice to the State on a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to authorities concerned to set up direct procurement centres in Kodaikanal for selling hill garlic. In his petition, S. Manoj Immanuel of Kodaikanal also sought a direction to the authorities to set up warehouses for storing hill garlic in the hill station. He said that they had to be taken to wholesale markets and farmers had to spend on transportation. Therefore, direct procurement centres and warehouses would benefit farmers in Kodaikanal, he added. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi ordered notice to the State and adjourned the hearing in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/set-up-direct-purchase-centres-for-hill-garlic/article33866912.ece
18 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Road safety campaign held||Kendriya Vidyalaya in Thiruparankundram on Wednesday organised a road safety campaign in which 25 students, six teaching staff and Principal A. Jerald participated. Information on road safety awareness was distributed to the public at the event. The students also held placards emphasising the importance of road safety at the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/road-safety-campaign-held/article33866918.ece
18 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Man held for sexual harassment||A 65-year-old man, A. Raja of Kalligudi, has been booked for sexually assaulting a minor girl. Police said the girl was at her grandfather’s house, when Raja, granduncle of the seven-year-old victim, entered the house and sexually harassed her. Based on her mother’s complaint, Tirumangalam All Women Police booked him under the provisions of the POCSO Act, 2012.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-sexual-harassment/article33866923.ece
18 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Irregularities in Smart City projects: Stalin||Addressing DMK cadre at “Ungal Thoguthiyil Stalin” (Stalin in your constituency) Assembly poll outreach programme in Madurai on Wednesday, DMK president M. K. Stalin talked of large-scale irregularities in the Smart City projects being implemented in Madurai. The fruit market constructed much earlier at Mattuthavani had been falsely shown as if it was constructed under the Smart City project, he alleged. When Madurai MP raised questions on Smart City projects at DISHA meeting, neither the officials nor the Minister for Cooperation Sellur K. Raju could give a proper reply. The cost of the projects were being revised unilaterally, he said. Ministers Sellur K. Raju and R.B. Udhayakumar, had been aiding the irregularities, he charged. Listing out over a dozen development projects from bridges, flyovers, causeways, Ring Road, MGR Integrated Bus stand, polytechnic colleges brought by the DMK government in the past, he wondered whether the AIADMK could give such a list of development works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/irregularities-in-smart-city-projects-stalin/article33866928.ece
18 February 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Tirupur industrialists to train 7,000 workers||The Tirupur Exporters and Manufacturers’ Association (TEAMA) has put in place an action plan to train a workforce of 7,000 for the 36 factories to come up in the proposed textile park at Vedaranyam in Nagapattinam district. More skill training centres have been planned to be started to create a huge workforce before the Veda Textile Park at Ayyakaranpulam takes shape. The park, comprising 34 readymade garment and two knitwear units, is to be constructed at Rs. 96.86 crore. The Centre will offer a subsidy of Rs. 37.8 crore and the State government Rs. 23.62 crore. The Union Textiles Ministry is expected to accord its formal sanction of its share of the total project cost during this week. The project envisages 24 % contribution by the State Government and the rest by the Special Purpose Vehicle formed by the 36 entrepreneurs, N. Murali, Vice-President of TEAMA, said. The wet-processing will be carried out at Tirupur and rest of the process till manufacture of the end product will take place in Vedaranyam, he said. Formation of such clusters has been necessitated by shortage of labour in Tirupur. After a large segment of the north Indian workforce in Tirupur migrated to their respective States during the COVID 19 lockdown, a number of units were facing the problem of scaled-down production and productivity issues. Abundance of work force in places such as Vedaraynam will enable the Tirupur industries to stand up to the competition from Bangladesh and Vietnam in the export market, he said. A major hub of knitwear exports in India, Tirupur accounts for contributing 45% of exports, of which, more than 90% are cotton based garments. The competitive advantage of Bangladesh textile sector is only marginal and acceleration of production and productivity through such clusters formed under SITP will stand the Tirupur hub in good stead to emerge stronger, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tirupur-industrialists-to-train-7000-workers/article33866329.ece
18 February 2021||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||Centre tells SC it has no role in State’s quota decisions||The Centre has told the Supreme Court that it has no role in the choices made by the Tamil Nadu government with regard to the provision of reservation for specific castes or communities in State government jobs and admissions. The Centre was responding to a petition challenging the constitutionality of the Tamil Nadu Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Reservation of Seats in Educational Institutions and of Appointments or Posts in the Services under the State) Act of 1993, which provides 69% reservation in the State. The petitioner, Dinesh B., contended that the Tamil Nadu Legislature acted “outside its competence” by identifying and classifying socially and educationally backward classes (SEBCs), that too far in excess of the 50% limit on quota laid down by a nine-judge Bench of the Supreme Court in its judgment in the Indira Sawhney case. The Centre, however, decided to adopt a hands-off approach on the issue. “The inclusion or exclusion of any caste/community in the State List of SEBCs is the subject matter of the State government, and the Government of India has no role in the matter,” the Centre said in a 32-page affidavit. It referred to the Constitution (One hundred and second Amendment) Act of 2018, which details the difference in the procedure for inclusion or exclusion of castes and communities in the State List for SEBCs and the Central List. “The power to identify and specify SEBCs lies with Parliament only with reference to the Central List. The State governments may have separate State Lists of SEBCs for providing reservation for recruitment to State services or admissions in State government educational institutions. The castes or communities included in such State Lists may differ from those included in the Central List,” the Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment explained in the affidavit. Under the newly-inserted Article 342A of the Constitution (One hundred and second Amendment) Act of 2018, the President notifies the SEBCs in a State after consultation with the Governor. On the other hand, the Parliament includes or excludes SEBCs from the Central List. T.N. seeks time The case came up for hearing before a Bench, led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, on Wednesday. Tamil Nadu sought time to file a response. The case has been adjourned to February 25. The court agreed to hear arguments on whether the Tamil Nadu case should be referred to a five-judge Constitution Bench. The five-judge Bench is scheduled to hear a bunch of pleas questioning the validity of the Maratha reservation law of Maharashtra. However, T.N. has objected to the tagging of this case with that of the Maharashtra reservation law or similar laws of any other State. Senior advocate Shekhar Naphade, appearing for Tamil Nadu, said the State’s case should be heard separately. “India is an amalgam of States with varied population, size, history, culture and social fabric. The circumstances and facts prevailing in Tamil Nadu are not the same or similar to any other State. Factual variations contributing to the grant of reservation need to be reckoned with differently for different States while deciding the question on its validity,” Tamil Nadu said in a recent affidavit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-tells-supreme-court-it-has-no-role-in-states-quota-decisions/article33866354.ece
18 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Opposition wants govt. to prove its majority in Assembly||Opposition parties AINRC, AIADMK and BJP have asked the ruling Congress-DMK combine to prove majority on the floor of the house. Speaking to reporters after submitting a memorandum to the Lt. Governor at the Raj Nivas on Wednesday seeking the convening of the Assembly for a floor test, Opposition leader N. Rangasamy said the strength of the Congress had come down in the Assembly after the recent resignations of legislators and disqualification of another ruling party member. The Congress-DMK combine has got only 14 members in the 28-member house which is on a par with the strength of the Opposition in the Assembly, he said. AIADMK leader A. Anbalagan said the 14 members included the Speaker and so when compared to the Congress, the Opposition has more strength. The Speaker can only vote in case of a tie, he added. The government has lost the moral right to run the administration after the resignations of Ministers and legislators, he said. The Opposition has submitted a list of 14 legislators supporting the AINRC, AIADMK and BJP, he added When asked the relevance of submitting a memorandum when the incumbent L-G Kiran Bedi was removed, Mr. Anbalagan said it was submitted to her Officer on Special Duty and Additional Secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/opposition-wants-govt-to-prove-its-majority-in-assembly/article33866992.ece
18 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Rahul accuses PM of destroying the institution of Lt. Governor’s office||Accusing Prime Minister Narendra Modi of destroying the institution of the Lt. Governor’s office during the last four-and-a-half years, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said when his party comes to power at the Centre, it will ensure that no L-G is allowed to function in such a manner in the future. “I will ensure that no Lt. Governor will be allowed to run Puducherry in future. It will be run by the elected government. Mr. Modi disrespected the voters by not allowing an elected government to function. Through Kiran Bedi he has destroyed the institution of the Lt. Governor's office,” he charged at a public meeting at the AFT grounds. “The Prime Minister, by not allowing an elected government to function, has disrespected the voters, the historic past of the Union Territory and spoiled the future and aspirations of people here,” he said. ‘No right’ “A person who was not born in the Union Territory and who does not know the culture and traditions was made to function. Who gave Ms. Bedi the right to run the government?” Mr. Gandhi wondered. Stating that the Prime Minister was trying to impose his will and idea on the people of the country, Mr. Gandhi said the strength of the country lay in its unity and diversity. He reiterated his charge against the Prime Minister that all his policy measures, such as demonetisation, GST and the three farm laws, were to help five or six business people close to him. United fight Earlier, while interacting with fishermen at Sholai Nagar, the Congress leader said the poor could get their rights only when they are united. “The only way forward is the coming together of the poor and putting up a united fight,” he said. The fishermen are the “farmers” of the sea and a lot more needs to be done to improve their livelihood, he said. He also interacted with students of the Bharathidasan Government College for Women. Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, Ministers, Congress legislators, Congress general secretary K.C. Venugopal and AICC in-charges Dinesh Gundu Rao and Sanjay Dutt were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rahul-accuses-pm-of-destroying-the-institution-of-l-gs-office/article33866819.ece
18 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||L-G designate arrives, to take charge today||Tamilisai Soundararajan, Telangana Governor and Lt. Governor designate for Puducherry, arrived in the city on Wednesday, ahead of assuming office at the Raj Nivas on Thursday. According to a press note from Raj Nivas, the new Lieutenant Governor will assume office at 9 a.m. as per the warrant of the President. Ms. Soundararajan was given additional charge of Puducherry after the President removed Kiran Bedi from the post on Tuesday. Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, accompanied by Ministers and MLAs, greeted the Lt. Governor designate. Leader of Opposition N. Rangasamy and MLAs of the AIADMK and the BJP also greeted her. Ms. Soundararajan later visited the Manakula Vinayakar temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/l-g-designate-arrives-to-take-charge-today/article33866996.ece
18 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T.’s death toll now 660||Puducherry recorded two more COVID-19 deaths on Wednesday, pushing the toll to 660. The Union Territory also registered 18 new cases and 27 recoveries in the last 24 hours. Puducherry accounted for 12 of the new cases followed by Mahe (5) and Karaikal (1). The number of active cases in the Union Territory stood at 202. Of this, 106 were in hospitals and 96 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 1.02%, case fatality rate 1.67% and recovery rate 97.82%. The Union Territory has so far recorded 39,506 cases, of which 38,644 patients had recovered. T. Arun, Health Secretary, inspected the vaccination site at the Indira Gandhi Government General Hospital to take stock of the arrangements and to create awareness. Meanwhile, 278 healthcare workers and 29 frontline staff took the vaccination on Wednesday. So far, 6,624 persons, including 6,272 healthcare workers, have taken the vaccination. Cuddalore district reported seven fresh cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday, taking the district’s tally to 25,090. While 24,714 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 56. In Villupuram district, three persons tested positive, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 15,240. No positive case was reported in Kallakurichi district on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/uts-death-toll-now-660/article33866927.ece
18 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||CM’s wrong translation becomes viral||A wrong translation by Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy about what a fisherwoman said during an interactive session with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday has gone viral on social media. After giving his views on the welfare of fishermen and the outlook for the poor of the country, Mr. Gandhi opened the floor for an interactive session. As the floor opened, an elderly fisherwoman asked in Tamil, “He [the Chief Minister, who was translating the speech] is here. Has he come and met us even once during the cyclone?” While translating this in English, the Chief Minister said: “During cyclone Nivar, I came here and distributed relief assistance. She is saying that.” The video of the interaction went viral, with some criticising the Chief Minister for “misguiding” Mr. Gandhi. Opposition leaders, including A. Namasssivayam (who quit the Congress to join the BJP), posted the video to suggest the Chief Minister had tried deliberately to hide the fact.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cms-wrong-translation-goes-viral/article33866820.ece
18 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||What I did was my sacred duty, says Kiran Bedi||Outgoing Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi on Wednesday said whatever she did during her stint in Puducherry was “a sacred duty, fulfilling my Constitutional and moral responsibilities”. In a parting message that was shared with the media, Ms. Bedi, who was on Tuesday removed from the post by the President, said: “I thank the Government of India for a life-time experience in serving Puducherry as its Lt. Governor.” She also thanked all who worked with her closely. “I can say with [a] deep sense of satisfaction that during this tenure Team Raj Nivas diligently worked to serve the larger public interest.” Bright future “Puducherry has a very bright future. It’s now in the hands of the people. Wishing for a Prosperous Puducherry,” Ms. Bedi said. She had assumed office as the Lieutenant Governor of Puducherry on May 29, 2016.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/what-i-did-was-my-sacred-duty-says-kiran-bedi/article33866994.ece
18 February 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Two spectators gored to death||Two spectators were gored to death and 54 persons injured during a manjuvirattu held at Kallur near Aranthangi on Wednesday. The victims were identified as Raju (55) of Kallur and M. Ansari (27) of Karaikudi. The incident occurred when they were watching the event near the bull releasing point. While Ansari died while on the way to the Government Hospital in Aranthangi, Raju died shortly after being admitted to the GH. Out of 54 persons, who sustained injuries, 10 with grievous injuries were referred to the Government Hospitals in Pudukottai and Sivaganga. Most of them were spectators. As many as 750 bulls brought from various districts including Pudukottai, Sivaganga, Madurai, Dindigul, Theni and Tiruchi were released. A total of 250 bull tamers participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-spectators-gored-to-death/article33866326.ece
18 February 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Revenue department staff on indefinite strike||Urging the State government to fulfil their charter of demands, including implementing the old pension scheme, revenue department staff began their indefinite strike here on Wednesday. Their 10 demands include hike in salary for senior revenue inspectors and revoking the new pension scheme and implementing the old pension scheme. Tahsildars, revenue inspectors, village administrative officers, assistants and other revenue staff took part in the strike that affected the functioning of the department at the Collectorate. Since most of the staff did not turn up for work, revenue offices wore a deserted look as people who came to meet officials returned. Protesters wanted their long demands to be fulfilled at the earliest until which they said that their protest will continue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/revenue-department-staff-on-indefinite-strike/article33866377.ece
18 February 2021||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||College principal manhandled by students||The Panaivadalichathram police are investigating the alleged manhandling of the principal of a college by the students on Wednesday. Police said faculty member Sivakumar, attached to the Department of Physics of Pasumpon Muthuramalinga Thevar College, Melaneelithanallur, who had been placed under suspension for two months for reasons unknown, came to the college on Tuesday. When principal of the college Hari Gangaram opposed it, an argument broke-out between them. Subsequently, they filed a complaint against each other in the Panaivadalichathram police station. Against this backdrop, a group of students gathered on Wednesday and asked Mr. Hari to allow Mr. Sivakumar to take classes. When the principal told them that any decision could be taken only by the management, they allegedly manhandled Mr. Hari. After being given first aid, he was admitted to the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital. Further investigations are on||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/college-principal-manhandled-by-students-in-tenkasi/article33866922.ece
18 February 2021||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||Paramour kills woman, attempts suicide||Police said S. Antony Raj, 51, of Mela Karisalkulam in Rayagiri and G. Mala, 35, of Rayagiri, who used to stay in a lodge at Krishnapuram in Kadayanallur in the district, checked-in at the lodge on Tuesday. As they did not come out of the room on Wednesday, the staff called Antony Raj repeatedly as there was no response, the staff alerted the Kadayanallur police. When the police opened the door after breaking the lock, they saw Antony Raj and Mala lying in a pool of blood. Suspecting that the duo had already breathed their last, the police rushed them to the Tenkasi Government Hospital, where the doctors found that Antony Raj was still alive. His condition is said to be critical. The body of Mala was sent for a post-mortem. During investigation, police found that Antony Raj had developed an extra-marital affair with Mala, who belongs to a different caste. Police suspect that he might have murdered her before stabbing himself in a bid to commit suicide. Further investigations are on. Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by calling State’s health helpline 104 or Chennai-based Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/paramour-kills-woman-attempts-suicide/article33867040.ece
18 February 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Revenue employees abstain from work||A section of employees owing allegiance to Tamil Nadu Revenue Officials Association went on strike on Wednesday. Salary hike from office assistant cadre to the tahsildar cadre, filling up of vacancies, regularisation of appointments made under compassionate grounds, creation of Deputy Tahsildar post in Disaster Management wing and personal assistant to Collector (elections) and restoration of the old pension scheme were some of their demands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/revenue-employees-abstain-from-work/article33866323.ece
18 February 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||‘Govt. will bring water from Mullaperiyar dam to Andipatti’||For the benefit of the farmers of Andipatti Assembly Constituency, the State government has in principle decided to draw water from Mullaperiyar dam through pipelines at a cost of Rs. 380 crore, said Deputy Chief Minister and AIADMK coordinator O. Paneerselvam on Wednesday. Speaking at a government function organised to distribute welfare assistance worth Rs. 9.16 crore, including ‘thalikku thangam’ for 771 persons, sewing machines and house site pattas, to a total of 2,725 beneficiaries, he said the AIADMK government was committed to protecting the farmers and the downtrodden. Even after the death of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, the AIADMK government had been continuing the tradition, he said, adding the demand of farmers for water for irrigation would be fulfilled. “Without affecting irrigation in any other area, water would be drawn from Mullaperiyar dam and brought through Kandamanoor to the 83 tanks in Andipatti Assembly Constituency,” he added. The Deputy Chief Minister also said an industrial estate on a sprawling 550-acre site near Veerapandi in the district would come up, and thanked Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami for giving approval for the project. When the industrial estate started functioning, it would change the prospects of the district. Young entrepreneurs could start their own industries and educated unemployed youth might not migrate to other places from here in search of jobs, Mr. Panneerselvam said. The AIADMK government, he said, had been instrumental in preventing female infanticide in the State. After several complaints about the evil practice in existence, Jayalalithaa started a scheme, which prevented infanticide and gave girl children a new lease of life. Today, the State was proud to have saved scores of girl children, who were raised under the care of the AIADMK government in the cradle baby scheme. Collector M. Pallavi Baldev presided. Theni MP O. P. Raveendranath and MLA S.T.K. Jakkayan participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-will-bring-water-from-mullaperiyar-dam-to-andipatti/article33866925.ece
18 February 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||CM promises concrete houses for poor||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said DMK president M.K. Stalin, who was not able to highlight the achievements of the “violent DMK administration” between 2006 and 2011 when they kept the State in utter darkness due to acute power shortages, was levelling baseless allegations against the AIADMK government to hoodwink the people and get their votes in the ensuing Assembly poll. The Chief Minister promised to give free land with houses to the poor on returning to power. “Even though Mr. Stalin is lying through his teeth to tarnish the reputation of the meticulously functioning AIADMK government, the people of Tamil Nadu, who are now enjoying a peaceful life, will never support the DMK,” Mr. Palaniswami said while campaigning in Srivaikundam in the district on Wednesday. Recalling the acute power crisis that prevailed between 2006 and 2011, the Chief Minister said Tamil Nadu became a “power surplus State” under the rule of late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa within 3 years of her returning to power in 2011. Land retrieved “Moreover, our leader Jayalalithaa formed the anti-land grabbing cell in the Tamil Nadu police to retrieve all lands usurped by DMK men. The people of Tamil Nadu will never forget and pardon the DMK for leaving them in utter darkness and goondaism. If the DMK returns to power, the State will plunge into darkness again and people’s hard-earned properties will be usurped by DMK goondas,” Mr. Palaniswami said, adding that DMK men were indulging in atrocities of all sorts in hotels, beauty parlours and supermarkets, even when they were not in power. Highlighting his government’s achievements, Mr. Palaniswami said it had come to the rescue of the poor and the farmers during the flood, drought and the pandemic, giving financial assistance and free essentials for five months to the poor. When he referred to the Rs. 1,000 Pongal gift in 2020, the Rs. 1,000 relief for COVID-19 and the Rs. 2,500 Pongal gift for 2021, the crowd welcomed it with wild cheering. “We have given Rs. 4,500 to every family in one year even though the government is fighting the pandemic,” Mr. Palaniswami said. He also highlighted the grievance redressal system put in place by his government. “After introducing the Chief Minister’s Special Grievance Redressal System in every district, the government received 9.77 lakh petitions, of which 5.25 lakh have been resolved. People have accepted the ‘1100 Grievance Redressal System’ introduced by the government as it has simplified the process of grievance redressal,” he said. “Mr. Stalin, who did nothing when he was the Minister for Local Administration and then the Deputy Chief Minister, is now collecting petitions from the people during his staged programmes in a bid to bamboozle the people,” Mr. Palaniswami said. Increasing water supply The Chief Minister, after highlighting the positive outcome of the ‘kudimaramathu’ scheme introduced to renovate waterbodies, said 14,000 lakes under the Public Works Department and 26,000 waterbodies under the control of local bodies had been given a new lease of life to augment water for irrigation. Speaking about the 7.5% horizontal reservation for government students in medical colleges that his government introduced, he said, “As many as 435 students have entered medical and dental programmes this year, thanks to the policy.” While addressing women at Tiruchendur, Mr. Palaniswami said the government, which had given 8 g of gold and Rs. 50,000 as marriage assistance to 99,000 women this year, would give it to one lakh more women before April. In an apparent reference to Mr. Stalin’s charge against the State government giving advertisements in newspapers highlighting its achievements, Mr. Palaniswami said: “Apart from the people, you [Mr. Stalin] should understand our achievements, as you do not attend Assembly sessions. So go through the advertisements to know what we’ve accomplished.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-promises-concrete-houses-for-poor/article33866340.ece
18 February 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||PM dedicates gas pipeline in Thoothukudi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi dedicated to the nation the 144-km-long Ramanathapuram-Thoothukudi natural gas pipeline, which will transport the fuel to a fertilizer manufacturing and petrochemical units near the coastal town from the gas fields in Ramanathapuram. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, who is in Thoothukudi for electioneering, participated in the event through video-conferencing. He said the project would spur industrial growth in the southern region in a big way. “This project will open up opportunity for many new industries,” he said. The project has been executed at a cost of Rs. 700 crore to bring 8 million metric standard cubic meter per day to Thoothukudi with the compressor station at Valantharavai village in Ramanathapuram district. The pipeline is part of a mega natural gas pipeline project being implemented in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and the Union Territory of Puducherry. A 1,445-km-long Ennore-Tiruvallur-Bengaluru-Puducherry-Nagapattinam-Madurai-Thoothukudi natural gas pipeline is being established for evacuation of gas from the liquified natural gas import terminal of 5 million metric tonnes per annum capacity at Kamarajar Port, near Chennai. The Ramanathapuram-Thoothukudi pipeline will be connected to the Ennore LNG terminal to meet the increased demand and feed potential anchor customers to spur industrial growth. The pipeline will also supply environment-friendly fuel to households in the form of piped natural gas and to vehicles in the form of compressed natural gas (CNG). Officials of the Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), the project proponent, insist that though the pipes have been laid on farmland, they won’t affect cultivation. “Natural gas is reliable and the pipeline system can’t be easily damaged by weather or affected by weather conditions,” an official claimed. Farmers of Kulaiyankarisal and Pottalkaadu villages had opposed the laying of 18-inch- diameter pipes on their lands. Besides giving compensation to the farmers, the IOC desilted Pettaikulam, an irrigation tank with an extent of 250 acres at Kulaiyankarisal feeding 1,000 acres, on an outlay of Rs. 20 lakh under its Corporate Social Responsibility programme in August last.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pm-opens-natural-gas-pipeline/article33866353.ece
18 February 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||PM inaugurates Ramanathapuram – Thoothukudi natural gas pipeline||Prime Minister Narendra Modi dedicated to the nation the 144-km-long Ramanathapuram – Thoothukudi natural gas pipeline, which will transport fuel to a fertilizer manufacturing and petrochemical units near the coastal city from the gas fields in Ramanathapuram. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, who is in Thoothukudi for his electioneering, participated in the event through videoconferencing. He said the project would spur industrial growth in the southern region in a big way. “This project will open up new opportunity for many new industries,” he said. The project has been executed at a cost of Rs. 700 crore to bring 8 million metric standard cubic meter natural gas per day to Thoothukudi with the compressor station at Valantharavai village in Ramanathapuram district. The pipeline is part of a mega natural gas pipeline project being implemented in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and the Union Territory of Puducherry. A 1,445-kilometer-long Ennore–Thiruvallur-Bengaluru–Puducherry–Nagapattinam–Madurai–Thoothukudi natural gas pipeline is being established for evacuation of gas from liquified natural gas import terminal of 5 million metric tonnes per annum capacity at Kamarajar Port near Chennai. The Ramanathapuram–Thoothukudi pipeline will be connected to Ennore LNG terminal to meet the increased demand and feed potential anchor customers to spur industrial growth. The pipeline will also supply environment-friendly fuel to households in the form of piped natural gas and to vehicles in the form of compressed natural gas (CNG). Officials of the Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), the project proponent, insist that though the pipes have been laid via cultivable lands, it won’t affect cultivation. “Natural gas is reliable and pipeline system can’t be easily damaged by weather or affected by weather conditions,” an official claimed. Farmers of Kulaiyankarisal and Pottalkaadu villages had opposed laying of the 18-inch diameter pipes via cultivable lands. Besides giving compensation to the farmers, the IOC desilted Pettaikulam, an irrigation tank with the extent of 250 acres at Kulaiyankarisal feeding 1,000 acres, on an outlay of Rs. 20 lakh under its Corporate Social Responsibility programme last August. However, a section of the farmers alleged that the IOC did not give them the compensation as agreed upon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pm-dedicates-natural-gas-pipeline/article33866355.ece
18 February 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Palaniswami tells AIADMK cadre to demolish Stalin’s ‘malicious campaign’||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has appealed to the party cadre to meet every voter to tell them about the development Tamil Nadu had witnessed under AIADMK’s rule and its welfare schemes which alone would smash DMK president M.K. Stalin’s venomous campaign against the ruling party. Addressing a public meeting at Chidambara Nagar on Wednesday evening, Mr. Palaniswami said Mr. Stalin was receiving petitions from the public. He should explain the action he took on the petitions he had received from the public during the Lok Sabha elections in 2019. He resumed the drama of receiving petitions from the public again since the Assembly election was fast approaching, Mr. Palaniswami said. Though the DMK was sharing power at the Centre for 13 years, Tamil Nadu got nothing good from their rule while the ‘party’s first family’ thrived in all spheres after securing lucrative ministerial berths. Addressing members of the party’s Information Technology and Youth Wings earlier, Mr. Palaniswami appealed to them to take to the people the government’s welfare schemes, development projects executed, industrial investments made in Tamil Nadu for creating several lakhs of employment opportunities, revolution being made in education, etc. The State government that ensured signing of 304 MoUs in the Global Investors Meet held in January 2019 to attract industrial investments of Rs. 3.05 lakh crore. The State, even during the pandemic, managed to attract 73 investments to provide employment to over a lakh youth. MoUs for industrial investments proposals, worth about Rs. 28,000 crore, were signed on Tuesday to provide employment to over 67,000 youth. For the industrial investments in the southern districts, the government was offering 50% subsidy in land cost and investment subsidy. “The State is marching ahead of other States in all spheres. However, Mr. Stalin is spreading lies in sustained and meticulous fashion to divert the voters. Hence, the young bloods of IT and the Youth Wings should demolish this malicious campaign,” Mr. Palaniswami said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/palaniswami-tells-aiadmk-cadre-to-demolish-stalins-malicious-campaign/article33866926.ece
18 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Synchronised bird census begins||A two-day synchronised bird census began in all bird and wildlife sanctuaries in central region on Wednesday. Wildlife and bird sanctuaries at Point Calimere on the east coast near Vedaranyam, Vaduvur, and Vijayamarthandapuram in Tiruvarur district, Karaivetti in Ariyalur district were among those protected areas in Tiruchi zone, where the bird census is being undertaken. More than 200 persons were engaged in the annual exercise, jointly organised by the Forest Department and the Biodiversity Conservation Foundation (BCF- India). Bird watchers, ornithologists, wildlife enthusiasts and college students were among those roped in to carry out the census. The enumerators were briefed about the methodology of counting birds, including migratory birds, at an induction programme before the census. S. Ramasubramanian, Chief Conservator or Forests, Tiruchi, said that the aim of the census was to avoid duplication of data and document birds in the entire state. The census would help in understanding the migratory pattern of the bird and their nesting behaviour. He said that a book on ‘Birds in Protected areas of Tamil Nadu State’, which had complete details on the annual census programme conducted during 2018-2020, had been used as a benchmark database to record domestic, land and migratory birds. The book provided an insight about the various land and water bird species recorded across the State. It would serve as a field guide for bird watchers in identifying birds found across the sanctuaries, he added. The census had been undertaken in all 13 wildlife and bird sanctuaries in the State. Of them, four were in Tiruchi zone. A. Kumaraguru, Conservation Scientist, Biodiversity Conservation Foundation, said that enumerators were asked to submit their field data by Thursday evening. After checking and cross checking, the data, a final report would be compiled by Saturday. It would enable the Forest Department to initiate conversation initiatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/synchronised-bird-census-begins/article33866331.ece
18 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Ward for destitute patients inaugurated at GH||The Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital has opened an exclusive ward for destitute patients. Collector S. Sivarasu inaugurated the 20-bed ward on Wednesday. Patients with no relatives or caretakers, victims of accidents and trauma with no next-of-kin and patients who have been abandoned will be looked after at this ward. A public interest litigation was filed by a Tiruchi-based student, hearing which, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court had ordered notice to the State on a direction to the government to establish special wards for treating abandoned and destitute people at all government medical college hospitals. ‘We had planned to set up such a ward for a while. Following this direction, we decided to do it full-fledged,’ Dean K. Vanitha said. The hospital received many patients who while undergoing treatment told doctors that they had nowhere to go. At the ward, the patients would be bathed, cleaned up, given clothes and given other basic utilities till they recover. ‘We have spoken to the District Social Welfare Officer to ensure that they are rehabilitated after their discharge from the hospital,’ she said. The initiative would help bring together the work done by the police, health and social welfare departments, she added. A team of nurses, and two doctors, on rotation, have been deputed to the ward. In case of serious ailments, the patients would be shifted to the specific departments. Basic needs of patients would be provided through donations. ‘We will arrange for food at the hospital. We will accept clothes, toiletries and other necessities from donors,’ she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ward-for-destitute-patients-inaugurated-at-gh/article33866333.ece
18 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Christians offer prayers||In a marked difference from the usual practice of drawing a cross of ashes on the forehead, the COVID-19 pandemic saw most priests sprinkling the ashes on the devotee’s head on Ash Wednesday. For Christians, the day marks the beginning of the 40-day fasting and prayer during the season of Lent, culminating with Easter. On Ash Wednesday, devotees visit churches, offer their prayers and are anointed with ash on their forehead by a priest. The Holy week begins on March 28 with Palm Sunday while Easter will be celebrated on April 3, this year. For the next 40 days, the devotees will observe special prayers, called ‘Way of The Cross,’ where the events which led to Jesus’ crucifixion would be traced and prayed upon. About 2000 devotees visited Holy Redeemer’s Basilica on Wednesday. The church provided noon meals to those attending the 11 a.m. mass, and others living around the church in Palakkarai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ash-wednesday-christians-offer-prayers/article33866325.ece
18 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Special mela to update Aadhaar details||A special drive would be conducted at designated post offices in central region from February 22 to 27 to facilitate Aadhaar enrolment and updation. A press release says Aadhaar enrolment and updation centres are functioning at 373 offices in Central Postal Region between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m. To facilitate new enrolment and correction in existing Aadhaar cards, the special mela will be held at all these Post Office Aadhaar centres in the region. The following services can be availed: new enrolment and mandatory biometric updation without any charge; demographic updation, changes in name, address, mobile number, email address and date of birth on payment of Rs. 50; and biometric updation on payment of Rs. 100. For child enrolment, the following documents are required in original along with the physical presence of both the child and either of the parent; proof of identity and proof of address of either parent and birth certificate of the child. For mobile number and e-mail address updation, no document is needed and for other demographic updation, relevant documentary proof is required in original. A dedicated customer line 0431-2419707 has been set up at regional office, Tiruchi, for Aadhaar related queries, A. Govindarajan, Postmaster General, Central Region-TN, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-mela-to-update-aadhaar-details/article33866337.ece
18 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Onion price shoots up in Tiruchi||Prices of onions, both the small (shallots) and big (Bellary) varieties, have shot up in Tiruchi market. One kg of first quality shallots was sold for Rs. 150 to Rs. 160 in the retail market on Tuesday. In wholesale market, it was quoted at Rs. 120 to Rs. 130. Bellary onion was quoted at Rs. 70 to Rs. 75. It was sold for Rs. 52 to Rs. 55 a kg in the wholesale market. Shallots were sold for Rs. 80 to Rs. 85 a kg and Bellary onions for Rs. 30 in January. “We cannot afford onions at such high prices,” said M. Sathish, a consumer who visited Uzhavar Sandhai at Thennur. The Tiruchi market used to receive 2,000 bags (80 kg each) of shallots from Perambalur, a major shallot growing district. It has come down to about 1,000 bags. Unseasonal and heavy rains is said to have damaged the crop. Tiruchi requires 16,000 to 20,000 kg of big onions. Arrivals from Karnataka and Maharashtra mainly meets the requirement. While there is hardly any supply from Karnataka, the arrival from Maharashtra has met just 50% of the requirement, thereby causing a mismatch between demand and supply. P. Sudhakar of Sri Kalaivani Traders in Tiruchi said the market received just 50% of the demand for the past one week. The prices of big onions might come down to an extent if the supply from Maharashtra improved. But the prices of shallots would continue to prevail at the current rate for at least a month, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/onion-price-shoots-up-in-tiruchi/article33866328.ece
18 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||A garbage mound in residential area||In what should have been a small patch of green between Chathiram Bus Stand and a residential area along Old Karur Road in Mela Chintamani stands a huge mound of garbage. Open defecation is common place here. While traffic roars past the bustling Mela Chinthamani, this patch lies on a clearing behind Muneeswarankoil. The garbage mound is mostly domestic waste from nearby apartments, food waste dumped by street vendors, banana leaves used to serve food at these stalls and plastic bottles. Even a decomposing carcass of a dog is lying here for weeks. A street vendor said the garbage mound has become bigger over the last few months. “Soon after the lockdown norms began to ease, people began to venture outdoors and started dumping the domestic waste here. People from the nearby apartments throw waste right from their windows,” she said. Another vendor said corporation sanitary workers also use it as a dumping ground. “Their refrain is that they are acting on instructions from their superiors. When we stop residents or anyone from dumping waste here, they ask us why we need to be bothered about it,” he said. Though the garbage is burnt now and than, the heap accumulates again in no time. A corporation official said the residents were responsible for the mess. “We will clear it, but the residents must be aware of the importance of maintaining their surroundings clean,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-garbage-mound-in-residential-area/article33866322.ece
18 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||35 COVID-19 cases in central region||The central region on Wednesday reported 35 fresh cases of COVID-19. No death was reported in the region, according to the bulletin issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. Thanjavur reported 11 fresh cases while the other seven districts in the region reported less than 10 cases. In Tiruchi, nine patients tested positive. Three patients who were undergoing treatment at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital were discharged. Four patients tested positive each in Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam. Karur reported three fresh cases and Perambalur two. Both Ariyalur and Pudukottai district reported one fresh case each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/35-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-central-region/article33866324.ece
18 February 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||‘Resumption of passenger train services may take some more time’||The Southern Railways is not in a haste to resume passenger train services that were stopped in the wake of COVID-19 outbreak, hinted General Manager John Thomas here on Wednesday. “COVID-19 is still around and cases are on the rise in Kerala… the number of cases have not come down to zero in Tamil Nadu as well,” Mr. John Thomas told reporters here on Wednesday without giving any direct reply when asked about the possibility of resumption of passenger train services for the benefit of students going to schools and colleges. He said rail services would slowly open like the suburban train services that have opened in Chennai. Only in the next stage, the passenger train services would resume, he added. Asked if the Southern Railways would consider the idea of operating passenger trains at least during the school and college timings for the benefit of students, the General Manager said it was for the higher-ups in the Ministry of Railways to take a decision in this connection. On the completion of track doubling work in the Madurai – Vaanchi Maniyaachi – Thoothukudi section, Mr. John Thomas said the work would be completed by December 2022 and the Commissioner of Railway Safety would inspect the work in the same month. He also assured that operation of ‘link trains’ from Thoothukudi for Guruvayoor Express and Coimbatore Express Trains that were operated before COVID-19-induced lockdown would be examined. The General Manager, who started his inspection at Punalur on Wednesday morning, reached Tirunelveli Railway Junction via Shencottai, Tenkasi, Kadayam and Ambasamudram. He expressed satisfaction over the maintenance of track, passenger-friendly infrastructure in the stations. “Such measures will attract more passengers and freight loaders,” he hoped.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/resumption-of-passenger-train-services-may-take-some-more-time/article33867039.ece
18 February 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||‘Delay in removing group from SC list is shocking’||Expressing disappointment over the delay in removing the seven subsects [to be grouped as] ‘Devendrakula Velalar’ from the list of the Scheduled Castes, Puthiya Tamilagam (PT) president K. Krishnasamy said he would meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah to press the demand. Dr. Krishnasamy, whose party has been agitating in support of the demand, told journalists in Tirunelveli on Wednesday that the Bill tabled in Parliament dealt only with granting assent for inclusion of the seven subsects of SCs under ‘Devendrakula Velalar’. “When Mr. Modi made an announcement in this connection in Chennai recently, he only referred to the inclusion of the seven subsects under the name ‘Devendrakula Velalar’, but refrained from making any announcement on removing ‘Devendrakula Velalar’ from the SC list. This is shocking.” He said he would meet Mr. Modi during his visit to Coimbatore on February 25 and Mr. Shah during his visit to Tamil Nadu on February 28. Letters would be sent to the Prime Minister and the Home Minister in this connection and signatures collected in the villages in support of the demand would be submitted, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/delay-in-removing-group-from-sc-list-is-shocking/article33866346.ece
18 February 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur Corporation gets its first robot for manhole cleaning||Tiruppur South MLA S. Gunasekaran unveiled the first manhole cleaning robot of the Corporation at Kuppusamypuram on Wednesday. Officials said that the robot ‘Bandicoot’ manufactured by a Kerala-based private firm was procured by the civic body under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) scheme. The machine was worth nearly Rs. 40 lakh and its one-year operational maintenance would cost around Rs. 15 lakh. Mr. Gunasekaran told reporters that the robot will help in curbing manual scavenging and deaths due to asphyxiation. According to the Corporation officials, the robot will be employed to clean the 135-km- long underground drainage line in 19 out of the 60 wards. The Corporation is planning to procure three more manhole cleaning robots by the end of this year so that there will be one robot for each of its four zones, the officials noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruppur-corporation-gets-its-first-robot-for-manhole-cleaning/article33866827.ece
18 February 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Police rescue 12 missing children||The Anti-Child Trafficking Unit of the Tiruppur City Police has rescued 12 children who were reported to be missing during a two-week drive conducted under the ‘Operation Smile’ programme to rescue and rehabilitate missing children. The rescue operation was carried out by a special team led by Inspector Badrunnisa Begum under the supervision of Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crimes against Women and Children unit) S. Mohan, a release said. Conducted within the city police limits between February 1 and 15, the special team also rescued 20 children who were allegedly forced into child labour and alms-seeking during the rescue operation. The rescued children were handed over to the Child Welfare Committee, who rehabilitated them with either their parents or at rehabilitation centres, according to the release. Since July 2020, the Anti-Child Trafficking Unit has rescued 75 minors out of the 86 who were reported to be missing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-rescue-12-missing-children/article33866382.ece
18 February 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Shops rebuilt, but fire safety still a concern at Ooty Municipal Market||Though the 81 shops that were destroyed in a fire at the Municipal Market last year have been rebuilt, local consumer activists have stated that the underlying cause of the fire is yet to be addressed. In June last year, a total of 81 shops were gutted in a fire caused by an electrical short circuit. The small fire spread quickly due to the closely-packed shops and was further exacerbated by the explosion of LPG cylinders kept inside a few tea shops and eateries. Recently, the shops which were rebuilt at a cost of Rs. 49.85 lakh were reopened by Minister for Municipal Administration, S.P. Velumani with Nilgiris District Collector J. Innocent Divya in attendance. However, local merchants and activists have stated that no preventative steps have been taken to minimise the chance of fires breaking out at the market in the future. “Merchants in the market extend their shops beyond their allotted space, leading to lesser space being available for emergency responders to get through,” said an official from the fire department who helped put out the fire in the market last year. One of the main problems fire crews faced in battling the fire was their inability to reach the main source of the fire with their fire trucks and fire-fighting equipment. As a result, firemen put their lives on the line and entered the market premises to remove any LPG cylinders inside the shops, minimizing damage and potentially preventing loss of life from the fire. G. Janardhanan, president of the Ooty Public Awareness Association, said that fire hydrants should be installed inside the market premises, from where emergency services can have access to water to fight fires in the future. “The district administration must insist that smoke detection alarms should be fixed at all the shops, while fire extinguishers should also be made mandatory,” said Mr. Janardhanan. When contacted, Municipal Engineer B. Rajendran said that steps were being taken to allow easier access into the market for emergency responders. “We have also instructed owners of tea stalls and eateries inside the market to use only one commercial LPG cylinders in their shops,” said Mr. Rajendran, adding that the municipality would conduct regular inspections to ensure that the rules are followed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shops-rebuilt-but-fire-safety-still-a-concern-at-ooty-municipal-market/article33866831.ece
18 February 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Man shoots and kills son||A 58-year-old ex-serviceman has been arrested by the police for shooting his son dead after a quarrel in Vellore on Tuesday. According to the police, Subramani, an ex-serviceman was residing with his wife Sumathi, daughter Deepika, 24, and sons Vinoth, 25, and Dinesh in Adukkamparai in Vellore. He was working in a private company as a security guard in Chennai, and did not take his gun with him for duty. On Tuesday night, he allegedly consumed alcohol and went to the first floor of his house in Vellore, to have dinner. When his daughter Deepika brought him food, she had an argument with him and in a fit of rage, he threw the plate at her. Deepika went down and narrated what had happened to her brother Vinoth, 25, who went to the first floor and argued with Subramani. He shouted at him for displaying such aggressive behaviour. During the course of the argument, Subramani took out the gun and fired at Vinoth’s chest, at point blank range. Vinoth collapsed and hearing the sound, Deepika, Sumathi and Dinesh rushed Vinoth to the Government Vellore Medical College hospital. But he was declared dead upon arrival. The police were informed about the incident and Subramani was arrested. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-shoots-and-kills-son/article33867046.ece
18 February 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Virudhunagar district to have 489 additional polling booths||Virudhunagar district will have an additional 489 polling booths after the Election Commission ordered to divide all polling booths that had more than 1,050 voters. At an all-party meeting chaired by Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan, to discuss the formation of additional booths, the representatives of political parties were told that earlier the Election Commission had proposed to confine only 1,000 voters in each booth. However, now according to the Election Commission each booth could have up to 1,050 voters. Out of the 1,881 booths already available in the district, 489 booths had more than 1,050 voters, the Collector said. Hence, with the additional polling booths, the total number of booths in the district will go up to 2,370, he pointed out. While 32 booths will have to be shifted to nearby schools, the remaining 457 booths will be accommodated in the same polling locations. Most of the additional booths will be housed within 500 metres from the old booths. Virudhunagar District Revenue Officer R. Mangalaramasubramanian, Sub-Collector (Sivakasi), C. Dinesh Kumar, were present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/virudhunagar-district-to-have-489-additional-polling-booths/article33866356.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||HC emphasises importance of public libraries, reading habit||One of the Constitutional guarantees is providing education to all classes of people and in achieving this target, libraries play a great role. Article 21 A of the Constitution provides for Right to Education to all children. However, libraries are provisioned only in 15% of the villages in the State, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has observed. The court was hearing a batch of petitions challenging certain amendments made to Tamil Nadu Public Libraries Rules. Pointing to data available, the court said that out of 15,979 villages in the State, only a paltry number of libraries, around 1,915 in villages, 14 mobile units and a total of 745 part-time ones, were available. It worked out to roughly 15% of the strength of the villages. Justice M. Dhandapani observed that libraries were essential and, in digital times, they were needed more than ever before. Emphasising on the need for libraries, he said it was the duty of the State to provide infrastructure to improve intellectual standards, which would have a direct impact on improving the living standard of the masses in socially and educationally backward areas. The judge sought to know from the State if there was a blueprint drawn for establishment of new libraries, especially in villages, and steps taken to promote the reading habit among the public, particularly school children. The court also sought to know how the public library movement could be taken to the next level by bringing in active public participation. It also sought details on the staff strength and vacancies across various libraries and details of different cadre under local library authorities, utilisation of funds in the form of cess and other payments received towards membership, provision of e-facility, digitisation and digital access, programmes conducted in the form of lectures and classes and the steps taken for sharpening and honing the skills of librarians and other staff members for better performance in guiding the public. The judge said the provisions under the Tamil Nadu Public Libraries Act must be followed and directed the School Education Department and the Director of Public Libraries to file a comprehensive report on February 23. The High Court dismissed the batch of petitions challenging the amendments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-emphasises-importance-of-public-libraries-reading-habit/article33866914.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Stalin unveils statue of Karunanidhi||DMK president M. K. Stalin unveiled the statue of flormer Chief Minister and DMK president M. Karunanidhi at Simakkal roundabout here on Wednesday. Thanking the functionaries and senior advocates for their sustained efforts in getting a directive to install the leader’s statue, he said that though Karunanidhi’s statues were kept in many places, Madurai was the first city to have the statue of ‘Kalaignar’ in a public place. Like the hurdles faced in burying the late leader's body on the Marina beach, Chennai, the functionaries experienced problems in getting orders from the administrators for installing the statue here. “Good days are ahead of us and for the people of Tamil Nadu,” he said amid cheers from the crowd. Congratulating the sculptor Deenadayalan of Tiruvallur district for his perfection, he said the 9.5 feet tall statue, made of bronze, appeared majestic. He appealed to the cadre to work hard for the victory of the candidates in the ensuing Assembly election. “Though the mood of the electorate was in our favour, cadres should not remain over confident,” he added. DMK urban secretary G. Thalapathi presented a silver sceptre to Mr. Stalin in the presence of Madurai Central Constituency MLA P. T. R. Palanivel Thiagarajan and other former ministers, MLAs and senior functionaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-unveils-statue-of-karunanidhi/article33866920.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district reports 38 cases||Coimbatore district reported 38 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the overall tally to 55,278 cases. The Health Department did not report any deaths, causing the district's death toll to remain at 679. The district saw 54,182 recoveries and 417 patients were active cases. A total of 54 patients were discharged from various treatment centres in Coimbatore district on Wednesday. Tiruppur district reported one death and 10 fresh cases, taking its case tally to 18,185. The death of a 60-year-old man from the district who was undergoing treatment for the disease took the overall death toll to 223. As many as 17,853 patients have recovered and 109 were active cases. On Wednesday, 19 patients from the district were discharged from various treatment centres. In the Nilgiris, three people tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 8,288. The number of deaths in the district stood at 48 on Wednesday, while 43 people are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district-reports-38-cases/article33866828.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested for theft from kin’s house||A grand plot hatched by a few persons to steal Rs. 2.95 lakh from their relative’s house backfired when the thief arranged by them botched up the job by leaving his mobile phone at the complainant’s house. Chekkanoorani police arrested two persons, v. Sivan, 38, and P. Selvam, 53, of Nagamalaipuram after they, along with two others, brought B. Mohammed Haj from Pattukottai to steal the money. The police said Haj, after stealing the money from K. Murugan’s house on the night of December 19, accidentally woke up the inmates. In his anxiety to escape, he let his phone slip before he fled. The police traced the accused with the numbers in the mobile phone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-arrested-for-theft-from-kins-house/article33866917.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Class XII board exams from May 3||The exams will commence at 10 a.m., and the students will be given 15 minutes to read the question paper. They will then write the exam from 10.15 a.m. to 1.15 p.m. After being shut for nearly 10 months due to COVID-19, schools in Tamil Nadu reopened for Classes X and XII on January 19. Teachers had long been demanding that the government announce the schedule for the board exams. This year, students taking the board exams will have a reduced syllabus, released in January. Exams for students in schools affiliated to the CBSE are set to begin on May 4. While CBSE schools have been given the flexibility to conduct practical exams from March 1, State board schools are yet to get a schedule for the same.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/class-xii-board-exams-from-may-3/article33866341.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Early birds||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/early-birds/article33867048.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||ERODE||Kongu Arts and Science College: Department of Computer Science (UG), Skill development programme on Internet Marketing: Opportunities and Challenges, Rajkumar Ramaswamy, Founder and Chief Executive officer, Ask My Ads and UCFER, Coimbatore, resource person, 10 a.m.  RD National College of Arts and Science: Department of Management, Inauguration of Institution’s Innovation Council, 11 a.m.  Confederation of Indian Industry, Erode Zone: Star Trek Session, Ananthapadmanabhan, Managing Director, GRT Group, chief guest, D’Wayfarer Inn Resort, 6 p.m.    Periyar University: , Innovation in Entrepreneurship Development Programme, EntSta 2G21, R. Sundaram, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Aerospace Engineers Private Limited, chief guest, Food Court, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode/article33866371.ece
18 February 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Govt. now planning to set up multi campuses for RCU||The State government plans to set up Rani Channamma University (RCU) as a multi campus university, after the Union government rejected its request to regularise the transfer of forest land to the educational institution. The Forest Advisory Committee (FAC) of the Union government has dismissed the State government’s move to transfer 177 acres of forest land to RCU in Bhutramanahatti village on Belagavi- Kolhapur Road. It has asked the State government to find alternative sites for the university. This was because of the fundamental principle that forest land should not be used for non-forest purposes, the FAC noted. Revenue and Higher Education departments officers finalised a patch of land of around 70 acres near Hire Bagewadi. “However, this was not enough as per UGC norms and the university needs at least 120 acres of land. The rest of the 50 acres was not available nearby. That is why we are planning to set up a multi campus university,’’ a Higher Education officer said. The understanding is that the RCU administrative offices shall remain on the present campus in Bhutaramanahatti, according to the officer. According to her, the government will submit an application to the Union Ministry of Human Resource Development seeking permission to set up multiple campuses on the lines of Bombay University and Delhi University that have multiple campuses. “We are hopeful of getting the permission as till its recent division, Bangalore University had multiple campuses,” the officer said. However, the issue has got entangled in local politics. The existing headquarters of the university is in Yamakanamaradi Assembly constituency represented by Satish Jarkiholi, Congress MLA. The alternative campus in Hire Bagewadi is in Belagavi Rural constituency, the home turf of Lakshmi Hebbalkar, Congress MLA. BJP leaders, including Ramesh Jarkiholi, are not very happy with the university being set up in these two Congress constituencies. They want another centre to be set up in Kittur, held by BJP MLA Mahantesh Dodagoudar. Mr. Dodagoudar has written a letter to the government requesting that the RCU centre be set up in Kittur. “Since Kittur is within 30 kilometres of Dharwad, that houses two State universities, Karnataka University and University of Agriculture Sciences, and the IIT, it may be difficult to establish a full-fledged university in Kittur. Higher Education Department officers have, however, indicated that some departments like History, Archaeology and the Kittur Channamma Study Centre may be set up in Kittur,’’ said a university official. There have been demands from groups in Bailhongal that the RCU headquarters be shifted to their town. Mr. Ramesh Jarkiholi told a delegation from Bailhongal that he would request Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to set up one more branch of the university in Bailhongal. University officials say that they are waiting for the campuses to come up so that academic work starts in earnest. “We have requested the government to resolve the situation by finding us some land. We are willing to work in a multi campus university,’’ said Vice-Chancellor Ramachandra Gowda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-now-planning-to-set-up-multi-campuses-for-rcu/article33866393.ece
18 February 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Efforts will be made to get ST tag for Kunabi community’||Efforts will be made to recommend ST status to the jungle dwelling Kunabi community, Nehru Olekar, MLA and chairman, Karnataka State Commission for SCs, STs said in Kumbarawada in Uttara Kannada district on Sunday. The State government and the commission will take steps to see that a recommendation is made to include the Kunabi community on the Schedule of Tribes, if it needed an anthropomorphic survey or any other measures. He was speaking after releasing a book Kada Kasturi, written by journalist Prasanna Karpur, about the lives of Kunabis of Joida taluk. Mahantesh Biradar, who introduced the book, said that it qualified to be a research work and not just a non-fictional account of the community. Krishna Udupudi, retired forest department officer, Anand Pandurangi, Prakash Sonwalkar and others were present. Doctors screened around 109 patients in the health camp organised on the occasion, according to a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/efforts-will-be-made-to-get-st-tag-for-kunabi-community/article33866391.ece
18 February 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Two arrested, liquor seized||The police arrested two persons accused of storing and selling liquor without licence and recovered liquor meant to sold through military canteen outlets in Belagavi on Tuesday. Rajesh Keshav Naik and Shankar Basavant Desur had stored around 750 bottles of liquor smuggled from Goa and bottles that are sold only to serving and retired members of the armed forces. The total cost is estimated to be Rs. 12 lakh. The police said that the accused were trying to sell the goods without proper licence and permits. They also accused them of diverting goods away from military canteen. The police suspected that they were hoarding the liquor for distribution in the forthcoming Lok Sabha bypolls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-arrested-liquor-seized/article33866390.ece
18 February 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Anti-love jihad law in next session of Assembly’||BJP State unit president Nalin Kumar Kateel said in Vijayapura on Wednesday that an anti-Love Jihad law will be introduced in the next Assembly session in the State. Governments in Uttar Pradesh and other States have successfully introduced the law. “We will bring in a similar law that will protect innocent Hindu girls from being cheated by cunning youth of other faiths,” Mr. Kateel said in a party workers rally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/anti-love-jihad-law-in-next-session-of-assembly/article33866401.ece
18 February 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘15-20 Congress MLAs are in touch with us’||“Between 15 and 20 Congress MLAswho want to join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) are in touch with us,” said BJP State chief Nalin Kumar Kateel n Vijayapura on Wednesday. “A lot of Congress MLAs want to cross over. We have not responded to them as we don’t need them now. We have enough numbers fora majority,” he said. On former Chief Minister H.D.Kumaraswamy's comments on the Ram temple donation drive, he said that only those leaders who did not have faith in the Supreme Court and the Constitutionwould oppose the fund collection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/15-20-congress-mlas-are-in-touch-with-us/article33866564.ece
18 February 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Put aside personal differences, Arun Singh tells BSY’s critics||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national general secretary Arun Singh, who is in charge of party affairs in Karnataka, has urged the leaders opposing Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to have a broader perspective and cooperate as the State government was implementing “programmes related to the party’s core ideology”, such as the anti-cow slaughter legislation. “Mr. Yediyurappa’s government has brought in anti-cow slaughter legislation, which is one of the key aspects of the party’s ideology. It is also taking up various programmes in tune with the party’s ideology. Those opposing him should understand the importance of these programmes and shun personal differences,” Mr. Singh told The Hindu on Wednesday. “It is important to realise that they are being implemented because it is our government here.”  Responding to senior BJP MLA and former Union Minister Basanagouda Patil Yatnal’s repeated verbal attacks against Mr. Yediyurappa and his family members, Mr. Singh hinted that the party might prefer to ignore the matter. “It is his nature to talk like that. But I want to say that the party workers are used to his criticism and they do not take it seriously. His criticism has lost credence,” Mr. Singh said. He also said the party leaders and workers should understand the circumstances under which the BJP government was formed in the State. “We did not have majority and hence had to take the support of others, who joined our fold to help form the government,” he said. He said the Central leadership would not interfere in administration and development works in the State, but depending on feedback from different people, would give suggestions and advice when needed. On various communities coming out to the streets under the leadership of religious heads seeking reservation, Mr. Singh said, “The religious leaders know that the BJPis the only party that respects saadhus and implements their wishes.” Seeking to downplay the matter of Ministers taking part in the reservation rallies, he said they had participated as a “community welfare measure”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/put-aside-personal-differences-arun-singh-tells-bsys-critics/article33866567.ece
18 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Turahalli: Citizens cheer as stir leads to victory||After weeks of registering their objection to the State government’s plan to create a tree park inside the city’s Turahalli forest, Forest Minister Aravind Limbavali’s announcement on Wednesday that the project proposal will be withheld temporarily has come as a relief to citizens and locals. The proposal had riled large sections of citizens and environmentalists, who had raised their voices against plans to tamper with a natural forest. Local residents had pointed to the irony of the plan, given that there is a tree park opposite the forest. Forest Department officials, on the other hand, had defended the project as one that would only be implemented on the periphery of the forest with interventions such as children’s play equipment to bring in more people, thereby keeping encroachment attempts at bay. However, environmentalists underscored the adverse impact this might have on the natural environment of the forest and its wildlife. On Wednesday, Mr. Limbavali, who visited the site in question along with Co-operation Minister S.T. Somashekar, local MLA, and Forest Department officials, announced to large cheering from the crowd that had gathered: “The BJP government is pro-people. As citizens have raised objections to this plan, we will drop the tree park project temporarily. We are thinking of shifting the tree park to another part of the same constituency. We have directed the Forest Department to fence the property.” He was quick to add that given its place in the Mission 2022 scheme, he would have to discuss it with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and ask him to drop the proposal. The Minister also acknowledged pleas from representatives of villages around the forest, who had sought permission to be allowed access to the temple inside the forest, and said there would be no bar on access. However, he urged them to maintain cleanliness around the space. “The Ministers and Forest Department have heard the voice of the public. There is more work ahead to guard this land as forest and we look forward to join hands with the department,” said Sowmya Kashyap, Vidya Ishwar, and Vijetha Sanjay from the Cleanup Turahalli group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/turahalli-citizens-cheer-as-stir-leads-to-victory/article33866791.ece
18 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Too early to say cluster outbreaks indicate second wave: Experts||Although Karnataka has witnessed three cluster outbreaks in the recent days (one in Mangaluru and two in Bengaluru), experts say it is too early to say if these outbreaks are an indication of the beginning of a second wave. Replying to queries at a media sensitisation programme, V. Ravi, member of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), said a second wave can begin only if some cluster events cross a critical point after a series of clusters build up. “It is difficult to conclude now if this is the beginning of a second wave. However, if some cluster events cross a critical point then we can have a second wave,” he said. Dr. Ravi said it all depends on people, who should continue to follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. “It also depends on the health system and how quickly it acts and initiates containment measures. Both these aspects are important,” he said. As of now, Karnataka is at the lower end of the epidemic curve but has not touched the baseline as yet. Targeted testing Health Commissioner K.V. Trilok Chandra, who also heads the State’s Critical Care Unit, said people are not following COVID-19 appropriate behaviour as lesser number of new cases are being reported. And, cluster outbreaks are happening because people are not following protocols, he said. “People from endemic zones such as Kerala and Maharashtra are also travelling into Karnataka, which makes it hard to tell who is a carrier of the virus,” he said. The Commissioner said that between July and November 2020, more COVID-19 deaths were recorded due to delayed reporting, which could be seen in the number of admissions to the ICU. Testing to pick up NHM mission directors Arundathi Chandrashekar, who admitted that the number of tests conducted were low these days, said some positive cases may go undetected because of this. She said, “We have a fixed a target of around 75,000 tests per day. We will ensure that districts start testing better from now on.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/too-early-to-say-cluster-outbreaks-indicate-second-wave-experts/article33866405.ece
18 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Traffic police set to relaunch drunk driving tests across city||After a gap of almost a year, the Bengaluru Traffic Police on Wednesday decided to restart special drunk drive checks across the city. The decision was taken after several instances of fatal accidents where motorists were later found to be driving under the influence of alcohol. “We stopped drunk drive checks last March due to enforcement of COVID-19 guidelines and also keeping in mind the safety of the traffic personnel. However, with the increase in accidents and drunken driving cases, it was decided to launch the drives with a set of safety guidelines,” said B.R. Ravikanthe Gowda, Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic). Another senior traffic official said they had no choice but to restart the drive as bars, theatres, restaurants, and malls were functioning as normal. However, traffic personnel on the ground are worried about contracting COVID-19 in light of two clusters in the city. “A motorist driving under the influence of alcohol will not follow protocols or safety guidelines. They will not cooperate with constables,” said a traffic cop, who did not wish to be named. A traffic officer, on condition of anonymity, pointed out that it was not possible to conduct drunk driving tests without physical proximity. “To book a single such case, police personnel have to check a minimum of 20 vehicles on an average. We will put ourselves and our families at risk. With talk of a second wave and other cities recommending stringent restrictions, the government should postpone these drives,” said the officer. He added that it was not financially feasible given that the government will have to bear the medical expenses if they contract COVID-19. However, senior traffic officials are confident that the protocols and guidelines put in place will mitigate the risk. Mr. Gowda said the alcometer device should be sanitised and kept in ziplock covers. “One equipment should be used for a single drive and separate straws for every check,” he said. Personnel involved in the drives should wear masks, gloves, and face shields, and must sanitise their hands after every check. After use, the equipment should be sanitised properly and not be used for the next three days. The guidelines also state that the traffic police must sanitise their hands in front of motorists before they conduct the breathalyser test to ease their fears.  Minors’ involvement The decision to restart the drives was taken after a circular was recently issued by Pratap Reddy, Additional Director General of Police (law and order), directing the police to step up enforcement to minimise fatal road accidents. Mr. Reddy had also given targets to the police warning that disciplinary action will be taken if the enforcement is not strictly implemented. Mr. Reddy told personnel to also crack down on rash and negligent driving, using mobile phones while driving, and not wearing helmets or seatbelts. The police have also been directed to act against minor motorists and book cases against their parents.  Safety protocols * Traffic personnel must wear gloves, masks and face shields * Alcometer devices should be sanitised and kept in ziplock covers * All equipment should be sanitised properly and not be used for the next three days * Separate straws for every check||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/traffic-police-set-to-relaunch-drunk-driving-tests-across-city/article33866792.ece
18 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||High Court: JJBs should have child-friendly premises||The High Court of Karnataka has directed the State government to come out with a standard design to set up child-friendly premises for holding sittings of the Juvenile Justice Boards (JJBs) in all the districts as per the mandate of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Model Rules, 2016. Also, the court directed the government to formulate a uniform policy regarding staffing pattern and infrastructure to be provided to each JJB, and submit the model of the standard design and the uniform policy before the court within a month after holding consultation with all stakeholders, including the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty issued the directions on a PIL petition initiated suo motu by the High Court in 2018 to monitor implementation of the JJ Act as per the apex court’s direction, and another PIL filed by Bachpan Bachao Andolan, New Delhi. The Bench said the design must be as per the provisions of the model rules that state that the board should hold sittings on a child-friendly premises, which should not look like a court room in any manner and the sitting arrangement should be such that the board should interact with the child face to face. And also that the board should not sit on a raised platform and there shall be no barriers, such as witness boxes or bars between the board and the child. The Bench also directed the government to provide all the requisite infrastructure to each JJB for conduct of videoconference hearing and to consider conducting a social audit of the performance of the institutions under the Act and implementation of the policies regarding children. Also, the Bench directed the government to ensure that all JJBs hold sittings on the premises of an observation home or at a place in proximity to the observation home or, at a suitable premise in any Child Care Institution meant for children in conflict with law run under the Act, and in no circumstances should the board operate from within any court or jail premises, as per the model rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/high-court-jjbs-should-have-child-friendly-premises/article33866410.ece
18 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Quota increase sought||The powerful Vokkaliga community has pitched in witha demand for increased reservation, joining a number of castes that are putting forward quota demand in Karnataka. On Wednesday, chairing a meeting on the welfare of the Vokkaliga community, the seer of Adichunchangiri Mutt Nirmalananda Swami said there was a need to increase reservation for the community and create a Vokkaliga development authority. He pointed out that not all the 115 sub-castes within the Vokkaliga community were part of the Backward Classes list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/quota-increase-sought/article33866568.ece
18 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||FDA paper leak: CCB arrests former owner of coaching centre||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) police probing the Karnataka Public Service Commission’s First Division Assistant (FDA) recruitment question paper leak case have arrested the former owner of a coaching centre from Belagavi. According to the police, he is associated with the prime accused, Rachappa, and is the 25th person to be arrested in connection with the case. “The accused, Shivling Patil, 45, was running a coaching centre to prepare candidates for competitive exams. However, he shut down the centre last year because of COVID-19. He is associated with Rachappa, whom he met through his relative Venkatesh, who was arrested by the CCB last week,” said a senior police officer. Patil hoped to recover the losses he had incurred in closing his coaching centre. The investigation so far has revealed that he received advance from many exam candidates. Venkatesh, the PE teacher of a residential school in Athani, Belagavi, was preparing for the FDA examination and had obtained the question paper from Rachappa. CCB officials suspect that Patil obtained a copy of the paper and distributed it to the candidates appearing for the exam. “We are probing to ascertain who his contacts were and whether he was involved in similar crimes in the past,” the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fda-paper-leak-ccb-arrests-former-owner-of-coaching-centre/article33866569.ece
18 February 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Hitting back at HDK||Taking exception to former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy’s allegations that the fundraising campaign for building a Ram Mandir at Ayodhya lacked transparency, BJP nationalgeneral secretary Arun Singh on Wednesday said, “Forget the people of the State, even the family members of Mr. Kumaraswamy will not accept such allegations.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hitting-back-at-hdk/article33866570.ece
18 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NIMHANS uploads 250 genome sequences||The genome sequencing lab at NIMHANS has uploaded results of nearly 250 genome sequences on the global genomic database so far, said V. Ravi, nodal officer for genetic confirmation for SARS-CoV-2 in Karnataka. Dr. Ravi, who is also a member of the State’s Technical Advisory Committee, said India has contributed more than 7,000 sequences on the global database and nearly 2,500 were in the last one-and-a-half months alone. “We know what are the circulating strains of SARS-CoV-2 in India based on the sequences. We had done over 120 sequences prior to the U.K. variant sequencing for our research project,” he said. NIMHANS has tested 86 samples of U.K. returnees of which 25 were positive for the new strain. None had the Brazilian or the South African variant, he said. Funds awaited He said that Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomic Consortia (INSACOG) labs (a group of ten labs) are awaiting funds from the Centre to do more genomic sequencing. “A meeting will be held on February 25 with the Centre to finalise the funding. After this, 5% of routine samples in each State will be sent for genomic sequencing,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nimhans-uploads-250-genome-sequences/article33866403.ece
18 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Misled’ by authorities on TDR for Palace Grounds land, govt. tells HC||The State government on Wednesday told the Karnataka High Court thats the then authorities had “mislead the government” on grant of Transfer of Developmental Rights (TDR) certificates to eligible persons to take over lands of the Bangalore Palace Grounds for widening Ballari and Jayamahal roads. The court was also informed that the matter would be discussed in the State Cabinet meeting on February 18 as there is a need to move the Supreme Court to seek modification of the November 21, 2014, order of the apex court, which had allowed the government to make an offer of TDR to eligible persons occupying these lands for utilising portions of lands for road widening during pendency of litigations before the apex court. The Advocate-General made these submissions before a Division Bench in response to court’s earlier direction of setting Feb 15 as deadline for giving TDR as per the directions of the Supreme Court and the High Court to take over 64,653 sq m (15 acres 39 guntas) of land for road widening. Pointing out that the TDR certificates can be given only to owners of the lands, A-G Prabuling K. Navadgi told the Bench that those persons who continue to occupy Bangalore Palace Ground lands are not owners as the State government had acquired these lands through the Bangalore Palace (Acquisition and Transfer) Act, 1996, and the High Court had upheld the Act. As the apex court had only passed an order to maintain status quo and not stayed the High Court’s verdict or the Act on the appeals filed by occupants of the lands, the government continues to be owner of these lands, the A-G contended. The Bench adjourned further hearing till March 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/misled-by-authorities-on-tdr-for-palace-grounds-land-govt-tells-hc/article33866787.ece
18 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Fourth mobile lab rolled out||The Indian Institute of Science and the Society for Innovation and Development, with support from non-government and private partners, have designed a mobile diagnostic lab, M4 Nodal Hub equipped to carry out RT-PCR tests. This is part of the Mobile Infection Testing and Reporting Labs series, of which three satellite mobile labs were ready in 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fourth-mobile-lab-rolled-out/article33866788.ece
18 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Why isn’t State reducing VAT on fuel: Surjewala||All-India Congress Committee general secretary in-charge of Karnataka Randeep Singh Surjewala alleged that the BJP governments at the Centre and in the State were “looting and fleecing” people by raising petrol and diesel prices for the ninth consecutive day. Speaking to reporters on Wednesday, Mr. Surjewala said that fuel and LPG cylinder prices were skyrocketing because of “Modi and Yediyurappa tax”. While fuel prices were barely Rs. 30 a litre, farmers, the poor, and the salaried and middle classes were being made to pay because of high taxes, he said. He asked why the government ofKarnataka was not reducing its own VAT on petrol and diesel. The Centre has proposed to collect Rs. 2 lakh crore in the form of taxes on fuel in 2020-21. “Inflation is sky high. Modi tax and Yediyurappa tax must end,” Mr. Surjewala said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/why-isnt-state-reducing-vat-on-fuel-surjewala/article33866565.ece
18 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘What is NDA’s contribution?’||Former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy, who was seen as going soft on the Bharatiya Janata Party in recent months,on Wednesdayquestioned the contribution of the National Democratic Alliance government led by Narendra Modiin the past seven years. “What has been your contribution in seven years? To bring the price of petrol close to triple digits? Diesel will also get there in a couple of months. The LPG cylinder cost has gone up. The rights given to every citizen in the Constitution have been curtailed,” he said. He continued, “In the past 70 years, Indian economy has grown in phases, and you criticise those who have contributed to the growth... Freedom of speech is now taken away. Anyone speaking against the government is termed as anti-national. This is an undeclared emergency.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/what-is-ndas-contribution/article33866571.ece
18 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Vaccination: Another AEFI reported||One more serious adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) has been reported in the State on Wednesday taking the total number of serious AEFIs to 16. According to the department’s media bulletin, a 35-year-old ASHA worker from Koppal district developed breathlessness and persistant cough after 20 minutes of taking the second dose of Covishield vaccine. After being managed locally, she has been admitted to Gangavathi General hospital and is stable as of now. As many as 54,397 healthcare workers have taken the second dose in the State so far. While the highest is from Tumkuru (8,077), the lowest is from Bidar (266). Meanwhile, 50% of the targeted 8,21,939 healthcare workers and 34% of the targeted 2,84,950 frontline workers have been vaccinated so far. Overall, 31,035 of the 78,888 targeted healthcare and frontline workers for the day were vaccinated on Wednesday. The State on Wednesday reported 378 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 9,46,454. With three deaths, the toll rose to 12,276. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccination-another-aefi-reported/article33866406.ece
18 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP to get tough on illegal constructions||The BBMP has decided to issue notices to buildings or sheds constructed illegally under high tension lines. In a meeting on Wednesday, BBMP chief N. Manjunath Prasad directed officials to issue notices to owners of such illegal constructions to vacate the premises in 15 days. If they failed to do so, the buildings would be demolished and the demolition cost borne by the owners. He also instructed all zonal chief engineers to take steps to clear unauthorised cables in all wards and to identify TV cable and internet (OFC) cables that have been illegally installed on pillars, trees and buildings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-to-get-tough-on-illegal-constructions/article33866789.ece
18 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Gold biscuits found hidden in football||Air Intelligence Unit officials at Kempegowda International Airport on Tuesday night recovered gold biscuits concealed inside a miniature football that was left behind in an aircraft that had arrived from Dubai. According to officials, the toy football was discovered while they were conducting a search after passengers disembarked. It had two gold biscuits weighing 233.28 gm, estimated to be around Rs. 11.3 lakh. The officials are trying to identify the passenger who abandoned the football for fear of getting caught.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gold-biscuits-found-hidden-in-football/article33866793.ece
18 February 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Heritage Park inaugurated||Kempegowda Heritage Park, near coaching depot, Yeshvantpur Railway Station, was inaugurated on Tuesday. The South Western Railway, Bengaluru division, said earlier the place was a garbage dump and it had been developed into a park with paintings and historical snippets of places. 3D models of ‘Make In India ‘logo are an attraction at the park.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/heritage-park-inaugurated/article33866786.ece
18 February 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Yediyurappa says ITIs will be strengthened||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has said the State government would strengthen industrial training institutes (ITI) with the support of Tata Technologies. The government would be spending Rs. 4,636 crore for this project so that employability of students was enhanced. Speaking at the silver jubilee celebrations of Machenahalli Industries Association in Shivamogga on Wednesday, the Chief MInister said the government had been taking many measures to create jobs as per the new industrial policy. The needs of the industries, including road, water supply, power supply, were being taken care of. These measures would help in attracting investments. “Karnataka stands first in the country in the industrial investment”, he said. He also said the government was committed to providing workers in the industrial sector with housing facility, under housing schemes. The airport being built in Shivamogga would be operational within a year. It would boost the industrial sector in the district. Regarding the Machenahalli Industrial Area, he said the units in the locality had been actively contributing to the industrial growth in the State. The industries, which register an annual turnover of Rs. 600 crore, had provided jobs for nearly 5,000 people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yediyurappa-says-itis-will-be-strengthened/article33866559.ece
18 February 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Varsity research should help farmers, says CM||The benefits of research conducted in universities should reach farmers in the field, said Chief Minister B.S.Yediyurappa on Wednesday. He spoke at a programme organised by the University of Agricultural and Horticultural Sciences in Shivamogga. The local entrepreneurs could succeed in business if they add value to locally grown agriculture products. This would create jobs for the local youth, besides creating a market for the farm produces. The State government had been keen on encouraging agriculture-based industries. For this, universities need to play a major role in transforming technologies to farm fields, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/varsity-research-should-help-farmers-says-cm/article33866560.ece
18 February 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||CM’s warning||Opposing the construction of a Ram temple at Ayodhya is against the Supreme Court’s judgment on the issue, said Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Wednesday, urging critics to “stay silent” as adverse comments could “spoil the plans of others who wish to contribute”. Referring to Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah’s statement that he wouldcontribute if a temple was built elsewhere, he said, “That is against the Supreme Court’s order. You should be careful while making such comments. Otherwise, the Supreme Court would take action. Remaining silent on this issue is good for you, for the State and the nation.” He was speaking at Shivamogga after a receiving a Rs. 70-lakh donation for the Ram temple from Machenahalli Industries Association. “Nobody is forcing anyone to contribute,” he said. “Hindus, Muslims, and Christians have contributed generously as they are all in favour of the Ram temple at Ayodhya.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cms-warning/article33866572.ece
18 February 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Psychiatrists chosen for award||Manasa Trust of Shivamogga, an institution dedicated to mental health, has chosen psychiatrists Swaminath Gopala Rao and Jagadisha Thirthahalli for Kateel Ashok Pai memorial Manasa National Awards for the year 2020. On behalf of the trust Rajendra Chenni, Director of Manasa Centre for Cultural Studies, in a press release said the trust instituted the award in memory of renowned psychiatrist Ashok Pai. Every year two individuals are selected for the honour recognising their achievements in psychiatry and mental health. A national jury comprising leading academics and scholars selects the awardees. The award carries a cash prize of Rs. 75,000, a citation and a plaque.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/psychiatrists-chosen-for-award/article33866557.ece
18 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Udyami Mega Utsav from Feb. 19 to 23 in Hubballi||In a bid to providing a marketing platform for micro entrepreneurs from across Karnataka and other States, a five-day Udyami Mega Utsav is being held in Hubballi from February 19 to 23. Addressing presspersons here on Tuesday, Director of Micro Entrepreneurship Development Programme (MEDP) of Deshpande Foundation Iranna Rotte said that the event being held at Sawai Gandharva Hall in Hubballi will provide marketing space for around 100 micro entrepreneurs to display and sell their products. Mr. Rotte said that during the five-day event, training programmes will also be held on making paper bags, gift packaging, chocolate manufacturing, Worli painting and others. During the utsav, there will be cultural programmes by Kamakshi Mahila Mandal, he said. For more information, call Ph: 8722725411 or 8618650819.  It will provide marketing space for around 100 micro entrepreneurs to display and sell their products||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/udyami-mega-utsav-from-feb-19-to-23-in-hubballi/article33866396.ece
18 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Horatti takes a walk down memory lane in Hubballi||It was a stroll down the memory lane for Chairman of Legislative Council Basavaraj Horatti on Tuesday, as his alma mater Sri Kadasidheshwar Arts and H.S. Kotambri Science Institute honoured him and several members of the alumni association warmly felicitated him. In the programme organised jointly by KLE Society, the college, and the alumni association at the college on Tuesday, Mr. Horatti recalled his old days and days of struggle and termed the felicitation at his alma mater as the biggest honour of all. “If I have achieved something in life and reached this position it is because of culture in which I was brought up and the principles and ideals I believe in. Never forget your town, your parents who gave birth to you, the educational institutions where you studied and those who helped you in your life,” he said. Mr. Horatti said that it was the educational institution that provided the ‘sanskara’ and the teachers treat the students like their children. “It is only when good education is aided by good sanskara that one could achieve something in life,” he said. Elaborating on his works as a Minister and the ‘Avva Seva Trust’ he has founded for carrying out philanthropic activities in his mother’s name, Mr. Horatti also recalled earlier days in his teaching profession and his political career. Mr. Horatti said that it was because of his dedication towards the cause of education and teachers that he was elected for the record seventh time to the Legislative Council. Expressing happiness over being chosen to serve as chairman, Mr. Horatti said that he would work towards further strengthening the Upper House’ and making it a model. Presiding over the function, president of the local governing council of the college C.B. Patil said that Mr. Horatti had developed leadership qualities from the student days, which had finally taken him to the top position. Principal Uma V. Nerle welcomed the gathering while president of the alumni association S.S. Doddamani introduced the guests and Head of the Kannada Department Vijayashree Hiremath compered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/horatti-takes-a-walk-down-memory-lane-in-hubballi/article33866399.ece
18 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Vedike opposes power tariff hike proposal by HESCOM||Taking exception to the proposal for upward revision of the power tariff by Hubballi Electricity Supply Company (HESCOM), the Vidyuth Grahakara Hitarakshana Vedike (VGHV) has demanded that the proposal be dropped immediately. Addressing presspersons here on Tuesday, secretary of the vedike Tushar Baddi said that although the electricity supply companies were making profit through collection of GST and other development charges, they were hiding it while producing data before the Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission (KERC). Mr. Baddi said that not a single electricity supply company had shown profit from the date of their establishment in 2001. However they sought power tariff hike on a regular basis and put the entire burden on the general public. He said although it was required that the authorities conducted stakeholders’ meeting before seeking any revision in power tariff, HESCOM authorities had not conducted any such meeting and they would participate in the KERC hearing on February 22 and oppose any move to hike the tariff. Mr. Baddi alleged that it was due to official apathy that the Tannir Bhavi power purchase bill of Rs. 1,657 crore was pending and this burden should not be put on the public. Members of the vedike Shivaji Vaidya, Ramanna Muttagi, Kiran Hiremath, and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vedike-opposes-power-tariff-hike-proposal-by-hescom/article33866400.ece
18 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Congress workers serve ‘uppittu chaha’ in protest||Taking exception to the soaring fuel prices and condemning the union government’s apathy towards the hardships of commoners, members of Women’s wing of Congress took to the streets in Dharwad on Wednesday. In a symbolic way to protest against the increasing prices of petroleum products and LPG cylinders, scores of women prepared ‘uppittu chaha’ (upma and tea) on the road. The protesters had brought empty cylinder, firewood, utensils, grocery items and vegetables required for making breakfast and tea. Staging protest in front of the Deputy Commissioner’s office premises, the protestors set up a temporary stove and then prepared the ‘uppittu’ and ‘chaha’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-workers-serve-uppittu-chaha-in-protest/article33866408.ece
18 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||ITI students protest seeking promotion to next year||After the protest by ITI students seeking promotion to the next year and withdrawal of the government notification on examination fee in Dharwad on Tuesday, ITI students from Hubballi staged similar protest here on Wednesday. Their main grouse is that the State government had taken a unilateral decision with regard to conducting examination for the first year students of various ITI courses. The ITI students, led by office-bearers of All India Democratic Youth Organisation (AIDYO), staged a demonstration in front of the office of the Tahsildar in Hubballi. The protesting students said that the Directorate General of Training (DGT) had issued an order (No:DGT-18024/03/2020-TTC) cancelling the first year examinations for students of various ITI courses and promoting first year students to the second year without any examination. However, on Monday (February 15), the STate government issued an order asking students to pay the examination fee within a day while stating that the examination will be held in the first week of March.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/iti-students-protest-seeking-promotion-to-next-year/article33866397.ece
18 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||National championship from today||A total 435 cyclists from 26 States in the country have reached Gadag to take part in the 17th National Senior, Junior, and Sub-Junior Mountain Bike Cycling Championship from February 18 to 21. The championship is being held at the ‘Salu Marada Thimmakka Park’ at Binkadakatti near Gadag.  The championship will begin with bicycle jatha at 8 a.m. on Thursday. The jatha will begin from K.H. Patil District Stadium and conclude at Kuvempu Model School at Asundi. The formal inaugural programme will be held at the Indoor Stadium on Kalasapur Road in Gadag and the actual events will be held from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. daily at Salu Marada Thimmakka Park at Binkadakatte from February 19 to 21. A 38-member team from Karnataka, including seven cyclists from the host district, are participating in the national championship. Minister for Youth Empowerment and Sports and Planning K.C. Narayan Gowda will inaugurate it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/national-championship-from-today/article33866407.ece
18 February 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Run for Fitness’ in Kalaburagi||Hundreds of people from all walks of life participated in the “Run for Fitness” event organised by the Kalaburagi District Police on Tuesday morning. Additional Director-General of Police (KSRP) Alok Kumar said that the event aims at encouraging fitness among the masses, the police personnel and NCC cadet. As per Mr. Kumar, it is another endeavour to strengthen the Fit India movement envisaged by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Mr. Kumar said that the event “Run for Fitness’ is more important as staying fit is the key to building strong immunity which is the need of the hour to fight the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Around 300 people, including KSRP staff, NCC cadet, citizens, took part in the 5 km “Run to Fitness” from Nagareshwar School to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Chowk. Later, Mr. Kumar, accompanied by senior police officers, garlanded the statue of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/run-for-fitness-in-kalaburagi/article33866395.ece
18 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 negative certificate must for those from Kasaragod||COVID-19 negative certificate from an RT-PCR test will be made mandatory for people coming from Kasaragod in Kerala into Dakshina Kannada from February 22 (Monday), Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said here on Wednesday. This will apply to even transit passengers, he added. Talking to reporters, Dr. Rajendra said that it is a logistical challenge to take steps to prevent the spread of the pandemic from Kasaragod, which has close links with Dakshina Kannada culturally, economically and through health sector. “But we are making our best effort,” he said and added that on an average about 3 lakh persons travel between the two districts every day. Managements of all the educational institutions, government departments and business entities have been asked to do RT-PCR test for daily commuters once every 15 days. Those coming to hostels, hotels and resorts should come with COVID-19 negative RT-PCR test, which should have been done 72 hours before coming to these places. It is the responsibility of the managements to follow this rule. “If we find non-compliance, then action will be taken as per the Epidemic Diseases Act,” he said. Testing patients and those accompanying patients in an ambulance from Kasaragod to Dakshina Kannada will be the responsibility of the hospital where they are taken to. At the Talapady, Jalsoor and 13 other entry points into the district, random Rapid Antigen Test and RT-PCR tests will be carriedout by the district administration staff. This will be apart from checking for RT-PCR negative certificates. The district administration has planned to conduct 200 each of the RAT and RT-PCR tests every day. COVID-19 negative report will be mandatory for those transiting the district, he said. Sufficient time is being given to daily commuters to get the tests done free at the government hospitals. At the private hospitals, RT-PCR tests is being done at a cost of Rs. 800. Dr. Rajendra said that the norms for declaration of a place as containment zone has changed. Now, a place will be declared as containment zone if five or more persons test positive for COVID-19. The containment period for two nursing institutions in the city, where 140 students were tested positive recently, came to a close on Wednesday and there is no fresh symptoms of infection. Action will be taken against the two institutions if any lapses in following COVID-19 protocol are found, he said. Asking people to continue wearing masks and follow social distancing norms in public places, Dr. Rajendra said that teams are being formed at the urban local bodies and panchayats to keep a watch on community halls and other public places and ensure compliance of COVID-19 safety norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-negative-certificate-must-for-those-from-kasaragod/article33866943.ece
18 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Two held for tresspassing into wildlife sanctuary||Forest officials attached to Agumbe wildlife range under Someshwara wildlife sanctuary in Udupi district have arrested two persons on the charge of tresspassing into the sanctuary in Amasebailu village with a modified pellet gun with them, on Friday night. The two, Nataraj Naik (35) and Anand Shetty (60), have been booked under various sections of Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. A court in Kundapur in Udupi district has remanded them to judicial custody. Sources said that the two were seen entering the jurisdiction of the sanctuary at about 10 p.m. with torches fixed to their heads on Friday. It is suspected that they entered the sanctuary for hunting. Earlier, the officials had once warned Naik for entering the forests without permission to collect forest resources. The officials are inquiring into why they entered the forest with the gun. The sources said that Naik earlier used to assist the Forest Department in drawing the fire line, but due to his suspicious act like engaging in wildlife hunting, the department had stopped hiring his services some years ago. But officials of the Agumbe wildlife range kept a vigil on his activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-held-for-tresspassing-into-wildlife-sanctuary/article33866934.ece
18 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Health workers, frontline staff can directly go to vaccination site||Health and frontline workers, who have not received the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine so far, need not wait for SMS which tells them on which day that they need to visit the vaccination centre to receive the jab. Instead, they can go to the designated centre in the next few days and get the vaccine, Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said here on Wednesday. Talking to reporters, Dr. Rajendra said that so far 28,150 of the 52,523 health workers and 2,966 of the over 4,000 frontline workers have received the first dose of the vaccine. Health workers can receive the first dose by February 20, while the frontline workers can receive it by February 28. Dr. Rajendra said that workers, whose name is not registered, can also get the vaccine after getting their name included in the health facility of their area. Allaying misconceptions about the vaccine, Dr. Rajendra said that he and other personnel, who have received the first dose, have not had any health problems after the administration of vaccine. He will have a video conference with anganwadi teachers and helpers on Thursday and clarify their doubts. District Health and Family Welfare Officer Ramachandra Bairy and other health officers were talking to medical, paramedical, nursing and AYUSH institutions to ensure that all students take the vaccine. “This is an opportunity to strengthen the frontline workers for the possible new wave of COVID-19 infection,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/health-workers-frontline-staff-can-directly-go-to-vaccination-site/article33866944.ece
18 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Don’t allow buses to ply without active GPS, officials directed||Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra on Wednesday directed Transport Department officials to suspend operation of public transportation buses in the district if their GPS was found to be inoperative for over two hours in a day. Presiding a road safety committee meeting of the regional transport authority here, Dr. Rajendra said the GPS installed on all public transport buses — KSRTC as well as private — should be switched on when the buses were running. If for any reason, the equipment was not operating for more than two hours, immediately the officials should stop the services, he said. The DC asked officials to collate details about dangerous spots for driving from drivers. Thereafter, they should take necessary corrective measure to mitigate the defects. Besides taking every step to improve road safety, officials concerned should also ensure that people strictly follow traffic norms. Places that have witnessed more number of accidents in the last five years should be identified and the causes for such mishaps should be addressed.  He asked the department officials to ensure adequate number of buses were operating at a time when schools and colleges have recommenced following abating COVID-19 cases in the district. They should also take stringent action against transporting students in excess of the permissible limits in all public transport vehicles, including autorickshaws. Dr. Rajendra asked RTA officials to convene the road safety committee meeting every month and directed other stakeholder departments to implement the decisions taken in such meetings without fail. He asked the RTA Secretary to issue show cause notices to officials remaining absent during Wednesday’s meeting and initiate criminal proceedings against them if they continue to remain absent for subsequent meetings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dont-allow-buses-to-ply-without-active-gps-officials-directed/article33866946.ece
18 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||New variety of dwarf cashew released||A new variety of dwarf cashew was released by the Directorate of Cashew Research, under the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, at Puttur in Dakshina Kannada on Thursday. Speaking after releasing the variety, which has been named as Netra Vaman, during the Cashew Day at Puttur, Principal Scientist (Horticulture) M. Gangadhara Nayak said that its each nut, small in size, weighed between 5.5 grams and 6 grams. The weight of its medium size apple stood at 50 grams. Mr. Nayak said that it was evaluated for about 10 years and found unique with respect to plant height, compact spreading habit, nut size and apple colour and quality. Though the variety is not a much good yielder, it can grow well even under shade conditions. The apple colour is red, attractive and has less fibre content. The variety is pruning responsive, has long flowering duration and a variety flowers in the first year of planting. It has stem galling like coffee. It is suitable for home gardens. It best suits one who is fond of bonsai and opts for pot culture. In the fourth year of planting, it began to yield one kg to 1.5 kg of nuts. The plant grew up to 2.5 m high and spread up to six m during the 10th year of planting, Mr. Nayak said. Dean (Agriculture Engineering), College of Agricultural Engineering, Raichur, M. Veerangouda, released the cashew pest database developed by the directorate. Speaking on the database, Senior Scientist (Entomology) at the directorate Vanitha said that among 20 pests, Tea Mosquito Bug and Cashew Stem and Root Borer are major ones which cause 11%-55% of yield reduction if the orchards are not maintained properly. There are both pictorial representation and written information on biology of the pest, season of occurrence, damage symptoms and management practices in the database. Pest calendar is also given depicting and alarming farmers about the season of occurrence and peak occurrence of the pest. A brochure on “ICAR- DCR Technologies for Commercialisation” was released. A book “Geru-Yettharakke Yeru” written by progressive cashew grower Kadamajalu Subhash Rai was also released on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-variety-of-dwarf-cashew-released/article33866942.ece
18 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Growers need guidance’||President of the Central Arecanut and Cocoa Marketing and Processing Cooperative Ltd (CAMPCO) Kishore Kumar Kodgi said on Thursday that cashew growers required guidance on producing quality nuts. The research institutes and scientists should assist the farmers. He was speaking after releasing Netra Vaman, a new variety of dwarf cashew developed by the Directorate of Cashew Research, under the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, at Puttur in Dakshina Kannada during the Cashew Day observed at the directorate on Thursday. Mr. Kodgi, who is a member of Karnataka Cashew Manufacturers Association, said that India consumed about 15 lakh tonnes of cashew annually. The domestic production stood at about seven lakh tonnes. The research institutes should implement the concept of “lab to land” fully. The technologies and research developed by the research institutes should reach farmers well in time. The theme of the cashew day was “Scientist-farmer interaction and application of drone technology in cashew”. Dean (Agriculture Engineering), College of Agricultural Engineering, Raichur, M. Veerangouda said that the drones of different capacities should be identified and later applied to agriculture/horticulture after scientific evaluation. On the cause for yellow kernels, Principal Scientist at the Directorate Balasubramanian said that both the nut characters and processing parameters contributed to the yellow colour of the kernels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/growers-need-guidance/article33866939.ece
18 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Krishnapur Mutt performs Akki Muhurtha in Udupi||Sri Krishnapur Mutt in Udupi performed Akki Muhurtha, a pre-Paryaya ritual, for its paryaya scheduled next year, in Udupi on Wednesday. Seer of the mutt Vidyasagar Thirtha led the rituals. Vidyasagar Thirtha, who is the senior most swamijis among those of the ashta mutts, will ascend the Paryaya Peetha for the fourth time on January 18, 2022. Akki Muhurtha marks the collection of rice from devotees for the mass feeding at Krishna Temple/Mutt during the Paryaya period for two years. The seer said that some of the schemes introduced by his predecessor will be continued during his term as Paryaya swamiji. Seer of Pejawar mutt Vishwaprasanna Tirtha, who was present on the occasion, said that Akki Muhurtha symbolises the birth of new life and salvation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/krishnapur-mutt-performs-akki-muhurtha-in-udupi/article33866938.ece
18 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Mayoral polls||An election to select the new Mayor and Deputy Mayor of Mangaluru will be conducted in the Mangaluru City Corporation on March 2 at 1 p.m. The Regional Commissioner of Mysuru will conduct the election. The election to select members for four standing committees will also be conducted on that day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mayoral-polls/article33866945.ece
18 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Consumers oppose CESC proposal to increase power tariff||The associations representing industries and consumers on Wednesday strongly opposed the Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation’s move seeking an average hike in tariff of Rs. 1.44 a unit for all categories of consumers for dealing with the revenue deficit of Rs. 1,005 crore the Corporation has expected to undergo for the financial year 2021-22. The CESC submitted its tariff revision proposal to the Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission (KERC), which held a hearing at the Deputy Commissioner’s office here seeking the opinions from the general public and various stakeholders such as industries, associations and others, to the CESC’s move. KERC Chairman Shambhu Dayal Meena presided over the public hearing. Members M.D. Ravi and H.M. Manjunath were present. CESC Managing Director Manohar M. Bevinamara made a PowerPoint presentation to the Commission on why the CESC was seeking the revision and also shared details on its performance, new initiatives and measures taken for minimising T and D losses and so on. The MD said the CESC, which has its jurisdiction spread across Mysuru, Mandya, Chamarajnagar, Hassan and Kodagu districts, was in need of a revenue of Rs. 6,024.12 crore for its outlays but it was expecting a revenue of Rs. 5,019.12 crore from consumers, resulting in a deficit of Rs. 1,005 crore. The CESC had sought a hike of 63.32 paise per unit to overcome the deficit of Rs. 475.50 crore in 2020-21. In 2019-20, the CESC had sought a hike of 99 paise. In the last two years, the CESC’s shortfall has been on the rise, prompting the management to seek a higher revision when compared to the last two years. Mr. Bevinamara urged the Commission to approve its proposal for increasing the tariff by Rs. 1.44 a unit, including the fixed costs, to deal with the shortfall. According to the CESC’s estimates, the cost incurred by it for power purchase would be Rs. 4,206.93 crore (projected for 2021-22). In 2020-21, cost of Rs. 3,611.91 crore was incurred for power purchase. The KIADB Industrial Area Manufacturers’ Association raised its strong objections to the proposal, after the MD concluded his presentation. Vice-President K .Ravindra Prabhu described the proposal as “anti-industry”, “anti-people” and unwarranted. He urged the chairman to reject the proposal outright. He said the CESC has proposed to purchase power at an exorbitant price of Rs. 8.51 to Rs. 12.81 per unit from its own and Central government power generating companies. “If the revision is approved, it will result in largescale closure of small scale industries which are already in a crisis,” he argued. The Mysore Industries’ Association represented by former MLA and MIA President Vasu and Secretary Suresh Kumar Jain and KASSAI also urged the Commission to reject the CESC’s proposal. “The proposed hike is unjustified at least in the case of small scale industries (LT 5 and HT 2 categories) because of load-shedding and unscheduled interruptions, causing loss of man hours and loss of production. The survival of the SSIs in this competitive world is at stake and the SSIs’ sector may collapse further in case of a hike as sought by the CESC,” said KASSIA in its objections. In fact, reduction in power tariff is needed to ensure the survival of energy-intensive units such as foundries, forging shops, and heat treatment shops, it stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/consumers-oppose-cesc-proposal-to-increase-power-tariff/article33866550.ece
18 February 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Congress for continuing alliance with JD(S) in Mysuru City Corporation council||Amid the efforts being made by the BJP to woo the JD(S) in the hung Mysuru City Corporation (MCC), former Minister Tanveer Sait from the Congress party met former Minister and JD(S) leader S.R. Mahesh at the latter’s office in the city and sought to continue the alliance between the twoparties in the civic body. When the two leaders jointly addressed reporters later, Mr. Mahesh said party leaders H.D. Kumaraswamy and H.D. Deve Gowda had asked him to elicit the opinion of party corporators and former Mayors on the course they should adopt in the Mayoral polls scheduled for February 24. A meeting of JD(S) corporators had been convened in Mysuru on Thursday to discuss the issue and the opinion of individual corporators will be collected and communicated to the party leaders, Mr. Mahesh said. The Congress, which has 19 members, and JD(S), which has 18 members, had forged an alliance after the MCC polls in 2018 threw up a hung house. The BJP had won 22 seats while BSP bagged one and five other seats were won by independents. While speaking to reporters, Mr. Sait said the Congress and JD(S) had entered into an understanding for a full-year term on the condition that the Congress will have its Mayor for two years while the JD(S) corporators will occupy the post for three years. Already, both the parties had enjoyed the post of Mayor for one year each. Though the alliance had been finalised in 2018 during talks between local leaders viz Mr .Sait and Mr. Mahesh, the Congress leader said the State leadership’s consent will be taken before a final decision is taken on continuation of the alliance. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) President D.K. Shivakumar will be discussing the matter with JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy soon, Mr. Sait added. The Congress, however, is unlikely to be particular about the Mayor’s post. Mr. Sait said leaders of both parties will choose the most deserving candidate. Though the relationship between the two parties at the State level had soured after the fall of the H.D. Kumaraswamy-led coalition government, Mr. Mahesh said the relationship between the leaders was good at the local level as well as at the national level. Without naming former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, Mr. Mahesh said certain statements like “JD (S) is not a party at all” made by Congress leaders was coming in the way of the alliance. Meanwhile, Regional Commissioner G.C. Prakash is scheduled to hold Mayoral polls at noon on February 24. Elections will be held for the post of Mayor, Deputy Mayor and members of the four standing committees – Taxation, Finance and Appeals Committee; Public Health, Education and Social Justice Committee; Town Planning and Development Committee; and Accounts Committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-for-continuing-alliance-with-jds-in-mysuru-city-corporation-council/article33866551.ece
18 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Yaduveer extends support for Amrit Mahal breed conservation||Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar, the scion of erstwhile Mysore royal family, on Wednesday told Minister for Animal Husbandry Prabhu Chavan that his Ganda Bherunda Foundation will extend all support for the conservation of Amrit Mahal and Hallikar breeds of cattle. The Minister met Mr. Wadiyar at the Palace and discussed the plans of conserving the Amrit Mahal cows. Mr. Wadiyar recalled how 45,000 acres of land (Gomala) was set aside for the pasturage of this breed in the past. The Minister told Mr. Wadiyar about the plans of cultivating fodder in around 5,000 acres in Amrit Mahal Kaval lands. Mr. Wadiyar said the ban on cow slaughter may help to preserve the indigenous breeds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yaduveer-extends-support-for-amrit-mahal-breed-conservation/article33866552.ece
18 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Stall to promote toys||A display-cum-promotion centre for Channapatna toys and other local handicrafts has been opened at the railway station at Channapatna in Bengaluru Railway Division. It was done in association with the Channapatna Toys Artisan Association. “A couple of artisans will be engaged in manufacturing the toys at the stall. It can help popularise and market the toys among train passengers,” said an official from the Railways. After its inauguration on Monday, the Divisional Railway Manager, Bengaluru, tweeted that the centre had been opened to fulfil Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision to promote indigenous toys, including the GI tagged Channapatna toys. Subsequently, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal tweeted “Towards Aatmanirbhar Bharat: Railways displays indigenous toys and handicrafts at Channapatna station in Karnataka. This will promote local toy manufacturing cluster.” Mr. Modi retweeted Mr. Goyal’s words and said, “Good initiative to showcase India’s talent, traditions and toys”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stall-to-promote-toys/article33866554.ece
18 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||FB account fake, says outgoing MCC chief||Outgoing Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) Commissioner Gurudutt Hegde has sought to caution social media users against a fake account created in his name on Facebook. “The person is asking money from public. Please don’t entertain it. I am not on Facebook. This is for your information. This has been reported to the cyber police also,” Mr. Hegde said in a statement here on Tuesday. Mr. Hegde was recently transferred as Managing Director of Karnataka Handlooms Development Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fb-account-fake-says-outgoing-mcc-chief/article33866555.ece
18 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||8,000 lecturers for State degree colleges: Dy.CM||Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Higher Education C.N. Ashwath Narayan on Wednesday said the concept of appointing guest lecturers will end if Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa gives his nod for appointing 8,000 lecturers to various government first-grade degree colleges in the State. The proposal is before the CM, he added. Speaking to reporters after visiting the government first-grade college for women at K.R. Nagar town, he said the CM was apprised about the situation and the proposal was submitted to him. Dr. Narayan argued that the appointment of permanent lecturers to colleges would help to improve the quality of teaching which also happens to be one of the primary objectives of the National Education Policy (NEP). Dr. Narayan said the Budget allocation for higher education is only 2% and added that the Chief Minister had been urged to increase it to at least 3.5% in the ensuing Budget. The CM has responded positively to the appeal, he told reporters. Dr. Narayan also said the guest lecturers who had worked in the last academic year would be continued this year as well. Dr. Narayan also promised a grant of Rs. 2 crore each to K.R. Nagar’s government first-grade college and the women’s college.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/8000-lecturers-for-state-degree-colleges-dycm/article33866562.ece
18 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||MIA seeks distinct power tariff for MSMEs||The Mysuru Industries Association (MIA) has sought a separate tariff revision for the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) and the tariff should be at least Rs. 2 per unit less. It also demanded that the fixed charges should be cut by at least Rs. 30 per kVA/KW/HP. Modification sought In its appeal to the KERC at the public hearing in Mysuru on Wednesday, MIA President and former MLA Vasu urged the Commission to reject the tariff revision petition and direct the CESC to submit a modified petition clarifying all the issues raised by the MIA at the hearing. Until then, the CESC may be asked to continue with the existing tariff. Mr. Vasu, in a 20-plus page petition to KERC, also urged the KERC to direct the CESC to comply with all its directives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mia-seeks-distinct-power-tariff-for-msmes/article33866553.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Farmers plan ‘rail roko’||The farmers, dalits and labourers unity struggle committee in Karnataka will participate in a rail roko agitation scheduled to be held for three hours from noon on February 18, according to farmers’ leader Kurubur Shanthakumar. He said the nationwide call had been given to oppose the efforts made by the Centre to “suppress” the agitation by farmers in Delhi against the controversial farm laws. He also regretted the frequent change of Minister holding the sugar portfolio.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-plan-rail-roko/article33866556.ece
18 February 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Stone laid for RTC mobility hub||Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac on Wednesday laid the foundation stone for the KSRTC Alappuzha mobility hub. The mobility hub with a total built-up area of 1,75,000 sq ft will come up on 4.07 acres at the KSRTC bus station here at a cost of Rs. 129 crore funded by the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). The multi-storey structure in the model of a snake boat will have bus terminals, multiplex theatre, restaurants, commercial complex, retail shops, and hospitality services. Other components proposed include fuel station, maintenance garage and repairing area for buses, and a separate KSRTC office with facilities for staff accommodation. As per the design, the bus terminal area is spread over 58,000 sq ft. Seventeen pickup and drop-off points are provided in order to control crowds during peak hours. The ground floor of the facility will host a cafeteria, A/C and non A/C waiting lounges for male and female passengers, toilets, information desk and a waiting area. The first floor will have facilities for parking 37 buses. A total of 32,628 sq ft commercial area is extended across three floors. Single-room rental facilities for 21 females and 19 males along with separate dormitory facilities will be arranged on the top floor. 7-storey parking A four-star hotel of 11,980 sq ft with separate entry lobby, multi-cuisine restaurant, suite rooms, bar, swimming pool, health club and roof garden facing the scenic backwaters is another attraction. The multiplex theatre with a total area of 12,044 sq ft will have two screens of 140 capacity each. A restaurant can accommodate 90 people at a time. The bus terminal is provided with a seven-storey puzzle type multi-level car parking, which can accommodate 150 cars.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stone-laid-for-rtc-mobility-hub/article33866508.ece
18 February 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Alappuzha seeks to rehabilitate homeless||The Alappuzha municipality’s Budget for 2021-22 was presented on Wednesday. The Rs. 3.43-crore surplus budget, with a revenue of Rs. 288 crore and an expenditure of Rs. 285 crore, was presented by municipal vice chairperson P.S.M. Hussain. 1,200 families The Budget envisages rehabilitation of 1,200 landless and homeless families. An apartment complex will be constructed at Sarvodayapuram. For the implementation of the animal birth control programme, a sum of Rs. 50 lakh has been allocated. A sum of Rs. 50 lakh has been set aside for setting up an information technology park. Against waste dumping For beautification of tourism spots and other public places in the town, Rs. 10 lakh has been earmarked. The municipality will undertake a public campaign titled ‘Azhakode Alappuzha’. To prevent dumping of waste in public, CCTV cameras will be installed across the town. A sum of Rs. 50 lakh has been set aside for the construction of toilets in public places. Along with renovating crematoriums at Chathanad and Valiya Chudukkad, two new electric crematoriums will be set up there at a cost of Rs. 70 lakh. A sum of Rs. 25 lakh has been earmarked for the agriculture sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alappuzha-seeks-to-rehabilitate-homeless/article33866501.ece
18 February 2021||G. Krishnakumar,KERALA||Salim Kumar finds a unique defence||Adarsh Ranjan, a final-year law student at the Ernakulam Government Law College, turned quite a few heads at Saritha theatre, the main venue of the 25th edition of the International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK). With a poster pinned on to the back of his shirt questioning the absence of national award winning actor Salim Kumar at the festival venue, the youngster who hails from Vaikom turned out to be a one-man protest army against the perceived injustice meted out to the actor.  ‘It’s all about politics’  “Why Salim Kumar is not here. Is it about taking a position or politics,” asked the poster on Ranjan’s back.  “There is no point in fuming on social media and shredding the delegate pass for public consumption. One needs to be on the ground and register the protest against the injustice. It is claimed that there was no politics in ignoring Salim Kumar but everyone can see that it is all about politics,” said Ranjan, who is also the Youth Congress vice president for Vaikom block Assembly constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/salim-kumar-finds-a-unique-defence/article33866896.ece
18 February 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||‘Take a Break’ in a different ambience||Is it a low-floor bus designed for comfort travel? It looks so. However, it is immobile and provides a beautiful view of hills and valleys. At Randam Mile in Pallivasal is a viewpoint where those travelling to Munnar stop to enjoy the view. It prompted the grama panchayat to design a wayside amenity ‘Take a Break’ there with the support of the Harita Keralam Mission and the Suchitwa Mission. Now, the facility has become a tourist attraction even before its inauguration. Soon there will be a coffee bar and snack house. The focus is to make it an eco-friendly viewpoint and resting place, says Haritha Keralam district coordinator G.S. Madhu. It was constructed under a government project ‘Take a Break’ to provide wayside amenities to travellers. A waiting shed and toilets have been constructed at Rs. 8.5 lakh under the project. Pallivasal grama panchayat assistant engineer R.L. Vaishakan says the waiting shed was modelled on a Kerala State Road Transport Corporation low-floor bus. Zero-waste “We felt there should be something different in the design of the building. Now, tourists take photos of both the locale and the building,” he says. “Windows are like those in low-floor buses, providing a good view of the locale,” he says. Mr. Madhu says it will be made a zero waste viewpoint. The Kudumbashree Haritha Karma Sena will run the facility. He says the unit will be opened soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/take-a-break-in-a-different-ambience/article33866497.ece
18 February 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Dog dragged through road dies||A dog that was trapped and dragged on the road at ITI Junction in Kattappana died on Tuesday. The incident got public attention after it was posted on social media. The police had arrested Mandiyil Shabu in connection with the incident. He was charged with a case under cruelty to animals and later granted bail. The police had handed over the dog to two local residents after giving it medical treatment. The post-mortem examination report said the dog died of internal injuries it could have suffered while being dragged on the hot tarred road. The police said fresh charges would be invoked against him based on the post-mortem report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dog-dragged-through-road-dies/article33866499.ece
18 February 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Two held with elephants tusks||Forest officials arrested two persons and seized a pair of elephant tusks weighing 22 kg from an autorickshaw at Irumpupalam, near Adimali, on Wednesday. The seizure was led by a team under Adimali flying squad DFO Saju Varghese on a tip-off. He identified the arrested as Adimali natives Sunish, 40, and Sanoj, 35. Officials said the accused would be booked under Sections of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-held-with-elephants-tusks/article33866518.ece
18 February 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Congress, BJP forging alliance, says Vijayaraghavan||A. Vijayaraghavan, CPI(M) State secretary-in-charge, has alleged that the Congress and BJP had proposed a plan to expand the “Nemom” model in the forthcoming Assembly election. Addressing the media here on Wednesday, Mr. Vijayaraghavan said 2,016 votes of the Congress had caused the victory of O. Rajagopal as MLA in Nemom. The BJP helped the Congress in other constituencies to recompense it, he alleged. “Now, they are planning to expand the formula in the entire State”, he said. “Though the Leader of the Opposition, Mr. Ramesh Chennithala, is criticising Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan personally and the LDF government during the Kerala Yathra, he is yet to criticise the BJP,” Mr. Vijayaraghavan said, adding that it was a gimmick to attract the votes of the BJP. The Congress was forging an alliance with communal forces for their existence in the State, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/congress-bjp-forging-alliance-says-vijayaraghavan/article33866441.ece
18 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||It’s youth fete at IFFK||Young film lovers beat pandemic blues and turned up in good numbers to watch their favourite movies on screen as the curtain on the Kochi edition of the International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK) went up here on Wednesday. A major chunk of the film buffs that turned up at the six venues comprised students from various higher educational institutions, film schools and those representing film societies. Toast of the day Some of the inaugural day movies that won the hearts of the youth included Adhilkhan Yerzhanov’s Yellow Cat ; Bahman Tavoosi’s The Names of the Flowers ; Mohammed Rasoulof’s There is no Evil ; Dear Comrades by Andrei Konchalovsky to name a few. Among the Malayalam Cinema Today category, Senna Hegde’s Thinkalazcha Nischayam and Shambhu Purushothaman’s Papam Cheyathavar Kallariyette earned critical appreciation from the viewers. Acclaimed film-maker K.G. George along with 24 artistes and technicians representing the new face of Malayalam film industry lit 25 lamps to mark the silver jubilee of the festival at Saritha-Savitha threatre complex in the evening. Bosnian film Quo Vadis, Aida ?, which has been shortlisted for the 93rd Academy Awards, was the opening film.  Churuli , the much anticipated Malayalam movie directed by Lijo Jose Pellissery after his globally acclaimed work Jellikettu , will cap the second day of the festival on Thursday. Over in a jiffy The reservation for the movie ran out in no time after it opened at 8 a.m. on Wednesday. Churuli is being screened under the International Competition category. Mohit Priyadarshi’s Kosa , which portrays the agony of a teenager who is picked up by the police mistaking him for a Maoist leader by the same name, will be another highlight in this category. Other movies to be screened on the second day of the festival include Bilesuvar , a 2020 Azerbaijan movie directed by Elvin Adigozel which strings together five hardly connected stories taking place at Bilesuvar , a district south of Azerbaijan and Vietnamese movie Rom directed by Tran Thanh Huy that narrates the tale of an orphaned child whose troubles manifold as luck start smiling on him when he starts running numbers of the State-run lottery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youths-passion-for-cinema-marks-day-one-of-iffk-in-kochi/article33866456.ece
18 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Thiruvananthapuram-Chavakkad waterway ready for navigation||The waterway from Akkulam in Thiruvananthapuram to Chavakkad in Thrissur, which was recently dredged and made navigable, is ready for commissioning. This includes the 205-km Kollam-Kottapuram National Waterway-III, which is maintained by Inland Waterways Authority of India (IWAI). “A formal inauguration of the navigable waterbody - which is part of the 620-km Kovalam-Bekal waterway, is expected in a month’s time. Bottlenecks on the stretch, including water hyacinths and encroachments like fishing nets and other incursions on the waterway have been cleared for safe transit of medium-sized passenger vessels. Cargo vessels will be able to follow suit once the few shallow stretches in the waterway are dredged,” official sources said. The Thiruvananthapuram-Kollam and the Kottapuram-Bekal stretches form part of State waterways. The IWAI has not formally taken over the Kottapuram-Kozhikode stretch of the State waterway, since a final DPR of the stretch which is awaiting upgradation as national waterway, is awaited. Only then will IWAI provide funds for its upkeep - mainly for dredging and to protect the banks, including by constructing retention walls, they said. The State government spent Rs. 280 crore since 2007 on the State’s inland waterways, while IWAI spent around Rs. 300 croe. The District Collectors concerned had been tasked with clearing encroachments from the entire waterway stretch. Altogether, 520 km of the total 620 km of the Kovalam-Bekal waterway has been made navigable. Bridges having vertical clearance of less than 6 metres must be either rebuilt or partly raised in the remaining 100-km corridor. This work is expected to be completed stage by stage, by 2025. Boats beyond a certain height may find it tough to negotiate low-lying bridges, even in the 520-km stretch. But small and medium boats can cruise through the stretch. Apart from overcoming the challenge posed by low-lying bridges, navigation locks must be readied, to prevent saline incursion. The IWAI will provide funds for NW III that it maintains, while the rest would have to be pooled in by the State government and agencies such as NABARD. Subsidy withdrawn Interestingly, the State government withdrew the subsidy of Rs. 1 per passenger per km or Rs. 1 per tonne per km, that was being given to the few barges and other vessels that used the waterway, till 2019. “This was because few new operators were venturing into the sector, although the subsidy was meant for them. Neither was any funds set apart to incentivise boat and barge operators, in the past two State budgets, possibly since the sector, although under-utilised, is still dominated by half-a-dozen operators who were in the field for a decade. This was brought to the government’s attention more than once. The State must also take steps to overcome the stranglehold of lorry operators, who are unwilling to yield ground to the eco-friendly, economical and energy efficient waterway transport of cargo,” official sources said. On their part, vessel operators have been demanding subsidy to build barges and other vessels to ensure sustainable operation through the State’s waterways.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thiruvananthapuram-chavakkad-waterway-ready-for-navigation/article33866902.ece
18 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Catamaran ferries make their foray into Kochi||The State Water Transport Department’s (SWTD) fleet of seven steel boats in Kochi will be replaced in six months by modern catamaran vessels made of fibre-reinforced plastic, which provide added comfort and safety, the agency’s director, Shaji V. Nair, has said. Similarly, the demand to dredge the water body near the Mattancherry boat Jetty is being repeatedly taken up with the Irrigation Department so that ferries can safely call at the jetty. The Irrigation Department has said that the work was recently tendered, he added, at a function held at Fort Kochi to launch a pair of catamaran ferries - the first vessels of their kind from the SWTD stable. The ferries were launched through video conferencing by Minister for Transport A K Saseendran. They will operate regular trips in the Ernakulam-Vypeen-Fort Kochi-Ernakulam circular route, from Tuesday. Each ferry has 100 seats and is capable of attaining speed of up to 7 nautical miles (approximately 12 kmph). They have seats similar to that in low-floor buses. Having two hulls, the catamaran ferries offer more safety than their single-hull counterparts in operation now. “The hulls have different compartments to prevent the vessel from sinking even if water enters any one compartment. In addition, an automatic pump can be activated to pump out the water in case the need arises. The catamaran ferries also have a pair of engines and propellers to prevent them from drifting into the sea if any engine stalls. Five more such ferries will be launched - at the rate of one every month. The ticket fare will be the same as in older ferries,” Mr Nair said. Costing Rs. 1.90 cr apiece, the SWTD placed an order to build seven such vessels with Praga Marine, Aroor, in 2019. The old ferries will be taken to Alappuzha for operation in the backwaters there. “Our fast ferry ‘Vega-120’ that operates in the Vaikom-Ernakulam-Fort Kochi route has resumed operations post the pandemic situation. Its sister vessel is high in demand to ferry tourists on backwater cruises in Alappuzha with food provided by Kudumbashree members,” he said. K.J. Maxi, MLA, presided over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/catamaran-ferries-make-their-foray-into-kochi/article33866904.ece
18 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Jungle safari lures visitors in hordes||Hardly two months into its launch, the Kuttampuzha Jungle Safari, an initiative of the Kudumbashree, has evoked good response, attracting over 150 visitors. Since its launch on Christmas eve, the day-long safari tapping into the pristine beauty of the forest and the rich culture of tribal life has been flooded with bookings. The trip on an off-road compatible vehicle comes with a package involving trekking, swimming, fishing, and boat rowing, besides food prepared by tribals and resting on tree huts. The project being run by the Kudumbashree tribal unit, Sahya, benefits around 15 members. Everyone associated with the project, from driver to cook to guides, is all tribal members. Guides being employed are also women, making it more comfortable for families. In due course, indigenous tribal food will also be provided to visitors. “The response is so good that there are repeated visitors, especially from city areas. The only hitch is that everyone wants to schedule it coinciding with holidays, making it extremely difficult to get booking matching their preference. Besides, the vehicle can accommodate only seven persons at a time, and we operate just two rides a day,” said Ponni Kannan, district project manager (tribal), Kudumbashree. The trip is being conducted strictly in compliance with the green protocol whereby visitors are encouraged to carry only a spare dress, and the waste generated is not littered in the forest but brought back and disposed of. Initially, the plan was to introduce a package for an overnight stay, but it had to be postponed in the wake of the pandemic outbreak. However, it will be introduced gradually alongside the day-long trip. “We are not taking visitors very deep into restricted forest areas, since that would disrupt the schedule. We also don’t want the place to be crowded like some other tourism destinations affecting the ecology of the area,” said Ms. Kannan. The day-long trip from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. costs Rs. 5,000 for a group of six.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jungle-safari-lures-visitors-in-hordes/article33866911.ece
18 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||KSEB invites bids for installing solar power units||The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) has invited bids for empanelment of contractors for the design, supply, installation, testing and commissioning of grid-linked rooftop solar power units across the State. It is as part of the board’s efforts to give a big push to power generation under non-conventional sources with support from the Union Ministry for Renewable Energy. The bids for 200 MW of solar power generation will involve total investments to the tune of Rs. 800 crore and the bids are open till March 8. The fresh bids, under the Soura Programme, are being invited in the second tranche of rooftop solar power generation effort for the year 2020-21, KSEB sources said. The first round of bids for solar power generation had seen facilities being established for a total of 50-MW generation during 2019-20. The board’s effort is to achieve a total solar power generation of about 1,000 MW by 2022. The board is exploring use of rooftop solar plants as well as solar panels floating on waterbodies, including on reservoirs owned by it. The programme of solar power generation aims at establishing 38 GW of rooftop solar power generation facilities with grid connectivity in the second phase. Subsidy schemes The Central agency has, in cooperation with the KSEB, introduced three subsidy schemes, based on the the calculation of average consumption per domestic consumer, making them partners in the efforts to achieve energy self-sufficiency. The subsidy scheme has plant capacities of varying ranges in which the consumers are assured remunerative returns on investments in solar power generation. The subsidy being offered include up to 40% of the plant cost depending on the power consumption requirements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kseb-invites-bids-for-installing-solar-power-units/article33866982.ece
18 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Piped gas project moves at snail’s pace in Ernakulam||Of around 42,000 households that have registered for piped natural gas connections provided by Indian Oil-Adani Gas Private Limited (IOAGPL) in the district, only around 3,550 houses are its actual consumers. The company received authorisation from the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board in 2015 and work began soon after, said Ajay Pillai, deputy general manager. Plumbing and connections have been provided in around 16,100 households, but the network has not yet reached all households where plumbing was done, he said. Currently, work is under way only in 13 wards of Thrikkakara municipality. Work was done earlier in six wards of Kalamassery municipality, but is yet to begin in other wards. The company is still awaiting permissions from Aluva and Maradu municipalities. “We will be informed once the municipality council clears it,” Mr. Pillai said. In corporation In Kochi Corporation, the company is in the process of depositing a bank guarantee and supervisory charges for the road trenching and restoration process, and work is likely to begin from Sahodaran Ayyappan Road once the process is complete by the end of the month. Around 12,000 households had registered for connections from within corporation limits, though the work had not begun. The corporation council had raised concerns over handing over road restoration to the company, delaying the requisite permissions. “We had committed to providing 40,701 connections by the end of the company’s exclusivity period. The exclusivity period, which was extended once due to the floods, ends in September this year, but is likely to be extended again due to COVID,” Mr. Pillai said. Registration cost In Thrikkakara, an agreement was signed with the company in 2017, but work has been progressing at a snail’s pace, said Ajita Thankappan, chairperson, Thrikkakara municipality. “Residents who had registered paid around Rs. 5,600 for connections, and they have now been asking about the amount they paid since most of them are not receiving piped gas yet,” she said. Mr. Pillai said that as per the revised rate, registrations now cost Rs. 7,118. Audit objection In Kalamassery municipality, an audit objection was raised over the payment that IOAGPL had made to the local body for restoration of roads, said Rukiya Jamal, former chairperson of the municipality. When work began in Kalamassery, the company was required to deposit the restoration charges with the municipality and the civic agency would restore the roads. A later government order allowed the company to both dig and restore roads, while depositing 10% of the restoration charge with the local body as guarantee. “The audit objection for the 2017-18 financial year was raised over the issue that the company paid a little over Rs. 1 crore less than the required amount, causing loss to the municipality. “We had written to the company asking them to get the audit objection resolved at the government level or pay the remaining amount,” she said. Mr. Pillai said that issue over the audit has been cleared. The council had decided last year that unless certificate confirming completion of work is submitted and residents are receiving piped gas, further permissions will not be given for pipeline laying, Ms. Jamal said. ‘No option’ In Maradu, permissions were delayed because the council was reluctant to hand over restoration of roads to the company. “But since there is a government order allowing the company to restore roads, we are left with no option but to allow it,” said Antony Ashanparambil, Maradu municipality chairperson.  We had committed to providing 40,701 connections by the end of the company’s exclusivity period Ajay Pillai Deputy general manager, IOAGPL||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/six-years-on-piped-gas-project-moves-at-a-snails-pace/article33866900.ece
18 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||A window to IFFK’s glorious past||The late poet Ayyappa Panicker sitting amidst a bunch of wide-eyed youngsters on a flight of stairs with his unassuming smile is one of the many attractions of the photo exhibition being organised at Saritha theatre to mark the silver jubilee of the International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK) that got under way here on Wednesday. The exhibition arranged thematically on various facets of the fest take visitors through the evolution of IFFK over the years and offers a fascinating trivia to those drawn into the history of an event that has become a marquee annual event of the State. For young film buffs who started making the annual pilgrimage to the fest only recently, it may be revelatory that the fest switched between the three major cities of the State since its inception in 1994 before Thiruvananthapuram became its permanent venue from 2001. And that it was returning to Kochi for the first time since 1999 when the now much sought-after international competition segment was added with films drawn from Africa, Asia, and Latin America alone. It was also the year when the awards Suvarna Chakoram for the best film and Rajatha Chakoram for the best debut director were also added to the festival’s attractions. “We have consciously foregone the conventional system of exhibiting photos with captions beneath but have arranged them in segments in such a way that it tells a story on its own. “The exhibition could be a treasure trove of information for inquisitive young movie enthusiasts,” said Sajitha Madathil, actor and Kerala State Chalachitra Academy member who along with Bina Paul, the artistic director of IFFK, developed the concept of the exhibition. Different segments So, there are segments on the evolution of the logo of the fest, the changes over the years, the organisers who slogged it out behind the screen to make the fests a success, the stalwarts associated with it, the history of the prestigious Aravindan memorial lecture, the changing contours of the festival books, delegates, open forum and much more with small accompanying blurbs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-window-to-iffks-glorious-past/article33866894.ece
18 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||It’s a green Lent the Church strives for this season||The archdiocese of Ernakulam-Angamaly of the Syro-Malabar Church has given a call to the faithful to engage in what the archdiocesan hierarchy called ‘carbon fasting’ over the 41 days of Lent during which Catholics traditionally engage in acts of reparation and penance ahead of the the holy week observation and Easter celebrations. The issues of climate change and consequences for the humanity as a whole have loomed large over our existence, said a spokesman for the archdiocese as it kicked off the Lenten season on Wednesday with Ash Wednesday mass. The programme of environmental action was launched by Sebastian Vaniapurakkal, curia bishop of the archdiocese. The members of the archdiocese have been given a call to follow a set of ‘Ten Commandments’ ranging from planting more trees to refraining from using or considerably reducing plastic products. “Reduce wastage of food, use electricity and water sparingly’ and don’t burn plastic products,” are some of the items on the agenda as the Catholic archdiocese provides a new take on the traditional Lenten season of prayer and mortifications of the self. The Ash Wednesday observations include sprinkling of the forehead with ash as a sign of repentance. Walk or cycle A spokesman for the Social Service Society said the faithful had been encouraged to walk or cycle to churches that were near them to reduce fossil fuel use. Bishop Vaniapurakkal said everyone must work to ensure that the earth was a place for comfortable living for future generations. It was as important to live in harmony with fellow creatures as prayers, he added. ‘Sahridya’, the social action wing of the archdiocese, has also asked the faithful to spread awareness about more environment-friendly energy sources, including solar power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/its-a-green-lent-the-church-strives-for-this-season/article33866544.ece
18 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Recruit more hands, demand HMT staff||The HMT Employees’ Union, CITU, has demanded that the company management fulfil its promise of recruiting more hands to meet the growing needs of the company at its Kalamassery unit. The public sector company at one time employed around 3,500 workers in three shifts. There are now only 133 permanent employees and 250 workers on contract at the unit working in one shift. The number of employees will soon become less than hundred if no recruitments are made, said the employees’ union in its representation to the company management. The HMT unit at Kalamassery was one of the largest employers of engineers, diploma holders and technically qualified persons. At one time, there were 190 engineers, 380 diploma holders and 1,100 qualified technical personnel in the unit. However, the unit has fallen on bad days. It had great capacity to absorb technically qualified persons in large numbers as a heavy industrial unit. The voluntary retirement programmes under the ‘Golden Handshake’ scheme and the natural process of retirements of employees have resulted in the number of employees coming down drastically at the unit. No fresh recruitments are made in place of those who retire. Less than 1,000 The entire chain of HMT units across the country had around 30,000 employees but the numbers have come down to less than 1,000 now, the employees’ union said. The union appealed to the management to employ contract workers on a permanent basis to meet the shortage of hands. The Kalamassery unit has operated with profit and won the productivity award in 2019-20, said P. Krishnadas, secretary of the union in a statement here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hmt-employees-demand-recruitment-of-new-hands/article33866899.ece
18 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Now, plans and elevations pander to pandemic specifications||COVID-19 is changing the views on home spaces in ways not seen before. While the pandemic-triggered work-from-home culture and online classes are demanding more space at home, rising cost and shortage of labour and domestic help are curbing the splurge on new homes, say architects and builders. A little playground on the rooftop, a soundproof room for online meetings, a more airy kitchen, and more non-air-conditioned spaces are now preferred over closed spaces and compact kitchens. The pandemic has set off conversations about home space, says Monolita Chatterjee, architect, who feels that such thoughts are now going into more labour-saving designs. Maintenance Maintenance of large spaces has become difficult. It is possible that nobody is available to maintain a large house for long periods of time, says Ms. Chatterjee. The demand for homes and apartment units below the Rs. 50 lakh mark is significant now. The incentives in interest subsidy given by the Central government for low-cost housing, spiralling cost of raw materials and economic uncertainties are encouraging more people to go in for smaller homes, says architect L. Gopakumar, who is also the chairman of the Kerala chapter of the Indian Institute of Architects. Premium market appears unaffected, the trend towards more affordable homes is visible when it came to areas such as the finish and use of fittings, says Mr. Gopakumar. However, Sunil Kumar, a real property developer in Kochi, says the idea of home space has undergone a drastic change. More people are now looking to add another 60 sq ft to 100 sq ft of space to the normal 1,200-1,300 sq ft homes to accommodate the new requirements for privacy for a working environment. New view Arun Vidyasagar, an architect in Kochi, says there is a big difference now being perceived about the demand for home space among those working in the information technology sector. He says he knows people building a shuttle court on the rooftop and establishing soundproof rooms for official meetings. Shaji Mathew, a builder, agrees that people are now cutting cost effectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/now-plans-and-elevations-pander-to-pandemic-specifications/article33866534.ece
18 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||519 new cases recorded||There were 519 new COVID-19 cases in the district while 604 patients recovered from the disease on Wednesday. Two health workers were among the infected. Thrikkakara recorded 21 new cases followed by Kothamangalam and Thripunithura (18 each), Edappally (16) and Thuravur (13). As on Wednesday, the district had 30,450 people under disease surveillance and 9,758 active patients. Fresh admissions to FLTCs were 72.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/519-new-cases-recorded/article33866898.ece
18 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Breakthrough in breeding grey mullets||In a big boost to aquaculture in coastal States, the Central Institute of Brackish Water Aquaculture has successfully bred grey mullets (thirutha), a high-value brackish water fish, for the first time. Grey mullets are known for their taste and is treated as a culinary delicacy. The fish is distributed in tropical and sub-tropical waters, and is the fastest growing species among mullets, belongs to the family mugilidae, which can grow also in fresh, brackish and marine habitat conditions. Grey mullets are omnivores and due to the texture and taste and its quality as being free of spines, consumer preference is high. The fish fetches Rs. 350 to Rs. 500 a kg in the retail market. Faster growth rates and omnivorous feeding habit, acceptance of formulated pellet feed, make it a preferred fish of brackish water aqua farmers in the country. It is an ideal candidate species for integrated aquaculture systems. A production up to 3.5 to four tonnes per ha/crop can be achieved in grey mullet farming. The success in breeding grey mullets was officially announced on January 28 by CIBA at a stakeholders’ meeting, said a communication from the Centre. It is a big step towards achieving more fish production as envisioned under the call for a blue revolution, said the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/breakthrough-in-breeding-grey-mullets/article33866908.ece
18 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC enquires about regularisation norms||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Wednesday asked whether there was any law prohibiting a government from regularising temporary employees. The Bench led by Chief Justice S. Manikumar raised the question orally when a public interest petition challenging the regularisation of temporary employees in various government departments and undertakings came up for hearing. The court asked whether there were any recruitment rules in government undertakings where recruitment had not been referred to the Kerala Public Service Commission (PSC). The court ordered the posting of the petition for further hearing after 10 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-enquires-about-regularisation-norms/article33866520.ece
18 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||High Court quashes case against Sudhakaran||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday quashed a criminal case lodged against Congress leader K. Sudhakaran, MP, on the charge that he had asked his party men to indulge in bogus voting during the campaign for the 2016 Assembly polls. Mr. Sudhakaran was the candidate of the Congress in the Uduma Assembly constituency when the allegation was made. The case was registered by the Bekal police on a complaint by CPI(M) leader K. Kunjiraman, who won the election from the constituency. Allowing a petition filed by Mr. Sudhakaran, Justice Sunil Thomas observed that on an appreciation of the entire facts it was evident that the allegation by the prosecution against the petitioner did not disclose the commission of an offence. The allegation The allegation was that at a family meeting held in connection with the election, Mr. Sudhakaran had instigated his party workers to vote in the names of dead persons and those who were abroad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/high-court-quashes-case-against-sudhakaran/article33866535.ece
18 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||KMRL gets nod for survey||The Civil Aviation Ministry and the Directorate General of Civil Aviation has granted permission to the Kochi Metro Rail Ltd (KMRL) to deploy remotely piloted aircraft (RPA) for the Integrated Urban Regeneration & Water Transport System Project - IURWTS either up to December 31 or till the first phase of the digital sky project is complete. Sources at KMRL said they would require to fly RPA for carrying out the survey of the canals that are slated for rejuvenation. This is to map encroachments along their course, width, depth and other attributes/features.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nod-for-remotely-piloted-aircraft-survey-by-kmrl/article33866905.ece
18 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Court stays release of film on Maradu demolition||A Munsiff Court here on Wednesday stayed the release of Maradu 357 , a film on the demolition of four apartment complexes in Maradu. The court ordered that the film shall not be released in full or part or its trailer or its songs in theatres or on OTT platform/social media until the completion of the trial in criminal cases filed against builders. The interim order was passed on a petition filed by the builders of the demolished apartment complexes seeking to restrain the producer of the film from releasing it. The number 357 denoted the number of apartments which were demolished. According to them, criminal cases were registered against them by the Panangad and Maradu police on complaints filed by the flat owners. The owners had alleged that builders had colluded with officials to obtain permits with an intention to cheat them. The builders said the release of such a film would affect their right to a fair trial in these cases. Meanwhile, Kannan Thamarakkulam, director of the film, said that the film was about the pain and anxieties of the dwellers of the demolished buildings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/court-stays-release-of-film-on-maradu-demolition/article33866909.ece
18 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||No politicisation of fest, says Minister||Culture Minister A.K. Balan on Wednesday said that the IFFK had not been politicised. The fest, taking place across four venues, had become a huge success already and such unfortunate controversies would be short-lived, he hoped. He said that Salim Kumar, who kicked up a row over exclusion allegedly on the basis of political affiliation, was the chief guest of the North Paravur theatre complex inaugural event. Earlier in the day, Hibi Eden, MP, and State legislators P.T. Thomas and T.J. Vinod accused the State government of politicising the festival. The words of Shaji N. Karun, underscored their argument, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-politicisation-of-fest-says-minister/article33866892.ece
18 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Memorial to poet set to become a reality||The long-pending demand for a memorial for poet G. Sankara Kurup will soon fructify, according to Mayor M. Anil Kumar. Sketch prepared While the corporation had identified 25 cents of land near the Goshree bridge for the purpose, the approach to the site was an issue. Mr. Anil Kumar said that GCDA, which owns the nearby property, had now agreed to make available adequate land to have a thoroughfare to the memorial site. A decision to this effect was arrived at between Mr. Anil Kumar and GCDA Chairman V. Salim during an inspection at the site. The taluk survey department also prepared a sketch carving out the extent of the thoroughfare. Fund earmarked Mr. Anil Kumar said that the government would be asked to give land to GCDA in lieu of what was being released by it for the project. A total of Rs. 10 lakh has been earmarked for the first phase of the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/memorial-to-poet-set-to-become-a-reality/article33866906.ece
18 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Bamboo fest begins||The Kerala Bamboo Fest 2021 has got under way on the virtual platform “FICCI BIKE”. Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan, who inaugurated the fest, said diversification and modernisation would be implemented in the bamboo and allied production sector. Technical deficiencies in the bamboo production sector would be addressed. Various items FICCI is partnering with the Industries Department, the Kerala State Bamboo Mission (KSBM) and Kerala Bureau of Industrial Promotion (K-BIP) in organising the fest. Office stationery, bamboo blinds, kitchen utensils, decorative items, interior design, bamboo furniture, building materials and bamboo seedlings are on display at the virtual exhibition. There are buyer-seller meetings and B2B and G2B meetings too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bamboo-fest-gets-under-way/article33866897.ece
18 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Call to scrap trawler project||Fisheries stakeholders, ranging from scientists and researchers to owners of fishing boats, have appealed for calling off a memorandum of understanding between the government agency Kerala State Inland Navigation Corporation and a U.S.-based company to build 400 trawlers to be deployed off the Indian coast for deep sea fishing. Kerala Matsya Thozhilali Aikya Vedhi, a combine of fishers under the Left-leaning Trade Union Congress of India, organised a webinar to elicit opinion from the stakeholders on the issue. The president of the Aikya Vedhi pointed out that the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre had withdrawn the Meena Kumari Committee report on deep sea fishing following widespread protests from the fishing community. However, the State which was on the forefront of the protest against the committee, was following a path that was in the opposite direction, he said. The State government has not done proper homework when entering into an MoU for building fishing trawlers. Sunil Mohammed, a retired scientist from the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute, was cited as expressing the opinion that though the fishing sector needed to be modernised it must done in a phased manner. Kumbalam Rajappan and Jackson Pollayil, representing fishers’ unions in the traditional sector, were among those who expressed their opinion against the MoU. KSINC sources had said when the controversy broke out that the MoU was for a major work order for the corporation, which had boat building facilities and that there was a confusion on the issue. The trawlers being built by the U.S. company may be deployed in other parts of India if there was a problem in Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fisheries-stakeholders-call-for-scrapping-trawler-project/article33866907.ece
18 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Court reserves order on Dileep’s bail cancellation||The Ernakulam Additional Sessions Court on Wednesday reserved its order to February 23 on a petition filed by the prosecution seeking to cancel the bail granted to Dileep, actor and eighth accused in a case relating to abducting and sexually assaulting a woman actor. The court reserved its order after the conclusion of arguments on the petition. The prosecution had alleged that Dileep had tried to influence witnesses, violating a bail condition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/court-reserves-order-on-dileeps-bail-cancellation/article33866519.ece
18 February 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Green thrust in Kollam Budget||The Kollam district panchayat Budget 2021-22 has a string of projects to protect the environment and empower women, with agriculture continuing to receive the maximum impetus. The budget showing a revenue of Rs. 158.36 crore, expenditure of Rs. 151.75 crore, and surplus of Rs. 6.61 crore was presented by vice president V. Sumalal here on Wednesday. Poliyopoli, a project to promote paddy farming, gets Rs. 1.6 crore, including an outlay of Rs. 1 crore for farm equipment. Randidangazhi, a school-based farming initiative for students, NSS volunteers, clubs and teachers gets Rs. 50 lakh. Another Rs. 50 lakh will be spent on distributing quality fruit tree saplings to school students on Chingam 1 as part of Chingapulari project. High-tech dairy farm The Kuriyottumala high-tech dairy farm gets Rs. 5 crore. The projects there include fodder grass cultivation and a hatchery unit to produce 1 lakh chicks a month. The district panchayat also has plans to launch a range of value-added products including jam, squash, syrup, ice-cream, cheese, coconut oil and tender coconut products from its farms at Kuriyottumala, Kottukkal, Thottathara, and Karunagapally. The products will be branded before marketing and Rs. 50 lakh has been earmarked for that. Another project to promote integrated farming gets Rs. 50 lakh and an equal amount has been allocated for the production of high-yielding variety seeds and saplings at Kottarakara and Kadakkal farms. For Phoenix While Rs. 1 crore goes into promotion traditional industries including cashew and coir, the same amount has been set aside for Phoenix, a new project to support IT-based enterprises by providing nano stations at the industrial parks at Kareepra and Pathanapuram. Swayamprabha, a project offering 75% subsidy for women groups to start production units in food processing, garment making, and handicraft manufacturing or start beauty parlours or fitness centres gets Rs. 60 lakh. To study climate change and take preventive measures against natural calamities, Rs. 50 lakh has been allocated. Forests, rivers While Rs. 4 crore will be invested on waste processing, Miyawaki forests will be cultivated in public places spending Rs. 25 lakh. Thelineer, a project to clean the major rivers in the district for unrestricted water flow, gets Rs. 75 lakh. The Ithikkara river will be cleaned in the first phase of the project to be followed by Kallada river and Pallikkal river. Another Rs 75 lakh has been earmarked for the protection of Sasthamcotta Lake while allocations were also made for the welfare of sexual minorities and persons belonging to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/green-thrust-in-kollam-budget/article33866504.ece
18 February 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||KSCDC to give jobs to 500 more||The Kerala State Cashew Development Corporation (KSCDC) will provide jobs to 500 more labourers who were left jobless after private factories downed their shutters, KSCDC chairman S. Jayamohan has said. “The cashew sector has seen comprehensive changes in the past five years. The factories under the KSCDC and Capex were lying shut for 11 months when the Left Democratic Front government came to power. The government formed the Cashew Board to ensure the availability of raw cashew so that the labourers get maximum working days. We have also taken measures to maximise domestic production,” he told a press meet here on Tuesday. Rs. 74 crore as gratuity The KSCDC and Capex had inducted 6,000 cashew workers in the past five years and disbursed gratuity arrears for the 10 years. “A total of 6,000 persons from the KSCDC and 100 persons from Capex received arrears in this period. The government had set aside Rs. 74 crore for the purpose.” The KSCDC had introduced both literacy and equivalency courses for its labourers in association with the Kerala State Literacy Mission Authority (KSLMA). Steps were also taken to modernise 30 factories of the Corporation and 10 factories of Capex. The renovated factories have separate sections for shelling, peeling and grading along with dining room, toilet blocks, creche and canteen. Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma will dedicate the 17 renovated KSCDC factories and inaugurate the gratuity disbursal at Capex on February 18.  Minister to dedicate 17 renovated factories, inaugurate gratuity disbursal today||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kscdc-to-give-jobs-to-500-more/article33866498.ece
18 February 2021||Kollam,KERALA||552 cases in Kollam||Kollam reported 552 new cases of COVID-19 and 356 recoveries on Wednesday. Among the patients are 541 contact cases, six NRIs, three persons from another State and two cases with no known source. The district has 17,669 persons under observation. In Alappuzha, 339 COVID-19 cases and two virus-related deaths were reported. Of the new cases, 331 contracted the disease through local transmission. Meanwhile, 330 people in the district recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/552-cases-in-kollam/article33866510.ece
18 February 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||4 fish markets in Kollam to be revamped||The Fisheries Department will renovate four markets in the district by including them in the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board project, said Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma on Wednesday. Anchal, Kottarakara, Punalur, and Pathanapuram markets will be renovated at Rs. 15.3 crore. The markets will have retail outlets, butcher stalls, cold storage, cleaning room and loading facility. Stalls will have steel display tables and sinks. Freezer, waste treatment plant and drainage are other amenities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/4-fish-markets-in-kollam-to-be-revamped/article33866505.ece
18 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Corpn. budget makes novel proposals||The Kozhikode Corporation’s budget for the financial year 2021-22 presented by Deputy Mayor Musafir Ahamed was noted for its numerous novel projects. The budget gives special focus to health and sanitation. A novel project named ‘Kozhikode Immunity Development Scheme’ (KIDS) proposed in the budget aims at combating lifestyle diseases that led to many a COVID deaths in the city. Besides, a cleanliness protocol will be launched for the city soon. A health mission will be constituted to aid the improvement of the hygiene status of the city. A health complex at West Hill, a health hub at the TB clinic, and a dialysis centre have also been proposed. To strengthen efforts to make every service of the corporation available online, a mobile application is in the making, and Rs. 10 lakh has been earmarked for the project. There are also several facilities being set up at the corporation office to convert it into a paperless office, besides better facilities for employees to make the office qualify for ISO certification. Mayor Beena Philip will hold complaint adalats every now and then to sort out issues. Apart from training offered by the Kerala Institute of Local Administration (KILA), the corporation will set up a facility for imparting ‘in-service’ training to its employees. Improving pocket roads in such a way that they are wide enough for at least a small ambulance to use is an ambitious project proposed in the budget, which will require large-scale public cooperation, as a lot of land needs to be acquired for the purpose. Developing Valiyangadi into a ‘sleepless street’ with food stalls and late night activities is another project. The old corporation office will be re-structured into a ‘Museum for city history’. A multi-purpose commercial complex named ‘City Tower’ has been proposed at Palayam. On spot maintenance system for roads, a traffic policy, steps to make the city tourist-friendly, a memorial for freedom fighter Mohammed Abdurahman, music festival, theatre festival, international film festival, sports school, sports-cum-commercial complex at Pallikkandy, roller skating stadium at Pooladikkunnu, a new lorry terminal, ‘Enterprising Kozhikode’ project to encourage new entrepreneurs, and financial aid for start-ups by young women are the other novelties. The budget proposes a revenue of Rs. 882.85 crore and expenditure of Rs. 827.89 crore with a surplus of Rs. 54.96 crore. The revised budget for the financial year 2020-21 was also presented by the Deputy Mayor from which a surplus of Rs. 66.09 crore has been carried over to the next financial year. Mayor Beena Philip chaired the session. Discussions on the budget will go on till Thursday afternoon after which the Deputy Mayor will answer queries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-budget-makes-novel-proposals/article33866429.ece
18 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Korappuzha bridge thrown open to traffic||Offering a smooth drive for motorists on the Kozhikode-Kannur National Highway, the reconstructed Korappuzha bridge was thrown open to vehicular traffic on Wednesday. G. Sudhakaran, Minister for Public Works, inaugurated the bridge, which was one of the major projects to address the traffic congestion on the route. KIIFB funds Public Works Department officials said the bridge construction work included in the Kerala State Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) was completed by the Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society at a cost of Rs. 26 crore. The old bridge constructed in 1940 was in a very dangerous condition which prompted the government to complete the new project on fast track, they said. According to PWD officials, the spacious footpaths with one-and-a-half-metre width on either side of the bridge were one of the major attractions of the new project. Other than offering safety, it would offer a good chance to the pedestrians to enjoy the beauty of the riverside, they said. The narrow approach road was a major hurdle in the case of the old bridge which was addressed properly during the construction of the new bridge with seven spans. Scenic look Apart from many service roads, new spacious approach roads on either side were also constructed, maintaining a 150-metre length, offering a smooth entry for vehicles. Streetlights were also erected in such a way as to ensure a scenic look to the bridge. It was on December 29, 2018, that the foundation stone for the new bridge was laid by Mr. Sudhakaran. One of the major tasks to start the reconstruction work was the demolition of the old bridge which was completed within six months. Traffic on the Kozhikode-Kannur national highway was diverted via Pooladikkunnu. A temporary walkway was also constructed across the river to facilitate the movement of pedestrians. Apart from the construction of the bridge, the road between Pavangadu and Elathoor was renovated as part of attempts to convert it as the city’s first accident-free zone. All illegal make-shift sheds and shelters were cleared as part of the road widening process. Better pavements and waiting shelters for bus passengers were constructed along the route using the road safety fund.  Besides the construction of the bridge, the road between Pavangadu and Elathoor was renovated as part of attempts to convert it as the city’s first accident-free zone||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/korappuzha-bridge-thrown-open-to-traffic/article33866439.ece
18 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||No info on cow science exam: Vice Chancellors||Vice Chancellors of two major universities in the State are not aware of a University Grants Commission (UGC) circular that seeks to publicise an examination in ‘indigenous cow science’ being held by the Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog, which is attached to the Union Ministry of Animal Husbandry, on February 25. Gopinath Ravindran and M.K. Jayaraj, VCs of Kannur University and Calicut University respectively, told The Hindu on Wednesday that the circular had not reached them. Mr. Jayaraj, though, said he had seen newspaper reports on the issue. University of Kerala Vice Chancellor V.P. Mahadevan Pillai too said he too had no information on the examination.  The examination is to disseminate information on the “economic, scientific, environmental, health, agricultural, and spiritual relevance of the indigenous cow,” said the circular dated February 12. The all-India examination is open to all school and college students and other citizens. UGC Secretary Rajnish Jain had urged the VCs to give “wide publicity to this initiative and encourage students to enroll/register themselves for the examination”. However, M.R. Saseendranath, Vice Chancellor, Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, said he had forwarded the letter to the Director (Academic and Research) of the university. “There will be no compulsion. Those who are interested can participate. We will anyway circulate the message,” he added.  Claims The initial study material for the examination, announced last month, includes claims that cow dung protects against nuclear radiation. It has said that there is a link between cow slaughter and earthquakes and that Jersey cows are lazy and thus give poor quality of milk while the indigenous ones give yellow milk with traces of gold.  Kerala State Higher Education Council vice chairman Rajan Gurukkal P.M. cautioned universities against promoting obscurantism and false claims based on biased studies. The cow science examination would only serve to obfuscate independent inquiries, undermine the credibility of research establishments and curb the curiosity of the youth, he said. Referring to the granting of U.S. patents for cow urine, Prof. Gurukkal told The Hindu they were not adequate to accept the cow as a field of knowledge and call it science. While patents referred to rights over intellectual property, they do not provide scientific validity. Many claims around the cow are unsubstantiated. “I am not against scientific research on cows, but not on the holy cow that defies scientific scrutiny,” he said.  (With inputs from Sarath Babu George in Thiruvananthapuram)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-info-on-cow-science-exam-vice-chancellors/article33866517.ece
18 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||No head teachers in 1,000 govt. primary schools||The State government has not appointed head teachers in around 1,000 government primary schools in the past one year. Those on the Kerala Public Service Commission rank lists for Lower Primary School Assistant (LPSA) and Upper Primary School Assistant (UPSA) posts are reportedly losing a chance to get a government job because of this. According to sources, the stalemate in recruitment followed a Kerala High Court order on January 27 last year which directed the government to appoint only those who cleared department-level qualification tests as head teachers. Status quo Some head teachers, who had not passed the tests, approached the Supreme Court against the order. The apex court ordered to maintain the status quo . The State government has not appointed head teachers in government primary schools since April last year, it is learnt. The government, in the meantime, amended rules to exempt teachers aged above 50 from the ambit of the High Court order. Another group of teachers opposed this order, following which the High Court said the present situation should continue until the apex court settles the matter. ‘No promotion chance’ “Right now, there is some sort of undeclared freeze on recruitment. If the government promotes existing test-qualified teachers as head teachers, it will lead to around 1,000 vacancies in various government primary schools. Those from the PSC rank list for LPSA and UPSA can be appointed to these posts,” K.N. Anand, president of the Kerala Test Qualified Primary Teachers’ Union, told The Hindu . He claimed that by not making appointments, the government was apparently trying to cut the cost on salaries. No promotion “However, because of the impasse, many qualified teachers who could have become head teachers are retiring next month without getting a chance for promotion. The wait of those on PSC rank lists is getting longer too,” Mr. Anand said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/over-1000-govt-primary-schools-remain-headless/article33866424.ece
18 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Ambulance drivers misusing privileges’||Throwing road safety norms to the winds, a section of ambulance drivers are suspected of misusing the privileges of emergency service for their personal use in the absence of patients. The violations are yet to be tracked by the traffic police, as most violators are inter-district service providers, and the complainants are mainly afraid of legal complications. Most such suspected drivers use the emergency siren and violate speed norms to get undue advantage on national and State highways. Even for non-emergency returns trips, they are suspected of using the emergency siren and power horn to overtake other vehicles and jump traffic signals. Others follow suit To skip traffic snarls, a lot of other vehicles, especially motorbikes and cars, are also found chasing such ‘emergency’ vehicles taking advantage of clear roads. The deadly tailgating is creating a huge mess on highways during peak hours. Even bottlenecks and narrow bridges on the Kozhikode-Kannur highway are not spared by such reckless drivers. “Once I had an instance to spot such a suspected driver on the road who locked horns with fellow motorists for not giving way. There was no patient in the vehicle. When the police came, he just escaped claiming that he was going to pick a patient,” said Ratheesh Sivan, a Vadakara-based taxi driver who has come across such trickeries several times. He also pointed out that no one would question such drivers, as the police would be by their side for no reasons. Another taxi driver from Vadakara said there were even inter-district ambulance drivers violating speed rules while carrying bodies or non-emergency cases. “They jump all signal lights and dangerously overtake other vehicles throughout the way. There is no one to question this deadly race for unknown reasons,” he added. Meanwhile, the functionaries of the Accredited Network Group of Emergency Life Savers (ANGELS) said the violators were mostly those with no formal training. They pointed out that such reckless drivers should be intercepted on the road and allowed to resume work only after proper training.  Ambulances jump all signal lights and dangerously overtake other vehicles throughout the way. There is no one to question this deadly race A taxi driver from Vadakara||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ambulance-drivers-misusing-privileges/article33866430.ece
18 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Project to boost tourism, irrigation||Minister for Water Resources K. Krishnankutty on Wednesday inaugurated the Chittarikadavu regulator-cum-bridge. The project, which is expected to give a boost to irrigation and tourism, was executed at a cost of Rs. 20.18 crore. Opening the project through videoconferencing, Mr. Krishnankutty said the State government had accorded sanction to 35 projects under the Irrigation Department in Balussery and Koyilandy Assembly constituencies alone. “Of them, 19 were completed in time,” he added. Irrigation Department officials said the regulator-cum-bridge constructed across the Raman river would prevent saline water intrusion into local water sources and paddy fields in Koyilandy and surrounding panchayats. Its benefits will be available to farmers who own around 1,665 hectares near the project area, they pointed out. According to officials, the project will also ensure smooth road connectivity between Koyilandy and Balussery. Apart from ensuring sufficient supply of water for irrigation, it will provide pure drinking water to several villages, they said. Purushan Kadalundi, MLA, chaired the inaugural event. Koyilandy MLA K. Dasan, Municipal Chairperson Sudha Kizhakkeppattu, and heads of various local bodies were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/project-to-boost-tourism-irrigation/article33866432.ece
18 February 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Project to allay exam fears of students||The Kozhikode District Panchayat on Wednesday launched “Hall Ticket”, a project to allay exam fears of school students. It is being held jointly with the help of the District Institute of Education and Training (DIET) and the Ayurveda Medical Association of India. A hand of help According to DIET sources, as many as 150 doctors under the District Ayurveda Mission and 50 school counsellors are involved in the programme. These doctors, counsellors and coordinators of the district panchayat’s Educare programme will address the physical, mental and academic anxieties of students. Handbook released “Resonance”, a handbook related to the project was launched on Wednesday. Study materials had been made available in all schools as many students were apprehensive that they would have to appear for exams without them during the pandemic period. A. Pradeep Kumar, MLA, who attended the event, said that “Hall Ticket” was an example of local bodies providing support for school students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/project-to-allay-exam-fears-of-students/article33866426.ece
18 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||State intervention sought to cut fuel prices||The Malabar Chamber of Commerce has called upon the State government to follow the model adopted by the Assam government which reduced the prices of petrol and diesel in their State by Rs. 5 per litre. In a release issued here on Wednesday, the chamber said the fuel price rise had already made its impact on every sector, and the Centre and the State should make interventions to control price hike.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-intervention-sought-to-cut-fuel-prices/article33866433.ece
18 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||No complaints over inaugural ceremony, says Shaji N. Karun||Ace film-maker Shaji N. Karun has said that he respected Kerala State Chalachitra Academy Chairman Kamal as a fellow director and had no complaints regarding the inaugural ceremony of the International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK). Speaking to reporters here on Wednesday on the sidelines of a press meet of the Kerala State Film Development Corporation (KSFDC), Mr. Karun, who is the chairman of KSFDC, said that he had been invited for the IFFK event and he did not attend it only because he had nothing to contribute to it. “People who invited me did not mention what I have to do there. So there is no point in me going there,” he said. “When the IFFK started, the purpose was to promote films from Latin America, Asia and Africa that were struggling. After 25 years, I doubt if IFFK has the same goals. It should be a professional meet, not a festival per se. It is not what I conceived. Hence I did not want to be part of it any more,” he added. He said that there weren’t many who remembered his contributions to Malayalam cinema.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-complaints-says-shaji-n-karun/article33866449.ece
18 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Award for rehabilitation centre||Nest International Academy and Research Centre for Paediatric Rehabilitation in Koyilandy, has been selected for the award for the best institution working for the development of deaf and dumb persons, by the Department of Social Justice. The award was announced by K.K.Shylaja, Minister for Social Justice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/award-for-rehabilitation-centre/article33866425.ece
18 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Get-together of childhood cancer survivors||Caring for Childhood Cancer and Chronic Illness (C4CCCI), a Kozhikode-based volunteer organisation to take care of children with cancer, mainly leukaemia and blood-related diseases such as thalassaemia, and their families, recently held an online family get-together meet of those who survived the disease and children in the final phase of treatment. According to sources, the event was held in association with the Calicut branch of the Indian Academy of Pediatrics. Kozhikode Mayor Beena Philip opened the meet. Singer K.S. Chithra released a digital magazine that includes literary works of the children. She also hummed a few lines from the song Kannamthumpi poramo , from the movie Kakkothikkavile Appooppan Thaadikal , for the children. The sources said C4CCCI, started in 2007, provided psychological support to the children and their family members, and arranged counsellors as well. Children diagnosed with leukaemia need treatment for at least three years and thus lose their school years. C4CCCI arranges tuition facility at the hospital itself so that their studies are not affected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/get-together-of-childhood-cancer-survivors/article33866437.ece
18 February 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Caseload drops below 6,000 in Kozhikode||The active COVID-19 case load seems to be declining in Kozhikode district after a surge in January, if the data released by the Health Department are any indication. According to the District Medical Officer, with 880 people recovering on Wednesday, the number of infected persons here is 5,990. The number of active cases had dropped below 6,000 in January first week. The active case pool, however, reached the 8,000-mark in subsequent weeks when there was a steady rise in the number of newly infected persons. Media reports had said that Kozhikode was among the 13 districts in the country with a high active case load. The daily test positivity rate (TPR) too was high as it oscillated between 8% and 13%. However, in the past few weeks, there have been more recoveries than fresh cases. While 486 people were reportedly infected on Wednesday, there were 880 recoveries. The daily TPR seems to be falling below 8% these days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/caseload-drops-below-6000-in-kozhikode/article33866448.ece
18 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||10 CPI(M) activists surrender in Kuttiyadi||Ten Communist Party of India (Marxist) activists, who allegedly unleashed an attack against the policemen and forcibly released a CPI(M) leader from police custody, surrendered before the Kuttiyadi police on Wednesday. A.P. Asokan, who was released from custody, was also among those who surrendered before the investigating team. Attack on police It was on last Sunday that a group of CPI(M) workers forcibly released Asokan after attacking three policemen and a Home Guard at Nittoor near Kuttiyadi. The injured officials had been admitted to a government hospital in Kozhikode. Case against 51 Following the incident, the Kuttiyadi police had registered a case against 51 identifiable persons. According to the police, Asokan was taken into custody as the court had issued an arrest warrant against him. He was involved in a political clash between Bharatiya Janata Party and CPI(M) workers in Kuttiyadi in 2016, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/10-cpim-activists-surrender/article33866434.ece
18 February 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Plea to hike EPF pension||The Kerala Provident Fund Members and Pensioners’ Association has urged the Centre to increase the EPF pension to Rs. 7,500. This was demand was passed as a resolution at a meeting of the association held here recently. K.T. Aravindakshan, president, was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plea-to-hike-epf-pension-to-rs-7500/article33866427.ece
18 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Modi to open new water plant||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the new 75-mld water treatment plant (WTP) at Aruvikkara, billed as the solution for the drinking water woes of the State capital, on Friday. Constructed by the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT), the plant promises an additional 75 million litres daily (mld) to the city regions. Mr. Modi will attend the function, scheduled to be held at 4.30 p.m., via videoconference. The Rs. 58-crore plant was constructed using funds provided by the Centre and State governments and the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation under AMRUT. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will preside over the inaugural function at the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation office. Union Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri and Minister of State for New & Renewable Energy Raj Kumar Singh will attend the function online. The new WTP, built by Thiruvananthapuram-based Chicago Constructions International Pvt Ltd, will complement the 72-mld, 86-mld and the 74-mld WTPs at Aruvikkara and pump water via the existing transmission main to the Thirumala, Peroorkada, Vattiyoorkavu and southern high-level zones. This will enable the KWA to close the interconnection valves between zones, thereby benefitting all the eight zones in the city water supply system. Long-term water needs The 75-mld WTP was conceived and developed with the long-term water needs of the city, its suburbs and development projects such as the Vizhinjam seaport and IT parks. The WTP boasts a more advanced technology for treating water collected from the Aruvikkara dam. Unlike the 72- mld and 86- mld plants which employ conventional systems and the 74-mld facility which has a pulsator clarifier, the 75-mld plant is equipped with a lamella clarifier (inclined plate settler) for removing particulates from raw water. The 75-mld plant is operated fully under SCADA (supervisory control and data acquisition). SCADA reduces manpower requirement by enabling online monitoring of raw and clear water parameters and operation of electromechanical equipment such as valves, pumps and motors. As part of the project two sub stations with three transformers have been installed. A 50-kW solar power plant too has been installed at the WTP site as an alternate energy source. Delayed by pandemic The KWA had hoped to commission the project by March 2020, but the work was delayed on account of the COVID-19 pandemic. Water Resources Minister K. Krishnankutty, Public Works G. Sudhakaran, Tourism Kadakampally Surendran and Minister for Local Self Government A. C. Moideen and Mayor Arya Rajendran, MPs and MLAs also will attend the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/modi-to-open-new-water-plant/article33867017.ece
18 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rs. 5.49-cr. aid disbursed at adalats||A total of Rs. 5.49 crore was provided as financial assistance from the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund (CMDRF) at the Santhwana Sparsham adalats held in the district, the government has said. Financial assistance to the tune of Rs. 3.15 crore was announced at the adalats for Thiruvananthapuram and Nedumangad taluks held at the SMV school on Wednesday, which constituted the third and final leg of the adalats in the district. In all, 5,756 petitions from the two taluks were taken up. An elderly woman who has been battling cancer for the past six years, a man who had lost both his legs in an accident and a young Karate expert were among the people who received a helping hand on Wednesday. Ration card Thankamani of Kachani, Nedumangad, was issued an AAY category ration card at the adalat so that she can successfully apply for government assistance. Diagnosed with cancer six years ago, she had to abandon her job as a domestic help. Her family, which survives on the meagre income of her son who is a daily wage labourer, has been struggling to meet her treatment expenses. The fact that Thankamani held an APL (above the poverty line) category ration card was an obstacle in seeking government benefits. Raveendran of Mannancode, Neyyattinkara, had lost both his legs in an accident. He was issued Rs. 20,000 from the CMDRF and a wheelchair. Raveendran’s family, which consists of his mother, his wife and 17-year-old son, was finding it hard to make ends meet. Two visually impaired men, Madhu from Balaramapuram and Murali from Nedumangad, were issued Rs. 20,000 each from the CMDRF for financing lottery vending units and bunk shops. Avani Sunil, a Class X student of Government Higher Secondary School, Venjaramoodu, who holds a black belt in Karate, was provided Rs. 15,000 for purchasing training equipment. Avani, who is the younger daughter of Sunil Kumar and Aruna C. Balan, has won two bronzes at five national-level competitions and five golds at the State level. Petitions from Kattakada and Neyyattinkara taluks were taken up in the first leg of the adalat at Neyyatinkara on February 8. A sum of Rs. 1.3 crore was disbursed as assistance there. At Attingal The second adalat, held at Attingal for considering grievances from Chirayinkeezhu and Varkala taluks, provided assistance to the tune of Rs. 1.04 crore from the fund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-549-cr-aid-disbursed-at-adalats/article33867021.ece
18 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Genomic studies see no alarming virus variants in State||The genomic and epidemiological surveillance studies on COVID-19 being conducted across Kerala have so far not found any evidence of new SARS-CoV-2 lineages of concern. While a formal study report is yet to be released, much of the highlights are available in the public domain.  Pilot study “Over 700 genomes of SARS-CoV-2 have been sequenced from Kerala. We have identified several new lineages of the virus in the State and those found in other parts of the country. Some lineages need to be watched with caution, but genomic studies have so far not revealed anything alarming for Kerala,” Vinod Scaria, senior scientist, CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB), who is leading the study, toldThe Hindu.In September, the IGIB conducted a pilot study of some 200 virus samples from Kozhikode district and reported that the virus strains circulating in the State were marked by the D614G mutation, which made the virus very infective. It also reported that these strains were introduced into the State by inter-State travellers. Subsequently, the government tied up with the IGIB to do a State-wide study, collecting samples from all districts over a period, to understand the emerging lineages/clades of SARS-CoV-2 in Kerala so that policy decisions and its implementation can be evidence-based. Dec.-Jan. samples Samples sequenced between December and January have not given any evidence of new mutations that might signal any alarm or might be linked to the ongoing transmission in Kerala. The disease transmission pattern in the State also does not seem to indicate an unrestrained spread at any point of time. The 501Y.V2 variant or the B.1.351 lineage which has rapidly spread in South Africa and has the immune escape E484K mutation (mutation which can evade human immune system response) has not yet been detected in any samples from Kerala, Dr. Scaria said. It does not mean that the variant may not emerge in the State.  N440K mutation “We have previously identified 19 genetic variants in India with immune escape potential, of which the N440K mutation found in over 30% of the samples collected from Kurnool, Andhra Pradesh, in August-September has started appearing in several States, including Kerala. This is a variant we need to watch out for,” he added. “We have only looked at samples collected over a single time point from Kerala. We will need to continue the genomic surveillance to identify trends, whether any variant is taking over the transmission. We hope that the January-February lot of samples will give us a better idea about this,” Dr. Scaria said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/genomic-studies-see-no-alarming-virus-variants-in-state/article33866532.ece
18 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||More govt. sops for IT firms||The government on Wednesday announced a package of relief schemes to help IT companies tide over the COVID-19-induced crisis. Companies occupying 25,000 sq ft of office space in IT parks will get an exemption in rentals for up to 10,000 sq ft for the period from April to June 2020. The rental on the remaining space will be eligible for the moratorium announced in April 2020, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told reporters at a post-Cabinet briefing. Companies occupying up to 10,000 sq ft of office space will get a waiver on the rental from July to December 2020. The new relief schemes will be over and above the proposals in the revival package announced in April 2020 for companies located in government IT parks. LIFE houses Mr. Vijayan said the Cabinet meeting had decided to provide an insurance cover of up to Rs. 4 lakh for 2,50,547 houses constructed under the LIFE Mission. The government would foot the premium payment for the first three years. The meeting also cleared a proposal to take Rs. 1,500 crore from HUDCO for construction of houses for LIFE Mission beneficiaries in the third phase and those on the additional list. Ordinances The meeting recommended the Governor to promulgate the Kerala Public Health Ordinance integrating the provisions of the Madras Public Health Act, 1939 and the Travancore Cochin Public Health Act, 1955. It also cleared the Kerala Medical Practitioners’ Act. The Town and Country Planning Act, 2016 would also be amended taking into account the risks posed by natural disasters. The amended legislation would be forwarded to the Governor for promulgation of an Ordinance. It approved the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Kerala amendment) Bill and recommended the Governor to promulgate it as an Ordinance to perpetuate traditional agricultural sports such as Maramadi, Kaalapoottu, Kannupoottu, and Uzhavu which use cattle for races. The Cabinet decided to set up a tribal taluk at Attappady in Palakad. Former High Court judge T.S.Gopinathan will be appointed the Ombudsman for local self- government institutions. Mr. Vijayan said it had been decided to reconstitute the Agency for Non-Conventional Energy and Rural Technology (Anert) in tune with the national and State policies on renewable energy. New posts would be created for the purpose, he added.  The new relief schemes are over and above the proposals in the revival package announced in April 2020||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-govt-sops-for-it-firms/article33866542.ece
18 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State on track to achieve SDG goals by 2030: CM||Kerala is well on track to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) in health by 2030, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Wednesday. Mr. Vijayan was inaugurating an international webinar series on ‘Kerala Health: Making the SDG a Reality,’ organised by the State government. The Chief Minister said that a resilient and responsive health-care system was one of the central pillars of Kerala’s development agenda. The State’s development paradigm focused on health and education as the driving force that would ensure sustainable, equitable and all-round development. Best performer “Kerala leads the country in its progress towards achieving these goals, with NITI Aayog ranking the State as the best performer with a score of 70. This achievement is even more prominent in SGD-3, which deals with health, where Kerala is ranked first with a score of 82. This index shows that Kerala is well on track in achieving the SDGs by the 2030 deadline,” the Chief Minister said. Response to COVID Mr. Vijayan claimed that the State was successful in mounting an effective response against COVID-19, which was evident from the fact that the case fatality rate could be contained at 0.4 % against the national average of 1.43%. This was achieved by the health system with the active participation and cooperation of the local bodies and other departments. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan in his keynote address said that the demographic transition and the increasing burden of non- communicable diseases were challenges unique to Kerala and its progress towards achieving the SDG goals will be defined by how successfully these core issues are managed. Challenges He pointed out that the recent National Family Health Survey V had identified a few emerging and some persistent challenges for Kerala, in the area of chronic diseases and adult nutrition and its is essential that primary healthcare services were equipped to deal with this Health Minister K. K. Shylaja presided over the inaugural session Those who spoke included the Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta and the Principal Secretary (Health), Rajan Khobragade. The webinar is dealing with five core themes spread over five days.  Demographic transition and increasing burden of non-communicable diseases are the challenges unique to Kerala. Rajesh Bhushan Union Health Secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-on-track-to-achieve-sdg-goals-by-2030-cm/article33867023.ece
18 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||PSC rank holders dig in their heels||PSC rank holders agitating for government jobs on Wednesday dug their heels in on their demand for talks with the government. They requested a discussion with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan or a Minister deputed by him. The agitators demanded posting for one-fifth of the rank holders on the Public Service Commission list for appointment as last grade employees. The protesters welcomed the purported decision of the Cabinet to stop regularising temporary workers. They had expressed fear that the step would emasculate the PSC and whittle down their employment chances. Special rule PSC rank holders who cleared the test for appointment to the post of civil police officers (CPO) said they would intensify their agitation unless the government revived the obsolete rank list by promulgating a special rule. The government had maintained that their demand was beyond the pale of legal possibility. It had slammed former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy for sowing such implausible ideas to give false hope to the job-seekers. Mr Chandy reacted stoically to the charge and said he would take any blame for the anguished rank holders demanding their due from an “apathetic” government. Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan said the government was in favour of talks with the agitators. However, the rider to the bargain was that the rank holders should directly approach the government without any political intermediaries.  Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president Mullappally Ramachandran said the government had developed cold feet in the face of youth anger. It had backtracked from its move to circumvent the PSC and regularise temporary workers. The public required a full accounting of “backdoor” appointments since 2016. The Bharatiya Janata Party national executive member Sobha Surendran began a 48-hour fast in front of the Secretariat demanding an inquiry by the Central Bureau of Investigation into how the government had sidestepped the PSC and appointed preferred persons in State service. Ms. Surendran alleged that a group of financial fraudsters allied with CPI(M) leaders had benefited monetarily from the illegal appointments. Congress legislators K.S. Sabarinathan and Shafi Parambil are on a fast in front of the Secretariat in support of the agitators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/psc-rank-holders-dig-in-their-heels/article33866524.ece
18 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Trivandrum Tennis Club plea on rent||The Trivandrum Tennis Club on Wednesday said its existence would become untenable if the State government fixed the land rental rate at 5% of the market value. In a press release issued here, club secretary M. R. Ramesh said if the government implemented the rate, the club would have to pay the treasury Rs. 3.5 crore annually. No sporting club could afford to pay such a steep rent, he said. Mr. Ramesh requested the government to make the land lease rate for Tennis Club on a par with that of the Golf Club (Rs. 1 per acre annually). He said several misleading reports had appeared in the media about the lease arrears owed by the club to the government. The club had a storied history and was deeply involved in tennis training and promotion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/trivandrum-tennis-club-plea-on-rent/article33867015.ece
18 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Jaleel lands in another controversy||Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel has landed in yet another controversy after being accused of misuseing his authority to ‘arm-twist’ the University of Kerala and the Directorate of Collegiate Education to facilitate an ‘illegal transfer’ of a college teacher from one department to another. The Save University Campaign Committee has petitioned the Governor seeking steps to quash the alleged directions issued by the Minister to the university. In their complaint, committee chairman R.S. Sasikumar and secretary M. Shajirkhan accused Dr. Jaleel of recommending the transfer the teacher of a city college from its Department of Latin to the Department of English. At a meeting convened at his chamber, the Minister allegedly instructed the university to adopt ‘appropriate action’ after obtaining concurrence from the Director of Collegiate Education. While the college management had cited a precedent when another lecturer was shifted between departments, the petitioner said that there was no provision to transfer a teacher from one department to another. Each post should be notified independently and appointments must be made against each post. They also quoted a Supreme Court verdict that maintained a vacancy created by shifting a teacher from one department to another cannot be sustained. While the Save Education Campaign Committee alleged that the university Syndicate met on Wednesday to consider the issue, official sources claimed the topic had not come up during the discussions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jaleel-lands-in-another-controversy/article33867009.ece
18 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||4,892 fresh cases||Kerala reported 4,892 new cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday when 69,953 samples were tested over the past 24 hours, taking the State’s cumulative case burden to 10,16,848 cases. The test positivity rate fell to 6.99% . Of the samples tested, 43,702 were rapid antigen assay while the RT-PCR tests numbered 24,052. Despite its intention to raise the number of tests substantially, with 70% RT-PCR tests, districts have not been able to increase their RT PCR testing capacity. With the State reporting 4,832 recoveries on Wednesday, the active case pool of the State, which has been dropping steadily, now stood at 60,803. On Wednesday, 16 more deaths were added to the official list of COVID fatalities, taking the toll to 4,032 deaths. Thiruvananthapuram reported four deaths, Thrissur three, Kottayam, Wayanad and Alappuzha two each while Ernakulam, Palakkad and Kozhikode reported one death each. Among districts, Kollam reported 552 cases, Pathanamthitta 546, Ernakulam 519, Kottayam 506, Kozhikode 486, Thrissur 442, Thiruvananthapuram 344, Alappuzha 339, Malappuram 332, Kannur 284, Idukki 185, Wayanad 144 Palakkad 140, and Kasaragod 73 cases. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said cases in the State seemed to be on a downward trend. He dismissed reports about “dangerous virus mutations” in the State and said there were no official reports of any dangerous variants in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/4892-fresh-cases/article33866529.ece
18 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM to open hi-tech school buildings||Eighty-nine hi-tech school buildings constructed as part of the Public Education Rejuvenation Mission will be inaugurated on Thursday, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. At a press briefing on Tuesday evening, the Chief Minister said 41 higher secondary school laboratories would also be inaugurated, and foundation stone for 68 school buildings laid on the occasion. Mr. Vijayan said the education sector was undergoing a huge makeover. Schools had become hi-tech and classrooms digital. And recently, the Cabinet had decided to take over 10 government-aided schools that were on the verge of closure. The Chief Minister underlined that the government’s education policy was comprehensive and definitive. Public schools were becoming centres of excellence as part of this policy. It had also resulted in an increase in the number of students in public schools. The government would continue to stride forward for the development of the education sector.  41 higher secondary school labs to be inaugurated and foundation for 68 school buildings to be laid||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/opening-of-89-high-tech-school-buildings-today/article33867008.ece
18 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Motor vehicle tax waiver for Jan.-March quarter for contract carriages||The government has exempted all stage carriers and contract carriages registered in the State from paying motor vehicle tax for the January-March quarter of 2021. Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran said on Wednesday that the government had also decided to allow the owners of various classes of motor vehicles with motor vehicle tax arrears to remit them in equal monthly instalments. The Minister said the decisions would come as a relief to the motorists reeling under the daily price hike of petroleum products being carried out by oil majors and the crisis arising out of COVID-19. The exemption in paying road tax for the quarter beginning January 1 would be a relief for the owners of contract and stage carriers facing poor patronage. In instalments Those having arrears of six months to one year can remit them in six instalments and those having arrears from one year to two years can remit them in eight instalments. Those with arrears of two to four years will have to remit them in 10 instalments. All arrears can be remitted from March 20, 2021. For those with arrears above four years, one-time settlement with 30-40% concessions is available till March 31, 2021. Those who have dismantled or lost the vehicles and are facing revenue recovery can make use of the one-time settlement facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/motor-vehicle-tax-waiver-for-jan-march-quarter-for-contract-carriages/article33866514.ece
18 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||3 children from State bag bravery awards||Three children from the State have bagged the National Bravery Award and Special Award given away by the Indian Council for Child Welfare. Ummer Mukthar from Malappuram has bagged the Special Award, and Jayakrishnan Babu of Wayanad and Muhammed Hamras K. of Malappuram, the General Awards for 2020. Besides medals, the Special Award has a cash component of Rs. 75,000 and the General Award, of Rs. 40,000. The council will also bear the expenses for the children’s education from the school level to postgraduation and professional courses. Ummer, a Class 6 student of Al-Ehsan English School, Vengara, Malappuram, rescued two of his young relatives from drowning. Ummer is the son of Anchukandan Abbas and Semira. Children rescued Jayakrishnan also rescued two children from drowning in a granite quarry at Pathirichal, Wayanad. He is the son of Babu and Sarada of Pathirachal. Muhammed Hamras, a Plus One student of GVHSS, Aripra, Malappuram, rescued a farmer who accidentally fell into a pond. He is the son of Hamsa and Haseena of Valluvambaram. The children will be presented with the awards at a function in New Delhi in March, Kerala State Council for Child Welfare general secretary Shijukhan J.S. said. Twenty-five children across the country are being presented with the bravery awards for 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3-children-from-state-bag-bravery-awards/article33866516.ece
18 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State set to see new blooms in orchid industry||With their delicate, stunningly beautiful flowers, they have stolen the hearts of flower lovers. Orchids, in all their splendid variety, are now poised to give a fillip to the fledgeling floriculture industry in Kerala via a Rs. 1.83-crore project landed by the Jawaharlal Nehru Tropical Botanic Garden and Research Institute (JNTBGRI), Palode. The project, ‘Micropropagation and cultivation of native orchids and hybrids for on-farm conservation and income generation in Kerala through cluster formation,’ has been granted by the Department of Biotechnology under the Union Ministry of Science and Technology for a period of three years. Training  The JNTBGRI will train 100 beneficiaries in clusters in the tricky mechanics of orchid growing and equip them with high-quality planting materials. The aim is to promote the cultivation of export-quality orchids as a means of income for hobbyists, farmers, women’s groups, and the unemployed youth. India boasts 160 genera and over 1,300 species of orchids, but they lack commercial allure, being slow, seasonal bloomers with short shelf life, according to the JNTBGRI. On the other hand, high-quality hybrids imported from Thailand, Singapore, and Malaysia with a vase life of 20 to 30 days are all the rage, which also throws open windows of opportunity. “We will use imported and native hybrids and wild orchids to supply planting materials to the beneficiaries. They will be trained in the propagation of the plants and the marketing aspects. If this model is successful, the combined annual income through flower sales by the 100 beneficiaries is estimated to be Rs. 1.84 crore,” said R. Prakashkumar, JNTBGRI Director and principal investigator of the project.  Wealth of experience Founded in 1979, the JNTBGRI has amassed a wealth of experience in the recovery of threatened orchids and has been successful in reintroducing several. The orchidarium at the institute boasts 500 wild species and 200 hybrid varieties. Since commercial hybrids are mostly the products of breeding, fine-tuned into an art by orchid hobbyists, the institute figures that the supply of breeding stocks to hobbyists could help improve native orchids from a commercial point of view. Besides, Kerala has the right ingredients for a booming orchid industry, according to the institute. Public appeal The climate is ideal for growing almost all the orchid varieties, including dendrobium, cymbidium, phalaenopsis, and vanda that enjoy public appeal. Promoting orchid cultivation as an art and a means of income aside, the JNTBGRI programme aims at standardising protocols for native orchid species and commercial hybrids where such protocols are not available.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-set-to-see-new-blooms-in-orchid-industry/article33866541.ece
18 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two species of joyweeds discovered||esearchers have come across two new species of Alternanthera, a genus of flowering plants popularly known as joyweeds, during field explorations in the State. What makes the discoveries botanically significant is that this is the first time that hitherto unreported species of this genus have been spotted in India. The findings have been published in the botany journal Phytotaxa . Both species, christened Alternanthera ebracteolata and Alternanthera indica , have been identified by V.S. Anil Kumar and S. Arya of the Department of Botany, University College, Thiruvananthapuram.  Alternanthera ebracteolata has been spotted in Kasaragod during field surveys and Alternanthera indica in southern Kerala. The paper on Alternanthera indica has been co-authored with Duilio Iamonico, Department of Botany, University of Pisa, and Ivonne Sanchez-Del Pino of the Centro de Investigacion Cientifica de Yucatan, Mexico, two experts on the order Caryophyllales. The genus Alternanthera is part of the Amaranth family. “Seven species of Alternanthera, which are also found elsewhere in the world, exist in India. But Alternanthera ebracteolata and Alternanthera indica are being reported for the first time anywhere,” Dr. Anil Kumar said. The genus Alternanthera (family Amaranthaceae) has between 80 and 200 reported species. “Alternanthera is a very difficult genus and its identification can prove very tough. Some species of this genus are considered noxious weeds, while several others are used as food or ornamental plants,” said Ms. Arya. A full-grown Alternanthera ebracteolata stands 100-120 cm tall, has peduncled inflorescence, short stamens, and globular, whitish-green seeds. The researchers found about 50 individual plants in four locations in Kasaragod district within a five-sq-km area. Capital and Kollam  Alternanthera indica is an annual herb which grows to a height of 80-100 cm. It occurs in moist wastelands near waterbodies and in the evergreen forest areas of Kulathupuzha in Kollam and Bonacaud in Thiruvananthapuram. Given their low population, both species can be classified as critically endangered applying the IUCN  Red List criteria, according to Dr. Anil Kumar and Ms. Arya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-species-of-joyweeds-discovered/article33866447.ece
18 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Supplyco outlet at Pettah||The State government has fulfilled its promise that outlets of the Kerala State Civil Supplies Corporation (Supplyco) will be opened in all panchayats and municipalities, Food and Civil Supplies Minister P. Thilothaman said on Wednesday. Mr. Thilothaman was speaking after inaugurating a Supplyco supermarket at Pettah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/supplyco-outlet-at-pettah/article33867022.ece
18 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘We Care’ initiative Behind Every Smile||Minister for Health K.K. Shylaja on Wednesday released Behind Every Smile , a coffee table book brought out by the Kerala Social Security Mission (KSSM) and The Hindu , by handing over a copy to KSSM Executive Director Mohammed Asheel. The 96-page book records the experiences of a cross-section of people who have benefited from the KSSM’s assistance to vulnerable sections under the ‘We Care’ initiative. ‘We Care’ is a relief fund set up by the Kerala government to strengthen the social protection system. The Minister said social protection measures initiated by the government had transformed the lives of countless people. “The State’s approach to health and social welfare development has been humanistic and inclusive. The Ardram Mission, launched in 2017, has made the health delivery system people-friendly and transformed the public health system against the backdrop of the Sustainable Development Goals 2030,” she said. She also released a video on ‘We Care’ brought out as part of the book. Mr. Asheel said the people featured in ‘Behind Every Smile’ talked about what they had endured, their emotional and physical journey through disease, and the support that transformed their lives. “Their reflections and recollections may instil hope and courage in people and families facing similar life-threatening events,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/we-care-initiative-behind-every-smile/article33866528.ece
18 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Airstrip for NCC cadets inaugurated in Idukki||An airstrip to provide training for NCC Air wing cadets in flying small aircraft was inaugurated at Peerumade in Idukki on Tuesday. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurated the facility online. Flying practice Minister for Higher Education K.T.Jaleel presided. As many as 1,000 Air Wing cadets can be trained for flying practice on the small aircraft at the new airstrip, an official a press note issued here said . The Chief Minister also also laid the foundation stone for a new office building of the NCC Directorate at Vazhuthacaud and the NCC Group Headquarters and two NCC Units (2 Kerala Bn. & 1 Kerala Girls Bn) at Mannanthala, Thiruvananthapouram, the pressnote added. Public Works Minister G.Sudhakaran,Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran, Major General Mandeep Sing Gill, Addl. Director General, NCC (K&L) and Brigadier Pankaj Mehra, Group Commander, Trivandrum Group were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/airstrip-for-ncc-cadets-inaugurated-in-idukki/article33866512.ece
18 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State gets another Rs. 252 cr. for GST shortfall||Kerala has got another Rs. 252 crore from the 16th weekly instalment of Rs. 5,000 crore released by the Ministry of Finance, Department of Expenditure, to States to meet the Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation shortfall. Out of the Rs. 5,000 crore released, Rs. 4,597.16 crore has been released to 23 States and Rs. 402.84 crore to the Union Territories (UTs) of Delhi, Jammu & Kashmir, and Puducherry — that are members of GST Council. The government had set up a special borrowing window in October, 2020 to meet the estimated shortfall of Rs. 1.10 lakh crore in revenue arising on account of the implementation of GST. The borrowings are being done through this window by the Centre on behalf of the States and UTs. As much as 16 rounds of borrowings have been completed so far. The amount released as the 16th instalment has been borrowed this week at an interest rate of 4.64%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-gets-another-rs-252-cr-for-gst-shortfall/article33866513.ece
18 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CM inaugurates defence park at Ottappalam||The first defence park in the public sector at Ottappalam in Palakkad with all modern facilities for defence equipment manufacturers was inaugurated online by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday. It was set up at Rs. 130.94 crore in 60 acres acquired by the Kerala Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation. A sum of Rs. 50 crore has been provided by the Centre under the modified industrial infrastructure upgradation (MIIU) scheme. The MIIU scheme is being implemented by the Union Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion. The equipment needed for the armed forces and ancillary spare parts will be manufactured in the park. Investors will get land at the defence park for lease for 30 years and provisions have been included to extend it to 90 years. Well connected with the rail and road network, the park has a two lakh sq ft common facility centre, an administrative building, three warehouses, common utility centre, and conference rooms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-inaugurates-defence-park-at-ottappalam/article33866539.ece
18 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Maranalloor family health centre opened||All primary health centres in the State will be upgraded to family health centres, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He was speaking after inaugurating through videoconference the Maranalloor family health centre in the Kattakada constituency on Wednesday. The Chief Minister said that the health sector had seen unprecedented achievements during the tenure of the present government through the Ardram mission. The government was able to set up SWAAS (Step-wise Approach to Airway Sydrome) and Aswas depression clinics in family health centres, provide modern building for health care facilities, and create new posts. The Chief Minister also inaugurated a building built at the Maranalloor family health centre utilising Rs. 50 lakh from I.B. Satheesh’s MLA funds. Laboratory The 2,000-sq-ft, two-storey building has a modern laboratory and a rest room too. Four doctors have been posted here. Besides existing employees, seven more have been deployed here. Minister for Health K.K. Shylaja presided over the function. I.B. Satheesh, MLA, and district panchayat president D. Suresh Kumar attended the inaugural held near the family health centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/maranalloor-family-health-centre-opened/article33867019.ece
18 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Despite protest, Cabinet nod for KSRTC-SWIFT||Amidst opposition from the trade unions affiliated to the Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC) and Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh in the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC), the Cabinet has given the nod for the formation of KSRTC-SWIFT, a legally independent company, for operating long-distance buses and launching new buses using KIIFB funds. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Wednesday that the intention of floating the KSRTC-SWIFT was also to rehabilitate the retrenched empanelled staff of the KSRTC as directed by the Kerala High Court. The KSRTC-SWIFT will function independently within the KSRTC and make use of the facilities of the undertaking. The revenue will be made available for the needs of KSRTC employees and for repayment of loans. The KSRTC-SWIFT will function for the purposes of new buses that will be procured with Rs. 359 crore from KIIFB. The new 310 CNG buses, 50 electric vehicles, 190 JnNURM buses, 29 Scania Volvo, and 18 Wet-leased Scania will form part of the new company.     The Cabinet decision came amidst the INTUC-affiliated Transport Democratic Federation and the BMS-affiliated Kerala State Transport Employees Sangh’s 24-hour token stir declared from February 22 midnight demanding withdrawal of the move to float KSRTC-SWIFT.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/despite-protest-cabinet-nod-for-ksrtc-swift/article33866538.ece
18 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Milma board dissolved||The government has dissolved the board of directors of the Thiruvananthapuram Regional Co-operative Milk Producers' Union Ltd (TRCMPU) of Milma. TRCMPU has been brought under administrative rule. Meanwhile, Kallada Ramesh, who had been chairing the Congress-led TRCMPU board, termed the step uncalled for and undemocratic as the council's term was to have ended on February 21. The government dissolved the board on the strength of an ordinance issued on February 12 fixing the maximum term of the president and members in dairy cooperatives to three terms or a maximum of 15 years. According to Mr. Ramesh, the director board meeting held on December 18, 2020, had decided to hold the elections to the board on February 17, but the application was rejected by the State Co-operative Election Commission.  Writ plea pending A writ petition filed by the board is pending before the Kerala High Court, he said. Efforts made to convene the general body meeting of the TRCMPU was scuttled by the Dairy Development Minister and the dairy registrar, Mr. Ramesh alleged. The TRCMPU has been headed by a Congress-led board for the past 25 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/milma-board-dissolved/article33867010.ece
18 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Water supply disrupted||Water supply to several city areas which was hit due to a pipe burst at Pottakuzhi on Wednesday is expected to be restored on Thursday, the Kerala Water Authority said. The rupture occurred on a 400 mm prime pipeline on Wednesday morning. Supply was hit in some areas in Kowdiar, Pattom, Pottakuzhi, Marappalam, Murinjapalam, Vrindavan Gardens, Kumarapuram, Kannamoola, Gowreesapattom, and Medical College areas. For tanker water supply, contact 9496434488, 0471-2377701 and 1916 (KWA helpline)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/water-supply-disrupted/article33867011.ece
18 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||344 new cases in capital||The district reported 344 new COVID-19 cases and 479 recoveries on Wednesday. The active case pool stands at 4,110, the district administration said. The death toll has touched 798, as per available official records. Of the new cases reported on Wednesday, local transmission accounted for 251 cases. The list also included one health worker. In all, 1,703 people were newly quarantined on Wednesday. ,At present, 25,927 people are in home isolation and 56 others under institutional quarantine in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/344-new-cases-in-capital/article33867018.ece
18 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Photo contest awards presented||Minister for Local Self-government A.C. Moideen gave away prizes to the winners of the third season of a photography contest organised by the Kudumbashree at a function in Thrissur on Wednesday. The first prize of ‘Kudumbashree Oru Nerchithram’ contest was bagged by Ernakulam resident T.J. Varghese. Mathrubhumi Palakkad unit news photographer P.P. Ratheesh got the second prize . Dinesh K. of Kasaragod bagged the third prize . Ten people got consolation prizes. Photographs that reflect the contributions of the Kudumbashree mission to society are considered for the award.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/photo-contest-awards-presented/article33866440.ece
18 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Incubation facility opened||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday inaugurated a 62,500-sq-ft prefabricated incubation facility on the Technopark campus designed to assist businesses with beginning work and getting up to speed, prior to their office space becoming operational. Named Keystone, the 800-seat facility is part of the SEZ office space being developed under the Taurus Downtown project. Terming it as a landmark project, Mr.Vijayan said it would offer companies the convenience of kick-starting with operations even before their office space is built. More companies Shashi Tharoor, MP, said the completion of the Taurus Downtown project would bring more companies into Technopark, enhancing Thiruvananthapuram’s reputation as the ideal location for technology companies. Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran presided. With 800 seats spread across two floors, the incubation facility has centrally air-conditioned plug and play office spaces. The spaces are equipped with meeting rooms, conference rooms, a cafeteria, Fire Alarm and Fire Protection systems, 100% power backup and Building Management System for efficient operations. Mayor Arya Rajendran, IT Secretary Mohammed Y.Safirulla and Technopark CEO Sasi P Meethal were among those present.  With 800 seats spread across two floors, the facility has centrally air-conditioned plug and play office spaces||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/incubation-facility-opened/article33866980.ece
18 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Wayside amenity centres for women across State||Wayside amenities centres with washrooms for women on the move are coming across the State under the Overseas Keralites Investment and Holding Ltd, a Government of Kerala initiative. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Wednesday that the wayside amenities centres are the first venture of the initiative. As many as 1,053 washrooms are being set up or being modernised in the first phase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wayside-amenity-centres-for-women-across-state/article33866522.ece
18 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Jana Jagrata for public to report corruption||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday announced the creation of a new online portal, Jana Jagrata, for the public to report administrative corruption. He said the website would guard against malicious complaints against honest officers. It had protections against those who could potentially exploit the avenue to target honest officers. It can also be accessed by smartphone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jana-jagrata-for-public-to-report-corruption/article33866525.ece
18 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cash awards for School Games winners||Students who have bagged the first, second, and third positions in the National School Games organised by the School Games Federation of India in 2018-19 and 2019-20 will be presented with cash awards. For this, they have to register on the websitedpisports.inbefore February 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cash-awards-for-school-games-winners/article33866526.ece
18 February 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Avinissery panchayat remains headless||The power crisis in the Avinissery grama panchayat continues as the Left Democratic Front (LDF) has decided not to assume power in the local body with the support of the United Democratic Front (UDF). LDF candidates won to the post of president and vice-president in the elections held on Wednesday with the UDF members voting in their favour. LDF’s A.R. Raju was elected president and Indira Jayakumar vice president. In the 14-member panchayat, the National Democratic Alliance has six seats, LDF five and the UDF three seats. Mr. Raju defeated Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Hari C. Narendran. All the three Congress members voted in favour of Raju. In the election to the post of vice president, Indira Jayakumar defeated Geetha Sukumaran of the BJP. CPI(M) directive However, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] leadership directed them to resign from the posts. “We do not want to take power with the support of the Congress. We have taken this stand earlier also,” said CPI(M) district secretary M.M. Varghese. A.R. Raju was selected to elected president soon after the local body election, then too with the support of the Congress. Even then the CPI(M) leadership decided against accepting Congress support. Avinissery was the only grama panchayat in the district where the BJP was in power after the previous local body election. But the party failed to get an absolute majority this time. In the current situation, development standing committee chairperson Soorya Shobi of the BJP will continue as temporary president. Criticising the LDF stand, District Congress Committee president M.P. Vincent said the CPI(M)’s decision would help the BJP to reach power. “The Congress supported the LDF to prevent the BJP from coming to power. It was a stand taken locally,” he said. BJP district president K.K. Aneesh Kumar said the CPI(M) -Congress alliance in the Avinissery panchayat was a trial run before the Assembly election. It was an attempt to scuttle the people’s verdict, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/avinissery-panchayat-remains-headless/article33867028.ece
18 February 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Budget envisages green Thrissur||The Thrissur Corporation Budget for 2021-22 has envisaged a green and clean city. Presented by Deputy Mayor Rajasree Gopan, the Budget shows revenue of Rs. 567.75 crore and expenditure of Rs. 539.21 crore. The waste management programmes implemented by the previous council will continue. A facility for total recycling of inorganic waste will be implemented by next year. Drinking water will be made available for everyone in the corporation. An amount of Rs. 75 crore has been earmarked for various drinking water projects. All waterbodies, including ponds, will be cleaned. Rainwater harvesting will be ensured in all houses. New water treatment plant will be inaugurated at Peechi this month. An amount of Rs. 50 lakh has been earmarked for the second stage development of Divanji Corner. Sakthan Thampuran Nagar modernisation will be done with the cooperation of Catholic Syrian Bank. An amount of Rs. 10 crore has been earmarked for it. A sum of Rs. 30 crore has been allotted for a new Corporation building at Sakthan Nagar. Once the office is shifted to the new building, the existing office will be transformed into a heritage museum. A new master plan will be prepared for Sakthan Nagar development. The sky-walk at Sakthan Nagar will be ready by June. An amount of Rs. 50 crore has been allotted for road development. Puzhakkal and Mannuthy will be developed as satellite cities. A sum of Rs. 5 crore each has been earmarked for subways at Naikanal and Kuriachira centre. A power budget with Rs. 264.59 crore revenue and expenditure of Rs. 186.44 crore was also present at the council. Underground cables will be laid to distribute power in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/budget-envisages-green-thrissur/article33866979.ece
18 February 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Guruvayur festival as per COVID protocol||As the COVID-19 situation continues unabated in the State, the annual festival at Guruvayur Sreekrishna Temple should be conducted strictly maintaining the pandemic protocol, District Collector S. Shanawas has said. All the rituals of the festival would be conducted as usual. However the number of devotees will be restricted. A meeting on the conduct of the festival has decided to restrict people from other places and give preference to local residents. Only one elephant will be allowed to participate in the Anayottam. Arat will be held within the temple compound with minimum people. Food kits will be distributed instead of the festival feast. In all 10,000 kits will be arranged for this, the Devaswom said. Cultural programmes will be arranged on virtual platforms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/guruvayur-festival-as-per-covid-protocol/article33867029.ece
18 February 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Former bishop of Sagar dead||Mar Joseph Pastor Neelankavil, former bishop of the Sagar diocese (in Madhya Pradesh) of the Catholic Church, died here on Wednesday. He was 91. The bishop, hailing from Aranattukara, was ordained in 1960. He was appointed as the second bishop of Sagar in 1987 and led the diocese for 19 years. He had been leading a retired life at Sagar Mission Home at Kuttur since 2006. The body will be taken to Sagar and laid to rest there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/former-bishop-of-sagar-dead/article33866537.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||‘IFFK is about bringing good cinema’||For acclaimed film editor Bina Paul, the International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK) is never just another event in the annual festival circuit having associated with it since its inception. As the festival celebrates its silver jubilee during the course of which it grew in stature, Ms. Paul, the artistic director of the festival, also has much to celebrate as she reminisces the roller-coaster journey from the early days of logistical nightmares to the recent edition of pandemic-induced challenges as it is being held in multiple locations.   What are your memories of the fest held in 1998 after the formation of the Chalachitra Academy? The biggest problem was arranging the festival. We had to transport cans of films and there were communication challenges as there was no email and we had to depend on fax. It was such a logistical nightmare. Films went missing, and we had to arrange for subtitles. When can IFFK aspire to be at the same level as the International Film Festival of India, Goa, in terms of infrastructure? Goa fest is fantastic in terms of infrastructure and has their own festival complex. We wanted to have a festival complex but the problem is that we have to identify so much space. But at the moment we are in good shape because we have the government theatres and the Tagore theatre in Thiruvananthapuram. Besides, the heart of the festival goes beyond infrastructure. It is about bringing good cinema, reaching people, encouraging young film-makers, and the joy of watching films together beyond the restricted space of the Internet. Was there really a need to organise the fest amidst a pandemic? Culture apart, wasn’t there a real health threat? Thiruvananthapuram has shown us the absolute need to do it. That sitting in your room and watching a film is not just the same. It makes you a community person, it makes you a society; after all that is what culture is all about. It is also time to heal. At some point that transition back to the normal had to happen. Five films that should not be missed this time? Kaouther Ben Hania’s The Man Who Sold his Skin ; Philippe Lacote’s Night of the Kings ; Thomas Vinterberg’s Another Round ; Hong Sangsoo’s The Woman Who Ran ; and Nowhere Special by Uberto Pasolini.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iffk-is-about-bringing-good-cinema/article33866453.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||State stops temporary staff regularisation||Mr. Vijayan requested remaining temporary workers due for regularisation not to feel let down. They would not lose their jobs. The LDF would regularise them when voted to power in the next Assembly elections. The government had regularised persons who had worked on meagre daily wages for a decade and more in State-run institutions outside the Kerala Public Service Commission’s (PSC) purview. However, the Opposition portrayed the altruistic act as “illegal back-door appointments.” The provisional employees were ill-suited for new jobs and experienced in their respective fields. The government could not abandon them and their families to chance. It set minimum 10 years of service as the norm for regularising them. The Opposition had provoked a section of the PSC rank holders to go on the warpath. They had attempted to stoke youth anger by lying that the regularisation measure would whittle down employment chances via the PSC. The Opposition had unabashedly seized on the insecurities of unemployed youth to wring political advantage. They had sensed a political opportunity after other concerted recriminatory campaigns against the government floundered, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-stops-temporary-staff-regularisation/article33866521.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Wait ends||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wait-ends/article33866436.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||On the hunt||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/on-the-hunt/article33867014.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Cool colours||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cool-colours/article33867027.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Fuelling protest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fuelling-protest/article33867031.ece
18 February 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth get creative to raise awareness on road safety||The month-long 32nd Road Safety Awareness drive conducted by the Road Transport Authority came to a close on Wednesday with students of Balaji Degree College at Hindupur coming up with some interesting slogans and speaking their minds out during the concluding ceremony on their college premises on Wednesday. Slogans win hearts “Helmet Pettu, Handle Pattu” (Wear a helmet and then touch the handle) was the most admired slogan of the awareness campaign that the students came up with while they spoke about road safety in the presence of Deputy Transport Commissioner N. Sivaramaprasad, and Regional Transport Officer, Hindupur G.Niranjan Reddy. Shuguftha Sulthana, a third-year student from the college and who explained the reason behind banning triple riding, won the second prize in the elocution competition while a first-year student, Anjali, won the first.  Competitions held Competitions were held in essay writing and elocution for degree and intermediate students separately. Mr. Sivaramprasad advised the students to acquire a license from their offices before they get onto the road with a vehicle and explained about the latest amendments in the penalties for violations. Hindupur Motor Vehicles Inspector S.Ramesh, Balaji Vidya Vihar Degree and Junior college, Hindupur Principal B. Veerabhadrappa were also present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youth-get-creative-to-raise-awareness-on-road-safety/article33866291.ece
18 February 2021||ANANTAPUR / KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minor clashes in Anantapur; Kurnool sees over 80% turnout||Polling for sarpanches and ward member posts ended peacefully in Anantapur and Kurnool revenue divisions in the third phase of the panchayat elections on Wednesday with Anantapur recording 80.29% voting and Kurnool 83.1%. Counting has begun for 355 sarpanch posts and 2,619 ward members in 19 mandals of Anantapur district, while the results are likely to be out by midnight. Till now, results of 54 sarpanches and of 1,559 ward members have been declared. While Peddapappur recorded the highest voting percentage of 88, Anantapur Rural Mandal recorded the lowest(68.9%). Polling in the Uravakonda Ward No.3 was put off to February 21 in an early morning decision following the allotment of an election symbol to one of the candidates, who had withdrawn his candidature. The ‘gown’ symbol was allocated to a candidate and printed on the ballot paper, despite his withdrawing the candidature, said District Collector Gandham Chandrudu after visiting several polling booths in the revenue division and clarified that the sarpanch election continued as scheduled. Only the ward member election in that particular ward would be held again on February 21. Except for minor clashes in Madugupalli and Challavemula villages in Putlur Mandal in Anantapur despite 2,500 police personnel manning the poll security operations, no untoward incident was reported. Superintendent of Police B. Sathya Yesu Babu visited some hypersensitive polling stations in Tadipatri mandal, while Tadipatri Deputy Superintendent of Police V.N.K. Chaitanya reviewed the situation at Gannevari Palle Colony.  Pathikonda leads In Kurnool district, polling was held for 219 sarpanches and 2,224 ward members in gram panchayats of 14 mandals of Kurnool Revenue Division. While Pathikonda recorded the highest of 88.96% turnout, Veldurthy registered the lowest voter turnout of 73.67%. Elections were held for 219 sarpanches and out of them results of 63 were declared by 7 p.m. Polling was held in 1,955 wards and results were declared in 1,835 wards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minor-clashes-in-anantapur-kurnool-sees-over-80-turnout/article33866289.ece
18 February 2021||ANTARVEDI (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||CM to inaugurate Antarvedi temple chariot||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will inaugurate the new wooden chariot of the Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Antarvedi and take part in the Kalyanotsavam, beginning February 19, Backward Classes Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna said on Wednesday. A new chariot was built at a cost of Rs. 90 lakh after the old one was gutted last year. “The Chief Minister will take part in the annual Kalyanotsavam that will conclude on February 28,” said Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna after inspecting the security arrangements at the temple and the fish landing point at Antarvedi village. According to an official release, the Chief Minister will also inspect the charred old chariot kept on the temple campus and it is being guarded by the police. The State government has handed over the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) amid uproar over the fire incident. East Godavari Joint Collector G. Lakshmisha and SP Adnan Nayeem Asmi inspected the temple on Wednesday and reviewed the security arrangements and preparedness for the Kalyanotasavam.  Fish landing point closed “The fish landing point close to the temple will remain closed until February 19 to prevent any movement of outsiders. The devotees will be allowed for darshan after the Chief Minister leaves the temple,” the release said. Meanwhile, the district administration said that arrangements have been made for at least 130 buses from different parts of the State to Antarvedi for the devotees during the festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-to-take-part-in-antarvedi-temple-fete/article33866963.ece
18 February 2021||CHINTOOR (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Teacher on election duty dies of cardiac arrest||A municipal high school teacher who was deputed as Assistant Presiding Officer for the elections at Kothapalli panchayat in Chintoor mandal of East Godavari district died of cardiac arrest on Wednesday. “D. Krupavathi (52) collapsed a few minutes after the voting began at the polling centre. She was rushed to Chintoor Area Hospital and later admitted to the government hospital at Rampachodavaram. The doctors said she died of cardiac arrest while undergoing treatment,” said Chintoor DSP Khadar Basha. According to preliminary report, Krupavathi, a native of Kakinada, reached the polling station on Tuesday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/teacher-on-election-duty-dies-of-cardiac-arrest/article33866964.ece
18 February 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Polls peaceful in Chittoor||The third phase of panchayat polls held in 10 mandals of Kuppam, Palamaner and Punganur assembly constituencies in Chittoor district was peaceful on Wednesday. While Kuppam assembly constituency, with four mandals of Kuppam, Ramakuppam, Gudupalle and Shantipuram, witnessed 85.08% polling for 89 sarpanches and 589 wards, the neighbouring Palamaner constituency saw 83.32% turnout of voters for 84 sarpanches and 511 wards in Palamaner, Peddapanjani, Gangavaram, V.Kota and Baireddipalle mandals. Coming to the Rompicharla in Punganur constituency, the lone mandal which went to polls for the ward members saw 51% polling for 7 wards. In Punganur assembly constituency, the polls were made unanimous in Sadum, Somala, Pulicharla, Chowdepalle and Punganur mandals, while a majority of the panchyats in Rompicharla mandal went unanimous for both sarpanches and ward members. In Kuppam, a constituency represented by Telugu Desam Party supremo N. Chandrababu Naidu, no unanimity could be reached by both sides for the sarpanches, though a small number wards were made unanimous. In Palamaner assembly constituency, the stronghold of former Minister and TDP leader N. Amarnatha Reddy, it was earlier expected that the number of unanimously elected sarpanches and ward members would replicate the mood of Punganur, but candidates, supported by both TDP and YSR Congress went ahead with brisk nominations and negligible number of withdrawals in all the five mandals. Though TDP supremo N. Chandrababu Naidu had sought the intervention of the State Election Commission’s into the alleged involvement of the outsiders in Sodhiganipalle of Gudupalle mandal and Pedduru of Ramakuppam mandal in Kuppam constituency, the police said the polling at both places were peaceful.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/polls-peaceful-in-chittoor/article33866293.ece
18 February 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Arrangements for ULB polls apace in Guntur||The district administration is gearing itself to conduct elections to the Urban Local Bodies (ULBs), according to District Collector Vivek Yadav. As per the notification issued by the State Election Commission on February 15, the process of elections would commence from the stage it was stopped in March last, i.e., withdrawal of nominations. As per the schedule, candidates can withdraw their nominations from 11 a.m. on March 2 (Tuesday) to 3 p.m. on March 3. The list of contestants will be published the same day. Elections would be conducted on March 10 (Wednesday) from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. Re-poll, if necessary, would be conducted on March 13 (Saturday) from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. Counting of votes would be on March 14 from 8 a.m. Eight municipalities will go to the polls in Guntur district. They are Guntur, Tenali, Chilakaluripet, Repalle, Macherla, Sattenapalli, Vinukonda and Piduguralla. In the newly formed Dachepalli and Gurazala municipalities, the process of delimitation of wards is still going on. A total 10,74,727 persons are expected to exercise their franchise in the district. Elaborate arrangements have been made to ensure free and fair elections. The number of polling stations and wards in various places are as follows: Guntur (531 and 57), Tenali (151 and 40), Chilakaluripeta (114 and 38), Repalle (42 and 28), Macherla (56 and 31), Sattenapalli (62 and 31), Vinukonda (56 and 32), and Piduguralla (66 and 33). As many as 1,078 polling stations were set up in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/arrangements-for-ulb-polls-apace-in-guntur/article33867054.ece
18 February 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||State not entitled to proceed with Rayalaseema Lift Scheme work: NGT||The Southern Zone Bench of National Green Tribunal (NGT) has made it clear that Andhra Pradesh is not entitled to proceed with the Rayalaseema Lift Scheme (RLS) project against the directions issued by it in October last. During the virtual hearing on Tuesday on a petition filed by one Gavinolla Srinivas of Narayanpet district in December last alleging that the AP government has been carrying out work, in violation of the tribunal order given October 29 asking AP not to take up any work pertaining to the project without getting the project appraised by the statutory authority, the NGT Bench also observed that the request for an adjournment by the counsel for AP could be granted, but not for a longer date. The hearing on the petition has been taken up thrice so far since January 18. “The engagement of a lawyer in another case or in another court normally is not a ground for an adjournment. However, considering the fact that the senior counsel engaged by AP has been appearing throughout in the matter the adjournment is allowed,” Justice K. Ramakrishnan, Judicial Member, and Saibal Dasgupta, Expert Member, said in the February16 order. Mr. Srinivas first moved the NGT in May last year against the “inaction of the Ministry of Environment and Forests to stop work on the unauthorised project taken up by AP in violation of the riparian rights of Telangana” and the order restraining AP from taking up any work on the project was given on October 29 last. Detailed project report Counsel appearing for the applicant (petitioner) Sravan Kumar submitted before the Bench that in the guise of preparing detailed project report (DPR) for RLS, they (AP) were proceeding with the actual work. The allegation was, however, denied by the counsel appearing for AP but it was not entitled to proceed with the project, the NGT Bench said. Additional Advocate General appearing for Telangana J. Ramachandra Rao submitted that they (Telangana) have already addressed the matter to Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) to appoint a committee to go into the question as to whether AP was violating the NGT and the Board directions, but action on it was pending. The Bench has also directed KRMB, a respondent in the matter, to submit their response regarding the allegations made by the applicant as well as Telangana before the next hearing date and adjourned the hearing to February 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-not-entitled-to-proceed-with-rayalaseema-lift-scheme-work-ngt/article33866387.ece
18 February 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dairy farmer duped||A unknown man, masquerading as State Intelligence DSP, has duped a dairy farmer into giving him Rs. 5 lakh by promising him to ensure early release of compensation for two pairs of oxen, under the Samarlakota police station limits in East Godavari district. The two pairs of oxen that won many competitions at the district and State levels had died under mysterious circumstances on January 30. Their approximate cost was nearly Rs. 30 lakh. The miscreant contacted Valloori Satyendra Kumar, the dairy farmer, and demanded payment of Rs. 5 lakh to settle the compensation claim. The farmer was advised not to share the details with the police. “A few days ago, Mr. Satyendra Kumar had deposited Rs. 5 lakh into the two bank accounts provided by the miscreant. On Wednesday, the farmer approached us as he did not get any response from the fake persons. A case has been registered and investigation is on,” said Sub Inspector L.V.K. Sumanth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/miscreant-dupes-farmer-of-rs-5-lakh-by-posing-as-dsp/article33866956.ece
18 February 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||74.83% polling in East Godavari Agency||The East Godavari Agency on Wednesday witnessed 74.83% polling in the third phase of the panchayat polls in the Rampa and Yetapaka revenue divisions. More than 1.86 lakh people exercised their franchise amid heavy of security . Chintoor mandal, bordering Chhattisgarh and Odisha, witnessed 78.47% polling. No untoward incident was reported in the entire stretch declared as Naxalite-affected tribal pocket. Of the 11 mandals where elections were held, Kunavaram recorded the highest polling percentage of 82.33 while Y. Ramavaram witnessed the lowest percentage of 63.29. District Election Officer H. Arun Kumar, Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy monitored the polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/7483-polling-in-east-godavari-agency/article33866961.ece
18 February 2021||KUKUNOOR (WEST GODAVARI DT),ANDHRA PRADESH||People ignore Maoists’ boycott call, turn up in large numbers to vote||The third phase of gram panchayat elections was incident-free in the Left Wing Extremism (LWE)- affected polling stations in the Agency areas of West Godavari district on Wednesday. Ignoring the Maoists’ call to boycott the elections, people turned up in large numbers to exercise their franchise. Polavaram Sub-Collector R.V. Suryanarayana visited the LWE-affected polling centres in the Kukunoor and Velerupadu mandals and monitored the election process. Personnel of the CRPF, OCTOPUS, APSP and Special Party were deployed from both A.P. and Telangana in the border habitations. Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik, who camped at Velerupadu along with ASP Mahesh, reviewed the deployment of forces and the polling process with the Sub-Collector. Polavaram DSP K. Latha Kumari visited the sensitive and hypersensitive polling centres. “Despite the Maoists giving a call to boycott the elections, the voters turned up in large numbers in all the LWE-hit booths. The third phase of polls was peaceful,” Mr. Narayan Naik said. “Many voters, including women and the aged, have exercised their franchise in big numbers. A few tribal people engaged auto-rickshaws from the nearby habitations to reach the polling centres,” Mr. Suryanarayana told The Hindu . Many people hailing from the Kondareddy and Koya tribes used boats to cross the Godavari from Pusagondi, Posaram, Perantallapalli, Kakisanuru and other hamlets to utilise their right to vote. “Ballot boxes have reached from all the polling stations. Tight security has been arranged at the counting centres,” the Sub-Collector said. Polling percentage The polling percentages in the LWE-affected polling stations showed the enthusiasm among the voters. According to Mr. Suryanarayana, who is also K.R. Puram ITDA Project Officer, the figures at some of the centres are as follows: Katkuru (87.92%); Koida (80%); and Tirlapuram, a hypersensitive habitation, (83.84%). The polling percentage was 87.27% in Kukunoor mandal, 74.92% in Buttaigudem, 86.77% in Velerupadu, 75% in Polavaram, 73.65% in Jeelugumilli, 81% in Koyyalagudem, and 78.18% in T. Narsapuram mandal, he said. Jangareddygudem RDO Y.V. Prasanna Lakshmi said tight security was in place at all the counting centres and MROs had been instructed to monitor the process till counting was completed. The polling percentage was good at Mandapakala, Gommugudem, Vinjaram, Tekuru, Upperu, Naarlavaram, Rudramakota, Repakagommu, Ramavaram and other habitations, the ITDA PO, who is also the district Deputy Election Officer, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/people-ignore-maoists-boycott-call-turn-up-in-large-numbers-to-vote/article33866967.ece
18 February 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six injured as candidate’s aides attack polling booth||Six persons were injured and ballot boxes damaged, including the furniture in the polling booth at Kocheruvu village in Dhone mandal, after one of the contesting sarpanch candidate’s followers hurled stones and attacked with sticks following their leader’s defeat. According to the Dhone circle inspector Subramaniam, one of the candidates Kommu Pedda Lachamma lost to Mala Manjula by 264 votes in the sarpanch post reserved for SC candidates in the third phase of the gram panchayat elections. After the result was declared at night, some of the followers of Lachamma attacked the polling station, where counting took place. They damaged the ballot boxes, hurled chairs on the supporters of the winning candidate, and threw stones at the booth. The mob later went to the village and attacked residents with sticks in the houses of the supporters of the winning candidate. Both the candidates are said to be supporters of the YSR Congress Party. DSP V. Narasimha Reddy along with other staff arranged a picket in the village and brought the situation under control. Six persons were injured in the incident, and one person from among the attackers was seriously injured. He was rushed to the government hospital at Dhone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/six-injured-as-candidates-aides-attack-polling-booth/article33866965.ece
18 February 2021||RAMACHANDRAPURAM (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||‘YSRCP-backed candidates won most seats’||The YSRCP-supported candidates registered a thumping victory in 73 of 77 gram panchayats in Ramachandrapuram Assembly segment that went to the polls in the second phase on Wednesday, Backward Classes Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna said. Felicitation “The mandate reflects people’s support to the governance and policies of the YSRCP government. The welfare schemes have helped in registering an unprecedented victory,” Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna said. The Minister also felicitated all the 73 newly-elected sarpanches. “I appeal to the newly-elected sarpanches to ensure peace and cleanliness in the villages. Their immediate focus should be on development of the panchayats,” the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-backed-candidates-won-most-seats/article33866998.ece
18 February 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CITU leaders arrested||Centre of Indian Trade Unions(CITU) State vice president D. Govinda Rao and 30 other leaders were arrested in Srikakulam on Wednesday when they were about to begin a bike rally from Srikakulam to Visakhapatnam to protest over the proposal to privatise Visakhapatnam Steel Plant. While the police officials said they couldn’t allow the rally in the backdrop of panchayat elections, Mr. Govinda Rao said the police department was informed about the bike rally and the protest was being taken up in a peaceful manner. Tension prevailed with CITU leaders and activists resisting the arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/citu-leaders-arrested/article33867000.ece
18 February 2021||SRIKAKULAM/VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizianagaram records over 87% polling||Officials heaved a sigh of relief with the completion of the third phase of panchayat elections peacefully on Wednesday in Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts. In the backdrop of violence in Nimmada village during the first phase and arrest of TDP-A.P. president K. Atchannaidu, Srikakulam district administration took special care to ensure peaceful polling in the Palakonda division. Mild tension prevailed during campaigning at Togaram village where Tammineni Vani, wife of Speaker Tammineni Sitharam, contested with the support of the ruling YSR Congress Party. However, the situation was under control on the day of polling. Nine mandals, including Palakonda, Ponduru, Amadalavalasa, Burja, Sarubujjili and Bhamini recorded 80.13% polling. As many as 588 candidates contested for 248 panchayats. Srikakulam Collector J. Nivas and Superintendent of Police Amit Bardar expressed happiness over violence-free elections even in sensitive places. Serpentine queues In Vizianagaram, there was an overwhelming response from voters who turned up at polling centres since early morning. The district saw 87.09% polling. Serpentine queues were seen at the polling booths in all the villages under Cheepurupalli, Nellimarla and Vizianagaram Assembly constituencies. There was mild tension in Choduvada village of Pusapati Rega mandal in the early hours but the situation came under control with the prompt action taken by the police to resolve the dispute over a few votes. Vizianagaram Superintendent of Police B. Rajakumari told the media that the polling was peaceful in the third phase of election for 207 panchayats. Vizianagaram Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal, who closely monitored the election process, thanked the staff for ensuring free and fair election in all villages. “Compared to previous phases, the poll percentage has increased significantly this time. We could achieve it with sustained campaign in villages about the rural governance and revision of the voters’ list,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-87-polling-recorded-in-vizianagaram/article33866958.ece
18 February 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD finalises dates for ‘Kalyanamastu’ relaunch||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has finally approved the dates for the relaunch of ‘Kalyanamastu’ – a mass wedding programme aimed at benefiting the poor. The four-member committee of pundits constituted for the purpose handed over the ‘lagna patrika’ on Wednesday to TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy at the Nada Neerajana Mandapam, suggesting three auspicious dates during the year. Mr. Reddy later told the media that the programme would be conducted on May 28 between 12.34 p.m. and 12.40 p.m., October 30 (11.04 a.m. - 11.08 a.m.), November 7 (9.56 a.m. - 10.02 a.m.). The board of trustees, which is scheduled to meet during this month-end will take a final call with regard to the cities and towns for the conduct of the programme. Under the programme, the TTD will provide a gold ‘mangalsutram’, silk clothes to both the bride and groom, luncheon, and bear other marriage expenses. Over 36,000 couples are estimated to have benefited in all the six phases of the programme before it was eventually shelved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-finalises-dates-for-kalyanamastu-relaunch/article33866222.ece
18 February 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dharma Reddy gets additional charge of BIRRD||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy has been given full additional charge as the Director of the Balaji Institute of Surgery, Research and Rehabilitation for Disabled (BIRRD) hospital in Tirupati. TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Jawahar Reddy has issued orders to this effect. The temporary move comes in the wake of the recent transfer of TTD JEO ( Tirupati) P. Basanth Kumar who has been instructed to report at the General Adminsitration Department (GAD) in Vijayawada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dharma-reddy-gets-additional-charge-of-birrd/article33866976.ece
18 February 2021||Tirupati,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD plans to roll out cow-based products||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams(TTD), which manages the world-famous Balaji temple, is now taking a giant leap in promoting cow-based natural products, including soaps, incense sticks, disinfectants, facial creams, hair oils, that are expected to hit the market soon. At present, its dairy farm ‘Sri Venkateswara Gosamrakshanasala’ supplies milk for use in the temples and the cow dung for the gardens maintained by it, but now the administrators are contemplating to expand its store by rolling out innovative products out of ‘Panchagavya’, a combination of five cow-based products like milk, ghee, curd, dung and urine. Special committee Dr. Reddy directed formation of a special committee comprising experts from its own dairy farm as well as academicians and scientists from Sri Venkateswara Veterinary University, Tirupati, for the purpose. The TTD is in touch with Nagpur-based ‘Govigyan Anusandhan Kendra’, a body dedicated to research and development in the areas of cows and working in the areas of health, agriculture and animal wealth. Representatives from the Kendra recently had a meeting with TTD officials in Tirupati, where a presentation was made on the utility and future of ‘Panchagavya’. Reviving ‘cow heritage’ For taking ‘Panchagavya’ products to the masses, the Devasthanam is also in discussion with Bansi Gir Gaushala, Gujarat, which is into reviving ‘Go Sanskriti’ (cow heritage). The Gaushala’s founder, Gopalbhai Sutariya, who also had a meeting in Tirupati recently, offered all help to manufacture on a large scale and market the cow-based products. ‘Rich in medicinal properties’ “We are actively considering to take a giant leap in this direction,” TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy told The Hindu . In view of the medicinal properties present in cow dung and urine, cosmetic products such as hair oil, face powder, facial cream and massage oil can be produced. With its in-house dairy farm having an impressive cattle strength and the ‘Brand TTD’ sure to establish a connect with the devout, the TTD management plans to take this ambitious project forward.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-plans-to-roll-out-cow-based-products-soon/article33866287.ece
18 February 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Flame of glory reaches Tirupati||Patriotic fervour gripped the temple city coinciding with the arrival of ‘Swarnim Vijay Mashal’, the flame of glory, on Wednesday. The flame, lit by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi to mark the golden jubilee of the 1971 Indo-Pakistan war, is on a year-long tour across the nation, reaching the war veterans. The southern leg of its tour began with Tirupati. Brigadier J.J.S. Bhinder, Commandant of AOC Centre, received the victory flame at Sri Venkateswara University with full military honours, while senior military personnel and civil service dignitaries placed wreath in honour of the gallant warriors who had sacrificed their lives. The flame was carried by noted sportsperson during what is known as its ‘Last Mile Run’, even as balloons representing the three colours on the national flag were released into the air and an audio-visual narration of the 1971 war was presented. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will arrive here on Thursday to participate in the felicitation of a war veteran Major General C. Venugopal (95) at the latter’s Chenna Reddy colony residence in Alipiri. MCT Commissioner P.S. Gireesha told the media that the war veteran would be felicitated along with the family members of two others viz., Sanyasi Naidu of Visakhapatnam and K.J. Christopher of Kakinada. The victory event will be celebrated in the form of a State-level meet at the Police Parade Grounds, where entry is open for all, said Mr. Gireesha, along with Brigadier Jaideep Yadav, Colonels Rahul Sharin, Ganga Satish, Lietenant Colonels Sumit Chabra and P.K. Singh. Security beefed up On its part, the police department led by Superintendent of Police (Tirupati Urban) C. Venkata Appala Naidu ensured security arrangements, in view of the VIP visit. A convoy rehearsal was taken out from the Renigunta airport to Chenna Reddy Colony and further to the parade grounds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/flame-of-glory-reaches-tirupati/article33866295.ece
18 February 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP-backed candidates win majority seats in Kuppam||Candidates supported by the YSRCP have won a majority of the seats in Kuppam constituency represented by TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu. The candidates had won 69 panchayats out of 89, while the TDP had to be content with 10 seats. Counting was in progress in the remaining 10 seats when reports last came in. Speaking to the media at Amaravati, Ministers K. Kannababusaid the YSRCP had breached what was once the TDP citadel, which they attributed to the charisma of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and his schemes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-backed-candidates-win-majority-seats-in-kuppam/article33866960.ece
18 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Polling peaceful in State: DGP||With the cooperation of the people, the third phase of gram panchayat elections were conducted peacefully in the State on Wednesday, Director General of Police D. Gautam Sawang said. He said the elections were conducted smoothly in all the sensitive, hypersensitive and extremist- affected polling locations. About 48,000 personnel were deployed for polling, the DGP said, and praised the police for holding the elections peacefully. Krishna district Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu said that 85% polling was recorded in the district. “Polling was conducted peacefully in all the sensitive, hypersensitive and inaccessible polling stations in Machilipatnam, Pedana, Gudrun, Avanigadda, Challapalli, Mopidev and Nagayalanka mandals in the district,” the SP said. Celebrations begin Meanwhile, festive atmosphere was seen in villages in Krishna and West Godavari districts, and people were discussing the winning chances of the candidates. Villagers carrying flags of political parties were seen raising slogans in favour of the sarpanch candidates. They burst crackers and celebrated the victory of the candidates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/polling-peaceful-in-state-dgp/article33867056.ece
18 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Social media an effective tool to promote road safety’||There is a need to promote road safety regulations and use of social media platforms is an effective way to reach out to people with a message, said Additional Transport Commissioner S.A.V. Prasada Rao on Wednesday. Addressing the valedictory of the ‘Road Safety Week’ organised by the Transport Department, Mr. Rao said more than 1.5 lakh people lose their lives across the country in road accidents every year, causing economic hardship and emotional trauma to their families. Facebook page launched “Nearly 71 % of the accidents occur due to overspeeding. There is an urgent need to make the roads safer,” he said, while inaugurating a Facebook page designed by the department to promote the road safety messages. He said the department, in collaboration with NGOs, was trying to spread awareness and bring down the number of road accidents. “Every year, at least 8,000 people die in road accidents in State. However, the number came down to 7,000 last year. Restriction imposed on public movement owing to the COVID-induced lockdown,” said Mr. Prasada Rao and ed the parents not to allow their children to drive without licence. Participating in the programme, Deputy Transport Commissioner (Krishna) M. Purendra said the objective of Road Safety Week from January 18 to February 17 was to make people responsible when it comes to abiding by road safety norms. As part of the awareness drive, the officials visited colleges and administered oaths to students to follow traffic rules. He said use of helmet and seat belt while on the road could go a long way in protecting people in the event of an accident. RTOs K. Ramprasad and A. Vijaya Saradhi, Motor Vehicle Inspectors G Sanjiv Kumar, K. R. Ravi Kumar and Narayana Swamy, Administrative Officer Ch. Srinivasa Rao and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/social-media-an-effective-tool-to-promote-road-safety/article33867058.ece
18 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Best Available Schools managements’ plea for funds||Members of the Andhra Pradesh Best Available Schools (BAS) Management Welfare Association on Wednesday urged the government to release pending funds to enable the schools survive the financial crisis they were facing. Representatives of BAS managements met in city and shared the problems faced by them on account of fund crunch.  Quality education They said funds pertaining to the academic years 2018-19 and 2019-20 had not been released. The Association president Paruchuri Srinivasa Rao said nearly 48,000 students were studying in 452 schools started with the objective of making quality education available for students belonging to the SC and ST communities. Now, they were being asked to seek renewal of permission only for Classes 9 and 10. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said the school managements had incurred huge financial losses and a few of them had been facing serious health problems on account of this. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said while funds to the tune of Rs. 150 crore was allocated, only Rs. 40 crore were released and appealed to the authorities concerned to release the remaining amount and save the school managements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/best-available-schools-managements-plea-for-funds/article33866297.ece
18 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three held, gold biscuits weighing 1.639 kg seized||The city police task force seized gold biscuits weighing 1.639 kg from three persons —Sk. Naveed Basha, Md. Ghouse and Sk. Ibrahim —near the airport at Gannavaram on Tuesday. The estimated market value of the seized gold would be around Rs. 80 lakh, the police said. The accused could not produce any bills for the gold which they were carrying in an SUV. The police intercepted the vehicle. According to a release, Basha allegedly smuggled the gold from Dubai and reached Vijayawada airport. His two accomplices picked him up and they had plans go to Kadapa with the gold. All the accused were taken into custody. Investigation into the case in under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-held-gold-biscuits-weighing-1639-kg-seized/article33867061.ece
18 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Third leg of elections see 80.64% turnout||The third phase of the gram panchayat elections registered 80.64% voting on an average, according to a press release by the State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar. Vizianagaram district recorded the highest voting percentage at 87.09 and Visakhapatnam the lowest of 69.28. Mr. Ramesh Kumar stated that people exercised their voting right in 26,851 polling stations in 160 mandals and the polling in Left Wing Extremist-affected areas, particularly in the agency areas of Visakhapatnam and East Godavari districts, was peaceful. Necessary precautions against COVID-19 were taken by the electorate and the polling staff. The voting percentages recorded in the districts are: Srikakulam 80.13, East Godavari 74.80, West Godavari 82.73, Krishna 84.65, Guntur 84.80, Prakasam 82.42, Nellore 83.15, Kadapa 72.85, Kurnool 83.10, Anantapur 80.29 and Chittoor 83.04.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/third-phase-panchayat-polls-see-8064-turnout/article33866969.ece
18 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Change in interview date||The Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) has advanced the dates for oral test (interview) for the post of lecturers in Government Polytechnic Colleges as part of the A.P. Technical Education Service (general recruitment) by a day owing to the municipal elections, scheduled to be held on March 10. The interview date has been rescheduled from March 3 to March 2. The revised schedule is available on the website of the APPSC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/change-in-interview-date/article33866977.ece
18 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Girl brings laurels to State by identifying asteroid||Kunchala Kyvalya Reddy, an eighth standard student, has brought laurels to the State by bagging a certificate from International Astronomical Search Collaboration (IASC) for “provisional discovery” of an asteroid. The 12-year-old analysed the photographs clicked through the PAN STARRS telescope and identified an asteroid located in the asteroid belt between the planets, Jupiter and Mars. She received training at the New Delhi-based Space Port India Foundation. She is studying in Narayana English Medium School at Nidadavole in West Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/girl-brings-laurels-to-state-by-identifying-asteroid/article33866296.ece
18 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CII holds road safety drive||CII-Young Indians Amaravati chapter organised a road safety awareness campaign here on Wednesday as part of a national initiative. Assistant Commissioner of Police (traffic) J. Venkat Narayana appreciated the efforts of the members and said awareness was the key to preventing road accidents. CII A.P. chairman D. Ramakrishna, CII Vijayawada zone chairman Venkateshwara Rao, CII Young Indians Amaravati chapter chairperson Leena Chowdary and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cii-holds-road-safety-drive/article33867059.ece
18 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State reports 51 new cases, two deaths||The State registered 51 new coronavirus positive cases and two deaths— one in Chittoor and Krishna district each) in the last 24 hours, ending on Wednesday morning. Chittoor district reported the highest number of cases (14) during the period while Kadapa and Srikakulam districts registered one new infection each. With two deaths, the toll reached 7,165. There were 607 active cases in the State as on Wednesday. The cumulative cases reached 1,36,15,847 while the tests per million was put at 2,54,978. The positivity rate was 6.53, according to a bulletin issued by State COVID control room.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-reports-51-new-cases-two-deaths/article33866968.ece
18 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC verdict today on restrain order against Kodali||The High Court on Wednesday reserved its judgment on the restrain order issued by the State Election Commission (SEC) against Civil Supplies Minister Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao, for Thursday. The Minister is accused of making objectionable comments on the Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar with regard to the action sought to be taken by the latter on unanimous polls to some gram panchayats. Justice D.V.S.S. Somayajulu kept the judgement in reserve after receiving the submissions made by amicus curiae P. Raghu Ram, who was asked to assist the court in arriving at a conclusion on what constitutes a hate speech with reference to the statements made by the Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-verdict-today-on-restrain-order-against-kodali/article33866785.ece
18 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lawyers’ union condemns TS advocate couple murder||All India Lawyers’ Union State president S. Rajendra Prasad and general secretary N. Srinivasa Rao strongly condemned the murder of Telangana High Court advocate Vamana Rao and his wife Nagamani. The lawyer couple was murdered on Wednesday while they were reportedly on their way to to Hyderabad after attending a court case in Manthani in Telangana. The attackers, after inflicting injuries on them with knives, fled the spot. Reacting to the incident, the union stated in a press release that it was a reprehensible act of revenge and demanded that the Telangana government take swift action against the culprits. The Central and State governments and Bar Councils should bring out a mechanism for the protection of advocates and ensure that such dastardly acts of violence are dealt with sternly under the law, they appealed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lawyers-union-condemns-ts-advocate-couple-murder/article33867062.ece
18 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||70% turnout for polls in LWE-affected areas||The third phase of gram panchayat elections, being held in 11 mandals of Paderu Revenue Division in the Agency areas of Visakhapatnam district, reported 69.28% polling, here on Wednesday. Despite calls given by the banned CPI (Maoist) to boycott the elections, there was a sizable turnout for the polls, and it was conducted peacefully with no untoward incident reported from any of the mandals, said Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao. Out of 4.36 lakh voters in 237 gram panchayats, as many as 3.02 lakh voters came forward to cast their votes. Though the polling percentage was just 43.33% by the end of 10.30 a.m., it had gradually increased. Being a Maoist-affected area, polling came to end by 1.30 p.m. By the end of polling, among the 11 mandals, Dumbriguda reported the highest polling percentage of 81.13%, followed by Hukumpeta with 78% and Araku Valley with 76.24%. Paderu mandal reported 73.42% voting. G.K Veedhi mandal witnessed the least voting percentage of 56.09 among the other mandals. The administration had appointed 6,029 staff, 198 micro-observers and 82 videographers for the polls. Being an Agency area, the officials have arranged 543 vehicles which include 237 four-wheel drives and 17 RTC buses. Keeping in mind the call given by the left-wing extremists to boycott the elections, the district police provided tight police security at all the revenue divisions.  Collector V. Vinay Chand along with ITDA Project Officer, Paderu, S. Venkateswar had inspected the election process at Vantlamamidi in Paderu mandal. Sarpanch results in as many as 233 gram panchayats out of total 237 were declared by the district administration after counting, according to an update. Results of all the ward member posts (1,465) were also announced. Counting is still on for just four sarpanch posts — two in Araku Valley, one in Paderu and one in Chintapalle. Rise in voting percentage Speaking to reporters, Mr. Vinay Chand said that compared to 2014, the voting percentage has increased in the Agency. He said that no untoward incidents were reported from any of the mandals. He said that a large number of people including senior citizens actively took part in the elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/70-turnout-in-lwe-affected-areas/article33867002.ece
18 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Steel plant: SFI’s bike rally concludes||A bike yatra organised, under the aegis of the Students Federation of India (SFI), from Guntur to Visakhapatnam, seeking protection of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), concluded at the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) office here on Wednesday. DYFI State secretary M. Surya Rao demanded a review of the privatisation proposal. He said it was shameless on the part of the Centre to propose privatisation of VSP, which was worth over Rs. 2 lakh crore. He demanded that the State government adopt a resolution against the privatisation of VSP and demanded that MLC P.V.N. Madhav resign from his post and join the agitation. DYFI leaders Mahesh, Raju, Prasanna, Ganesh and JAC leaders M. Jaggu Naidu and SFI leaders Naidu, Kusuma and Prabhu Das were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/steel-plant-sfis-bike-rally-concludes/article33867064.ece
18 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman among 5 held for property crimes||Police arrested five persons including a woman and also took a minor into custody for their alleged involvement in two different property offence cases, here on Wednesday. In one case, the police arrested R. Revathi (29), her husband R. Visweswara Rao (30), and her brother B. Vinod Kumar (26), all hailing from Srikakulam district and living in Yendada, for allegedly stealing a bag containing valuables worth Rs. 1.50 lakh including a diamond necklace from a car that was parked in the parking lot of a hotel near Beach Road. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime) V. Suresh Babu said that all the three are educated persons. Visweswara Rao is a B. Tech graduate and runs a food truck at MVP Colony. Revathi who finished her MBA is a homemaker, while her brother Vinod Kumar graduated with a degree in BBM. The DCP said that on February 14, a woman from Seethammadhara left her bag in her car at a parking lot in a hotel near Beach Road. Though she locked the car, she failed to close the front window. After returning from the hotel, she found the bag missing and lodged a complaint with he police. The DCP said that when they checked the CCTV footage of the hotel, they found a woman and two men taking the bag from the car. The police also tracked down the vehicle number of the trio and arrested them from an apartment in Yendada, he said. In another case, police arrested two youth named B. Dinesh Kumar (21) and S. Pavan Kalyan (20) and also took a minor into their custody for allegedly stopping a truck near Narasimha Nagar, assaulting the driver and robbing him of Rs. 9,000 cash. Mr. Suresh Babu said that the three persons occasionally do catering work. They are addicted to liquor and other vices, the police officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-among-5-held-for-property-crimes/article33867066.ece
18 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||State govt. will stand by trade unions against privatisation of steel plant: CM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has assured the protesting trade unions that the State government will stand by them till the Centre drops the decision on privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP). Interacting with trade union leaders at the Visakhapatnam Airport on Wednesday, he said, “I have written to the Prime Minister, suggesting a road map for the revival of the plant, while ensuring that it continues to be run by the government.” “The steel plant presently has a debt of Rs. 22,000 crore. Some banks have extended loans even at 14% rate of interest. I requested the Central government to allocate mines, situated in Odisha, to VSP. The RINL already has five mines in Odisha under EIL’s name, the contracts of which must be renewed as they have lapsed,” said the Chief Minister. The VSP administration, he said, could raise funds through the sale of excess land, he said and promised the cooperation of the State government in this regard. Emphasising on the need for the State BJP leaders to support the movement by exerting pressure on their central leadership, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said they could help convince their central leadership to revoke the decision. Assembly resolution On coming out of the hour-long meeting, the Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee JAC leaders, representing various trade unions, seemed contented with the assurances given by the Chief Minister on the protection of the VSP. JAC leaders Ch. Narasinga Rao (CPI-M), Mantri Rajasekhar (INTUC), D. Adinarayana (AITUC) and JAC convener J. Ayodhyaram (CITU) submitted a memorandum to him. According to them, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that if the Centre failed to take a positive decision on continuation of the VSP in the public sector, the YSRCP was ready to adopt a resolution in the Assembly. Delegation to Delhi The Chief Minister had expressed the view that the State governmenthad a limited role in the issue. He had agreed to lead a delegation of MPs from A.P. to Delhi . Mr. Narasinga Rao said the Chief Minister had clarified that POSCO representatives had met him with their plans for setting up of steel plants in Krishnapatnam and Kadapa, but not in VSP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-govt-will-stand-by-trade-unions-against-privatisation-of-steel-plant-cm/article33866971.ece
18 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two elderly women run over by train near Tuni||An elderly woman and her sister belonging to Visakhapatnam district died after reportedly being run over by a train on a railway bridge near Tuni, on Wednesday morning. The deceased were identified as D. Mathyam (64) and her sister V. Suryakantham (63), both hailing from 104 area in the city. Government Railway Police (GRP) Tuni Sub-Inspector Sk. Abdul Maroof said that Mathyam, her husband D. Challa Rao, and Suryakantham were crossing the railway bridge on the Tandava river connecting Tuni and Payakaraopeta when a superfast train heading towards Vijayawada from Visakhapatnam hit the trio. Mr. Challa Rao miraculously survived despite being hit by the train, while the two women died instantly, police said, adding that their bodies were flung into the river and had to be fished out. A post-mortem was conducted and the bodies were handed over to the family members. GRP Tuni has registered a case and launched an investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2-women-run-over-by-train/article33866959.ece
18 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Assembly session is needed on VSP: experts||The A.P. Samagra Abhivruddi Vedika has expressed the view that there is no need for privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP). At a roundtable meeting here on Wednesday, representatives of the group participated suggested ways to put VSP back on the road to profits. Former CBI Joint Director V.V. Lakshminarayana gave a detailed presentation on strengthening of VSP through short, medium and long-term plans. He advocated greater cooperation between public sector companies like NMDC, SAIL, and APMDC for integrated development. He recalled that Dastur and Co. had suggested allocation of captive mines for VSP long back. He said that lack of mines and purchase of raw material in the international market at high prices was causing undue financial burden on VSP. He recalled that when VSP was on the verge of being referred to BIFR, it was given equity and now a similar gesture was required. Mr. Lakshminarayana felt that the Chief Minister should convene a special meeting of the Assembly and adopt a resolution against the privatisation of VSP. He should lead a delegation to Delhi and explain the sentiments of the people on VSP. Vedika organiser Velagapudi Gopalakrishna, who presided over the meeting, called for a united struggle by all political parties on the issue. Congress leader J.D. Seelam, former CMD of VSP Sivasagar Rao, CPI city secretary M. Pydiraju, AITUC leader Busi Venkata Rao and AP Mahila Samakhya State secretary A. Vimala were among those who participated in the roundtable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/assembly-session-is-needed-on-vsp-experts/article33867065.ece
18 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC Commissioner Srijana transferred||In a significant development, the State government, following the instructions of the State Election Commission (SEC), has passed an order transferring Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner G. Srijana on Wednesday. Chairman and Managing Director of APEPDCL, S. Nagalakshmi, has been appointed in Ms. Srijana’s post. The move comes a day after the SEC announced the dates for the local body polls. The order said that on request of the SEC, the State government sent a panel for the post of GVMC Commissioner. Ms. Nagalakshmi’s name was agreed upon by the SEC, an order released by Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das said. Mr. Aditya Nath Das also instructed officials from the Energy Department to make interim arrangements for the post of APEPDCL CMD. He also asked Ms. Srijana to report to the General Administration Department for further posting after her leave period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvmc-commissioner-srijana-transferred/article33866972.ece
18 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan takes part in yagam at Sarada Peetham||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was given a traditional welcome at the Visakha Sri Sarada Peetham at Chinamushidiwada here on his arrival to participate in its annual festival. The Chief Minister had the darshan of Goddess Rajasyamala, Subramanyeswara Swamy, Tandava Murthy and Dasanjaneya at the temples located on the peetham premises. He participated in the Rajasyamala yagam and later launched the website of the peetham. He felicitated some scholars on the occasion. Peetham head Sri Swaroopanandendra Swami and uttarapeetadhipathi Swatmanandendra Saraswathi inaugurated the festival. Minister for Endowments Velampalli Srinivas also offered prayers at the peetham.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-takes-part-in-yagam-at-sarada-peetham/article33866974.ece
18 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Student fest inaugurated||A two-day intra-college student fest ‘Spring Fiesta-2021’ was inaugurated at Integral Institute of Advanced Management (IIAM) in MVP Colony here on Wednesday. The two-day event will host sports, literary and cultural competitions. Executive Director, IIAMS, Surya Teja Mutyam, and Director IIAM, Vijaya Rudra Raju said that the fest aims to bring out a positive spirit among students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/student-fest-inaugurated/article33867067.ece
18 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Proposal to hike FDI in insurance sector decried||Members from the Insurance Corporation Employees Union held a protest near the LIC building in the city, protesting against the proposed hike in FDI in the insurance sector from 49% to 74%, privatisation of one General Insurance Company and two PSU banks and listing LIC in the stock market, during the 2021-22 financial year. They said that the move to disinvest LIC will severely impact the economy. They also said that it was against objectives of LIC. ICEU general secretary of the Visakhapatnam division, N. Ramanchalam, said that demonstrations against the move are being held across the country and will continue till the Union Government goes back on its proposal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/proposal-to-hike-fdi-in-insurance-sector-decried/article33867069.ece
18 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||10 injured after jeep overturns||Ten persons were injured when the jeep in which they were travelling reportedly overturned on a ghat road at Lakshmipuram panchayat under Munchingputtu police station limits in Visakhapatnam Agency on Wednesday. The incident allegedly occurred when the people were heading to a polling centre to cast their vote. It was learnt that among the 10 persons, three were very severely injured. All the passengers were shifted to Community Health Centre (CHC), Munchingputtu. More details are yet to be ascertained, police sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/10-injured-after-jeep-overturns/article33867068.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Joyride||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/joyride/article33867071.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rescue act||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rescue-act/article33867053.ece
18 February 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Massive plantation drive by SCCL in a single day||Scores of employees, including the coal workers of the State-owned Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL), turned green heroes as they planted more than 20,000 saplings on a single day across the coal belt region of Kothagudem on Wednesday. The massive green drive marked the SCCL’s mega sapling plantation drive in the entire coal belt region straddling across six districts as part of the State government’s flagship afforestation programme – Haritha Haram. The company-wide day-long green drive saw the Singarenians planting close to 2.35 lakh saplings across all the 11 coal mining areas of the SCCL in the State. The officials outlined the company’s eco-friendly practices to protect the environment in coal mining areas and consistent efforts to promote sapling plantation in the coal belt areas as part of the company’s corporate social responsibility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/massive-plantation-drive-by-sccl-in-a-single-day/article33866890.ece
18 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Evidence of COVID reinfection sans mutations in spike protein||There have been cases of reinfection of SARS-CoV-2 across the globe and including a particular case where it had occurred despite the presence of neutralising antibodies. The study then showed the presence of a mutation in the structural spike protein of the coronavirus as it has happened in most cases of reinfection. However, there is also evidence of SARS-CoV-2 or COVID-19 refinfection without any mutations to the spike protein, a joint study by scientists of CSIR-Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology (CCMB) and doctors at the Apollo Hospitals here indicated on Wednesday. The study reported two cases – one clear case and another possible case of COVID reinfection detected during routine surveillance. No difference in spike protein of the virus was noticed when the samples were sequenced to establish the genetic diversity of the virus. First case was a 61-year-old male healthcare worker, who tested positive on August 31 last year following contract tracing. After an episode of asymptomatic infection and home quarantine, he tested negative. Though he had no travel history in between, he complained of weakness in mid-November and developed cough two days later. He again tested positive on November 14. There were no other symptoms this time and it was a mild disease overall. Genetic sequencing revealed the presence of 10 unique variations between the viral genomes of both cases. However, no variation was observed in the 'spike protein' which binds to the host cells to spread the virus. Second case is that of a 38-year-old male admitted to hospital with symptoms of headache, fever and tested positive on November 4. The patient was symptom-free after a day, but on November 22, fever surfaced again. Sample collected on that day tested positive for COVID-19. Other than five days of fever following the test, there were no symptoms during the second episode. Genetic analysis revealed presence of three unique variations between both the episodes, and a large number of shared variants including that of the spike protein. If the first case had 10 unique variations between viral strains, the second remains a bit unclear with three unique variations in 18 days, higher than expected, possibly due to prolonged viral shedding and accelerated viral evolution due to immuno-compromised state, it said. “Our study provides rare evidence but distinct possibility of reinfection without changes in the spike protein, and highlights the need for further research to understand COVID reinfections,” said scientists including Onkar Kulkarni, Suneetha Narreddy, Lamuk Zaveri, Irawathy Goud Kalal, Karthik Bharadwaj Tallapaka and Divya Tej Sowpati. CCMB Director Rakesh Mishra said there were a lot many unknown facts about COVID-19 and deep research including continued genome sequencing is necessary to understand why this virus is behaving differently. “Reinfection, in particular, needs to monitored and studied extensively as it will have implications in vaccine effect, herd immunity and multiple waves of infection,” he added. It was published in reputed journal ‘Clinical Infectious Diseases’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/evidence-of-covid-reinfection-sans-mutations-in-spike-protein/article33866856.ece
18 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC’s revenues way short of budgetary projections||The financial year 2020-21 has been especially hard on GHMC in terms of revenues, as visible from the statement of its receipts and expenditure as on date. The corporation’s major revenue sources are property tax collection and building permission fee, both of which may not meet the targets this year. According to the Revenue statement as on Wednesday, the property tax collection stood at Rs. 1,316 crore, which is way lower than the budgetary projection of Rs. 1,862 crore. This is, however, marginally higher than last year’s collections of Rs. 1,285 crore on the same day. During 2019-20, close to 90% of the total collection was achieved by February 16, while in the current year, it stands at a little over 70% of the target. Target? Officials concede that the collection may not meet the target this year, as the staff is busy in preparations for the upcoming MLC polls. Calamities striking one after the other, including the COVID-19 lockdown and the devastating floods in October 2020, are cited as major reasons for low collections, followed by elections to GHMC in December 2020. The building permission fee collected by the Town Planning wing too plummeted this year. The collection stands at Rs. 510 crore as on Wednesday, as against the budgetary projection of Rs. 827 crore, which amounts to mere 62% achievement. It is way below the cumulated receipts of Rs. 816 crore as on the date last year, against a total collection of Rs. 958 crore. Officials from the Town Planning wing, however, attribute the low figure to the instalment facility offered to the builders in payment of the fee, as a COVID-19 recovery measure. As per the government orders, the fee may be paid in four instalments, before March 31, 2021, hence, the officials are hopeful of crossing the projected receipts. The surcharge on Stamp Duty, which is a major source of revenue other than property tax and building permission fee, is shown as zero, as against a projection of Rs. 450 crore. Only about Rs. 24 crore has been received by way of Trade Licence fee, against the targeted Rs. 70 crore, while the revenue from advertisements stands only at about Rs. 4 crore, against the projected Rs. 70 crore. Not a paisa of the assigned revenue accruing to GHMC under various heads has been devolved yet by the government. While a total of Rs. 275 crore has been shown as budgetary projection under professional tax and compensation in lieu of taxes, nothing has been released so far. The State Finance Commission grants of Rs. 338 crore and the grant of Rs. 520 crore from the CM Relief Fund were the saving grace in the Rs. 2816 crore revenue receipts, against the projected receipts of Rs. 3,667 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmcs-revenues-way-short-of-budgetary-projections/article33866870.ece
18 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Accused was Vaman Rao’s friend-turned-foe||It is a classic case of friend-turned-foe. Kunta Srinu, who emerged as the prime accused in the gory killing of lawyer Gattu Vaman Rao, was the latter’s friend once. Srinu and Rao, whose wife Nagamani too was murdered on Wednesday near Kalvacherla on Peddapalli-Manthani main road, hail from Gunjapadugu village. Their houses were located within a kilometre distance. In their attempts to ascertain possible motives behind the lawyer couple murder, investigators stumbled upon the facts that Srinu and Rao moved closely in the past. “Both were closely associated with local Congress leaders. In fact, it is said that Rao was instrumental in securing MPTC ticket to Srinu,” police sources said. Eventually, Srinu snapped ties with Rao and joined ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi. Presently, he is the party’s mandal president. Interestingly, Srinu’s sibling Raju, who is the present village sarpanch, continued to be friends with Rao. Police are verifying information that the gram panchayat had issued notice to Srinu over the construction of a house the latter had undertaken recently. “It is said that a flexi banner was tied in the village about the notice over illegal construction of the house. This could have further widened rift between them,” police officers pursuing different leads said on condition of anonymity. On the other hand, Srinu was leading the villagers in building a temple in the village with the help of a private company which assigned some project work in the area. Investigators are ascertaining unconfirmed reports that Rao had moved the HC alleging that religious structure was coming up in public land. With the court directions, the temple construction got stalled. This, police believe, could have resulted in further animosity between Srinu and Rao. “It is too early to come to any conclusion about the exact motive behind the double murder,” said the officers gathering information from different sources. The killers lay in wait on the outskirts of Kalvacheral, which was nearly 15 kms off from Manthani. As the lawyer’s couple reached the spot, the killers intercepted their car. “First they broke window panes of the car on driver side. Driver took out his seat belt and fled. Then they dragged Rao out and murdered him,” the police said reconstructing the crime scene. Later, they attacked Nagamani inside the car and killed her too, believe the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/accused-was-vaman-raos-friend-turned-foe/article33866875.ece
18 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Apollo Hospitals, medtech firm join hands for 3D-printed implants||Apollo Hospitals Group and Anatomiz3D Medtech are collaborating to establish Hospital 3D-printing labs in the country, for 3D printed implants, that would enable doctors to visualise and print implants for complicated cases. The first in a series of such facilities will come up at Apollo Health City, Jubilee Hills, here. The labs will provide medical 3D printing services for better healthcare, through creation of anatomical models for pre-surgical planning and education, patient-specific cutting and drilling guides, and customised implants and implant moulds, a release said. “3D-printing technology is transforming the medical environment, providing a fast, accurate and economical solution to take medical care to the next level. As healthcare evolves, 3D-printing will play an important part,” said Prathap C Reddy, chairman of Apollo Hospitals Group who along with top executives of the healthcare major and Anatomiz3D, spoke to the media virtually on Wednesday. Stating that 3D-printing has many applications in healthcare, Joint MD Sangita Reddy said the 3D-printing labs at the hospitals will enable better patient care and treatment planning. Time and cost-effective The release said advances in 3D printing technology today produces customised, lighter, stronger, safer and higher performing products with reduced lead times and lower costs. Patient-specific design of implantable devices and surgical tools would help optimise surgical processes and costs. Co-founder and CTO of Anatomiz3D Firoza Kothari said Apollo Hospitals and the medtech firm aim to make customised medical devices easily accessible to patients. A multi-disciplinary team consisting of biomedical, mechanical and AM engineers as well as 3D designers will work with Apollo Hospitals medical and surgical team in the Hospital 3D-printing labs. The lab will provide anatomical models that are life-size replicas of a patient’s anatomy, accurately reconstructed from their CT/MRI scans into 3D models, which can be created in multiple materials, colours, opacities and hardness to provide advanced 3D visualisation for pre-surgical planning and patient communication, the release stated.  3D-printing technology is providing a fast, accurate and economical solution to take medical care to the next level. Prathap C. Reddy, Chairman, Apollo Hospitals Group||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/apollo-hospitals-and-medtech-firm-join-hands-for-3d-printed-implants/article33866854.ece
18 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Startling disclosures on TS police inadequacies||Only 1.12% of the police expenditure is spent on training. There are 156 police personnel per every hundred-thousand individuals in the country. An average of three policemen guards a VIP in the country which has nearly 15,000 VIPs. Of the allocated Rs. 1,937 crore for modernisation of police force in 2018-19, only Rs. 802 crore has been utilised. India spent 0.76% of its GDP on rule of law in contrast to above 1.5% by most developed countries. These were some of the startling statistics dug out by researchers for an advocacy paper by Foundation for Democratic Reforms. While India has one of the lowest crime rates in the world with 377.3 crimes per 100,000 population, in only 23.22% cases there is judgment in the first year. “Without sufficient investment and rethink about policing and law and administration, we cannot enforce rule of law. To grow economically, we need rule of law. We are now chasing useless affairs. Knee-jerk reactions will not improve law and order machinery. We need to understand where the problem is. Research by the students of University of Hyderabad and Indian School of Business shows the problem,” said Jaya Prakash Narayana of Foundation for Democratic Reforms. Among the comity of 128 nations, India was ranked 114 for order and security, 98 for civil justice, 84 for fundamental rights, 85 for absence of corruption, the researchers tabulated. The researchers linked the delivery of justice and prosecution in India to their representation. India had 0.6 prosecutors for 100,000 people; in contrast the United States of America had 17.6 prosecutors for every 100,000 citizens. India had 14 judges per million while other developed countries had between 43 (Australia) and 270 (UK) judges per million. The numbers can be easily linked to the pendency of cases in the country. A trial judge in India disposes of 824 cases in a year while his/her counterpart in the UK disposes of 159 cases. India spent 0.09% of its GDP on law courts while countries like Germany, UK and Australia spent upwards of 0.37% of their GDP on law courts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/startling-disclosures-on-ts-police-inadequacies/article33866859.ece
18 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Remember! your family is waiting: Jr. NTR tells drivers||People behind the wheels must remember that there is a family dependent on him waiting back home, said Tollywood actor Junior NTR here on Wednesday. Addressing the Cyberabad Traffic Police Annual Conference 2021, he said that he had come to the programme not as an actor but as a sad person who had lost two family members in road accidents. Both my father Nandamuri Harikrishna and brother Nandamuri Janaki Ram lost their lives for no fault of theirs in highway road accidents, he said. He added that the accidents sent a strong message on road safety. “The whole world knows how careful my father used to drive as he drove my grandfather and Andhra Pradesh’s former Chief Minister Nandamuri Taraka Rama Rao for over 33,000 km in Chaitanya Ratham safely. We lost him because of somebody else’s careless driving,” the ‘Nannaku Prematho’ actor said. Earlier, he launched two highway patrol vehicles, which would be deployed on the Hyderabad-Bijapur highway. These two are added to six vehicles already deployed and operational in other areas. Additional DGP (Railways and Road Safety) Sandeep Shandilya said that in Cyberabad alone, over 100 people are killed in road accidents every year and in 30 out of 100 accidents, precious lives are lost. Two lakh new vehicles are being added every year to the already-congested roads, he said. “Our goal is to reduce road accidents and minimise deaths. We have taken a holistic approach. People should think twice before they enter the jurisdiction as no culprit goes unpunished,” Cyberabad Commissioner V.C. Sajjanar said. Traffic DCP Vijay Kumar SM said that creating awareness about road safety and recognising the efforts of traffic policemen, who are working against a lot of odds on city roads, was the objective behind the meet. They also launched SAVIOR (Save Accident Victims on the Road) that highlights and spreads the importance of golden hour treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/remember-your-family-is-waiting-jr-ntr-tells-drivers/article33866866.ece
18 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KCR not sincere in filling up 1.91 lakh vacancies: Uttam||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president and MP N. Uttam Kumar Reddy alleged that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is not sincere towards filling up over 1.91 lakh vacant posts in various departments of the State government and that is why the recruitment process is being deliberately delayed. In statement here, he said that the 11-member Telangana State Public Service Commission (TSPSC) is now headless with just two members -- of which one of them will retire in March. He said that TSPSC chairman Ghanta Chakrapani and three other members retired on December 17, 2020, on the completion of their six-year term. Five other members had already retired. “The State government cannot appoint the new members due to the Model Code of Conduct for MLC elections. Before the completion of these elections, the State will witness another MCC in view of Nagarjunasagar by-elections and then the elections of Khammam and Warangal municipal corporations. Therefore, the process of recruitment may not begin before six months,” he said. “Mr. Rao just made a fake promise of recruiting 50,000 people only in view of MLC elections for two Graduate constituencies,” he said. He also pointed out that as per the report of the C.R. Biswal-headed Pay Revision Commission (PRC), as against the sanctioned post of 491,304 in different departments, there are only 300,178 employees. “The Chief Minister must specify as to when and how existing vacancies of 191,126 would be filled?” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-not-sincere-in-filling-up-191-lakh-vacancies-uttam/article33866868.ece
18 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Congress demands CBI probe||The Congress has demanded a CBI inquiry into the day-light murder of High Court lawyers and blamed the government for their death. In a statement here, TPCC chief N. Uttam Kumar Reddy said the lawyer-couple had sought police protection after they received threat calls. The deceased Vaman Rao had named Kunta Srinu, who is TRS mandal president of Manthani. Moreover, the lawyer was also fighting on behalf of the family of Seelam Rangaiah, who died in police custody that rocked the State. The lawyer also apparently filed cases against Peddapalli ZP chairperson and former Manthani MLA of TRS, Putta Madhu. All this indicate that the ruling party members were behind it and the deceased Vaman Rao had also named Kunta Srinu just before dying. Only a CBI inquiry can bring out the truth and culprits can be punished, Mr. Uttam Reddy said. Meanwhile, Manthani MLA D. Sridhar Babu felt that the local police were perhaps aware of this attack. What kind of policing is this when a High Court lawyer, who had already sought security from the police, was killed in broad daylight, he asked. "If a woman lawyer can't be saved what is the use of the police force," he said reacting angrily to the murder. Mr. Sridhar Babu, who met the family members of the deceased to console them, said police failed to provide security despite the couple urging them after they received threat calls. Congress leaders also alleged that police had ignored the couple's appeal as he was fighting a case against the local police in the High Court on the lockup death. TPCC spokesperson Indira Shobhan said it’s a shame that the police could not prevent the murder of High Court lawyers despite being aware of threat to them. She said Mr. Sridhar Babu had been raising the issue of poor law and order situation in his constituency but the police always ignored it. She also claimed that ruling party leaders are resorting to murder politics to silence people questioning their atrocities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ruling-party-leaders-resorting-to-murder-politics-congress/article33866882.ece
18 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State government rules out franchisee system in power sector||The Telangana government has ruled out implementing franchisee system in power sector proposed as part of a larger privatisation move in distribution companies (DISCOMS) in the The Electricity Act 2003 (Amendment) Bill The government informed a video conference organised by Union Minister for Power Raj Kumar Singh with chairmen and managing directors of DISCOMS on Wednesday that the State Assembly had already adopted a resolution opposing the Bill and, therefore, the government is committed to it. The conference discussed the components of the Bill like fixing meters to agricultural pumpsets, franchisees in DISCOMS, appointment of Member (Law) in electricity regulatory commissions, increasing the strength of members in electricity appellate tribunals, increasing the usage of renewable energy sources and Renewable Power Purchase Obligation (RPPO). It was attended by Telangana Transco and Genco Chairman and Managing Director D. Prabhakar Rao, Joint Managing Director C. Srinivas Rao and chairmen and managing directors of both DISCOMS of the State. Mr. Singh emphasised at the meeting that the DISCOMS will have to follow power sector reforms proposed under the amendment Act to become financially viable. Franchisees system in DISCOMS is the best solution forward, sources said. The representatives of the State replied that the government had already expressed its view on the amendment Act through the resolution in the Assembly. But, Mr. Singh insisted amendments to the 2003 Central Act are inevitable for the development of the sector. He asked officials to take this to the notice of the government. When Mr. Singh emphasised that the DISCOMS were required to meet the targeted 19% RPPO of the total installed capacity as per the amendment Act, the officials of Telangana said the decision on RPPO should be left to State governments. Mr. Singh had warned that penalty would be imposed on State governments if the targets are not achieved. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had earlier written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi opposing the Bill saying, if adopted, the State government would have to fix meters to 26 lakh agricultural pumpsets. The government will require Rs. 750 crore to purchase the meters. Under the new law, industrialists would be given open access to purchase power which would push DISCOMS deep into losses as there could be no cross subsidy in power sector. The Bill would facilitate the Central government to appoint State Electricity Regulatory Commissions with members of its choice. The Load Despatch Centre too would be managed by the Centre. These provisions were nothing but taking away the rights of States. The Bill is against the federal spirit. He also said the Centre was not considering hydel power generated at Srisailam and Nagarjunasagar projects as renewable energy and at the same time it wants to insist with States to purchase renewable energy from power plants in north which are loss making. If the States did not purchase power from them, they will be liable to pay a fine of 50 paise to Rs. 2 a unit of power not purchased from them. If the States purchased, their own power plants would fold up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-rules-out-franchisee-system-in-power-sector/article33866883.ece
18 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Chief Minister’s birthday celebrations held across Telangana||A gold saree weighing 2.5 kgs. was offered to Goddess Yellamma at Balkampeta Yellama temple to celebrate the birthday of the Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, who turned 68 on Wednesday. The saree was offered by Minister for Animal Husbandry Talasani Srinivas Yadav and TRS leader Kuna Venkatesham Goud among others. The celebrations were grand across the State with Mr. Rao's followers and TRS leaders cutting cakes, planting saplings, distributing food and sarees to poor people. They hailed him as the Father of Telangana and a visionary to ensure all round progress of Telangana. IT Minister and KCR's son, K.T. Rama Rao planted a sapling at Pragati Bhavan along with his wife and daughter and tweeted “To a warrior who fought against all odds to make Telangana State a reality; To a leader who was an awe inspiring agitator & now a fabulous administrator; To a living legend who epitomises the word Visionary; To a man I am privileged to call my Father.” Several prominent people also wished a very happy birthday -- including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah, Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu, Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, Chief Ministers YS Jaganmohan Reddy, Arvind Kejriwal, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Bhupesh Bhagal, and Union Ministers Nitin Gadkari and DV Sadananda Gowda among others. TDP leader Nara Lokesh and film stars were among those who wished him. The Prime Minister in his tweet said “Greetings to Telangana CM KCR Garu on his birthday. Praying for his long and healthy life." TRS MLC and KCR's daughter Kalvakuntla Kavitha also planted a sapling at her home along with husband and also shared an old picture of her with parents and brother KTR on the occasion. Ministerial colleagues of Mr. Rao also took up several programmes across the districts eulogising their leader and launching welfare programmes. Vemula Prashanth Reddy, Yerrabelli Dayakar Rao, Satyavathi Rathod, Niranjan Reddy, Koppula Eashwar were among those. At Jalavihar TRS MP J. Santosh Kumar, Assembly Speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy, Council Chairman Gutta Sukhender Reddy, Rajya Sabha MP K. Keshav Rao along with Talasani participated in the celebrations planting saplings. A 3D documentary on the life and achievements of the Chief Minister was also played at the venue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/chief-ministers-birthday-celebrations-held-across-telangana/article33866888.ece
18 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP condemns double murder||State BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar has demanded a probe by a sitting judge of the High Court into the daylight murder of advocates G. Vaman Rao and his wife Nagamani when the couple were returning from Manthani court in Karimnagar after arguing a lock up death case on Wednesday. “We strongly condemn the attack. We are unable to digest the murderous attack on a conscientious lawyer couple, who have been taking up the causes dear to the poor and downtrodden. We have every reason to suspect the hand of the ruling party people in this heinous crime. We want Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to respond,” he said, at a press conference at the city office. The BJP legal cell too will join the fight for justice to the slain couple with the other lawyers associations so that the perpetrators of the crime are punished. The BJP leader said the ruling party regime believes in “murder politics” and wants to “finish off anyone questioning their policies.” If the lawyers themselves are not safe in the State, what is the fate of the common man, he wondered and charged that a “section of police officers” too have been “conniving with the ruling party” in such violence attacks on critics rather than safeguard people, he observed. Mr. Sanjay Kumar said the slain advocate couple had earlier approached the High Court seeking protection as they feared threat to their lives, however, but neither the government nor the police responded. The advocate associations should take up the issue and see that justice is rendered and the BJP will stand by them, he added. Member of Legislative Council and senior leader N. Ramchander Rao too condemned the murder of the advocate couple and said this is an attack against the entire lawyer community. “The couple were known for their public interest litigation cases and highlighting the government failures. We demand the police to quickly investigate the crime and arrest the culprits responsible,” Mr. Rachander Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-demands-probe-by-sitting-high-court-judge/article33866880.ece
18 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NGO resolves to mentor dalit women leaders||The Telangana State Congress of NGO Dalit Sthree Sakthi on Wednesday resolved to chart plans to mentor at least 1,000 dalit women as able leaders in various sectors. The meeting convened to mark 15 years of the organisation also resolved to focus more on personality development aspects apart from education, and to take up a campaign to address the issues resulting from traps in the name of love. Initiatives, challenges Gaddam Jhansi, the national convenor of DSS, presided over the event, and elaborated on the initiatives taken up, and challenges faced by the organisation over the 15 years. Cadre numbering over 10,000 have been working constantly towards ending violence against women at home and outside, besides improving the lives of Dalit and Adivasi children. Executive editor of Sakshi daily, Dileep Reddy, who attended as guest, lamented that governments are helping market forces, thereby weakening democracy. Dalits and women should get their share of developmental benefits, he said.  National President of the Dalit Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry Narra Ravi Kumar said economic empowerment should be included in the agenda of DSS. Lives of Dalits will not change as long as they remain victims of superstition, he said, and emphasised that only knowledge and transformation are the way forward.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ngo-resolves-to-mentor-dalit-women-leaders/article33866860.ece
18 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Only five persons for door-to-door campaigns||Returning Officer (RO) for the election to Legislative Council from Mahabubnagar-Ranga Reddy-Hyderabad Graduates’ Constituency Priyanka Ala asked parties to ensure that not more than five persons are there for the door-to-door campaign, in view of the COVID pandemic. Not more than five vehicles will be allowed for the road shows, and prior permissions should be obtained for the election campaigns, rallies, and public meetings, she said, during a meeting she convened with political party representatives on Wednesday, along with Additional Commissioner (Elections) Pankaja. Advertisements in the electronic and print media should be approved before hand by the Media Certification Monitoring Committee, Ms. Ala said. While there is no cap on election expenditure, the campaign expenditure should be submitted to the Returning Officer, she explained. A total of 799 polling stations have been organised for the elections and, ballot papers will have only the candidate’s name, photo and party’s name. Postal ballot will be provided for senior citizens over 80 years of age, disabled, and COVID-19 patients. Nominations will be accepted on all working days, and only two members will be allowed along with the candidate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/only-five-persons-for-door-to-door-campaigns/article33866871.ece
18 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||JIH to launch drive against domestic violence||The women’s wing of the Jamaat-e-Islami Hind (JIH), a socio-religious organisation, on Wednesday said that they would embark on a drive to inculcate family values, underscore shared values, and develop methods to deal with issues like domestic violence. The organisation will organise grassroots-level programmes such as corner meetings, family meetings, interfaith dialogues, webinars, panel discussions, and family counselling. At a press meet, members of the JIH said that a National Commission for Women report has indicated that there has been a rise in domestic violence during the COVID lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jih-to-launch-drive-against-domestic-violence/article33866874.ece
18 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Welspun Flooring experience centre opened||Welspun Flooring, a fully integrated and independent flooring vertical of the $2.7 billion Welspun Group, has opened its first experience centre at the company’s manufacturing facility in Chandanvelly, near here. Spread over 9,000 sq ft, the centre is designed to allow customers to experience the variety, features and finishes of Welspun Flooring’s tiles, a release from the company on Wednesday said. On display at the centre are products like Click N Lock tiles, Carpets Tiles, Broadloom Carpets and Greens that Welspun Flooring offers along with a depiction of their application in different settings. The customers can also access information about the in-display flooring solutions through design expert consultations. Welspun had inaugurated the flooring plant in Chandanvelly, established with an investment of over Rs. 1,100 crore, in July.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/welspun-flooring-experience-centre-opened/article33866851.ece
18 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Lawyers to abstain from work||Condemning the murder of lawyer couple Gattu Vaman Rao and P.V. Nagamani, lawyers across the State decided to abstain from court work today (Thursday) and organise protest meetings. Telangana High Court Advocates Association president T. Suryakaran Reddy requested all members of the association to keep off court work voluntarily. “It is time to show, demonstrate our unity. A strong message must be conveyed to miscreants adopting unconstitutional methods towards lawyers,” he said in statement on Wednesday. Condemning the double murder, individual lawyers and some Bar Associations urged the government to bring Advocates Protection Act. Advocates from Andhra Pradesh too condemned the killing of the lawyer couple and decided to convene demonstrations protesting the attacks on lawyers. Protest meetings are to be held at Secunderabad City Civil Court. The HC Bar Association is holding a protest meting on HC premises in the noon. Students of Osmania University College of Law took out a candle light rally from Law College to Arts College on the university campus. The Bar Council of Telangana urged the government to enact Advocates Protection Act to save the advocates community. Executive committees of the Bar Associations of Ranga Reddy district, City Civil Court-Hyderabad, City Civil Court-Secunderabad and Metropolitan Criminal Courts-Nampally demanded immediate arrest of the culprits. They decided to abstain from court today. Many lawyers recalled how Mr. Vaman Rao and his wife Nagamani came forward to help poor lawyers and clerks of the lawyers during the lockdown due to COVID-19 pandemic. The couple distributed bags of groceries to several lawyers and munshis in Hyderabad. Several advocates made appeals to ensure that no lawyer represents the accused in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lawyers-to-abstain-from-work/article33866876.ece
18 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||8,464 applications for 159 bars||A total of 8,464 applications were received for 159 new bars notified by State government with a deadline of Wednesday. The government earned Rs. 84.64 crore in the process. The notification was issued with a non-refundable fee of Rs. 1 lakh per bar on January 25 with a deadline of February 8 but the date was subsequently extended to February 16 on demand. There are already over 800 bars, clubs and pubs in the State prior to the notification. The draw of lots for selection of new licensees will be held on Thursday in all municipalities and on Friday in GHMC. Of the 159 bars in the State, fifty five were notified for GHMC. There are 317 applications for just one bar in Yadagirigutta. Meanwhile, the Election Commission of India intervened to give permission for draw of lots in view of election code in force for polls to Legislative Council from graduates constituencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/8464-applications-for-159-bars/article33866884.ece
18 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||page 3 Man held for cheating job aspirants||A 46-year-old man, who allegedly collected over Rs. 1.61 crore from several youngsters on the pretext of providing Group-D government jobs in South Central Railway, was arrested here on Tuesday. Pinjari Khaja of Kurnool colluded with some other accused to cheat innocent job aspirants. He told them that he would provide jobs with the influence of higher officers in the Railways without any examination and collected Rs. 6 to 7 lakh from over 25 persons, Joint Commissioner of Police (Detective Department) Avinash Mohanty said. Khaja was remanded to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-3-man-held-for-cheating-job-aspirants/article33866864.ece
18 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||2 inter-State drug peddlers held||Two members of an inter-State drug peddling gang were apprehended by the Hyderabad police here on Wednesday. In a joint operation, sleuths of the Commissioner’s Task Force (north) along with Nampally police raided Hotel Royal Residency and seized heroin and mephedrone (MD) 30 grams each worth Rs. 3.50 lakh from their possession.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-inter-state-drug-peddlers-held/article33866867.ece
18 February 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Left parties protest soaring fuel, LPG prices||Activists of the CPI (M) and the CPI (ML-New Democracy) held separate protests here on Wednesday against the soaring prices of petrol and diesel. A group of local cadres of the CPI (M) led by the party district secretary N Nageswara Rao staged a protest demonstration against the “unabated rise” in petrol, diesel and LPG prices. The demonstrators set ablaze the ‘effigy’ of the Central government at Saritha Centre here. In a separate protest, the activists of the CPI (ML-ND) and its frontal organisations torched the ‘effigy’ of the Centre to register their protest against the spiralling prices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/left-parties-protest-soaring-fuel-lpg-prices/article33867006.ece
18 February 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Collector reviews poll arrangements||The district administration has set in motion an elaborate exercise to ensure smooth conduct of the ensuing Legislative Council election to Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda Graduates Constituency slated for March 14, 2021. Plans are afoot to set up as many as 127 polling stations in 40 polling locations across the district. A total of around 85,000 voters are expected to exercise their franchise in the district. Khammam urban mandal accounts for the major chunk of the voters with a total electors strength of 32,000, sources said. Collector R V Karnan on Wednesday held a meeting with the representatives of the political parties at the Collectorate. In a separate meeting held with the election nodal officers, the Collector reviewed the arrangements for the smooth conduct of ensuing election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/collector-reviews-poll-arrangements/article33866886.ece
18 February 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||FASTag compliance on NH-65 jumps to 94% as it’s made compulsory||Vehicle users’ compliance with FASTag, Ministry of Road Transport & Highways’ electronic toll collection initiative, jumped to 94% on NH-65 (Hyderabad-Vijayawada) on the first day of the compulsory rule coming into effect from the midnight of February 15/16. The remaining six percent users included some ‘wilful violators’, and trucks and heavy goods transporters, whose owners have not maintained sufficient FASTag amounts, and hence the vehicles were ‘blacklisted’ in the lane. According to plaza officials, the Ministry’s rule was widely received, and it was visible in the toll collection reports. While the previous week’s collection through FASTag was around 85%, the number of vehicles grew by nearly 10% overnight. On the day prior to implementation too, at least 20 member banks and its agents had set up tents at the various plazas for special sales. Officials say the Monday figures of FASTag sales near toll plazas was over 1,800 which is a record, compared to the usual 300-400 numbers. On the first day, about 800 vehicles of various categories were charged double the toll for not having a FASTag or having a non-functional FASTag at Pantangi toll plaza. While some voluntarily paid the double charge, as “not a frequent traveller,” most others were truck drivers whose FASTags were not functional, owing to low balances by their owners. At the Gudur toll plaza on Hyderabad-Bhupalapally, near Bibinagar, there were initial hiccups for reading of the Radio Frequency Identification tag. More than 1,500 vehicle users here paid double the toll, while another 700 users purchased a FASTag on the premises and exited the toll gates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fastag-compliance-on-nh-65-jumps-to-94-as-its-made-compulsory/article33866889.ece
18 February 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||403 courses, 6 months||Many people adjusted to the COVID-19 lockdown in their own different ways, but K. Venkata Rami Reddy, a second year full-time research scholar of GHBS, GITAM-Hyderabad Campus, spent the period purely on studies. In a span of six months, he completed 403 courses listed on the ‘Coursera’ platform from world-renowned universities. “It was my research guide A. Sreeram, who introduced me to the world of online courses and with the support of visionary management, I was able to complete the courses I signed up for within a few weeks. I have enjoyed the Coursera courses that I took. If you spend time on the class diligently, you can get a lot out of it, but the online learning is not a substitute for traditional offline learning,” said Mr. Venkata Rami Reddy He has completed the courses offered by Indian School of Business, University of Michigan, University of London, Michigan State University, University of California, Arizona State University, University of Copenhagen, University of North Texas, University of Florida, The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, The University of North Carolina, University of Maryland, Johns Hopkins University, University of Toronto, The University of Hong Kong, Duke University and Yale University. Coursera is a global online learning platform that offers anyone, anywhere, access to online courses and degrees from leading universities and companies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/403-courses-6-months/article33866862.ece
18 February 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Close shave for students, passengers in packed bus||As many as 100 persons had a miraculous escape on Wednesday when the RTC bus they were travelling in came into contact with a live wire at Munipally mandal headquarters. Three persons, including a student, were injured. According to sources, the RTC bus started at Makta Kyasaram in Munipally mandal. As this was the only bus available for many, some students and passengers sat on the top. After the bus reached Munipally the driver tried to reverse the bus, when it came into contact with a 11 kv live wire resulting in the accident. The injured were identified as Narasimha Goud, Geeta and Jagan who were at the door trying to climb the bus. A person from the electrical department present there immediately shut down the transformer averting a major accident. The condition of the injured was stated to be out of danger and they are being treated in hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/close-shave-for-students-passengers-in-packed-bus/article33866850.ece
18 February 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Water from Ranganayaka Sagar released||Finance Minister Harish Rao said that a separate Telangana State might not have been possible had Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao not been there. He said this while addressing a gathering after releasing water from Ranganayaka Sagar to Chandlapur village of Chinnakodur mandal on Wednesday on the occasion of Mr. KCR’s 68th birthday. “Telangana has become a role model for the remaining States,” he added. “People are showering praise on Mr. KCR for the works taken up by him. Schemes such as Shaadi Mubarak and Kalyana Lakshmi are being followed by other States. Godavari water has reached Siddipet because of the CM and we are enjoying the benefits. He will continue as the CM for another 10 years,” said Mr. Harish Rao, adding that justice was meted to Telangana only after formation of a separate State. He also said that the drought problem was permanently addressed by bringing Godavari water to the State, which was made possible only by Mr. KCR. As part of the celebrations and Koti Vrukhotsavam, a plantation drive was taken up by Mr. Harish Rao. Meanwhile, Collector P. Venkatarami Reddy participated in the celebrations at Jagadevpur Junior College with students. Home Minister Mohammed Mahmood Ali took part in a programme at the district jail in Sangareddy on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/water-from-ranganayaka-sagar-released/article33866872.ece
18 February 2021||Bahadurgarh,||Farmers dig to get ‘own water’||After langars serving food and beverages, including tea and lassi , thanks to a steady supply of vegetables plucked from their respective fields and desi milk from the livestock they maintain back home, protesting farmers are now making arrangements for their “own water” from the ground up. As summer approaches and their gathering continues to swell, agitating farmers have begun installing submersible pumps on patches of land along the Bahadurgarh and Rohtak bypass. Donations, collections With donations from monthly pensions that many among them receive as well as collections made from households in their villages at the directions of the local panchayat, an estimated dozen of such pumps, to meet their water needs independently, are at different stages of completion and the creations of “many more” has been arranged, the farmers said. “The earth provides not just food but also water. Recipients like us just have to make the arrangements. A government’s stubbornness is nothing in the face of the blessings of Mother Earth,” said Ishwar Singh Dhul from Pai village in Haryana’s Kaithal, overseeing the digging for one such pump at Pakoda Chowk near Rohtak bypass. “Everyone has contributed whatever they could to arrange the pipes, water tanks and wages for the labourers. There are a lot of us, including me, who get pension of around Rs. 2,500 to Rs. 3,000 per month. I have contributed Rs. 500 and helped collect donations from other pensioners,” Dharampal Pai, 70, said. From providing water for existing toilets to ensuring availability of water for bathing more than once a day, RO purification systems too are being attached to such set-ups to provide multiple litres of drinking and cooking water “for as long as they [the farmers] may need to wait” for the ongoing agitation to end. As more women from their families join them in their tents by the roadside, arrangements will also ensure the creation of more ladies’ toilets and bathrooms. Will help women “Women from my village want to join the agitation. If they stay, they are forced to answer nature’s call either at someone’s house here or in the fields. After we make these arrangements, they will be able to stay with us here for longer periods,” said Simranjeet Singh from Bhatinda. Virender Yadav, who runs a small business that provides submersible water pump installation services in Delhi’s Bawana, said he rushed to the Rohtak bypass with his team of four on Tuesday to try his luck at getting a client or two. He wasn’t disappointed. “We just asked around and were commissioned to dig this one. Some others I know have dug around 10 to 12 of these. Till April, I’ve been told, the farmers want around 50 pump installations to be available to them,” he said. The one Mr. Yadav was asked to create will provide water to a dozen potable toilets, two adjacent bathing areas and replenish, multiple times a day, thousands of litres of RO-purified water for drinking and cooking. “Tell the government we aren’t going anywhere till our demands our met. We have enough provisions and now even water to last us till the next [Lok Sabha] elections in 2024. We have borne a winter on the streets and will bear a summer too,” said Rajpal Dhul Pai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/farmers-dig-to-get-own-water/article33866580.ece
18 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Traders ask police to open way for business||Days after locals from Singhu village gathered at the barricades installed by Delhi Police to meet senior officers, shopkeepers from Shiva Market also came together on Wednesday requesting a way to open their shops. With an application in their hand, the shopkeepers requested officers on duty to let them go and meet seniors. However, they were informed that the seniors were not available then. The shopkeepers mentioned that because the ongoing farmers’ protest, they’re incurring heavy losses and are unable to pay their rent. They sought help in opening the way so they can restart their business. Om Prakash (32), resident of Narela who runs a spare parts shop, said that before January 26, they were at least opening their shop and some of the customers were coming. However, after Republic Day violence, they have been forced to shut their shops. “All routes have been blocked by police. Two entry points which were open closed after January 29,” he said. Routes closed Shopkeepers said that they somehow manage to reach their shops to clean. However, it’s of no use as all the routes are closed and no one comes. “We go to clean the shop once in two-three days but we are incurring huge losses,” said Mr. Prakash who has a family of 10. Talking about the losses, Satnam (32), resident of Narela, said that they have to pay rent of Rs. 30,000-Rs. 50,000 a month, depending on space but aren’t able to earn anything. “Our landlord is not concerned that our shops are not opening. He is not waiving the rent. How will we survive?” he said. Satnam claimed to be taking care of eight members of his family. Shopkeepers also complained that goods worth thousands and lakhs in their shops are expiring or getting rotten. Some of them have had to take loan to manage their household expenses. “I have taken a loan of Rs. 1.5 lakh on 3% interest to take care of household expenses,” said Mr. Prakash. Shopkeepers said that they have been trying to reach police officers for 10 days in different police stations but have been coming to the Singhu border for two days but “no one is listening to us” they said. “All we want is the police to allow us and our customers to reach the shop,” said Mr. Satnam. Locals of Singhu village had gathered last week demanding barricades, installed at the entry point of their village, be removed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/traders-ask-police-to-open-way-for-business/article33866578.ece
18 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Farm law protester held for attacking policeman||Delhi Police has arrested a protester for allegedly attacking the Station House Officer (SHO) of Samaypur Badli police station during a chase after he stole a policeman’s car by threatening him with a sword near the Singhu border, said a senior police officer on Wednesday. The arrested man has been identified as Harpreet, a member of the Nihang community. He had been staying at the Singhu border protest site for several days, said the police. The police said that on Tuesday at around 8 p.m., the protester stole a car from a policeman and drove it towards Mukarba Chowk. The policeman alerted other officers about the incident. “After he was intercepted by a police van near Mukarba Chowk, he left the car at the spot and snatched a two-wheeler from a motorcyclist. A police team led by SHO Samaypur Badli Ashish Dubey managed to stop the accused,” added the officer. When policemen tried to catch him, he attacked them with a sword. The SHO received minor injures while trying to overpower the accused, said the officer. “The accused has been arrested under IPC sections related to robbery, attempt to murder and attacking an on-duty police officer. He has been sent to jail,” added the officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/farm-law-protester-held-for-attacking-policeman/article33866582.ece
18 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||My victory belongs to all who spoke up: Ramani||Following a Delhi court’s verdict acquitting her in a defamation case filed by former Union Minister M.J. Akbar, journalist Priya Ramani said she felt vindicated on behalf of all women who have ever spoken up against sexual harassment at the workplace. Speaking toThe Hindu, Ms. Ramani said: “This case was not about me, it was about what women face at the workplace. It feels amazing to have your truth validated in a court of law. My victory belongs to everyone who spoke up during the #MeToo movement.” Thanking the court for it’s verdict and lawyer Rebecca John and her team, Ms. Ramani said, “I thank my lawyers, Rebecca John and her team, who believed in me and in the wider cause. They put their heart and soul in this case. I thank everyone who stood by me especially Ghazala and Niloufer, the two women who came to court and testified on my behalf.” She said the verdict would inspire more women to speak up against sexual harassment at the workplace. “Sexual harassment at the workplace has got the attention it deserves, despite the fact that it was me, the victim, who had to stand up in court as the accused. I believe my victory will inspire more women to speak up about sexual harassment at the workplace. I also hope it will deter powerful men from attempting to intimidate victims by taking them to court in false cases,” said Ms. Ramani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/my-victory-belongs-to-all-who-spoke-up-ramani/article33866839.ece
18 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Police arrest man who swung swords at Red Fort||A man seen swinging two swords at the Red Fort rampart and allegedly attacking policemen on January 26 has been arrested, said a senior police officer on Wednesday. The officer said that Maninder Singh alias Moni, a resident of Swaroop Nagar, was the most wanted person in the case. He works as a car AC mechanic. “He was arrested on Tuesday night from Pitampura. Subsequently, two swords used at the Red Fort by the accused have been recovered from his house,” said DCP (Special Cell) Pramod Kushwah. The officer added that the accused was seen in a video swinging two swords at the Red Fort with intent to motivate/radicalise and energise the violent anti-national elements. The accused has disclosed to have been radicalised by watching provoking Facebook posts of various groups. He used to frequently visit the Singhu border and was influenced by the speeches made by leaders there, the police said. Before joining the rally, Maninder had kept two swords with him, said Mr. Kushwaha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/police-arrest-man-who-swung-swords-at-red-fort/article33866581.ece
18 February 2021||New Delhi,||Brief||Nursery admission to over 1,700 private, unaided, recognised schools of Delhi is set to commence from Thursday after being delayed by over two months due to the pandemic. Although schools are yet to open, the Delhi government had announced last week the criteria for schools to conduct the admission process. The last date to fill in applications is March 4.The first and second list will be released on March 20 and March 25, respectively with the DoE aiming to complete the entire process by March 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/brief/article33866838.ece
18 February 2021||Mumbai,||For how long will you collect toll on Mumbai-Pune Expressway, HC asks MSRDC||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday asked the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) for how long motorists would pay the toll on the Mumbai-Pune Expressway. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and G.S. Kulkarni was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) petition filed by advocate Pravin Wategaonkar and three others challenging the toll collection on the expressway. Mr. Wategaonkar said that the collection of toll had been illegal since August 10, 2019, and sought an exemption from payment for light motor vehicles till the matter was heard. The HC asked the advocate representing the MSRDC for how many more years would it continue to collect the toll? “Is the government receiving its share of toll revenue?,” the Bench asked. The MSRDC advocate requested the court to give time to file a detailed reply. The HC adjourned the hearing for two weeks. The PIL said, “The Motor Vehicles Tax allows the government to collect toll only to recover the capital cost plus toll collection expenses. However, the actual cumulative toll revenue data of the Mumbai-Pune Expressway for the last 15 years until July 31, 2019, is Rs. 6,773 crore, which is well in excess of Rs. 4,330 crore spent by the State government body. This reinforces the Comptroller and Auditor General assessment of irregularities in tendering.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/for-how-long-will-you-collect-toll-on-mumbai-pune-expressway-hc-asks-msrdc/article33866493.ece
18 February 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Alibaug court awards Nepali man life term for raping niece||Alibaug sessions court on Wednesday sentenced a Nepali man to life imprisonment  for abducting his niece from Nepal, bringing her to Raigad, and raping her. The convict, Prasade Manhare Kami (36), had abducted his 14-year-old niece from her school in Nepal on November 24, 2019. Kami came to Pune via bus and then boarded another bus to Murud and stayed in a hotel in Borli village. He also got a job in the kitchen of a hotel. Meanwhile, the victim’s father lodged a missing person’s complaint in Nepal  Kami was arrested on December 2, 2019. The victim was kept in a shelter home till her father reached and then she was produced before the Child Welfare Committee where she revealed that she was raped.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/alibaug-court-awards-nepali-man-life-term-for-raping-niece/article33866491.ece
18 February 2021||New Delhi,||Tablighi case: LOCs for 35 foreigners to be removed||Delhi Police on Wednesday ordered the removal of Look Out Circulars that had been issued against 35 foreign nationals in connection with the Tablighi Jamaat case. The Crime Branch was probing a case in which the foreign nationals, among others, had congregated at the Nizamuddin Markaz in March 2020 in violation of COVID-19 rules. The police had claimed that the event led to the spread of the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/tablighi-case-locs-for-35-foreigners-to-be-removed/article33866490.ece
18 February 2021||Pune,||Direct ACB to question Fadnavis in land grab case, activist urges court||City-based advocate Asim Sarode, on behalf of anti-corruption activist Anjali Damania, has submitted a note of argument in a special court seeking a direction to the Maharashtra Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) to question former Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis in connection with a case of alleged land grab involving former Revenue Minister Eknath Khadse. Ms. Damania has alleged in her submission before Judge S.R. Navandar as to whether Mr. Fadnavis, currently the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Leader of Opposition, had allegedly erased vital evidence of the minutes of a meeting chaired by Mr. Khadse, who was the then State Revenue Minister, in a bid to shield him. She has further urged the court to direct the ACB to record statements of Mr. Khadse and his kin, as well as those of IAS officers concerned who served in the Forest and Revenue Departments when Mr. Khadse was the minister. “Were minutes of a meeting chaired by Mr. Khadse erased [allegedly on Mr. Fadnavis’ orders]? Was this done to protect a party member and shield him from corruption charges?” Ms. Damania said in her submission. Mr. Sarode said that the whole process of the investigation conducted by the ACB was shoddy and as a result, its closure report was questionable. “They have not bothered to follow the money and attempt to trace who deposited large sums of money in the accounts of Mr. Khadse, his wife Mandakini Khadse, and their son-in-law Girish Dayaram Chaudhary,” Mr. Sarode told The Hindu . Judge Navandar has posted his decision on Ms. Damania’s submission for February 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/direct-acb-to-question-fadnavis-in-land-grab-case-activist-urges-court/article33866492.ece
18 February 2021||Washington,||Trump urges Republicans to dump Senate leader McConnell||Donald Trump urged Republican Senators on Tuesday to dump Mitch McConnell as their leader in the Senate following his criticism of the former U.S. President after his impeachment trial. Mr. Trump also claimed credit for some Republican gains in the November 3 election and threatened to use his influence against party candidates who don’t align with him. “The Republican Party can never again be respected or strong with political ‘leaders’ like Senator Mitch McConnell at its helm,” Mr. Trump said in a statement. “Mitch is a dour, sullen, and unsmiling political hack, and if Republican Senators are going to stay with him, they will not win again.”- Trump regrets support The attack came after Mr. McConnell said on Saturday that even though he had voted to acquit Mr. Trump at his impeachment trial, the former President was nevertheless “practically and morally responsible” for the January 6 storming of the U.S. Capitol. Mr. McConnell excoriated Mr. Trump for the attack that saw five people die and the halls of the U.S. legislature ransacked by his supporters. He called Mr. Trump’s actions leading up to the siege, including a White House rally where the then-President urged followers to descend on Congress, “a disgraceful dereliction of duty.” “These criminals were carrying his banners. Hanging his flags. And screaming their loyalty to him,” Mr. McConnell said. But Mr. Trump blamed the wily veteran lawmaker, who for four years as majority leader kept the Senate aligned with the Republican President, for losing party control of the body. He claimed credit for Mr. McConnell’s own win of another six-year term representing Kentucky in the Senate. “My only regret is that McConnell ‘begged’ for my strong support and endorsement before the great people of Kentucky in the 2020 election, and I gave it to him,” Mr. Trump said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-urges-republicans-to-dump-senate-leader-mcconnell/article33866213.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,||‘U.S. will pay over $200 million to WHO’||U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken announced that his country would pay the World Health Organization (WHO) $200 million by the end of this month. The announcement is significant as former U.S. President Donald Trump had begun the process of withdrawing the U.S. from the WHO, a process stopped by his successor, President Joe Biden. “Today, I’m pleased to confirm that by the end of the month, the United States intends to pay over 200 million in assessed and current obligations to the WHO,” Mr. Blinken told Foreign Ministers of UN Security Council member countries, at an online meeting to discuss the response to the pandemic. External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar was also part of the meeting. “This is a key step forward in fulfilling our financial obligations as a WHO member and it reflects our renewed commitment to ensuring the WHO has the support it needs to lead the global response to the pandemic — even as we work to reform it for the future,” Mr. Blinken said. The U.S. is the largest funder of the WHO, contributing more than 15% of its total funds. Mr. Trump had pulled the U.S. out of the WHO, which he had called a ‘puppet of China’’. This process would have been complete in mid-2021, but Mr. Biden reversed it hours after assuming office last month. “The U.S. believes that multilateralism, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, are essential not just as an effective international COVID-19 health and humanitarian response but also building stronger global health capacity and security for the future,” Mr. Blinken told his counterparts on Wednesday. “We plan to provide significant financial support to COVAX through Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance. And we’ll work to strengthen other multilateral initiatives involved in the global COVID-19 response — for example, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations and the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria,” Mr. Blinken said. The Secretary also said all countries must be held to their human rights obligations. “No country should be allowed to use COVID-19 as an excuse to violate human rights or fundamental freedoms.” On China In what were presumably veiled references to China, Mr. Blinken called for transparency on outbreak data, saying countries should participate in “transparent and robust processes” in their prevention and response to health emergencies. “The ongoing expert investigation about the origins of this pandemic — and the report that will be issued — must be independent, with findings based on science and facts and free from interference,” he said. Last week, a team of experts for the WHO had concluded a trip to China to trace the origins of the coronavirus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-will-pay-over-200-million-to-who/article33866771.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,||China blocked Ma’s IPO over ‘political links’||China’s President Xi Jinping pushed for blocking what would have been a record-breaking initial public offering (IPO) for billionaire Jack Ma’s Ant Group last year because of Communist Party-linked “political families” who stood to gain billions of dollars through opaque investment vehicles, according to a new report. Investment companies linked to the grandson of former President Jiang Zemin and the son-in-law of former Politburo Standing Committee member Jia Qinglin stood to profit from the IPO, the Wall Street Journal reported on Wednesday, with their ownership in the Ant Group, the financial payments arm of Mr. Ma’s Alibaba empire, held through “layers of opaque investment vehicles that own stakes in the firm”. The report described them as “a coterie of well-connected Chinese power players, including some with links to political families that represent a potential challenge to President Xi and his inner circle.” Among them is Boyu Capital, a private-equity firm founded by Mr. Jiang’s grandson, Jiang Zhicheng. Another is Li Botan, who controls the Beijing Zhaode Group, that has invested in Ant through three layers of investment vehicles, the report said. Mr. Li is the son-in-law of Jia Qinglin, a senior leader who served on the top Politburo Standing Committee for ten years until 2012 and is close to Mr. Jiang. Anti-graft campaign Mr. Xi has, since taking over in November 2012, put in place a sweeping anti-corruption campaign that has snared hundreds of senior officials. With many “Red families” leveraging their connections to acquire stakes worth billions of dollars in China’s biggest companies, Mr. Xi has called on officials “to build a fence against special privileges to prevent themselves and those around them from abusing power”, viewing it as a threat to the party’s legitimacy. The investment vehicles tied to party-linked families, according to the Journal , added to other concerns the leadership had about the Ant Group IPO. The suspension of the $35 billion IPO of the Ant Group, which is Alibaba’s financial arm and behind Alipay, a digital payments company, triggered intense speculation about the fate of Mr. Ma, but subsequent reports have said he is working with regulators to address their concerns. In December, the State Administration for Market Regulation (SAMR) said it had launched a probe into Alibaba’s “suspected monopolistic acts” including “forcing merchants to choose one platform between two competitors”. Financial risks were cited as one concern, with the group emerging as a lender to millions of small businesses, and operating, like other fintech companies, without some of the capital requirements that apply to banks. Ant’s access to troves of consumer credit data was also under the lens. The People’s Bank of China said it was, along with the banking and insurance regulator and the securities regulator, holding talks with the Ant Group aimed at “implementing financial regulatory requirements, holding onto fair competition...” Reports earlier this month said regulators and the group were close to agreeing a restructuring plan, which would put all of Ant’s businesses into a financial holding company and subject it to requirements that apply to banks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-blocked-mas-ipo-over-political-links/article33866214.ece
18 February 2021||Colombo,||Sri Lanka cancels Pakistan PM’s address to Parliament||In what appears to be a last-minute decision ahead of Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s coming visit to Sri Lanka, Colombo has cancelled his Parliament address scheduled next week, sparking speculation in political and diplomatic circles in the capital. Government officials have cited “COVID-19 constraints” as reason for the decision, while a Parliament spokesman attributed it to “scheduling issues”, even as a note issued by the Department of Government Information — dated February 16, 2021 — to media institutions listed PM Khan's “arrival at Parliament” as part of his schedule on February 24, along with a ‘Trade and Investment Conference’, and the inauguration of a Sports Institute. The Pakistani Prime Minister, who is the first Head of Government to visit Sri Lanka after the pandemic hit the world last year, is scheduled to arrive on February 23. When contacted, a spokesperson at the Pakistani High Commission in Colombo told The Hindu : “The PM’s address in [Sri Lankan] Parliament was not confirmed in the first place, it was being discussed.” However, Sri Lanka’s Speaker Mahinda Yapa Abeywardena had told a party leaders’ meeting earlier this month that Mr. Khan would be addressing the House. The matter was included in the minutes of that meeting, sources present said. Colombo’s revision of the visiting leader’s itinerary has raised questions for obvious reasons. Emerging questions It comes barely a week before Sri Lanka faces a likely contested resolution at the United Nations Human Rights Council in Geneva, in which Pakistan is currently a member. The cancellation is also being viewed in the context of Sri Lankan Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa’s assurance to Parliament on February 10 that burial of COVID-19 victims would be allowed, amid a persisting campaign from Sri Lanka’s Muslim community, seeking burial rights. Mr. Khan had welcomed Mr. Rajapaksa’s statement in a tweet soon after. “We welcome Sri Lankan PM Mahinda Rajapaksa’s assurance given in Sri Lankan Parliament today allowing Muslims to bury those who died from COVID-19,” he said. But a week since, the government is yet to reverse its highly contested policy of enforcing cremations for COVID-19 victims, being followed despite the WHO clearing both burial and cremation. Cabinet spokesman Udaya Gammanpila told the weekly media conference on Tuesday that there was no change in the existing policy. Mr. Rajapaksa had only expressed his “personal view” in Parliament, the spokesman said, adding neither the Prime Minister nor the Cabinet had the power to reverse the policy, that an “experts’ committee” under the Ministry of Health is said to be reviewing. ‘Lack of maturity’ “Our government embarrassed our own Prime Minister first. Now they are embarrassing the Prime Minister of another country visiting us, this is pathetic,” said Rauf Hakeem, Opposition parliamentarian and Leader of the Sri Lanka Muslim Congress. “They [government] are going back on their own positions and statements repeatedly, like they did with the assurance on burials. This sort of blowing hot and cold, especially in diplomacy, reflects a lack of maturity and could impact our relations with our long-term friends and partners,” he told The Hindu . Meanwhile, New Delhi is following Mr. Khan’s visit with interest, diplomatic sources indicated, referring to the two countries’ conflicting position on Kashmir. Sri Lanka, which has maintained close ties with both India and Pakistan, has rarely commented on the issue. The last foreign leader to address Sri Lankan Parliament was Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2015.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-cancels-pakistan-pms-address-to-parliament/article33866211.ece
18 February 2021||Islamabad,||‘Pak. to remain in FATF grey list until June’||Pakistan is unlikely to exit the Financial Action Task Force’s (FATF) ‘grey’ list until June, despite its efforts to garner support from the member nations ahead of the plenary meeting of the global terror financing and money laundering watchdog next week, according to a media report on Wednesday. The FATF’s Plenary and Working Group meetings, scheduled to be held from February 21 to 26 in Paris, is all set to decide on Pakistan’s grey list status. Pakistan was placed on the ‘grey’ list in June 2018 and given a timeline to implement 27 action points. According to a report in The Express Tribune newspaper, officials admitted that Pakistan would remain in the ‘grey’ list at least until June.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pak-to-remain-in-fatf-grey-list-until-june/article33866208.ece
18 February 2021||COLOMBO,||Sri Lanka to ‘re-acquire’ key oil tanks||Sri Lanka will “re-acquire” the World War-era oil tanks in the eastern city of Trincomalee that were leased out to an Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) subsidiary in 2003, Sri Lanka’s Minister of Energy Udaya Gammanpila has said. The Minister was speaking at an event held in Colombo, when he referred to a recent discussion with the Indian High Commissioner to Sri Lanka. India has agreed to “leave aside” the terms negotiated by the former Maithripala Sirisena-Ranil Wickremesinghe government in 2017, media reports quoted him as saying. In 2003, Sri Lanka leased out the oil tank farm to India, for the upgradation and commissioning of 99 tanks in it for a 35-year period. The project did not proceed as was envisaged. Over a decade later, the two countries renewed discussions during PM Narendra Modi’s visit to Sri Lanka in 2015 and got closer to a “roadmap” in 2017, that included a joint venture to execute the project, but could not finalise the deal amid protests from oil workers unions. Minister Gammanpila indicated that discussions had recommenced, on new terms that included retrieving tanks that remain under lease, but mostly unused. The harbour in Trincomalee is considered one of the finest deep-sea, natural harbours, in a strategically coveted spot, on Sri Lanka’s north-eastern coast. A spokesman of the Indian High Commission said that India and Sri Lanka have identified energy partnership as one of the “priority dimensions” of their ties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-to-re-acquire-trincomalee-oil-tanks/article33866209.ece
18 February 2021||London,||EU--Britain-Prince Philip||Britain’s 99-year-old Prince Philip has been admitted to a London hospital after feeling unwell, the Buckingham Palace said on Wednesday. The palace called it “a precautionary measure” and said he will remain in the hospital for a few days for “observation and rest.”AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/eu-britain-prince-philip/article33866206.ece
18 February 2021||Tehran,||Iran says ready for talks with UN nuclear watchdog chief||President Hassan Rouhani said on Wednesday that Iran is ready to hold talks with the UN nuclear watchdog chief. International Atomic Energy Agency Director General Rafael Grossi is scheduled to “travel to Tehran on Saturday for technical discussions on how to continue cooperation in the light of new arrangements”.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iran-says-ready-for-talks-with-un-nuclear-watchdog-chief/article33866207.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,||The poor state of the Indian state||Two new books reveal stark weaknesses of the Indian state in serving India’s poorer citizens. The first, Locking Down the Poor: The Pandemic and India’s Moral Centre by Harsh Mander, records the plight of millions who lost incomes and shelter, and food and medical care too, in a harsh lockdown to create a sanitised cordon for better-off Indians during the pandemic. “Every system is perfectly designed to produce the results it is presently producing”, said Donella Meadows, a doyen of systems thinking. The second, Despite the State: Why India Lets Its People Down and How They Cope by M. Rajshekhar, is an incisive examination of the systems of the Indian state before the lockdown. These books explain how the weakness of the Indian state to care for its poorer citizens is not a failure of the present National Democratic Alliance government only, nor of the previous United Progressive Alliance government. The weakness is systemic. The pillars needed Strong states, according to political and social historians, are founded on three pillars. They are built with support from the people; they have a strong administrative machinery to provide stability and deliver public services, and they have the managerial ability to shape and implement change. Strong support of the people is essential. Mere election by a majority is not sufficient. Historically, as Francis Fukuyama points out in The Origins of Political Order , builders of strong states have bound people around a shared identity: ethnic, racial, or religious; Aryan, Han Chinese, Japanese, Muslim, Catholic Christian. The peoples’ identity is not formed by legal constitutions. Strong leaders who unite people around their shared identity are even given liberty by the people to change constitutional structures because they trust their leaders do it for the sake of citizens. Thus, dictators emerge loved by the people. Confirming this thesis, Michael Cook points out, in Ancient Religions, Modern Politics , that builders of the Indian state have a difficult problem. It is hard to unite Indians around a shared ethnic or religious identity because, in addition to the diversity among India’s races and religions, there are entrenched caste divisions even within the Hindu religion of the majority. If Indians must be united to support a strong state, it must be around a modern, inclusive idea of India, as the Constitution imagined. The present ruling dispensation, while trying to force a majoritarian identity, is dividing Indians and weakening the state. Indian bureaucracy’s role Fukuyama and other historians have highlighted the role that professional civil services have played in the formation of strong states, in Han China, the Ottoman empire, France, and Japan. India inherited the ‘iron frame’ of civil services from Britain. It was designed to provide stability and compliance with rules: it was not equipped to shape change, the third requirement of a good developmental state. Therefore, there are demands for its reform. Even the Prime Minister has complained that bureaucrats seem not to care for the country’s progress as much as entrepreneurs do. Simultaneous management of both change and stability is necessary for the evolution of good states and societies. Unmanaged change can cause chaos, while too little change entrenches the established system. This was the essence of the ‘great debate’ in the 18th century between Edmund Burke, the leader of the conservative movement in Britain, and Thomas Paine, a thought leader of the French and American revolutions. It was also the ‘birth of Right and Left’ in politics, according to Yuval Levin in his eponymous book, The Great Debate . The great debate, about stability versus change for good governance, evolved into new arguments in the 20th century: capitalism versus socialism; and markets versus governments. By the end of the century, capitalism and markets were positioned in the public imagination as the prime movers of economic growth, and socialists and governments as retarders of progress. Capitalists took on the mantle of ‘wealth creators’, relegating governments to the role of ‘redistributors’. A popular slogan that wealth must be created before it can be redistributed leads to the conclusion that there should be less government when countries are poor, and more freedom for large, private, wealth creators. Moreover, with the logic that governments are stodgy, even public services such as health and education are handed over to private enterprises. The logic of economics is not the same as the logic of society. Mancur Olson, author of Power and Prosperity: Outgrowing Communist and Capitalist Dictatorships , says that privatisation of government fits with ‘efforts of economists to extend their model of rational, utility-maximizing behavior into the political realm and to see politics as nothing more than an extension of economics’. The ideology of private is good and public is bad requires that public servants should think like private sector managers — committed to growing the pie — and not think like socialists concerned about the condition of the people who are waiting for wealth to trickle down to them. To assist them, consultants from the private sector are brought inside government to help the state run more like a business corporation. Where the focus should be Private corporations are not states designed for citizens. CEOs are not elected by employees, and they have the authority to hire and fire workers. Whereas leaders (even unelected ones) of states cannot lay off citizens to trim populations to fit the size of economies. The state must perform primarily for its poorest citizens for economic growth to be equitable and sustainable, and not for investors in corporations. Leaders of states must ensure that all citizens have opportunities to work and earn. They must also ensure that all citizens, even those who cannot afford it, have good health and education. The ideology of private rather than public has moral consequences. The purposes of a private enterprise and the state are different. Private sector managers move from one competitor to another, like professional mercenaries, serving the interests of owners of corporations wherever in the world they may be. Whereas public servants, whose mission is to build their nations and states, are expected to devote their lives to the care of citizens in their own countries. GDP cannot be the scorecard The pandemic has revealed the chronic inability of the Indian state to take care of its poorest citizens. The scorecard for the nation cannot be its GDP. Economic justice, environmental sustainability, and improvement of the dignity of all citizens must be measured too, and these must improve much faster. The present ‘top up the top’ model of India’s economic growth, with hopes of trickle down, is not delivering these. India must build a strong and good state. This requires: political leaders who can unite all Indians into one India, whatever their religion, race, or caste; cadres of good public managers to build and run services for all citizens equitably; and business leaders who are not just wealth creators for themselves (distributing some of it in philanthropy), but creators of opportunities, very soon, for millions of Indians to earn and create wealth for themselves too. Political leaders, administrators, and business leaders must work together, with a shared vision, to build an Indian state that is good for all citizens, especially the poorest. Time is running out. Arun Maira is a former Member, Planning Commission||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-poor-state-of-the-indian-state/article33866192.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Redefining the exit plan for COVID-19||After reeling under the onslaught of the COVID-19 pandemic for over a year, the world is now waiting for some respite. “How is the pandemic going to end?” is the question on everyone’s mind. But the end to the pandemic will not be instantaneous, like an absolute full stop to the replication of the virus. In fact, there may not be an end to the virus at all. The virus is evolving to cohabit with humans, and this can include a range of possibilities, from the virus becoming less lethal, more infectious to it becoming virulent. Nonetheless, the SARS-CoV-2 virus is likely to remain alive and around. There has been a reduction in the incidence, severity, and mortality related to COVID-19 locally in some countries, including India, which meets the definition of what is termed as “control”, by Walter R. Dowdle, a former deputy director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). However, while the world is trying to come to terms with cohabiting with the virus, a recent article published in The Lancet and some well-intentioned experts are pushing the envelope by advocating an “elimination strategy”, otherwise known as the zero-COVID-19 strategy, wherein replication of the virus is reduced to a bare minimum and no new cases occur in a defined geographical area. The strategy has three elements — rapid reduction in the number of infections to zero, creation of virus-free green zones, and prompt outbreak management when new cases occur occasionally. Rich countries have found a shortcut for the elimination strategy — to vaccinate every citizen in the country. The plan is well-suited for geographically isolated countries that can afford strict border control measures, such as New Zealand. Even there, the goal of zero COVID-19 cases is elusive since the virus continues to be in circulation in other countries.Firstly, the risk of infection from elsewhere, and thus outbreaks, would always be imminent. Secondly, there has to be universal coverage of vaccines with consistent upgrades, as the pace of vaccine development may not match the new variants’ emergence. Thirdly, a zero-COVID-19 strategy will worsen global health inequities by creating green zones of free travel among richer countries, thus alienating poorer nations. Experience with other diseases A quick look at the gains in eliminating other diseases does not offer an optimistic scope for COVID-19. Even though elimination programmes for measles and neonatal tetanus have been ongoing for more than 20 years now, the goals have not been completely realised. Polio, eradicated from southeast Asia, is still endemic in Afghanistan and Pakistan. Maternal and neonatal tetanus, which has an 80% to 100% case fatality rate, caused deaths of nearly 25,000 newborns in 2018. Despite the global efforts to vaccinate children over the last few decades, these preventable diseases still remain major public health challenges in the developing world. So far, there is no empirical evidence to suggest how eliminating the SARS-CoV-2 virus is feasible in the near term. Nearly 90% of 100 immunologists surveyed by the science journal Nature think that the virus will become endemic, i.e., some regions will see a constant presence of COVID-19. The level of endemicity depends on how the world reduces inequities of all kinds, including access to vaccines, and how well public health measures, such as containment, are followed. We need pragmatic measures for the realistic goal of saving lives. This calls for ensuring that disease control measures are implemented globally and ramping up vaccine coverage for vulnerable people. In addition to meticulous review at the country and regional level, vaccine coverage for the vulnerable population across the globe is an immediate necessity. The world needs to increase the current pace of vaccination 4.3 times by vaccinating 6.4 million persons per day, compared to the current rate of 1.46 million per day, to cover just 30% of the vulnerable population with a single dose in a year.  If there is a clear resolve, this is feasible. This needs to be enabled by mapping the elderly and persons with comorbidities on a priority basis and vaccinating them. So long as disease control is neglected in even a few parts of the world, every other part is at risk of importing infections due to free travel. Without these necessary life-saving measures in every country, the developed world, too, is not immune. Instead of isolated strategies for a few countries, what is needed is a global leadership and resources to vaccinate the vulnerable population and strengthen epidemiological and genomic surveillance for COVID-19. The COVID-19 pandemic has exposed the flaws in our preparedness and inefficient public health systems that lead to disproportionately high morbidity and mortality among the poor and the vulnerable. The pandemic has also reversed the gains made in programmes like tuberculosis control, caused economic hardships, worsened inequalities, and pushed the poor towards the brink of catastrophe. We cannot let our focused efforts against COVID-19 ruin the progress made in other disease control programmes and our commitment to Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). It is also essential to resume pursuing the agenda of Universal Health Coverage (UHC). A recalibrated strategy Global elimination of COVID-19 in the immediate term is a tricky goal — the zero-COVID-19 strategy comes with zero evidence of feasibility, seeks luxury that few countries can afford, does not reflect field realities, and, if adopted, may result in diverting most of our attention, funds, and time. Excessive focus on one virus in select countries will only worsen the poor global preparedness to fight other pandemics in future or tackle the devastating burden of non-communicable diseases. For global health, every idea must be assessed based on its merit while ensuring that there is maximisation of benefits for people across the world. At this stage of the pandemic, the goal of elimination will divert focus and steer the world in a different direction altogether. A pragmatic goal of controlling COVID-19, not elimination, combined with a renewed emphasis on UHC can restore and rejuvenate an ailing healthcare system and bolster our progress towards realistic goals. Giridhara R. Babu is Professor and head, Lifecourse Epidemiology, at the Indian Institute of Public Health, PHFI, Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/redefining-the-exit-plan-for-covid-19/article33866204.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Hitting the right notes with the health budget||Health care has taken centre stage due to an unfortunate novel coronavirus pandemic that has devastated lives and livelihoods across the globe. Although India has performed relatively better in its COVID-19 management, even compared to countries with highly developed health systems, the impact of the outbreak on society and the economy is undeniable. Against this backdrop, the Union Budget 2021–22 was an eagerly awaited one and the announcements for the health sector, in particular, have been widely discussed. Context of packages It is important to view the Budget in the context of the various Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan packages announced by the Government of India, which also include several short-term and longer-term measures to strengthen the health sector. Production-Linked Incentive schemes have been announced to boost domestic manufacture of pharmaceuticals and medical devices. Mission COVID Suraksha has also been launched to promote the development and testing of indigenous vaccine candidates. At least 92 countries have approached India for a COVID-19 vaccine, thus bolstering the country’s credentials as the vaccine hub of the world. Further, to ensure food and nutrition security for the poor and the vulnerable during the COVID-19 crisis, the Government of India launched the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package for providing free foodgrains to 800 million beneficiaries. To facilitate access to subsidised grains across the country, the ‘One Nation One Ration Card’ scheme has been enabled in 32 States/Union Territories covering 690 million beneficiaries. With respect to the “padding” of the health Budget, with allocations for water, sanitation, nutrition and clean air, as pointed out by some commentators, it is important to appreciate that the presentation of a combined ‘health and well-being’ budget, which sets the tone for greater integration of these areas, is in fact a welcome step. The National Health Policy (NHP), 2017, highlights the close links between health, water and sanitation. This year’s Economic Survey too recognises that improvements in access to bare necessities such as water, sanitation and housing are strongly correlated with progress in health indicators. Good water, vaccine coverage The substantive allocation for the newly launched Jal Jeevan Mission (Urban) is especially commendable as access to adequate, good quality water supply has major positive externalities for the health sector. A report released by the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health in 2019 suggested that nearly one out of every 100 Indian children does not live to celebrate their fifth birthday on account of either diarrhoea or pneumonia. Suboptimal access to clean water and sanitation is directly linked to diseases such as diarrhoea, polio and malaria. Moreover, water contaminated with heavy metals such as arsenic increases the risk of developing heart ailments and cancer. Another important public health-related announcement in Budget 2021 was the government’s decision to expand the coverage of the pneumococcal vaccine across the country. Pneumococcal pneumonia is a major killer of children under the age of five years. Once universalised, this indigenously developed vaccine could save up to 50,000 lives annually. The Finance Minister has also made a special allocation of Rs. 35,000 crore for the COVID-19 vaccine in 2021–22, which could be increased if required. India has already delivered over eight million doses of the vaccine to health-care and frontline workers thus far — the fastest vaccination drive in the world. The priority accorded to capital expenditure through the launch of the Pradhan Mantri – Atmanirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana (PMANSBY), is also a much-need step. Capital expenditure has, historically, constituted only a small percentage of the overall health Budget, with the majority of funds going towards salaries and administrative costs. Further, PMANSBY lays emphasis on the health system being strengthened at all levels, including establishing integrated public health laboratories and institutes of virology. This is crucial as experts have repeatedly highlighted the need for enhancing disease surveillance and diagnostic capabilities to be better prepared for disease outbreaks. Additionally, the emphasis on expansion of health and wellness centres under PMANSBY, together with a Rs. 13,192 crore Finance Commission grant for strengthening the primary health system through local government bodies, is also noteworthy. Another point of discussion in relation to the health Budget is the stagnant allocation for the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PM-JAY), a flagship scheme launched by the government in late 2018 as part of the Ayushman Bharat initiative. Despite being a relatively new scheme, the Economic Survey estimates a 20% decline in the infant mortality rate between 2015–16 and 2019–20 in States that adopted PM-JAY, compared to a 12% decline in States that did not. It is important, therefore, to persist with this highly ambitious scheme and accelerate its roll-out as the absorptive and governance capacity of States improve. Promoting ayurveda A less talked about aspect of the health Budget is the nearly 40% hike for the Ministry of Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy (AYUSH). The pandemic has catalysed a behavioural shift in favour of preventive care, holistic health and wellness. There is considerable potential for promoting ayurveda and yoga as well as integrative health-care approaches in the post-COVID-19 scenario, especially for stress reduction and the management of chronic diseases. States must act too Undoubtedly the budgetary allocation for health needs to be ramped up over time. We also have to ensure adequate funds for critical and closely-linked sectors such as nutrition, water and sanitation. The onus of increasing health spending, however, does not lie with the Centre alone but also with the States also. In fact, as elucidated in the National Health Accounts 2017, 66% of spending on health care in India is done by States. It is imperative, therefore, that States increase expenditure on health to at least 8% of their budget by 2022 as recommended by the National Health Policy (NHP), 2017 and the Fifteenth Finance Commission. The health sector has found a prominent place in the government’s agenda over the last few years, with the implementation of a series of well-thought-out and carefully sequenced reforms. While much remains to be done, the Union Budget 2021–22 has laid a strong foundation to increase the resilience of the sector in the post-COVID-19 era and achieving Universal Health Coverage by 2030 as part of the Sustainable Development Goals agenda. Rajiv Kumar is Vice Chairman, NITI Aayog and Urvashi Prasad is Public Policy Specialist, NITI Aayog. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/hitting-the-right-notes-with-the-health-budget/article33866195.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Money vs. happiness||The question whether the rich are more satisfied with their lives is often taken for granted, even though surveys, like the Gallup World Poll, show that the relationship between subjective well-being and income is often weak, except in low-income countries in Africa and South Asia. Researcher Daniel Kahneman and his collaborators, for example, report that the correlation between household income and reported life satisfaction or happiness with life typically ranges from 0.15 to 0.30. There are a few plausible reasons. First, growth in income mostly has a transitory effect on individuals’ reported life satisfaction, as they adapt to material goods. Second, relative income, rather than the level of income, affects well-being — earning more or less than others looms larger than how much one earns. Third, though average life satisfaction in countries tends to rise with GDP per capita at low levels of income, there is little increase in life satisfaction once GDP per capita exceeds $10,000 (in purchasing power parity). This article studies the relationships between subjective well-being, which is narrowly defined to focus on economic well-being in India, and variants of income, based on the only panel survey in India Human Development Survey (IHDS). Why do we need a new measure of well-being when there is already a widely used, objective welfare measure based on per capita income? There are several reasons. The first stems from the distinction between decision utility and experienced utility. In the standard approach to measure well-being, ordinal preferences are inferred from the observations of decisions made supposedly by rational (utility maximising) agents. The object derived is decision utility. In contrast, recent advances in psychology, sociology, behavioural economics and happiness economics suggest that decision utility is unlikely to illuminate the utility associated with different experiences — hence the emphasis on measures that focus more directly on experienced utility, notably using subjective well-being (SWB) responses. We draw upon the two rounds of the IHDS for 2005 and 2012. An important feature of IHDS is that it collected data on SWB. The question asked was: compared to seven years ago, would you say your household is economically doing the same, better or worse today? So, the focus of this SWB is narrow. But as it is based on self-reports, it connotes a broader view that is influenced by several factors other than income, assets, and employment, like age, health, caste, etc. There is a positive relationship between SWB and per capita expenditure (a proxy for per capita income, which is frequently underestimated and underreported): the higher the expenditure in 2005, the greater was the SWB in 2012. The priority of expenditure, in time, rules out reverse causation from high SWB to high expenditure, i.e., higher well-being could also be associated with better performance resulting in higher expenditure. High expenditure is associated with a decent standard of living, good schooling of children, and financial security. As India’s comparable GDP per capita in 2003 (PPP) was $2,270, well below the threshold of $10,000, it is consistent with extant evidence. Aspirations and achievements In order to capture the gap between aspirations and achievements, we have analysed the relationship between SWB and ratio of per capita expenditure of a household to the highest per capita expenditure in the primary sampling unit. Although this is a crude approximation to relative deprivation, we get a negative relationship between SWB and this ratio. In other words, the larger the gap, the greater is the sense of resentment and frustration, and the lower is the SWB. The larger the proportionate increase in per capita expenditure between 2005 and 2012, the greater is the SWB. To illustrate this, we construct three terciles of expenditure in 2005: the first representing extremely poor, the second the middle class, and the third the rich. If the proportionate increase in per capita expenditure is highest among the extremely poor and lowest among the rich, the higher will be the SWB of the extremely poor. This is indeed the case. This provides important policy insights. One is that in a lower-middle-income country like India, growth of expenditure or income is significant. However, the widening of the gap between aspirations and achievements or between the highest expenditure/income of a reference group and actual expenditure/income of a household reflects resentment, frustration and loss of subjective well-being. So, taxing the rich and enabling the extremely poor to benefit more from economic opportunities can enhance well-being. In conclusion, objective welfare and subjective well-being measures together are far more useful than either on its own. Veena S. Kulkarni teaches Sociology at Arkansas State University and is a co-author for this article. Raghav Gaiha is Research Affiliate, Population Studies Centre, University of Pennsylvania; Vani S. Kulkarni teaches Sociology at University of Pennsylvania||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/money-vs-happiness/article33866200.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,||A growing rights crisis in Lanka||Indian leaders have committed to supporting the rights of minority Tamils in Sri Lanka to “live with equity, equality, justice, peace and dignity”. In pledges to the United Nations, the Indian government has also vowed to uphold global human rights. These commitments have become crucial. The human rights situation in Sri Lanka has worsened since Gotabaya Rajapaksa became President in 2019. At its next session starting February 22, the UN Human Rights Council(UNHRC)will face a crucial test in taking action for protecting vulnerable Sri Lankans and upholding international law. India, as a council member, will have a key role. Rajapaksa was the defence secretary in the government led by his brother Mahinda from 2005 to 2015, a period marked by particularly egregious human rights abuses. Critics of the government were murdered, tortured, and forcibly made to disappear. Tens of thousands of civilians were killed in the civil war which ended in 2009 between government forces and the separatist Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE), with both sides responsible for numerous war crimes. In the final months of the war, the armed forces indiscriminately shelled civilians and summarily executed suspected LTTE fighters.  Renewed fears When Mahinda Rajapaksa lost the 2015 presidential election, there was hope for change. There was greater freedom of expression. The repressive and heavily militarised situation in Tamil-majority areas began to improve. The new government supported a consensus resolution at the Human Rights Council that offered victims of abuses and their families truth, justice, and reconciliation. But now, fear has returned. Tamil communities in the north and the east fear increasing abuses. Since last year, singing the national anthem in Tamil has been dropped from Independence Day celebrations . The religious rights of minorities are under attack, including interference with Hindu temples. In January, the authorities bulldozed a memorial at Jaffna university that commemorated Tamil civilian victims of the civil war. People who participated in a protest march in February are now facing criminal investigation. The Rajapaksa government, in 2020,  renounced its commitments under the 2015 Human Rights Council resolution and is threatening victims’ families and activists who supported it. A presidential commission set up to investigate supposed “political victimisation” of officials by the previous government has recommended the exoneration of those implicated in cases of abuse. Numerous people who were involved in war crimes have been appointed to senior roles. Loss of accountability The Rajapaksa government has shown outright disdain for accountability. In September last year, Sri Lanka told the Human Rights Council that allegations against senior military officers are “unacceptable” and without “substantive evidence”. Last March, Rajapaksa pardoned former army sergeant Sunil Ratnayake, who killed eight Tamil civilians, including children. In October, the government amended the Constitution to remove constraints on political interference in Sri Lanka’s courts. Since 2012, the Human Rights Council has sought to work with Sri Lanka to promote reconciliation and accountability, efforts that India has backed. Sri Lanka is now rejecting that endeavour, instead proposing a new domestic commission that UN experts have dismissed as lacking credibility or independence. The UNHRC should recognise the government’s actions for what they are — an effort to impede justice. A new resolution is urgently needed to protect vulnerable minority communities in Sri Lanka, by upholding the principle of accountability for the worst crimes. India should join other member states in supporting a resolution to reduce the growing risk of future atrocities. The author is South Asia director at Human Rights Watch||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-growing-rights-crisis-in-lanka/article33866201.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Slow on safety||India’s Road Safety Month, launched on January 18 as an extended form of the annual Road Safety Week for greater impact, has concluded with a bus accident in Madhya Pradesh that has claimed 51 lives. The victims, including many young people reportedly travelling to Satna and Rewa to take a government recruitment examination, were trapped within the bus as it plunged into a swollen canal. One of many ghastly mishaps that have occurred after the COVID-19 lockdown, it lends grist to the view that the country, with the world’s worst record on road safety, cannot get its act together any time soon. India has, according to the just-released World Bank-commissioned report, Traffic Crash Injuries and Disabilities, 1% of the world’s vehicles but 11% of all road accident deaths; the Union Transport Ministry put the number of dead in 2019 at 1,51,113, and injured at 4,51,361. Those who suffer the most are from low income households, especially in rural areas, and women bear the long-term financial and psychological impact of the losses more. Such a cringeworthy performance, affecting the fundamental right to life of the average citizen, should have led to intensive measures and a determined campaign to end the carnage, but the Centre and the States are evidently prepared to take only incremental steps. In the wake of this bus mishap, the immediate response has been to order a magisterial inquiry, which is no substitute for a technical investigation conducted by safety experts. Union Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari has actively campaigned for road safety, and the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act of 2019 has provisions that aim to bring about change. But most States have been lukewarm towards hard steps to bring order to the roads, viewing zero tolerance rule enforcement through the lens of populism. This is reflected in the spate of accidents on India’s highways, which witnessed 61% of deaths from just 5% of all accidents, as per 2019 data. The Centre must now set a timeline to operationalise the National Road Safety Board, for which draft rules were circulated in December last year, to lay down engineering standards and complaints procedures that will help citizens hold States to account. Transport departments continue to take an indulgent view of rule violations. Political parties and others fix illegal flag poles and spears on car bonnets and metal contraptions to SUV bumpers, which are deadly in an accident. Even with high political will — and there is no evidence this is present in all the States — ending the “silent pandemic” of accidents will need education, civil society cooperation and professional policing. Meeting the SDGs on transport and reduced road deaths and injuries will need actions that go beyond pious declarations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/slow-on-safety/article33866187.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,||An ambiguous levy||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has stressed that Budget 2021-22 raises resources to push the economy without increased taxation. However, one change to the income tax law proposed in the Finance Bill, 2021, has triggered anxieties for the salaried class: withdrawing tax exemption on interest income accrued into Provident Fund accounts arising out of employee contributions exceeding Rs. 2.5 lakh ‘in a previous year in that fund,’ on or after April 1, 2021. The rationale — some employees are contributing huge amounts into their PF accounts and getting tax-free incomes. Subsequently, the Revenue Department has pointed out the tax will only affect a small group of ‘high net-worth individuals’ (HNIs); the 100 largest employees’ PF (EPF) accounts had a combined balance of over Rs. 2,000 crore. It can be no one’s case that a social security scheme for formal sector workers should become an investment haven for the well-heeled corporate top brass. However, the threshold proposed to exclude the so-called HNIs appears low, as it would end up partially taxing PF income for even those putting away Rs. 21,000 a month towards their retirement — hardly a typical HNI given it may take the saver decades to attain a one crore rupee PF balance. The threshold also does not tie in with the Rs. 7.5 lakh limit set in last year’s Budget for employers’ contributions into the EPF, National Pension System (NPS) or other superannuation funds (rules for which are yet to be notified). This is not the first time this government had tried to tax PF savings, citing its abuse by the rich. In the 2016-17 Budget, it proposed to tax 60% of EPF balances at the time of withdrawal, but backtracked after a backlash. Now, it has covered even government employees’ contributions into the GPF, but left NPS investments over Rs. 2.5 lakh a year untouched. Tax treatment inequity between India’s limited retirement savings instruments aside, employees and employers have some serious doubts on the implementation. The words ‘in a previous year’, for one, suggest this will be a type of retro-active tax — taxing future income even on past years’ contributions of over Rs. 2.5 lakh. It is also not clear when and how the tax is to be paid — at retirement or each year that the PF rate is announced. The CBDT chief has said employees should include such income in their annual tax returns, which may work for GPF members whose interest rate is announced every quarter, but not for EPF accounts as interest rates are declared late and credited even later. Finally, this may not be smart timing for a government looking to lean on huge borrowings to dent large inflows into EPF — most of its corpus is captively deployed in government bonds. While the goal of targeting HNIs using the PF savings to avoid taxation is laudable, the Centre should consider recalibrating the arithmetic and operational details of this tax.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/an-ambiguous-levy/article33866188.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Sivaji Ganesan||Mr. Sivaji Ganesan, film actor who is on an election tour of the southern districts on behalf of the Democratic Front candidates told THE HINDU to-day [February 17] that three attempts were made on his life during his 2,000 miles tour in the past three days. “I am not afraid about my life In fact I have already suggested that in case I am killed, my body should be taken to the very taluks, villages and towns that I have toured,” he said. His only worry was the safety of persons accompanying him and the thousands who gather to see and hear him. Mr. Ganesan said that police reluctance to provide adequate protection to him and his party was obvious. “When mere office-bearers of the ruling party tour the districts, they are accompanied by the Collector and lorry-loads of police, and I do not see any reason why I should not be given police escort, especially when several untoward incidents have taken place during the tour,” he said. Replying to Mr. M.G. Ramachandran’s reported statement that except the failure of electricity, no untoward incident took place at Tuticorin where he (Mr. Ganesan) had spoken, Mr. Ganesan wanted to know when “M.G.R. became an official of the Home Ministry, to enjoy the privilege of seeking information from top police officials and issue statements on it”. Explaining the Tuticorin incident of Monday, Mr. Ganesan said that though he had reached the meeting place at 6 p.m. (behind schedule), the large crowd which was anxiously waiting for him, took him in a procession, though it was not in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/sivaji-ganesan/article33866197.ece
18 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cabinet approves PLI plan for telecom||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved the production-linked incentive scheme for the telecom sector with an outlay of Rs. 12,195 crore over five years. The scheme, which aims to make India a global hub for manufacturing telecom equipment, is expected to lead to an incremental production of about Rs. 2.4 lakh crore, with exports of about Rs. 2 lakh crore over five years and bring in investments of more than Rs. 3,000 crore. “The implementation of PLI scheme in telecom manufacturing will start from April 1, 2021,” said Communications Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad. “Many international players are keen to come to India. We will encourage them and also domestic manufacturers,” he added.  ‘Import dependence cut’ The Minister added the scheme was also likely to generate 40,000 direct and indirect employment opportunities and generate tax revenue of Rs. 17,000 crore from telecom equipment manufacturing, including core transmission equipment, 4G/5G Next Generation Radio Access Network and wireless equipment, access and Customer Premises Equipment (CPE), Internet of Things (IoT) access devices, other wireless equipment and enterprise equipment such as switches and routers. According to an official release, the core ‘component’ of this scheme is to offset the import of telecom equipment worth more than Rs. 50,000 crore. The Minister added that the approval for the scheme followed the success of PLI-scheme related to mobile and component manufacturing. Under this, Rs. 34,000 crore investment has been made by some of the top mobile companies, he said, adding that the government planned to bring similar incentives for laptops and tablet manufacturing. For inclusion of MSMEs in the scheme, the minimum investment threshold has been kept at Rs. 10 crore, while for others it is Rs. 100 crore. For MSMEs, a 1% higher incentive is also proposed in the first three years. “Once qualified, the investor will be incentivised up to 20 times of minimum investment threshold enabling them to utilise their unused capacity,” the government said. “With the telecom industry going through a very difficult phase, this move of the government would surely incentivise telecom service providers,” who opt for equipment manufactured locally, thus saving on substantial costs relating to imports. “While we need to wait and see as to whether there will be many takers for this scheme, surely it appears that these developments are on the right path towards self-sufficiency.” Tony Verghese, partner, J. Sagar Associates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cabinet-approves-pli-plan-for-telecom/article33866169.ece
18 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Union Budget’s good ideas dogged by bad timing: Sen||The privatisation of public sector enterprises (PSEs) announced in the Union Budget for 2021-22 is a good idea coming at the wrong time, noted economist and former Chief Statistician of India Pronab Sen said on Wednesday, arguing that it may end up dampening growth prospects by crowding out fresh investments. “For the first time, the word privatisation has been actively used in the Budget,” Mr. Sen said. “I have absolutely no problems with privatisation but I do have a problem with the timing of privatisation,” he added. “At the end of the day, regardless of what is happening on the stock market, privatisation is best done when the economy is booming. It is a terrible idea when the economy is in a slump,” he said during a discussion on the Budget’s implications hosted by the PHD Chamber of Commerce. ‘Crowd out investments’ Pointing out that investors buying a PSE would do so by dropping other investment plans they may have had, Mr. Sen said this would effectively drive investments to existing assets instead of creating new assets. “This itself is a depressing element as it brings the economic system down. Privatisation at the time of a recession is a horrible idea and it should be done only when the economy recovers. I think this point should be made very clear because the government is seeing it essentially as a source of finance. It is more than a source of finance… it can actually crowd out current investment in creating new capacities and will hold up growth,” he said. Funding bad banks Mr. Sen, now the India programme director at the International Growth Centre, also expressed concerns about the Budget’s bad bank proposal, citing global experience of bad banks working well if they were financed entirely by the government. “In this case, the intent is for the financial sector to set up a bad bank, offload their stressed assets and then the ARC will get around to disposing those assets off,” he said. “Think about what will happen — banks themselves will be taking a part of their current resources to fund the bad bank. All else aside, the funds they will have left available for industry’s current demand are going to be further eroded. It’s not a bad idea, I support it... but the timing is wrong,” he said. “In economics, a good idea implemented at the wrong time is a bad idea,” he summed up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/union-budgets-good-ideas-dogged-by-bad-timing-sen/article33866167.ece
18 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||India’s rating to hinge on lower fiscal deficit, debt: S&P||S&P Global Ratings on Wednesday said India will be one of the fastest growing emerging-market economies with a 10% growth in the next fiscal, and future sovereign rating action would hinge on lowering fiscal deficit and sustaining debt burden. S&P director, sovereign & international public finance ratings, Andrew Wood, said the forecast for India in 2021 is on stronger side and shows that a lot of economic activity, which was frozen last year, is coming back on line to normalisation, thereby brightening the growth prospects. Bounce back “India will be one of the fastest-growing economy in the EM (emerging market) space. India’s contraction this year was steep and may be deeper than global average, but a bounce back of 10% that we are expecting next fiscal year will be putting India amongst the fastest growers in 2021 and more importantly, we see Indian economy growing at 6% over medium term, may be slightly higher, and that compares very well to EMs all around the world,” Mr. Wood said in a webinar. S&P said India’s economy has stabilised over recent months, with progressively better manufacturing, services, labour-market and revenue data. The hard part will be converting the trends into a sustained recovery over the next few years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indias-rating-to-hinge-on-lower-fiscal-deficit-debt-sp/article33866180.ece
18 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Bharti Airtel to buy out Warburg in DTH arm||Bharti Airtel on Wednesday said it would acquire 20% stake in Bharti Telemedia, its DTH arm, from an affiliate of Warburg Pincus for Rs. 3,126 crore. The amount will be discharged via issuance of about 36.47 million equity shares of Bharti Airtel at a price of Rs. 600 per share and up to Rs. 1,037.80 crore in cash, the company said in a statement.  In a separate communique to stock exchanges, Bharti Airtel said its board, at a meeting held on Wednesday, had constituted a ‘Special Committee of Directors’ to consider and evaluate in detail ‘various options for re-organisation of businesses and shareholding structure of the company’ for possible ‘unlocking of value for shareholders’. A Warburg Pincus affiliate had, in December 2017, agreed to acquire a 20% equity stake in Bharti Telemedia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bharti-airtel-to-buy-out-warburg-in-dth-arm/article33866165.ece
18 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Start-ups must create world-class products: PM||Start-ups in India should not focus only on valuations and exit strategies, but on creating institutions that will outlast this century and products that set the global benchmark on excellence, to help India become a global leader in technology, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday. Speaking at the Nasscom Technology and Leadership Forum (NTLF), the Prime Minister told the leaders of the IT industry that while they had ensured that “our technology is more and more made in India, I urge that your solutions should also have the mark of Make for India.” “So, I have a message for my start-up founders,” said Mr. Modi. “Do not limit yourself to just valuations and exit strategies. Think how you can create institutions that will outlast this century,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/start-ups-must-create-world-class-products-pm/article33866171.ece
18 February 2021||Chennai,||‘India headed for major recovery in ad spends’||India is expected to see a ‘major recovery’ in advertisement expenditure in 2021 following the slump the sector saw last year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In its report, ‘This Year, Next Year’ 2021, GroupM predicted that India’s advertising investment would reach an estimated Rs. 80,123 crore this year. This represents a growth of 23.2%, for the calendar year 2021. India is the second-fastest growing market among the top 10 and will be the sixth-largest contributor to incremental ad spends in 2021 globally. In 2020, “the pandemic affected media investments,” said Prasanth Kumar, CEO, GroupM South Asia. “However, we have [seen] month-on-month upturn starting Q3 last year and are optimistic about the revival.” Digital was the only medium to witness a gain of $27 billion globally in 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-headed-for-major-recovery-in-ad-spends/article33866174.ece
18 February 2021||New Delhi,||SEBI eases public offer norms||SEBI on Wednesday approved a slew of proposals, including for relaxing minimum public offer norms. Issuers with post-issue market capital of at least Rs. 4,000 crore were to offer to public a minimum of 10% of post-issue market capital. For issuers with post-issue market capital of more than Rs. 1 lakh crore, the minimum public offer rules will now be reduced “to Rs. 10,000 crore + 5% of the incremental amount beyond Rs. 1,00,000 crore”. The issuers “shall... achieve at least 10% public shareholding in 2 years and at least 25% in 5 years,” SEBI said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sebi-eases-public-offer-norms/article33866769.ece
18 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Don’t permit Future Group meetings’||Amazon has approached the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) urging it not to allow convening of any meeting of Future Group’s shareholders or creditors for approval of its proposed Rs. 24,713-crore deal with Reliance Industries. Amazon had last week filed the application before the Mumbai bench of the NCLT. The NCLT has reserved the order over the scheme of arrangement that entails the consolidation of Future Group’s retail and wholesale business and transferring them to Reliance Industries in the deal announced last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/dont-permit-future-group-meetings/article33866175.ece
18 February 2021||Mumbai,||RBI issues rules for home finance firms||The RBI on Wednesday issued directives to housing finance companies (HFCs) on maintenance of liquidity coverage ratio, risk management, asset classification and loan-to-value ratio. It said the directions, took immediate effect and were aimed at protecting the interests of investors and depositors. “All non-deposit taking HFCs with asset size of Rs. 100 crore and above and all deposit taking HFCs shall pursue liquidity risk management, [adhering] to gap limits, making use of liquidity risk monitoring tools and adoption of stock approach to liquidity risk.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-issues-rules-for-home-finance-firms/article33866176.ece
18 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||USFDA nod for Granules Potassium Chloride ER Capsules||The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (U.S. FDA) has approved drugmaker Granules India’s Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) for potassium chloride extended-release capsules USP, 8 mEq (600 mg) and 10 mEq (750 mg). The drug is indicated for the treatment of hypokalemia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/usfda-nod-for-granules-potassium-chloride-er-capsules/article33866172.ece
18 February 2021||Hyderabad,||DRL unveils anti-cancer drug in U.S.||Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories has unveiled Capecitabine Tablets, USP in the U.S market. The drug is a therapeutic equivalent generic version of Xeloda (capecitabine) Tablets, used in the treatment of certain types of cancers. Xeloda is a trademark of Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. The drug is indicated to treat colon, colorectal and breast cancers. The Xeloda brand and generic had U.S. sales of approximately $90 million MAT for the most recent twelve months ended October 2020, Dr. Reddy’s said citing IQVIA Health numbers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/drl-unveils-anti-cancer-drug-in-us/article33866163.ece
18 February 2021||Chennai,||Ashok Leyland increases clean energy sourcing||Ashok Leyland Ltd. (ALL) has increased the sourcing of clean energy to 60% for its countrywide operations from 32%. Currently, 75% of the energy consumption in Tamil Nadu and 60% throughout India is procured through the solar rooftop, solar ground mount and wind-based renewable energy, ALL said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ashok-leyland-increases-clean-energy-sourcing/article33866178.ece
18 February 2021||TENHIPALAM,||Five more marks rewritten||Five new meet records were set on the third day of the State athletics championship here on Wednesday. C.D. Akhil Kumar (Under-20 boys’ triple jump), Aparna Roy (Under-20 girls’ 110m hurdles), Ancy Sojan (Under-20 girls’ long jump), K. Abijith (Under-18 boys’ 400m) and E.S. Sivapriya (Under-16 girls’ long jump) are the new record holders.  The winners: Men: 400m: V.K. Muhammed Badusha (Tsr) 50.24s.; 1500m: C. Anil Dath (Pkd) 4:07.82s; 5,000m: S.A. Abhijith (Pta) 15:00.72s; 110m hurdles: Ronald Babu (Ktm) 14.63s; Triple jump: D. Bibin Dev (Idk) 14.71m; Discus: Andrick Michael Fernandez (Ekm) 43.78m; Javelin: Nibin John (Knr) 59.72m; 4x400m relay: Ernakulam 3:33.82s; 4x400m mixed relay: Ernakulam 3:48.25s; Decathlon: Joy Thomas (Tsr) 5103 pts.   Women: 400m: K. Sneha (Knr) 58.54s; 1500m: K.R. Athira (Kkd) 4:57.86s; 100m hurdles: Soumya Varghese (Tvm) 14.57s; 4x400m relay: Kottayam 4:19.38s.   Under-20: Boys: 400m: T.S. Manu (Wyd) 49.36s; 1,500m: T. Christapher (Alp) 4:08.57s; 5,000m: N.V. Amith (Ekm) 16:04.65s; Triple jump: C.D. Akhil Kumar (Pkd) 15.99m (NMR; Old: 15.86m, Abdulla Aboobacker (Tvm) 2015); Discus: C.B. Bimal (Knr) 41.83m; 10km walk: U. Midhun Krishna (Pkd) 52:16.40s; 4x400m relay: Kottayam 3:33.52s; 4x400m mixed relay: Ernakulam 4:00.76; Decathlon: Arjun Thankachan (Tsr) 5237 pts.   Girls: 400m: T.J. Jamsheela (Tsr) 57.55s; 1,500m: C. Chanthini (Pkd) 5:02.36s; 100m hurdles: Aparna Roy (Kkd) 14.29s (NMR, Old: 14.40s, A.K. Saranya (Ktm), 2004); High jump: Roshna Augustine (Kkd) 1.64m; Long jump: Ancy Sojan (Tsr) 6.20m (NMR, Old: 6.09m, V. Neena (Knr), 2010); 10km walk: Sandra Surendran (Kgd) 56:22.00s; 4x400m relay: Kottayam 4:31.79s.   Under-18: Boys: 400m: K. Abijith (Pkd) 48.73s (NMR, Old: 48.76s, T.K. Sayooj (Kkd), 2018); 1,500m: P. Vishnu (Pkd) 4:14.62s; High jump: B. Bharath Raj (Pta) 1.92m; Decathlon: Dhanush K. Sasidharan (Kkd) 4841 pts; 10km walk: Bilin George Anto (Kkd) 53:04.87s.   Girls: Discus: Anamika V. Rajesh (Knr) 36.96m.   Under-16: Boys: Long jump: C.P. Abhijith (Kkd) 6.47m; Javelin: P. Rahan (Mlp) 43.17m; Hepathlon: Roshin Roy (Ktm) 2845 pts.   Girls: 300m: Sandra Mol Sabu (Ktm) 41.79s; Long jump: E.S. Sivapriya (Tsr) 5.68m (NMR, Old: 5.67m, Jetty Joseph (Pta), 1995); 3,000m walk: Miya Rose (Kkd) 17:43.89.   Under-14: Boys: 300m: P. Abiram (KSA) 37.81m; Long jump: Amal Jaison (Kkd) 5.32m. Girls: Long jump: S. Sainandhana (Pkd) 5.17m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/five-more-marks-rewritten/article33866417.ece
18 February 2021||Ahmedabad,||New look Motera ready to play host||The newly-installed LED floodlights at the refurbished Sardar Patel Stadium in Motera will eliminate shadows, making it easier to spot the aerial balls during the upcoming day/night Test between India and England, starting February 24. The world’s largest cricket stadium will also have 11 centre strips, which is also unique, along with four dressing rooms with in-built gymnasium, according to Gujarat Cricket Association’s joint secretary Anil Patel. The Motera stadium underwent extensive renovation, which started when current BCCI secretary Jay Shah was in charge of GCA. Tickets for sale With a seating capacity of 1,10,000 — greater than Melbourne Cricket Ground — the GCA will put on sale around 55,000 tickets for the next two Tests at the venue. “This is the only stadium in the world with 11 centre pitches on the main ground. Also we are the only stadium in the world with same soil being used for practice as well as centre strips,” said Patel. “Instead of mast lights, we have installed LED lights on the entire circular roof for better visibility and to eliminate shadows,” he said. Drainage system “Sand has been used underneath the grass. This along with a state-of-the-art drainage system will remove rain water very quickly in comparison to other regular grounds. “Even in case of 8 cm of rainfall during a match, the water would drain out very fast. This will reduce the chances of matches being cancelled due to rain,” said Patel. The stadium, spread over an area of 63 acres, also has six indoor pitches with bowling machines. This is in addition to the outdoor practice pitches and two practice grounds with a small pavilion area, said Patel. “This is the only stadium in the world with four dressing rooms for the players. Each dressing room has a state-of-the-art gymnasium among other amenities. The stadium also has a clubhouse with 50 deluxe rooms and five suites,” Patel said during the media tour of the stadium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/new-look-motera-ready-to-play-host/article33866310.ece
18 February 2021||Chennai,||Lights, camera, auction: 292 players to go under the hammer||The IPL auction to be held here on Thursday carries with it several possibilities and combinations. Actually, this would have been a full-fledged auction but for the addition of two more franchises to make IPL a 10-team event in 2022. In all, 292 players will be in the fray, including 128 foreigners. How teams fill their holes will depend on the purse left with them and the slots available, particularly in the overseas section. Champion Mumbai Indians has released two overseas pacemen, James Pattinson and Nathan Coulter-Nile. Overseas paceman It will surely be on the lookout for an overseas paceman. Among those in the fray are Jhye Richardson, the pacy Riley Meredith, Chris Morris, Jason Behrendorff and New Zealand’s exciting find Kyle Jamieson. Interestingly, among the pacemen in the fray is left-armer Arjun Tendulkar.  There is also a possibility that Mumbai Indians could buy back Coulter-Nile, handy with the bat as well, at a lesser price; one of the strategies franchises adopt. India’s Umesh Yadav is also available. Domestic pacemen lend their side greater flexibility. There are a number of explosive batsmen in the mix — Glenn Maxwell, Alex Hales and Jason Roy. Also in the auction are the formidable Steve Smith, released by Royals, and Dawid Malan, among the most successful batsmen in T20 cricket in recent times. Different teams have different needs. For instance, Chennai Super Kings will be seeking an off-spinner after it released Harbhajan Singh. CSK could go for Maxwell, the explosive batsman can also send down off-spin. Moeen Ali could also be in its radar. The Chennai franchise might also be eyeing K. Gowtham, a successful off-spinning all-rounder in domestic cricket, who has had his moments in the IPL. Several teams could be vying for star left-arm spinning all-rounder Shakib Al Hasan. Biggest purse Among the franchises, Punjab Kings has the maximum money available to spend — Rs. 53.20 crore. The franchise could shop extensively in the overseas market and could rope in Smith for stability in its middle-order. Among the local cricketers in the fray are Shivam Dube, Sheldon Jackson, Mohammed Azharuddeen, Shahrukh Khan, Vishnu Solanki, B. Aparajith and M. Siddharth.  Punjab Kings has the maximum money available to spend — Rs. 53.20 crore Many franchises are likely to bid for Shakib It would be interesting to see how the domestic players fare||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/292-players-to-go-under-the-hammer-at-the-ipl-auction-today/article33866269.ece
18 February 2021||CAPE TOWN,||Du Plessis retires from Tests||Former South Africa captain Faf du Plessis retired from Test cricket on Wednesday after being denied the chance of a home farewell by Australia’s decision to cancel next month’s tour. Du Plessis, who played 69 Tests, said in a statement on his Instagram account that it was time to “walk into a new chapter”. He will concentrate on T20s, the 36-year-old batsman said, with World Cups in that format this year and next. He added he wanted to play as much T20 cricket around the world as he could over the next two years and didn't rule out the possibility of continuing to play ODIs. Lack of Test matches Du Plessis’ decision was hastened by a lack of Test matches in the immediate future for South Africa, mainly due to coronavirus. “It has been a year of refinement in the fire for us all,” du Plessis said in his statement. “Uncertain were the times, but they brought clarity for me in many respects. My heart is clear and the time is right to walk into a new chapter. It has been an honor to play for my country in all the formats of the game, but the time has come for me to retire from Test cricket.” Du Plessis became South Africa’s Test captain in 2016. He stepped down from that role in early 2020 but continued to play for the team and made his highest Test score in December when he hit 199 against Sri Lanka. In all, he made 10 Test centuries and 21 half-centuries but his first hundred, on his Test debut, defined much of his career. He was called into the team in Australia in 2012 as an injury replacement and made 110 not out in the second innings under extreme pressure, grittily batting for more than seven hours to defy the hosts and salvage a draw. It enabled his team to claim the series by winning the last Test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/du-plessis-retires-from-tests/article33866307.ece
18 February 2021||Barcelona,||Hurricane Mbappe rips apart Barca||Paris St. Germain’s Kylian Mbappe fired in a stunning hat-trick as his side overcame the absence of Neymar to thrash Barcelona 4-1 away in their Champions League last-16 first leg on Tuesday to move within full view of the last eight. Lionel Messi had blasted Barca ahead with a penalty in the first half but Mbappe pulled the French champion level with a classy piece of control and finishing to complete a flowing team move also involving Marco Verratti and Layvin Kurzawa. Woeful marking Mbappe, who had not scored in the Champions League knockouts for two years before Tuesday, smashed PSG into the lead in the 65th while Moise Kean took advantage of some woeful Barca marking to head in a third for the visitors in the 70th. The insatiable Mbappe looked hungry for more though and after being denied a third goal of his own by Barca keeper Marc-Andre ter Stegen, he completed his treble in the 85th minute by curling the ball past the German into the top corner. In Budapest, Liverpool struck twice in five minutes early in the second half with Mohamed Salah and Sadio Mane on target as it beat host RB Leipzig 2-0.  Salah easily intercepted a back pass by Leipzig’s Marcel Sabitzer to put the visitors ahead in the 53rd and on course for its first win in any competition since late January. Another mistake Mane then pounced on another mistake when Nordi Mukiele failed to clear a high cross five minutes later, leaving the Germans down for the count in Budapest’s Puskas Arena where the game had been relocated due to COVID-19 restrictions in Germany. Leipzig hit the post early in the first half but was toothless in attack following the two goals.  The results:   Barcelona 1 (Messi 27-pen) lost to Paris Saint-Germain 4 (Mbappe 32, 65, 85, Kean 70).   RB Leipzig 0 lost to Liverpool 2 (Salah 53, Mane 58).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hurricane-mbappe-rips-apart-barca/article33866186.ece
18 February 2021||KOLKATA,||India to adopt wait-and-watch policy||Even though the cancellation of the World Olympic boxing qualifier has dented India’s chances of earning more quota places, high performance director Santiago Nieva prefers to wait and watch. Altogether nine boxers — Amit Panghal (52kg), Manish Kaushik (63kg), Vikas Krishan (69kg), Ashish Kumar (75kg) and Satish Kumar (+91kg) in men and M.C. Mary Kom (51kg), Simranjit Singh (60kg), Lovlina Borgohain (69kg) and Pooja Rani (75kg) — out of a maximum 13 qualified for the Olympics through the Asian qualifier in March last year. India, which has strong boxers in both men and women’s 57kg, was hoping to garner at least two more spots in the World qualifier in Paris in June. With the IOC proposing to cancel the World qualifier and pick the best ranked athletes not yet qualified per region per weight category, as per the Boxing Task Force (BTF) rankings upon the conclusion of each respective continental event, India’s chances look bleak. However, Nieva has not given up hope. “We have to see the official decision about the ranking points. Until we get the final official confirmation, we hope that (to get some more slots). We don’t want to speculate too much,” Nieva told The Hindu . Kavinder Bisht is ranked 14th in men’s 57kg in the BTF chart, while Sonia Chahal is the best ranked boxer at 18th place in women’s 57kg. However, she is nursing an injury. Sakshi Chaudhary is next, sharing the 20th place with four others. Surprise change Nieva said the change in the qualification system was a surprise. “The difference is that the Europeans and Americans get the news before their qualifiers. So they can make any strategic change in boxers… Potentially, we could have sent a boxer with higher ranking points to the qualifier rather than take a chance with a boxer without points… Now we don’t have that option. “When we sent boxers to the qualifier, we counted that we had two chances but now we have only one. When we started the Olympic cycle, the plan was that there would be four qualifiers — the World championships, the Asian qualifier, World Series of Boxing (WSB) and the World qualifier. With that system, I am pretty sure we would have got almost all of our boxers qualified,” said Nieva.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-to-adopt-wait-and-watch-policy/article33866299.ece
18 February 2021||DUBAI,||Ashwin jumps to fifth in Test all-rounders’ rankings||India’s R. Ashwin jumped to the fifth spot among all-rounders in the latest ICC Test Player Rankings following his brilliant show with both the bat and ball against England in the second match while Virat Kohli remained fifth among the batsmen. Ashwin now has 336 points in a list headed by West Indian Jason Holder (407 points). Ravindra Jadeja remained in the second place with 403 points, followed by Ben Stokes (397) of England and Shakib Al Hasan (352) of Bangladesh. Ashwin remained static at seventh among the Test bowlers with 804 points while pacer Jasprit Bumrah also retained his eighth spot with 761 points. Australian pacer Pat Cummins (908) is on top. Kohli retained the fifth spot among the batsmen with 838 points. Kane Williamson (919) of New Zealand retained the top position with Steve Smith (891) of Australia is second. Marnus Labuschagne (878) moved up to third while England captain Joe Root (869) slipped to fourth. Cheteshwar Pujara dropped to the eighth place with 727 points.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ashwin-jumps-to-fifth-in-test-all-rounders-rankings/article33866304.ece
18 February 2021||MELBOURNE,||Tsitsipas roars back to knock out Nadal||Rafael Nadal’s bid for a record 21st Grand Slam title came crashing to a halt at the Australian Open on Wednesday as Stefanos Tsitsipas rose up to topple the Spaniard 3-6, 2-6, 7-6(4), 6-4, 7-5 and reach the semifinals. World No. 2 Nadal had not lost a set coming into the evening clash at Rod Laver Arena and looked on target for a semifinal berth at Melbourne Park after roaring to a two-set lead over the Greek. The match turned on its head when Nadal wavered in a messy third set tie-break, and a rejuvenated Tsitsipas rallied brilliantly to take the match to the decider. Capturing Nadal’s serve at 5-5 in the final set, the fifth seed saw two match points slip through his fingers as he served for the match but fired a backhand winner down the line on the third to claim one of his finest victories. Medvedev secured a spot in the last four with a 7-5, 6-3, 6-2 victory over friend and compatriot Andrey Rublev, extending his winning streak to 19 matches. In the women’s section, World No.1 Ashleigh Barty’s dream of become the first homegrown Australian Open champion since 1978 ended in an extraordinary 1-6, 6-3, 6-2 quarterfinal loss to Karolina Muchova. The Czech. seeded 25th, was a player transformed after a medical time-out in the second set and rallied to secure a place in her first Slam semifinal, where she will meet American Jennifer Brady. Brady battled through her frustrations to overhaul friend and teammate Jessica Pegula 4-6, 6-2, 6-1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tsitsipas-roars-back-to-knock-out-nadal/article33866273.ece
18 February 2021||Chennai,||Why take the easiest route?||Game-changers come rare. They go into hibernation for a period of time. Then they roar back, innovating, creating and conjuring magic. These men alter the course of matches, decisively. Rohit Sharma’s stunning 161 on a dusty pitch that offered turn from the first day of the second Test at Chepauk was one such innings. Take away that knock of sheer brilliance from the Indian innings and we might have had a far closer game. His audacious front-footed strokeplay on the devious surface at the M.A. Chidambaram Stadium was breathtaking. He trusts his instincts and they proved right. Vexing question Rohit’s innings of dominance notwithstanding — India was 106 for three at lunch and the Mumbaikar was on a scintillating 80 — the vexing question remains. Is India really that desperate for a Test victory — even if a spot in the World Test championship final is at stake — that it needs to prepare this sort of pitch. Truth to tell, it doesn’t reflect much on India’s confidence as a world-beating side. A team that returns home after defeating Australia at the lively Gabba in the series decider without several of its principal cricketers should have displayed greater belief in its own strengths than take the easiest possible route to victory. Critical points These are critical points in a nation’s cricketing journey. And a lot hinges on the direction the side takes, leaving the past behind, charting its own course. Indeed, India lost a glorious opportunity to make a break from the past and prepare a sporting track where everyone had an equal chance. Clearly, India should not have panicked after finding itself 1-0 down after the first Test. And once it posted a 300-plus score in the first innings of the second game — fired by the mercurial Rohit — there was going to be only one result.  Ashwin was always expected to pick wickets on this surface. The top soil was loose, there were puffs of dust, and the ball turned and bounced, often viciously. In fact, it was surprising Ashwin did not return a 10-wicket match-haul on such a track. It was there for the taking. Of course, Ashwin batted with exceptional timing, if not footwork, to notch up his fifth Test hundred. It was evident in the manner he swept that his mind was uncluttered. The lanky Axar Patel has a future, particularly on pitches that offer turn and bounce. He has a high-arm action, bowls a consistent line, turns the ball away and possesses an arm-ball. A word about Rishabh Pant. He batted with typical gusto in the first innings and kept wickets admirably on a difficult track. The powerhouse from Delhi will only improve with time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shouldve-been-a-sporting-track/article33866271.ece
18 February 2021||PHOENIX,||Harden and Harris bail Nets out||James Harden amassed 38 points and 11 assists and Joe Harris added 22 points as the short-handed Brooklyn Nets rallied from a 24-point deficit to earn a 128-124 road victory over the Phoenix Suns on Tuesday. The 21-point, second-half comeback was the largest for the Nets since they joined the NBA in the 1976-77 season. Jeff Green scored 18 points off the bench for Brooklyn and Tyler Johnson added 17 in his first start of the season. The Nets, who were playing without Kyrie Irving (back) and Kevin Durant (hamstring), won their fourth straight game. Jaylen Brown scored 27 points, Jayson Tatum had 21 points and eight assists as host Boston overcame a big night by Nikola Jokic (43 points) to beat Denver 112-99. Kemba Walker added 17 points for the Celtics, who had lost four of their previous five.  In Minneapolis, LeBron James totaled 30 points, 13 rebounds and seven assists to lead Los Angeles Lakers, playing without injured star Anthony Davis, to a 112-104 victory over the host. The Lakers, one of the NBA’s best road teams this season, won for the 13th time in 16 games away from LA and prevailed for the eighth time in their past nine games overall. Lakers played without Davis, who is expected to miss multiple weeks after straining his right Achilles tendon on Sunday at Denver. Zion Williamson scored 31 points as New Orleans salvaged the final game of a four-game road trip by winning at Memphis 144-113. VanVleet excels Fred VanVleet scored 33 points and added seven assists as visiting Toronto defeated Milwaukee in the opener of a two-game set 124-113. Damian Lillard scored 31 points, including three 3-pointers in four possessions in the fourth quarter, to lift Portland past host Oklahoma City.  The results: Brooklyn bt Phoenix 128-124; Toronto bt Milwaukee 124-113; LA Lakers bt Minnesota 112-104; Portland bt Oklahoma City 115-104; Boston bt Denver 112-99; New Orleans bt Memphis 144-113 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/harden-and-harris-bail-nets-out/article33866311.ece
18 February 2021||kochi,||Top stars skip season-opener||They have had a year without any competition and one felt the top athletes would all come rushing to Patiala to compete in Thursday’s Indian Grand Prix, the National athletics season-opener for seniors. But that is not the case. Despite the Tokyo Olympics qualification gates having opened again, almost all the top stars are missing from the entry list here. And some, like top quatermilers Muhammed Anas, Arokia Rajiv and Anjali Devi, are doing the 100 or the 200m. “I’m not doing the GP’s opening leg but will be doing the second leg (on Feb. 25 here),” leading quartermiler V.K. Vismaya told The Hindu on Wednesday evening. “I had taken leave in between.” Skipping all three Jisna Mathew, another top 400m runner, will be skipping all the three GP legs. “We may skip the Federation Cup too if the coronavirus situation does not improve. “Travelling to Patiala from Kerala is very risky,” said her coach P.T. Usha. “Jisna might run in the Calicut University meet in April, that’s the plan.” Meanwhile Jinson Johnson, the Asian Games 1500m champion and 800m silver medallist, said he plans to skip all the three Grand Prix legs and also the Federation Cup (Patiala, March 15-19) and open his competition season only in April. He is also looking for quality international meets to attack the Olympic qualification standard in the metric mile. One reason or other Long jumper M. Sreeshankar (exams), sprinter Hima Das, shot putter Tajinder Pal Singh Toor are some of the other top names who have skipped the GP’s opening leg for one reason or the other. Incidentally, the GP-1 does not include the javelin throw. “There are three GP legs so they may be choosing one or the other,” said chief national coach Radhakrishnan Nair explaining the reason for the absence of many big names. “There are no injury worries, nothing to worry,” he added. Thus the spotlight could be on athletes like Dutee Chand, A. Dharun, Poovamma Raju and Kiran Pahal here.  I’m not doing the GP’s opening leg but will be doing the second leg (on Feb. 25 here) — V.K. Vismaya,leading quartermiler||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/top-stars-decide-to-skip-season-opener-at-patiala/article33866421.ece
18 February 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Manika rallies to stop Archana on day of upsets||With the prospect of defeat looming large, Manika Batra just about managed to find a new gear. Thereafter, she simply raced away with the last two games against Archana Kamath on the way to the semifinals of the National table tennis championship at Panchkula on Wednesday. In a contest, seen as the ‘final-before-the-final’, Archana dropped the first two games narrowly, claimed the next three, but lost her way from midway through the sixth. The final result read 13-11, 11-9, 4-11, 5-11, 9-11, 11-8, 11-4 in Manika’s favour. Manika plays fourth seed Sreeja Akula on Thursday while Takeme Sarkar and Reeth Rishya, seeded 11th and 15th , will feature in the other semifinal. On a day when three rounds were scheduled, the pre-quarterfinals saw Reeth turn the tables on defending champion and second seed Sutirtha Mukherjee in dramatic manner. Down 1-3 in the best-of-seven-game encounter, Reeth bounced right back to win 6-11, 11-9, 7-11, 4-11, 11-8, 11-9, 11-6. Sutirtha’s exit followed the ouster of three-time finalist Krittwika Sinha Roy. Runner-up to Archana and Sutirtha in two preceding editions, Krittwika failed to match Takeme Sarkar who posted an impressive 11-6, 11-8, 11-9, 9-11, 13-11 victory. In a dramatic morning session, reigning Commonwealth title-holder and third seed Ayhika Mukherjee, two former National champions Madhurika Patkar and Ankita Das, along with rising talent S. Selenadeepthi, made second-round exits. Pooja knocked out Ayhika 13-11, 11-6, 11-9, 8-11, 12-14, 11-5, Kaushani took out Ankita 12-10,12-10, 11-3, 3-11, 11-4, Poymantee Baisya packed off Madhurika 11-7, 11-5, 13-11, 3-11, 2-11, 6-11, 13-11 and Varuni Jaiswal surprised Selenadeepthi 11-6, 13-11, 11-8, 6-11, 8-11, 11-5.  The results (quarterfinals):   Women: Manika Batra (Pet) bt Archana Kamath (Kar) 13-11, 11-9, 4-11, 5-11, 9-11, 11-8, 11-4; Sreeja Akula (RBI) bt Prapti Sen (Ben ‘A’) 7-11, 11-13, 11-8, 11-7, 7-11, 11-6, 11-7; Takeme Sarkar bt Pooja Sahasrabudhe (Pet) 11-8, 9-11, 1-11, 11-9, 11-8, 11-9; Reeth Rishya (Pet) bt Kaushani Nath (Rlys) 11-2, 6-11, 9-11, 11-7, 11-7, 11-9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manika-rallies-to-stop-archana-on-day-of-upsets/article33866182.ece
18 February 2021||London,||Tough ties await United and Arsenal||Manchester United and Arsenal face tough ties when the Europa League returns for the knockout stages on Thursday amid complaints over the relocation of various matches due to coronavirus restrictions. Both legs between Arsenal and Benfica have been moved to neutral venues with Thursday’s first clash taking place in Rome and the second leg in Athens. United’s trip to Real Sociedad this week has also been switched to Turin. Real Sociedad’s director of football, Roberto Olabe, criticised UEFA for what he sees as an unfair advantage should the Spanish side have to play the second leg in Manchester. The Red Devils manager, Ole Gunnar Solskjaer, is also in favour of a return to the one-game format. “It’s not a decision we made but when one game is in a neutral venue, it’s a disadvantage to the team that doesn’t have the home game,” said Solskjaer. However, there are no guarantees that Solskjaer’s side will progress against Real Sociedad, which boasts a collection of some of Europe’s most exciting young talents, allied to the experience of David Silva. The carrot of a return to the Champions League is even more pressing for Arsenal. After 19 seasons in Europe’s premier club competition between 1998 and 2016/17, the Gunners have spent the last four seasons in the Europa League with severe financial repercussions. Tottenham Hotspur is another side which may have to pin its hopes of a Champions League return on Europa League success as it faces Austrian side Wolfsberg, with the first leg moved to Budapest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tough-ties-await-united-and-arsenal/article33866574.ece
18 February 2021||CHENNAI:,||Mzilikazi has the edge in main event||Mzilikazi has an edge over his rivals in the M.CT. M. Chidambaram Chettiar Memorial Cup (1,200m), the feature event of the races to be held here on Thursday (Feb. 18).  NORA PLATE (Div. II) , (1,400m), rated 00 to 25, 2-30: 1. Supreme Commander (10) Nakhat Singh 60, 2. Glorious Wind (4) A.M. Alam 58.5, 3. Chanakya (11) S. Hussain 57.5, 4. Al Hilalee (12) Azfar Syeed 56.5, 5. Famous Queen (5) Akash Rajput 56.5, 6. Orange Pekoe (8) H. Rahul 56.5, 7. Velocity (7) T.S. Jodha 56.5, 8. Price Striker (3) Muzaffar 55.5, 9. Arazinger (2) Arshad Alam 55, 10. Thousand Fence (9) Azad Alam 53, 11. Cleona (6) B. Nikhil 51.5 and 12, Be My Star (1) S. Shareef 51.  1. CHANAKYA, 2. SUPREME COMMANDER, 3. VELOCITY   EL TROPICO PLATE (1,200m), 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45, 3-00: 1. Rhiannon (8) Arshad Alam 60, 2. Fiat Justitia (4) Antony Raj 59, 3. Star Flag (2) Brisson 57, 4. Striking Distance (3) T.S. Jodha 56.5, 5. Trending Princess (1) S. Hussain 56.5, 6. Fun Lover (10) Nakhat Singh 55.5, 7. Glorious Flame (5) A.M. Alam 54.5, 8. Big Treasure (9) P. Sai Kumar 53, 9. Daiyamondo (6) S. Shareef 52.5 and 10. Renzaccio (7) Hari Krishnan 51.  1. STRIKING DISTANCE,   2. FUN LOVER, 3. BIG TREASURE   ICEBREAKER PLATE (1,600m), rated 20 to 45, 3-30: 1. Divina (6) T.S. Jodha 60, 2. Salvo (5) P. Sai Kumar 59, 3. Majestic Wind (9) Brisson 58, 4. Otus (2) Nakhat Singh 57.5, 5. City Of Sails (1) K. Mukesh Kumar 56.5, 6. Welcome Winner (7) Antony Raj 54, 7. King Horof (3) Arshad Alam 52, 8. Kasi Masi (8) A. Ayaz Khan 51.5 and 9. Sifan (4) S. Shareef 51.  1. SALVO, 2. DIVINA,   3. CITY OF SAILS   MADRAS RACE CLUB CUP (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms), 4-00: 1. Cloud Jumper (10) K. Mukesh Kumar 56, 2. Mr Kool (3) T.S. Jodha 56, 3. My Triumph (5) S. Shareef 56, 4. Strode Forever (9) Irshad Alam 56, 5. Wind Symbol (2) Farhan 56, 6. Abilitare (4) Brisson 54.5, 7. Geisha Girl (11) Akash Rajput 54.5, 8. Hallucinate (6) Zervan 54.5, 9. Pink Pearl (7) Shahar Babu 54.5, 10. Skylight (8) P. Sai Kumar 54.5 and 11. Turf Beauty (1) Nakhat Singh 54.5.  1. HALLUCINATE,   2. MY TRIUMPH, 3. ABILITARE   M. CT. M. CHIDAMBARAM CHETTIAR MEMORIAL CUP (1,200m), rated 60 to 85, 4-30: 1. Versallies (7) H. Rahul 60, 2. Fast Car (6) Shahar Babu 59.5, 3. Storm Flag (8) T.S. Jodha 59, 4. Good Fortune (1) K. Mukesh Kumar 58.5, 5. Emissary (9) S. Kabdhar 56.5, 6. Oscar Thunder (13) A.M. Alam 56, 7. Soaring High (10) P. Sia Kumar 54.5, 8. Mzilikazi (14) Zervan 54, 9. Night Hunt (3) M. Bhaskar 54, 10. Breaking Bounds (2) Brisson 53.5, 11. Optimus Commander (12) Irshad Alam 52.5, 12. Ruthbedaar (11) Arshad Alam 52.5, 13. Sentosa (4) Azfar Syeed 52.5 and 14. Priceless Ruler (5) Nakhat Singh 50.5.  1. MZILIKAZI, 2. SOARING HIGH,   3. NIGHT HUNT   NORA PLATE (Div. I) , (1,400m), rated 00 to 25, 5-00: 1. Lady Blazer (7) Arshad Alam 60, 2. Majestic Charmer (4) Nakhat Singh 59.5, 3. Welcome Chakkaram (10) Azfar Syeed 59.5, 4. Heart Of Gold (8) Akash Rajput 59, 5. Perfect Support (9) A. Ayaz Khan 59, 6. Beautiful Princess (5) P. Sai Kumar 58, 8. Dream Run (1) H. Rahul 58, 9. Shelomi (6) A.M. Alam 58, 10. Sabihaa (3) Shahar Babu 56, 11. Gardiner (12) S. Shareef 51.5 and 12. Tencendur (11) B. Nikhil 50.5.  1. BEAUTIFUL PRINCESS,   2. DREAM RUN, 3. SHELOMI  Jkt: 2, 3, 4, 5 & 6; Mini Jkt: 3, 4, 5 & 6; Tr (i): 1, 2 & 3; (ii): 4, 5 & 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mzilikazi-has-the-edge-in-main-event/article33866300.ece
18 February 2021||CHENNAI:,||Durango wins V.S. Dhanasekar Memorial Trophy||P. Krishna’s ward Durango (Arshad Alam up) won the V.S. Dhanasekar Memorial Trophy, the main event of the extra day’s races here on Wednesday (Feb.17). The winner is owned by M/s. Zaveri Stud Farm.  1. FIELD GAME PLATE (Div. II) , (1,400m), 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45: WONDERFUL ERA (Nakhat Singh) 1, Beauty Of The Turf (H. Rahul) 2, Magical Wish (A. Imran Khan) 3 and Beforethedawn (Azfar Syeed) 4. 3/4, shd and 4-3/4. 1m, 29.60s. Owner: M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Trainer: R. Foley.  2. FIELD GAME PLATE (Div. I) , (1,400m), 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45: FORT ST. GEORGE (P. Sai Kumar) 1, Branka (T.S. Jodha) 2, Chaitanya (H. Rahul) 3 and Dominant (A.M. Alam) 4. Hd, nk and 1-1/2. 1m, 30.33s. Owner: Mr. M.A.M.R. Muthiah. Trainer: R. Ramanathan.  3. BELVEDERE PLATE (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms): BEAUTEOUS MAXIMUS (Nakhat Singh) 1, Kristalina (Brisson) 2, Strong Breeze (Akshay Kumar) 3 and Mystical Magician (T.S. Jodha) 4. 1-1/4, 3-1/2 and 2-3/4. 1m, 15.72s. Owner: The Estate of Late Mr. Lakshmanan RM. Trainer: R. Foley.  4. BLAZE THE TRACK PLATE (Div. I) , (1,200m), 5-y-o & over, rated 40 to 65: CATELYN (Antony Raj) 1, Vintage Brut (A. Imran Khan) 2, Royal Rules (Brisson) 3 and Demerara (Azfar Syeed) 4. Shd, 1-1/2 and 3/4. 1m, 14.93s. Owners: Dr. T. Devanathan Yadav, Mrs. Meenakshi Yadav, Miss Karishma Yadav & Miss. Harini Yadav. Trainer: Mandanna.  5. M.J. IQBAL MEMORIAL CUP (1,400m), maiden 4-y-o only, rated 20 to 45: CAVALLO VINCENTE (Akshay Kumar) 1, Naomi (T.S. Jodha) 2, Moment Of Life (Antony Raj) 3 and Icy River (Jagadeesh) 4. Lnk, 2-1/2 and 3-1/2. 1m, 29.97s. Owner: Mr. Arun Alagappan. Trainer: B. Suresh.  6. V.S. DHANASEKAR MEMORIAL TROPHY (1,600m), rated 80 & above: DURANGO (Arshad Alam) 1, Bernardini (A. Imran Khan) 2, Tudor Treasure (Nakhat Singh) 3 and Royal Currency (Akshay Kumar) 4. 3/4, snk and 8-3/4, 1m, 39.79s. Owner: M/s. Zaveri Stud Farm. Trainer: P. Krishna.  7. BLAZE THE TRACK PLATE (Div. II) , (1,200m), 5-y-o & over, rated 40 to 65: SHADOW OF LOVE (Azfar Syeed) 1, Pappa Rich (Arshad Alam) 2, Butterfly (A. Imran Khan) 3 and Star Proof (Akshay Kumar) 4. 1-1/4, hd and snk. 1m, 15.10s. Owners: Mr. K. Shashabindu Das, Mr. K.R. Muthukaruppan & Mr. N. Suresh. Trainer: Mandanna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/durango-wins-vs-dhanasekar-memorial-trophy/article33866312.ece
18 February 2021||KOCHI,||Blasters, coach Vicuna part ways||Kerala Blasters on Wednesday announced it was parting ways with head coach Kibu Vicuna by mutual consent. Assistant coach Ishfaq Ahmed will be the interim head coach. Just a day earlier, the Blasters lost 4-0 to Hyderabad FC, pushing the Kochi-based to the 10th spot in the 11-team Indian Super League after 18 matches. Poor defending let down Blasters, with the team conceding 33 goals, the worst record in the ISL this season. “Unfortunately, the season has been unusual and unexpected. My parents taught me to be responsible for what I am doing so I always give all my heart to it, but also give no excuses,” said Vicuna. “I want to thank the management, players, coaching staff and members of the club for their professionalism, kindness, and closeness. Specially, I want to express my gratitude to all the Kerala Blasters fans for their support since the first till the last day, which makes you exceptional and amazing.” Meanwhile Karolis Skinkys, the Blasters' Sporting Director, said, “I would like to thank Kibu for his honesty and responsibility in this decision. We had a clear objective to make improvements this season. “Unfortunately, the results were not what we expected. We are grateful for his commitment and professionalism towards the club and wish him well for the future.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/blasters-coach-vicuna-part-ways/article33866419.ece
18 February 2021||MELBOURNE,||Ankita-Rakhimova duo in semifinals||Ankita Raina and Kamilla Rakhimova of Russia beat Vera Lapko and Aliaksandra Sasnovich of Belarus 6-4, 7-6(2) to make semifinals of the Phillip Island Trophy $235,238 WTA tennis tournament here.  Other results:   $235,238 WTA, Melbourne: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Rakhimova & Ankita bt Oksana Kalashnikova (Geo) & Cornelia Lister (Swe) 6-3, 6-4; Petra Martic (Cro) & Anastasija Sevastova (Lat) bt Gabriella Da Silva Fick (Aus) & Pranjala Yadlapalli 6-3, 2-6, [10-6].   $25,000 ITF women, Potchefstroom, South Africa: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Miriam Kolodziejova & Jesika Maleckova (Cze) bt Sandra Samir (Egy) & Riya Bhatia 7-6(3), 6-4.   $15,000 ITF women, Sharm El Sheikh, Egypt: Women: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Raphaelle Lacasse (Can) & Ashmitha Easwaramurthi bt Maie Mettraux (Sui) & Joarina Zawadzka (Pol) 5-7, 6-1, [15-13].   Men: Singles (first round): Sasi Kumar Mukund bt Rimpei Kawakami (Jpn) 6-3, 6-3; Erik Crepaldi (Ita) bt Sahil Gaware 6-0, 6-2; Robert Strombachs (Ger) bt Manish Sureshkumar 6-4, 6-7(6), 6-2.   Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Jonas Forejtek & David Poljak (Cze) bt Anirudh Chandrasekar & Niki Poonacha 3-6, 6-1, [19-17]; Sidharth Rawat & Manish Sureshkumar bt Remy Bertola (Sui) & Emiliano Maggioli (Ita) 6-4, 3-6, [10-2].   Shintaro Imai & Kaito Uesugi (Jpn) bt Volodymyr Uzhylovskyi (Ukr) & Sasikumar Mukund 6-2, 6-2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ankita-and-rakhimova-in-semifinals/article33866313.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Bhakti Anubhuti||Generally, both joy and sorrow are strong emotional states and can cause tears to flow. It is a physical manifestation of one’s inner reaction. The reasons may be varied, such as hunger, or sorrow, pain, longing, and so on. Or it may be caused when one is overcome by pity, compassion and so on. In the case of great devotees, it is an overwhelming feeling arising from the awareness of the Supreme Bliss of God realisation. As a skilled poet, the devout Sekkizhar is able to empathise with the devotional experience of the Nayanmars. This is very clear in his vivid narration of the scene wherein the child Gnanasambandar is blessed by the Lord and Goddess Uma, pointed out Sri R. Asokan in a discourse. The narration is realistic, picturesque and also reveals how devotion, which is a unique blend of the physical with the emotional and the mental states, can transcend to reach an experience beyond all these. Gnanasambandar is a mere child of three, who accompanies his father to the temple. The father places the child on the banks of the temple tank and dives into the waters for his ablutions. The child becomes restless and begins to cry aloud. First the tears start to flow from his eyes and the child brings its palms together and begins to wail aloud. Sekkizhar is able to experience the child’s agitated state even as he captures the natural response of the compassionate Lord and Goddess Uma who are the divine parents for the entire creation. Siva and Uma see the crying child, and, moved by compassion, take on the role of the child’s parents. The Lord asks Goddess Uma to give milk to the child who is appeased and also is endowed with the rare gift of enlightenment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bhakti-anubhuti/article33866265.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Goa back to winning ways||Three points in the bag — finally! FC Goa returned to winning ways, after six consecutive draws, with a resounding 3-1 victory over Odisha FC in their Indian Super League encounter at the Fatorda Stadium, Margao, on Wednesday. Alberto Noguera, Jorge Ortiz and Ivan Gonzalez netted for Goa, while Diego Mauricio got the lone goal for Odisha. FC Goa’s first victory in over a month propelled the Gaurs to the fourth spot, putting it in a firm position to seal one of the two playoff spots up for grabs. Odisha FC remains at the bottom of the table. Final on March 13  PTI reports:  The Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium at Fatorda will host the Indian Super League (ISL) final on March 13 for a record third time, the organisers announced on Wednesday.  The result: FC Goa 3 (Alberto Noguera 18, Jorge Ortiz 26, Ivan Gonzalez 75) bt Odisha FC (Diego Mauricio 30).   Thursday’s match: CFC vs NEUFC .   Playoffs schedule:   March 5: First semifinal-1st leg.   March 6: Second semifinal-1st leg.   March 8: First semifinal-2nd leg.   March 9: Second semifinal-2nd leg.   March 13: Final .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fc-goa-back-to-winning-ways/article33866308.ece
18 February 2021||MUMBAI,||Umesh included for last two Tests||The National selectors have included pacer Umesh Yadav, subject to fitness, in place of Shardul Thakur, who has been released to join Mumbai’s campaign in the Vijay Hazare Trophy, for the last two matches of the ongoing Test series against England. Released for Hazare Trophy Besides Shardul, three other standby players for the Chennai leg — openers Abhumanyu Easwaran and Priyank Panchal, besides left-arm spinner Shahbaz Nadeem who replaced the injured Axar Patel for the series-opener — have also been released for the Vijay Hazare Trophy. The remaining two Tests will start in Ahmedabad on February 24 and March 4 respectively.  The squad:   Virat Kohli (Capt.), Ajinkya Rahane (Vice-Capt.), Rohit Sharma, Mayank Agarwal, Shubman Gill, Cheteshwar Pujara, K.L. Rahul, Hardik Pandya, Rishabh Pant (w.k.), Wriddhiman Saha (w.k.), R. Ashwin, Kuldeep Yadav, Axar Patel, Washington Sundar, Ishant Sharma, Jasprit Bumrah, Mohammed Siraj, and Umesh Yadav (subject to fitness).   Standbys: K.S. Bharat and Rahul Chahar; Net bowlers: Ankit Rajpoot, Avesh Khan, Sandeep Warrier, K. Gowtham and Saurabh Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/umesh-included-for-last-two-tests/article33866268.ece
18 February 2021||KOLKATA,||CAB dedicates training facility for women||The Cricket Association of Bengal on Wednesday dedicated the practice facility at the YMCA in Maidan area here to the State women players and boys’ under-16 and under-19 age group cricketers. This will give the women’s team a permanent training place at the Maidan and help them access the indoor facility, the state-of-the-art gymnasium and the swimming pool at the Eden Gardens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cab-dedicates-training-facility-for-women/article33866573.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Rohan Yareshmi stars for Dharwad with century||Rohan Yareshmi’s 102 helped Dharwad Zone defeat Mysore Zone in the KSCA inter-moffusil under-19 tournament here.  The scores: Shimoga Zone 124 in 35.2 overs (Yashwanth Gowda 34, Bheem Rao 3/35, Thippa Reddy 3/19) lost to Raichur Zone 128/2 in 24 overs (Niteesh Kumar 34 n.o., Vijaya Raj 31, S.P. Shreyas 46 n.o.).   Tumkur Zone 158 in 44.5 overs (T.P. Prapul 38, Shubhang Malakkal 38, M.A. Wasaaf 33) bt Mangalore Zone 114 in 38.2 overs (Chandan Raj 29, Hrishith Shetty 35, Hemanth Kumar 5/8).   Dharwad Zone 269/8 in 50 overs (Kedar Usulkar 34, Rohan Yareshmi 102, Vaibhav Kuribagi 70, Abhay Rangan 3/45) bt Mysore Zone 195 in 48.4 overs (Manvanth Kumar 25, M.K. Yashwanth 45, Aryan Kaveriappa 25, G.R. Abhinandan 25, Sujal Patil 3/56).      Indian Football Factory was held to a 3-3 draw by BUFC in the KSFA super division women’s football league here.  The results: Indian Football Factory 3 (R. Mahalakshmi 54, Anjali 39, Komal Kumar 62-og) drew with BUFC 3 (Sanfida Nangrum 33, 46, Amoolya Kamal 58); Kickstart FC 3 (M. Nandhini 3, M. Resiga 19, P. Kavya 40) bt Rebel FC 1 (Adika Bhosale 78) .    Young Challengers FC defeated Bangalore Dream United FC 2-0 in the BDFA super division football league here on Wednesday.  The results: Young Challengers FC 2 (P. Ankith 58, 73) bt Bangalore Dream United FC 0; ADE FC 1 (V. Santosh 78) drew with FC Deccan 1 (Syed Ahmed 21).   Tuesday’s results: MEG & Centre FC 1 (Lalthaolen Khongsai 6) drew with ASC 1 (Dip Majumdar 42); Students Union FC 2 (Murali Srinivas 70, Ramu Srikanth 79) bt Income Tax FC 0 .    Venkateshwara Rao (132 n.o.) powered Andhra Pradesh past Odisha in the final of the IndusInd Bank National Nagesh Trophy T20 cricket for blind tournament here.  The scores (final): Andhra Pradesh 246/3 in 20 overs (Venkateshwara Rao 132 n.o., T. Durga Rao 47) bt Odisha 166/5 in 20 overs (Sukhram Mazhi 52) .      Unseeded Sree Tanvi upset top seed Ridhi Choudhary 6-2, 4-6, 6-4 to enter the girls’ quarterfinal of the AITA Under-16 tennis tournament hosted by Amogha Sports Tennis Academy here on Wednesday.     Bangalore Urban District Athletic Association (BUDAA) will organise a road race for girls and boys (under-12, U-14, U-16), under the aegis of the Karnataka Athletic Association, on 28 February at the Sree Kanteerava Stadium. Participants will run with a timing chip and will receive a timing certificate. For entry details, call 98455 78089.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rohan-yareshmi-stars-for-dharwad-with-century/article33866779.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,||M-10 Academy triumphs||M-10 Academy beat West Delhi Academy by 114 runs to win the RCC under-13 tournament.  The scores: M-10 Academy 214 in 37.3 overs (Vivaan Jindal 57, Madhur Yadav 42, Aryan Kumar 3/24, Udit Narain 3/34) bt WDA 100 in 29.5 overs (Sahej Wahi 3/18, Moksh Anand 3/34) .    Ishan Negi 83 and Ritik Rajesh 70 not out helped Gyanti Academy beat Friends Academy by nine wickets in the Endurance under-15 league.  The scores: Friends Academy 163/5 in 30 overs (Daksh Taneja 67, Tanish Kumar 44) lost to Gyanti Academy 164/1 in 18.3 overs (Ishan Negi 83, Ritik Rajesh 70 n.o.); RCC Club 130 in 27 overs (Sarthak Pal 41, Ishmeet Singh 5/22) bt Harry Academy 59 in 21.3 overs (Yakshal Kumar 3/4, Shubham Kumar 2/7) .    A 234-run third-wicket stand between Kuldeep Dewatwal (154) and Avneesh Sudha (153) saw Haryana Academy beat Rann Star Club by 180 runs in the Niz Sports u-19 tournament.  The scores: Haryana Academy 355/4 in 40 overs (Kuldeep Dewatwal 154, Avneesh Sudha 153) bt RSC 175/in 36 overs (Keshav Dalal 33, Mohit Malik 3/22) .    Arpit Rana and Yash Dhull slammed centuries as Bal Bhawan Academy beat Sporting Club by 102 runs in the Kiran Chopra memorial Under-18 tournament.  The scores: BBIS 367/5 in 40 overs (Arpit Rana 127, Yash Dhull 117, Dev Lakra 70 n.o.) bt Sporting Club 265/9 in 40 overs (Sarvesh Rohilla 86, Chirag Gupta 76) .    Raghav Kumar picked up four wickets as Mishra Sports beat Mount Club by 26 runs in the Harcourt Butler u-15 tournament.  The scores: Mishra Sports 153 in 38.2 overs (Aryan Budakoti 46, Anshul Gupta 4/20, Saksham Gahlot 3/30) bt Mount Club 127 in 25.1 overs (Raghav Kumar 4/38) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/m-10-academy-triumphs/article33866841.ece
18 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Inter-Ministry badminton||The inter-Ministry badminton tournament will be played at the AIIMS Gymkhana from March 1 to 12. Entries close on Feb. 19 with Ashwani Kumar, CCSCSB, Room No.316-A, Loknayak Bhavan, Khan Market, New Delhi-110003.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/inter-ministry-badminton/article33866840.ece
18 February 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Chauhan, Arora win||Aditya Chauhan and Vanya Arora sailed to the boys’ and girls’ titles in the AITA Championship series junior tennis tournament at the CLTA Complex on Wednesday.  The results (finals): Under-16: Boys: Aditya Chauhan bt Ekamjeet Singh Cheema 6-3, 6-0. Girls: Vanya Arora bt Rubani Kaur Sidhu 6-1, 6-2 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chauhan-and-arora-triumph/article33866576.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 11:00 IST,||Sudoku — February 18, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-february-18-2021/article33867899.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,||When fruit goes postal||Two Brothers Organic Farm “For eight days, after lockdown was announced, everything was shut off. Then we understood: the cows were giving milk, fruit was ripening, the farm kept giving produce. Nothing was going to stop.” Between sentences, Satyajit Hange chats with passing farmers as he walks around his farm in Bhodani, a few hundred kilometres South of Pune, and the cheery bustle intermittently spills into the phone call. With a food forest ringed by trees, a busy 90-year-old kitchen, 65 Gir cows and a horse named Yashwant, life at the 21-acre Two Brothers Organic farm, run by Satyajit and his brother Ajinkya Hange, is vibrant. Things got busier when lockdown began in March 2020. “We became an essential commodity. People wanted good food more than ever before.” Working with a community of farmers and organic shop owners, the brothers did everything possible to ensure produce reached dining tables. “Even if it meant filling our trucks and going to traffic junctions to sell,” says Satyajit, adding that business has doubled since then. One reason for this popularity is their khapli (emmer) wheat flour. An ancient, indigenous wheat, it is tasty, nutritious and easier to digest for people with gluten intolerances. “My forefathers grew khapli , but about 60 years back it began being replaced in farms by more high-yielding wheat,” says Satyajit, adding, “However, it is pest-resistant, drought-resistant and more resilient to climate change.” Satyajit says he also enjoys its rich flavour. “Normal wheat is like eating fluff. You can chew on khapli rotis. The taste is also far better.” The farm is fertilised by its Gir cows (apparently Yashwanth’s only role is supervisory.) “Since we started getting a lot of A2 milk, we researched ancient traditions and began to make ghee,” says Satyajit, explaining how they do it old school, “boiling over firewood, cooling, inoculating with curds, churning every morning between 4 and 6 am, and then melting into ghee.” Working with ayurvedic practitioners, they do brahmi , shatavari and ashwagandha ghees, using herbs growing on the farm. Their produce has also yielded fragrant, crumblytil laddoosbased on a farmer’s grandmother’s recipe. “As and when we come across recipes that can use raw foods we have, we make them,” says Satyajit, adding that they are now working with a farmer to use his roses for gulkand .  For details: www.twobrothersindiashop.com  Sheilas In Kerala, banana jam is an emotion. Summer holidays, cheerful wood-fired kitchens, grandmothers’ dining tables, languid high teas: all bottled into a dark, sticky, comforting sweetness. An admittedly acquired taste, mellow banana jam spiked with the bracing tartness of lime used to be a staple in many Kerala home kitchens. Now, fortunately, Sheila Chacko makes it in small batches at her home in Mundakayam in Kottayam (Kerala), so you don’t need to stir a cauldron over a wood fire for hours. On the phone, Sheila explains how she began making the jam about 10 years ago, following her grandmother’s recipe, using organically-grown “small but sweet” Palayamthodan bananas plucked from trees around her house. She explains the day-long process: “We skin the bananas, wash, slice and then cook them over a wood fire.” The resulting mash is wrung throughthorthus(thin cotton towels) by hand, and then the liquid is simmered again, this time with sugar. As it cooks the jam gets thicker and darker, till it is almost purple. The recipe requires skill to get the texture and colour right, and in many homes this is developed over generations. Sheila says “We have it thickly layered on buttered bread.” She began selling it to use her regular harvest of bananas, then launched a website a month ago to reach customers across the country. Although Sheilas also makes guava jam — also from trees in her compound — she says, in Kerala, her pickles are what have been moving the fastest. “Most of the recipes are from my mother, some I have tweaked. You won’t find a nellikai (gooseberry) pickle like mine. It is a red masala: rather hot but popular.” There are also three seafood pickles: prawn, seer fish and veluri (anchovies). As far as possible, ingredients are procured from the neighbourhood for the business, which is run out of Sheila’s house. “I have four women working with me and we cook in small batches, so everything is fresh,” says Sheila, adding with a laugh, “I get a daily lecture from my family on how I should increase my range. But with 13 products, it’s already a lot of work.” With a market beyond Kerala opening up, she does however have one more item in the works: Mundakayam Marmalade.  For details: www.sheilas.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/when-fruit-goes-postal/article33866757.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Museum of the masses||How will live graffiti manifest on the walls of a museum? Will it be considered blasphemous, or welcomed as an interesting creative possibility? More so, when done to promote Tamil, one of the longest surviving classical languages of India. The heritage museum on DakshinaChitra’s sprawling grounds prepares to embrace Tamil for a weekend, in an attempt to familiarise the urban, contemporary crowd with its history and importance. How do they do it? Through dance, theatre, music, literature and art. In the first edition of what aspires to be an annual affair, DakshinaChitra’s LangFest 2021 also hopes to redefine the institution’s image, from a static museum to an “indie talent-friendly” performance space. When Ajay R stepped in as the assistant curator at the museum, he hoped to break the idea that a museum is “just an informative site”. He says, “Cultural spaces and museums can be fun, too.” Following discussions with Chennai-based curators, artists and designers, the seeds for the festival were sown in the form of a design contest titled TYPE 2021. “We announced four words — sangam , yali , eru thazhuvuthal and therukoothu — and asked designers to send in their creative interpretations of these. We thought of featuring these designs with exhibitions, initially. Then thought, why can’t we make it bigger?” says Ajay of the inception. Though promoting the language of Tamil was already in the cards, doing so through young talent was a decision that was taken to explore the possibilities of the museum space. “Chennaiites unite when they speak about Tamil. We are bringing in people who are enthusiastic about the language. We wanted to look at its past, present and future,” says Ajay. The line-up says the same: from panel discussions on the script and culture of the language, Tamil identity, and how the language manifests in cinema and technology, to theatre performances and workshops on Tamil calligraphy and live graffiti, the event features a little bit of everything. Scholars like Bava Chelladurai and S Raghuraman, film personalities like director Gautam Vasudev Menon, lyricist Madhan Karky and indie artistes like Tenma and Siennor, will feature. Apart from the discussions are a host of theatre, live graffiti, music and folk arts performances: veteran actor Kalairani will perform Song of Lowino, adapted from a poem by Ugandan poet Okot P’Bitek, while Chennai-based graffiti writer Dibs 132 and the Aravani Art Project will showcase live graffiti. Indie musical acts by bands Othasevuru, Black Boys and The Siennor Trio will follow A Mangai’s theatre outing, Vellai Mozhi , performed by transgender author and activist A Revathi. “After 7 pm we are having open mics and jam sessions; BYOI (Bring Your Own Instrument) edition. We are facilitating the idea that anybody who wants to perform, can perform at DakshinaChitra,” says Ajay.  LangFest will be held on February 20 and 21 from 10 am to 9 pm at DakshinaChitra Heritage Museum, Muttukadu. Entry is open to all.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/museum-of-the-masses/article33866768.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,||The devil wears Prada, and so can you||Would you like a pair of Jimmy Choos for the same price as a Zara handbag? Or add a Rs. 80,000 worth Giuseppe Zanotti Peep Toes to your wardrobe for Rs. 17,000? Or wear Tiffany & Co sunglasses that usually cost Rs. 25,000 for Rs. 8,000? And no, you don’t need to scrounge around night markets, or scour the web for first copies. Instead, now experiment with designerwear with a clear concience, via Instagram thrift stores. Globally, the resale market has been growing exponentially. A report by thredUp, one of world’s largest fashion resale platforms, published in 2020, valued the resale market at $28 billion (around Rs. 2 trillion) in 2019. This is expected to grow to $64 billion by 2024. Though there are no official figures for India, a search for ‘#thriftindia’ on Instagram throws up over 6.25 lakh posts and over 60 handles that deal with thrifting. In this fleet of thrift stores that have blossomed in the country over the past two years, there is a recent surge in those that specialise in authentic products from high-end brands. These stores source their products either directly from sellers or chance upon them at physical thrift stores. After sourcing, authenticating, cleaning and photographing, these are made available to a generation of online shoppers who are experimenting with pre-owned clothes and accessories. Finding authentic resellers In 2019, when Chennai-based graphic designer Sruti Ashok set up a pop-up store selling second-hand clothes in the backyard of a cafe, she thought it was a one-time thing. But the overwhelming response she received and the money raised for an NGO through the sales, made her want to turn it into a yearly-affair. “However, in 2020, it was not possible to step out and set it up, so I did what everyone was doing with their business; I took it online. What started as a one-off thing has transitioned into a business, merely because of the response that I have been getting,” laughs Sruti. Started in April 2020, her store, The Relove Closet, has gained over 5,000 followers. Though the store sells a variety of brands, it is well-known for selling high-end luxury brands at prices that are probably less than half their original rate. Versace, Swarovski, Chanel, Roberto Cavalli, Tiffany, Chloe, YSL, Giuseppe Zanotti, Jimmy Choo, Stella McCartney, name it and she has it. “It started when a lady approached me to sell a few of her luxury products on my page and forward the proceedings to a charity that she supported. When we put out her bags and shoes, they sold out in two days. We weren’t expecting such a response for the high-end brands, since they are more expensive than regular ones which we sell for Rs. 700 to Rs. 1,500. The luxury brands are priced between Rs. 3,000 and Rs. 50,000. Due to the increasing online base, I have been approached by several sellers from across India who either want to make money by selling their products or give to charity,” says Sruti whose customer base is largely women in their mid-20s and 30s. The price of the products — approved by the resellers — depends on how often they have been used, the wear and tear they have endured, and visible defects, if any. “It is also a matter of style. If the product is a limited edition; that will definitely reflect in the price. We also check if the original product is on sale and if so, we tend to set a much lower price on our product,” she says. While Sruti is a new member in this rapidly growing market, Kohima-based Jungshi Imti has been doing this for over two years now. He is the man behind the Instagram account @Chichi_n_Co which sells luxury bags, shoes, T-shirts, and dresses. “Thrifting culture is quite popular in the Northeast. Physical thrift stores have been around since I was a child. So we know the process well and are aware which items to pick and which to ignore,” says Jungshi, a 21-year-old college student. Every evening, he visits these stores to source luxury products. Jungshi’s store boasts a massive collection from Louis Vuitton, Marc Jacobs, MCM Worldwide, Kenzo, Givenchy, Guess and Balenciaga. But how does one trust these to be authentic? “There is an elaborate process for that,” says Jungshi, “The easiest way to check if a product is real is to look for its authentication certificate. If that is not found, one has to look for a code that is stamped in the insides of the bags or shoes which when run on the brand’s website gives the date of manufacture, the country where it was manufactured. Some brands like Louis Vuttion have a website that helps you cross-check the date code which is one way to determine if a bag is fake,,” he says.  This is when the educational background of Riya Rokade, a student of styling and mass communication, comes into use. Riya who runs the page, Vintage Laundry, sources her items from Mumbai-based second-hand product suppliers. Needle in a haystack She picks through heaps and heaps of clothes. Once in every few days, she comes across items from luxury brands. Be it a pair of Ralph Lauren jeans or a Versace shirt, the heaps that suppliers source are a treasure trove. “Once I found a quirky jacket which was hand painted. It was only after I put it up for sale on my page, I realised they were all replicas of Picasso’s paintings,” exclaims Riya. The Mumbai-based stylist launched The Vintage Laundry in Feb 2020 but had to shut it down for two months due to the lockdown. “I physically visit my suppliers and then curate the clothes, so it was not possible during the lockdown. Even after the restrictions were eased, I rationed my collection and put up only five clothes every week. Now we drop around 30 pieces every week,” she says. Despite the bumpy start, Riya says that her venture is doing well, thanks to growing awareness about the harms of fast fashion. “Most of the items that I put up are sold in two or three days. Colourful and quirky clothes work best for my account. The only time I had to struggle to sell clothes was when I put out an office-wear collection. Still working from home, people are in no mood to shop for office wear. Jumpsuits, flowing pants, sweatpants, baggy shirts work really well. The trends will change again once offices open up,” she says. And Riya is looking forward to that challenge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-devil-wears-prada-and-so-can-you/article33866764.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,||The Jumbo jet set||Lakshmi is unstoppable. She sways her body to the beat of Tamil songs on the radio. Swarnavalli basks in the sun drying her freshly shampooed hair, while Sengamalam, who became an Internet sensation for her famous bob-cut, is mud bathing. The oldest, Kasthuri, contently chews on koonthal panai , avariety of palm leaves from Kerala. It is a busy morning at the nine-acre rejuvenation camp at Thekkampatti, located along the banks of the Bhavani in Mettupalayam, 50 kilometres from Coimbatore. Twenty-six elephants from 23 temples and three mutts across Tamil Nadu and Puducherry are camped here for a 48-day retreat, organised by the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR& CE) Trust. A circuit of CCD cameras track the movement of elephants at the camp while a solar-fence and eight watch towers are in place to prevent wild animals from entering the premises. At the camp, the jumbos receive 24/7 monitoring by veterinarians and a nutrient-rich diet including varieties of fodder that includes green grass, coconut fronds, and rice balls packed with protein-rich horse gram and yellowmoong. “Healthcare makes a difference to their overall well-being,” says T Saravanan, who is walking his elephant Swarnavalli after her bath. “Along with carrot, beetroot, dates, watermelon and sugarcane, we also give chyawanprash, ashta choornam and other vitamin mixes to boost their energy levels,” he adds. Where friends meet again Besides nutritious food and long walks in the jungle, the camp is also about forging friendships that last a lifetime. Swarnavalli who is from Swarnakaaleeswarar temple in Sivaganga district has found a friend in Parvathi from the Madurai Meenakshi temple. “They enjoy each other’s company during walking and bathing. These elephants are used to human presence. The place draws crowds who come to watch the camping activities,” says Saravanan, adding, “We look forward to meeting mahouts. We chat up, laugh, and have a good time.” The animals rest in turns. Once the line-up of elephants walk back after a relaxing shower, Kumudhavalli heads to the bathing bay with her mahout A Karim Sait in tow. “We scrub her clean for two to three hours and then pamper her with a relaxing bath,” says Karim as he sprays water on her body to start the ritual. Karim comes from a family who have been mahouts for three generations. He says, “Elephants have a lifespan of 120 years. At the camp they get special food like the koonthapanai leaves which is not available in Tamil Nadu. We are eager to learn about the routine of other temple elephants.” Open spaces and regular medical check-ups are a big draw, says Prasanth Sankarankutty who takes care of the 55-year-old Kasthuri from Palani. “The long walks in the mornings and evenings easily cover 10 kilometres and improve their blood circulation. I give her a head massage with oil to cool her down as their bodies generate a lot of heat. Every single elephant has an individual characteristic, like human beings,” smiles Sankarankutty as he hops on to Kasthuri and starts dusting off mud from her head. The camp is a reunion of sorts for Lakshmi (the dancer) from Renugaambal temple in Thiruvannamalai who meets her niece Kumudhavalli from Vaithamaanidhi temple in Tiruchendur. “It’s been an annual ritual for 13 years ever since the camp started. They were babies when we got them from Sonapur in Assam. Bonding with her sister takes her stress away and that’s why you see her dancing and making merry,” says M Rangan, 60, who has been a mahout for four decades. “I spent my childhood at Srirangam. I was enthralled when I saw a procession of elephants. It is my love for the mammal that made me a mahout. Show them love, and they reciprocate.” As our walk ends, we catch Gandhimathi from Tirunelveli and Abayambigai from Mayiladuthurai engage in a friendly duel, mud bathing themselves and making trumpeting sounds. “They are thick friends,” says M Ravikumar, caretaker of Kalyani from Perur temple in Coimbatore. “So are Kalyani and Ramalakshmi from Rameswaram. Every year at the camp, they stand next to each other. I have been with Kalyani from when she was eight. She is 28 now. It’s like bringing up a baby. When you show them love, they are always kind,” says Ravikumar as he gives her trunk a warm rub.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-jumbo-jet-set/article33866765.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Let’s go to the movies||Chennai’s love for cricket and cinema is eternal. While last weekend satiated the hunger of those interested in the sport, the coming week promises to be a treat for people interested in big-screen proceedings. The curtains go up for the 18th Chennai International Film Festival today. Cinephiles might have missed out on the action in 2020 due to the pandemic, but they can hope to get a taste of films from across the world in this edition. With over 90 films playing from 53 countries, there is a buffet of quality content to choose from. But all this takes a lot of effort: festival director Emanadar Thangaraj and the Indo Cine Appreciation Foundation (ICAF) team know that. “I was in Delhi in March 2020 to collect films for our monthly programmes. The first day I was let in to the Embassies, but the next day, I wasn’t, citing COVID-19 protocol,” recalls 80-year-old Thangaraj, a familiar face among the city’s film buffs. A couple of months into the lockdown meant the ICAF team were home, but once the situation eased, they got back to doing what they love the most: watching films and ensuring that more people caught them — this time, by moving to the digital space. “We took that route for a few months post lockdown. In November, we held a physical screening at Alliance Francaise,” he says. But going online was not the only thing that they planned during that rough period. “We were getting a lot of screeners through agents who are known to us,” he says, “Our members watched those and selected content for the festival. We were expecting to hold it even with a 50% turnout, but with the permission for 100% occupancy, we hope to have a great turnout.” Since 2003, the festival has been striving to bring the best of international and Indian films to the public. 2021 will be no different; this year’s line-up includes Iranian film The Slaughterhouse , German film Undine , and the inaugural film, The Girl With A Bracelet. “ These are films that have been critically acclaimed at a global level, and bringing them for people to watch here in our city gives me joy,” he adds. There will also be masterclass sessions conducted by prominent film personalities, something that students of cinema can benefit from. “The audience we get is very discerning. Whenever we put out schedules, they go through the synopsis and make note of the must-watch films, based on their tastes. The encouragement we get from cinema buffs here is what gives us the impetus to take this further.”  Organised by Indo   Cine Appreciation Foundation in association with PVR, the   CIFF is on from today till February 25 at PVR Multiplex (formerly Sathyam Cinemas) and Anna Cinemas. To register, visit www.chennaifilmfest.com   THE BIG SCREEN BUZZ  For the first time, a Tulu language film ( Pingara ) and Oriya language film ( Kalira Atita ) will be screened. There are also films from Afghanistan, Albania and Kyrgystan, among others.  The Fest will open with French filmThe Girl with a Braceletand end with German flickI was, I am, I will be  The selected 13 Tamil films to be screened include Soorarai Pottru , Labour , Chiyangal and The Mosquito Philosophy     With over 90 films playing from 53 countries, there is a lot of quality cinema to choose from||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/lets-go-to-the-movies/article33866759.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Lights out||It is not unusual to lose oneself in a particularly intriguing story, the kind where fictional characters become more familiar than one’s own reality. These characters go on to become second nature and sometimes, you wish to strike a conversation with them, in real time. Powered by the pandemic and technology, this seems to be a plausible scenario now. In an attempt to simulate an escape from reality by means of a story, theatre director Richard Crawford of New York-based Secret Theatre, has created an immersive theatre experience called Redemption Room , where participants get to interact with the characters. Dubbed an “online thriller experience”, the virtual show lets viewers vote, judge and speak to the participants, from the time they purchase tickets. The narrative is solely drawn out by the viewer. This is Secret Theatre’s first outing in India; had it not been for the pandemic, the crew would have flown down for a physical performance this year, says Crawford, who started Secret Theatre a decade back in New York, in an attempt to stray away from the Broadway format. “I wanted to create something a bit progressive, and inexpensive that the people who live in New York could go to, as opposed to tourists, and use interesting buildings in the city,” says Crawford of Secret Theatre’s inception. They started doing shows in warehouses; one of the big ones being Edward Scissorhands . “We saw that the audiences enjoyed interacting with the actors and the storyline. This ethos seeped into all the shows we have done around the world,” adds Crawford. Secret Theatre has since travelled to other parts of the US, Europe and Asia with their plays. With Redemption Room , Crawford takes the concept of immersive theatre to a global scale. The pandemic and the consequent halt to live theatre, fuelled the need to adapt the genre online. “I thought...could I create something global, with characters from all the cities we have done and want to do shows in, and pull off something around that. The audience gets to choose what happens in the play. It was more like directing a movie, and not a play,” he says adding, “It’s been a fun challenge!” But, how can theatre be ‘immersive’ and ‘experiential’ in the online space? “The positive side of creating something like this, is that people across the world can tune in at their own pace. And, the fact that it is a horror thriller makes it more exciting. If you bought the tickets today, you can message the character and they will message you back. You will be able to see their picture and realise that it is a tangible person you are talking to. And, it [the narrative] is going to take a thriller twist which might be an escape that people need in the world right now,” says Crawford. While talking to the characters virtually, the spectator can ask them questions about what they can expect in the narrative and how they can be a part of it. There will also be instructions to fall back on. These interactions lead up to the day of the final show (a secret link will be sent with instructions to the individual), that Crawford says has “some spooky bits.” To soak in the experience, spectators are also encouraged to set up their own spaces (cue: dimmed lights, candles and silence). What’s more? A Mumbai-based actor is present in Redemption Room . Crawford playfully refuses to divulge more information, lest it breaks the suspense.  Tickets to Redemption Room (Rs. 1,400; February 25 to 28) can be bought at www.bookmyshow.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/lights-out/article33866766.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Stairway to heaven||It makes a dramatic entry. Painted in blue, the train emerges from a backdrop of steam and smoke. Chugging towards me, it whistles before halting at platform Number 1 with a hiss. It is early in the morning, the air is nippy, and I am at Mettupalayam Railway Station, thrilled to ride on the Nilgiri Mountain Railway (NMR) toy train, declared a World Heritage Site by UNESCO in 2005. The train services were suspended from March 2020 due to the pandemic; and restarted recently, after nearly 10 months.  “The first-ever trip of the train was on June 15, 1899. After nine years, on October 15, 1908, it got extended till Udhagamandalam,” says K Natrajan, founder of Heritage Steam Chariot Trust. The train connects Mettupalayam with Udhagamandalam via Coonoor after passing through Kallar, Adderly, Runnymede, Wellington, Aravankaadu, Ketti and Lovedale stations. As the train starts moving in a slow rhythm, I sit back and enjoy the scenery unfolding outside my window. For the first five kilometres, it chugs along flat plains cutting through banana plantations, arecanut farms, and fields being readied for farming. A peacock shows off its plumage beside the track, unmindful of the steaming train trundling by. At Kallar, the first station on the route, the rack and pinion system engages and the train begins its ascent through bridges and dark, winding tunnels. The railway between Mettupalayam and Coonoor was constructed using alternate biting teeth technology in rack and pinion arrangement between the rails. “The rack and pinion is a striking engineering feature. It is designed to climb the steepest gradient of 1 in 12 feet, making it the second steepest climb in the world. The rack and pinion extends up to 19 kilometres which is the longest in the world,” explains Natrajan. At Adderly, engineers refill the water tanks and I notice that the locomotive bears the name of Nilgiri flycatcher, an endemic bird that can be seen only in the Nilgiris. “As the train is powered by steam locomotives between Mettupalayam and Coonoor, it halts at regular intervals, to refill water,” says S Prasanna, Station Master. It uses 4,000 litres of water every five kilometres. Workers, who conduct regular maintenance checks for the engine, tell me that the train crosses 250 bridges and passes through 16 tunnels. Each time we enter or emerge from a tunnel, passengers on board cheer loudly. When an Indian gaur shows up, striking a pose amidst the greenery, there are collective sighs all around. The signature whistling, steam and the rustic wooden coaches with long windows take me back in time to the iconic film Sadma featuring Kamal Haasan and Sridevi, shot on this very train. The stretch from Mettupalayam to Coonoor — the first 27 kilometres of the total 46 — trundles through deep valleys, thick forests with dense greenery, and by leafy walls covered in yellow, red, and orange wild flowers that are so close, you can reach out and pluck them. As we near Runnymede, neatly trimmed green patches of tea plantations with towering silver oak trees take over. The place is so green, it tempts each of us to step down and soak up the view. A railing has been erected to mark the forest boundary and down below a stream gurgles. There are garden chairs for passengers to sit and stare. Natrajan points out that Mahatma Gandhi’s ashes were immersed in the nearby wild stream, at the sangamam point of two rivers along the Runnymede. At Coonoor, over sweetmasala chai, onion samosas and paruppu vada , we bid goodbye to the oil-furnace-powered steam locomotive. It is detached and replaced by a diesel engine for the last leg of the journey from Coonoor to Udhagamandalam. Onward it goes through tea plantations, and the blue-green expanse of the Ooty lake. The air is cooler than before, and a whiff of eucalyptus hangs light.  Train trivia The Nilgiri Mountain Railway is one of three Indian railways which were recognised by UNESCO as ‘outstanding examples of hill railways’. The other two are the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway that runs between New Jalpaiguri and Darjeeling in West Bengal and the Kalka–Shimla Railway that connects the Raj’s summer residency at Shimla with Delhi. Nilgiri Railway Company constructed the railway from 1886 to 1899. In January 1903, it was purchased by the government and construction between Coonoor and Udhagamandalam was completed in 1908. The train has six coaches including the first-class and general class compartments. You have to book your tickets much in advance on the IRCTC website as the train has been running full with 180 passengers. The train starts at 7.10 at Mettupalayam and takes fours hours and 50 minutes to reach Udhagamandalam. Coimbatore is the nearest city to reach Mettupalayam. From Coimbatore, it is just an hour journey in a bus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/stairway-to-heaven/article33866737.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Tee totaller||The driving range at the Tamil Nadu Golf Federation (TNGF) — Cosmo Golf Course is having a busy day. It brims with golfers brushing up their skills last minute. Balls are flying off the tee and if you listen keenly, there is a rhythm to it, almost like a drum beat. Avid golfers are getting set for the annual Merchant’s and Banker’s Golf Tournament on February 19, hosted by the Rotary Club of Madras and presented by HMA, in association with Omega Healthcare and The Hindu BusinessLine . The tournament draws nearly 200 participants every year, including some of the country’s top business leaders and industrialists. Each corporate can send two participants per team. The event will follow the stroke play format using the unique ‘double Peoria’ system of handicapping. “The beauty of this sport is even a beginner can participate as long as they have a valid handicap,” says Hemant Chordia, director, fund raising, Rotary Club Of Madras. However, in its 14th edition this time, it is limited to 124 participants, given the pandemic. “We have a waitlist now,” says Chordia. The participants come together to support and enhance community building projects undertaken by the Rotary Club of Madras — the third oldest Rotary Club of India, after Calcutta and Bombay. These include community development, education, vocational training, women empowerment, water and sanitation. “In the last four years, we have built over 2,000 toilets in villages” says Chordia. Last year, they implemented Her Place, restrooms for women in Pondy Bazaar. Tamil Nadu Chief Secretary, Rajeev Ranjan will tee off the event at 6 am on Friday. Chordia says that he, along with president, Kapil Chitale, and golf chair Nikhil Raj are ensuring they maintain precautions. Afternoon slots have been provided to 32 players. “The briefing has been over messages and email. The players will know where to tee off from and as they exit, they will hand over their score cards to the organisers,” explains Chordia adding that though the annual gala dinner will be missed this year, the organisers are pleased that they could carry on with the fund-raising event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/tee-totaller/article33866751.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Museum of the masses||How will live graffiti manifest on the walls of a museum? Will it be considered blasphemous, or welcomed as an interesting creative possibility? More so, when done to promote Tamil, one of the longest surviving classical languages of India. The heritage museum on DakshinaChitra’s sprawling grounds prepares to embrace Tamil for a weekend, in an attempt to familiarise the urban, contemporary crowd with its history and importance. How do they do it? Through dance, theatre, music, literature and art. In the first edition of what aspires to be an annual affair, DakshinaChitra’s LangFest 2021 also hopes to redefine the institution’s image, from a static museum to an “indie talent-friendly” performance space. When Ajay R stepped in as the assistant curator at the museum, he hoped to break the idea that a museum is “just an informative site”. He says, “Cultural spaces and museums can be fun, too.” Following discussions with Chennai-based curators, artists and designers, the seeds for the festival were sown in the form of a design contest titled TYPE 2021. “We announced four words — sangam , yali , eru thazhuvuthal and therukoothu — and asked designers to send in their creative interpretations of these. We thought of featuring these designs with exhibitions, initially. Then thought, why can’t we make it bigger?” says Ajay of the inception.       LangFest will be held on February 20 and 21 from 10 am to 9 pm at DakshinaChitra Heritage Museum, Muttukadu. Entry is open to all.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/museum-of-the-masses/article33866469.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Lights out||It is not unusual to lose oneself in a particularly intriguing story, the kind where fictional characters become more familiar than one’s own reality. These characters go on to become second nature and sometimes, you wish to strike a conversation with them, in real time. Powered by the pandemic and technology, this seems to be a plausible scenario now. In an attempt to simulate an escape from reality by means of a story, theatre director Richard Crawford of New York-based Secret Theatre, has created an immersive theatre experience called Redemption Room , where participants get to interact with the characters. Dubbed an “online thriller experience”, the virtual show lets viewers vote, judge and speak to the participants, from the time they purchase tickets. The narrative is solely drawn out by the viewer. This is Secret Theatre’s first outing in India; had it not been for the pandemic, the crew would have flown down for a physical performance this year, says Crawford, who started Secret Theatre a decade back in New York, in an attempt to stray away from the Broadway format. “I wanted to create something a bit progressive, and inexpensive that the people who live in New York could go to, as opposed to tourists, and use interesting buildings in the city,” says Crawford of Secret Theatre’s inception. They started doing shows in warehouses; one of the big ones being Edward Scissorhands . “We saw that the audiences enjoyed interacting with the actors and the storyline. This ethos seeped into all the shows we have done around the world,” adds Crawford. Secret Theatre has since travelled to other parts of the US, Europe and Asia with their plays. With Redemption Room , Crawford takes the concept of immersive theatre to a global scale. The pandemic and the consequent halt to live theatre, fuelled the need to adapt the genre online. “I thought...could I create something global, with characters from all the cities we have done and want to do shows in, and pull off something around that. The audience gets to choose what happens in the play. It was more like directing a movie, and not a play,” he says.  Tickets to Redemption Room (Rs. 1,400; February 25 to 28) can be bought at www.bookmyshow.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/lights-out/article33866466.ece
18 February 2021||February 18 2021 00:00 IST,||The Jumbo jet set||Lakshmi is unstoppable. She sways her body to the beat of Tamil songs on the radio. Swarnavalli basks in the sun drying her freshly shampooed hair, while Sengamalam, who became an Internet sensation for her famous bob-cut, is mud bathing. The oldest, Kasthuri, contently chews on koonthal panai , avariety of palm leaves from Kerala. It is a busy morning at the nine-acre rejuvenation camp at Thekkampatti, located along the banks of the Bhavani in Mettupalayam, 50 kilometres from Coimbatore. Twenty-six elephants from 23 temples and three mutts across Tamil Nadu and Puducherry are camped here for a 48-day retreat, organised by the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR& CE) Trust. A circuit of CCD cameras track the movement of elephants at the camp while a solar-fence and eight watch towers are in place to prevent wild animals from entering the premises. At the camp, the jumbos receive 24/7 monitoring by veterinarians and a nutrient-rich diet including varieties of fodder that includes green grass, coconut fronds, and rice balls packed with protein-rich horse gram and yellowmoong. “Healthcare makes a difference to their overall well-being,” says T Saravanan, who is walking his elephant Swarnavalli after her bath. “Along with carrot, beetroot, dates, watermelon and sugarcane, we also give chyawanprash, ashta choornam and other vitamin mixes to boost their energy levels,” he adds. Where friends meet again Besides nutritious food and long walks in the jungle, the camp is also about forging friendships that last a lifetime. Swarnavalli who is from Swarnakaaleeswarar temple in Sivaganga district has found a friend in Parvathi from the Madurai Meenakshi temple. “They enjoy each other’s company during walking and bathing. These elephants are used to human presence. The place draws crowds who come to watch the camping activities,” says Saravanan, adding, “We look forward to meeting mahouts. We chat up, laugh, and have a good time.” The animals rest in turns. Once the line-up of elephants walk back after a relaxing shower, Kumudhavalli heads to the bathing bay with her mahout A Karim Sait in tow. “We scrub her clean for two to three hours and then pamper her with a relaxing bath,” says Karim as he sprays water on her body to start the ritual. Karim comes from a family who have been mahouts for three generations. He says, “Elephants have a lifespan of 120 years. At the camp they get special food like the koonthapanai leaves which is not available in Tamil Nadu. We are eager to learn about the routine of other temple elephants.” Open spaces and regular medical check-ups are a big draw, says Prasanth Sankarankutty who takes care of the 55-year-old Kasthuri from Palani. “The long walks in the mornings and evenings easily cover 10 kilometres and improve their blood circulation. I give her a head massage with oil to cool her down as their bodies generate a lot of heat. Every single elephant has an individual characteristic, like human beings,” smiles Sankarankutty as he hops on to Kasthuri and starts dusting off mud from her head. The camp is a reunion of sorts for Lakshmi (the dancer) from Renugaambal temple in Thiruvannamalai who meets her niece Kumudhavalli from Vaithamaanidhi temple in Tiruchendur. “It’s been an annual ritual for 13 years ever since the camp started. They were babies when we got them from Sonapur in Assam. Bonding with her sister takes her stress away and that’s why you see her dancing and making merry,” says M Rangan, 60, who has been a mahout for four decades. “I spent my childhood at Srirangam. I was enthralled when I saw a procession of elephants. It is my love for the mammal that made me a mahout. Show them love, and they reciprocate.” As our walk ends, we catch Gandhimathi from Tirunelveli and Abayambigai from Mayiladuthurai engage in a friendly duel, mud bathing themselves and making trumpeting sounds. “They are thick friends,” says M Ravikumar, caretaker of Kalyani from Perur temple in Coimbatore. “So are Kalyani and Ramalakshmi from Rameswaram. Every year at the camp, they stand next to each other. I have been with Kalyani from when she was eight. She is 28 now. It’s like bringing up a baby. When you show them love, they are always kind,” says Ravikumar as he gives her trunk a warm rub.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-jumbo-jet-set/article33866463.ece
18 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Have digital footprints of those involved in ‘toolkit’ case: police||A Delhi police team investigating the ‘toolkit’ case on Wednesday claimed they have digital footprints of all the persons involved in the case and alleged that their aim was to create unrest in the country on Republic Day. Providing background, a senior police officer who chose not to be named claimed that the plan failed miserably because police showed maximum restraint and added that the alleged plan to create a ‘toolkit’ to amplify the farmers’ protest was started from January 3 onwards. A senior police officer alleged that Poetic justice foundation (PJF) founder Mo Dhaliwal’s close aide Puneet was in close contact with Nikita Jacob, Shantanu and Disha Ravi through social media and contacted Nikita and Shantanu via Instagram in the first week of December. “On January 3, they started creating the ‘toolkit’ and on January 6, a WhatsApp group was created by Disha after getting instructions from Dhaliwal. All members used to interact through Zoom app and put their thoughts and make strategies for farmers’ protest,” the officer said. On January 9, they decided to work together and they started working on ‘toolkit’ and on January 21, Shantanu joined farmers’ protest at the Tikri border, he alleged. Global Action Day The police claim that the final version of ‘toolkit’ was prepared on January 23 and it was sent to Dhaliwal for approval. On January 26, PJF announced ‘Global Day Action’ with hashtag ‘AskIndiaWhy’, said the officer. “We have identified three persons, who were the part of the WhatsApp group. One of them is a member of the UK chapter of Extinction Rebellion (XR) who along with Nikita and Shantanu drafted content between February 1 and 2 for a tweet storm planned for February 4 and 5. The role of PJF and Sikhs For Justice group is under the scanner. Their plan of massive riots in Delhi failed miserably on Republic Day,” said the officer. On February 3, Disha shared the ‘toolkit’ with Greta that had a plan how to proceed further. But Greta tweeted it mistakenly, the police alleged. “We have digital footprints of every person involved in the conspiracy. We haven’t got the order copy of Bombay court judgment. We will explore legal help before proceeding further,” the officer added.  The role of PJF and Sikhs For Justice group is under the scanner. Their plan of massive riots in Delhi failed miserably on Republic Day police officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/have-digital-footprints-of-those-involved-in-toolkit-case-police/article33866486.ece
18 February 2021||Ghaziabad,||Attempt being made to divide farmers, says Jayant Chaudhary||Responding to the charge that the farmers’ movement is being run by one community, Rashtriya Lok Dal vice-president Jayant Chaudhary said on Wednesday that it was an “attempt to divide farmers” on caste lines. “I have been told a meeting was called by the Home Minister in Delhi where it was said that Jats are running the farmers’ protest and they have to be set right. This language is against the voice of the Constitution,” Mr. Chaudhary said. Addressing the tenth farmers’ panchayat in 15 days against the contentious farm laws, the RLD leader said it was not the protest of one caste, but the movement of farmers. “It is a matter of shame that after dividing us into religious lines, an attempt is being made to create fissures among farmers on the basis of caste, gotras, and khaps,” he said. Mr. Chaudhary, who knows MSP of most crops by heart, once against announced the official rates and asked farmers to say the actual prices they were getting. “It is a fight to save farmers identity and you should identify those who are standing by you in this battle,” he said. Foreign funds Mr. Chaudhary said the hand that farmers had lent to him, he would hold it tight. “The road ahead could be filled with obstacles, but we will take this movement forward,” he said. “The government is claiming that the protests are receiving funds from outside India. Has any of you received any such funds,” the RLP leader asked farmers.  Support for activists Speaking in favour of young activists and journalists, Mr. Chaudhary said those who were speaking on farmers’ issues, the government was putting them behind bars. “Modiji came to power riding on the vote of the youth. Now, they are putting young activists in jail.” he said. He again appealed to the farmers that unless they render a “political blow” to the Bharatiya Janata Party, their movement would not be a success. “When their chair goes, they should have the word kisan on their lips,” he urged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/attempt-being-made-to-divide-farmers-says-jayant-chaudhary/article33866476.ece
18 February 2021||Ghaziabad,||Chargesheet filed against priest in Budaun rape case||Police have dropped the gang-rape charge in the charge sheet filed against a priest and his two aides in the alleged gang rape and murder of an Anganwadi worker in Ughaiti area of Budaun district of Uttar Pradesh. The middle-aged woman, a resident of Kywali village, died under mysterious circumstances on January 3 when she went to pray at a temple in the neighbouring Mevli village. Temple priest Satyanarayan and his aides, Jaspal and Vedram, were arrested under sections 302 and 376D of the IPC after the case created a massive outrage in the region. Budaun Senior Superintendent of Police Sankalp Sharma said Satyanarayan had been charged with murder and rape under sections 302 and 376 of the IPC while Vedram and Jaspal have been accused of hiding evidence under section 201 of the IPC. The charge sheet was filed on the basis of forensic reports, mobile location of the accused at the time of the crime and CCTV footage of the Chandausi hospital where the accused took the victim after she allegedly fell into the well, he stated.  ‘Strong evidence’ “No possibility of gang-rape was found in the investigation, which revealed that the deceased did fall into the well. But it also found marks of resistance. There is strong forensic evidence of sexual assault against the priest and the case would be heard in a fast-track court,” he observed. On why the charges against the two aides were diluted, he said witnesses and call records corroborated that they reached the spot after the incident. Compensation The son-in-law of the deceased said they had yet to receive the full compensation amount and that he had received threats from unidentified persons in the village. “The SHO did visit the village and told people close to the priest that action would be taken against them if they indulge in any verbal or physical assault, but one doesn’t know...,” he stated. Mr. Sharma said the compensation amount in such cases was released in instalments at the FIR, charge sheet, and conviction stages. “We are in the process of the second stage and we will ensure the security of the family,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/chargesheet-filed-against-priest-in-budaun-rape-case/article33866477.ece
18 February 2021||JAIPUR,||Petrol crosses Rs. 100 mark in Rajasthan||After a continuous increase in the fuel rates for the last several days, the price of petrol on Wednesday crossed the Rs. 100 per litre mark in Rajasthan’s Sriganganagar district. The petrol and diesel prices in Sriganganagar soared to Rs. 100.13 and Rs. 92.13, respectively. In Anuppur of Madhya Pradesh, petrol is priced at 99.90 per litre and diesel at Rs. 90.35. Rajasthan has one of the highest value added tax (VAT) rates on fuel among the big States in the country, despite the State government having reduced VAT on both petrol and diesel by 2% last month. The petrol rates touched the record high apparently because of transportation cost, as the fuel is supplied to Sriganganagar, situated in northern Rajasthan, from Jodhpur and Jaipur depots. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot had earlier this week blamed the Centre for the rising fuel prices, while pointing out that the State government would lose annual tax revenue of Rs. 1,000 crore by reducing VAT on fuels by 2%. He said in the State Assembly that the Centre had increased special excise duty in which the States did not have a share.  ‘Reduce VAT’ Rajasthan Petroleum Dealers’ Association president Sunit Bagai said the State government had increased VAT on petrol and diesel by 6% each during the COVID-19 lockdown. The VAT, which was still high, should be brought down, as the high fuel prices would make the movement of goods costlier and increase the hardships of common people, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/petrol-crosses-rs-100-mark-in-rajasthan/article33866474.ece
18 February 2021||Kanpur,||Bag with Rs. 1.4 cr. found inside train||An unclaimed bag containing cash worth around Rs. 1.4 crore was found in the Swatantrata Sangram Senani special train, a senior official said on Wednesday. The recovery was made on Tuesday while the train was on its way to Jaynagar in Bihar from Delhi, said Deputy Chief Traffic Manager Himanshu Shekhar. The train’s pantry staff spotted the unclaimed red coloured trolley bag and reported the matter to the railway authorities, the Railway Protection Force (RPF) and the Government Railway Police (GRP) personnel took the bag into their custody, he said. The bag was opened in presence of railway’s commercial staff, the RPF and the GRP and it was found packed with wades of currency notes, he added. The cash was handed over to the GRP who informed the IT officials. The pantry staff said they were not aware of who left the bag in the compartment, Mr. Shekhar said, adding that the GRP officers would investigate the matter. He said so far neither has any one claimed the bag nor lodged a complaint about it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bag-with-rs-14-cr-found-inside-train/article33866481.ece
18 February 2021||New Delhi,||Cong. councillor from Malka Ganj joins AAP||Aam Aadmi Party on Wednesday said that a sitting Congress councillor from Malka Ganj, Guddi Devi Jatav, has joined the party. The by-election to five seats of the corporations is to be held on February 28. AAP leader and party in-charge for municipal corporations, Durgesh Pathak said: “Ms. Jatav has joined the Aam Aadmi Party. She is a sitting Congress councillor and will continue as councillor. I have been witnessing Ms. Jatav’s point of views at the house of municipal corporation. I am very confident that by her induction to the party, the Timarpur Aam Aadmi Party organisation will become stronger. We all will work together and remove the BJP from the municipal corporations.” AAP senior leader and MLA Dilip Pandey said that during the last few days various people have been joining AAP and the party is expanding significantly. Ms. Jatav said: “I am very happy to join AAP. I also want to thank Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. I will work shoulder-to-shoulder with AAP volunteers.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cong-councillor-from-malka-ganj-joins-aap/article33866488.ece
18 February 2021||New Delhi,||Over 15,000 beneficiaries vaccinated in Delhi||A total of 15,337 beneficiaries took the COVID-19 vaccination in the city on Wednesday and there were four Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI), said a Delhi government spokesperson. Of the total beneficiaries, 3,633 healthcare workers received the first dose and 1,072 their second dose. Also, 10,632 front-line workers received the first dose of the vaccine. . There were 300 vaccination sites on Wednesday, of which 210 were using Covishield and 90 used Covaxin. Of the four adverse events, two each were from first doses of Covishield and Covaxin. There were no adverse events from the second dose, according to govt. data. 134 new cases Delhi witnessed 134 new COVID-19 cases in 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 6,37,315, according to a health bulletin. No death was reported on Wednesday. The total number of deaths stood at 10,894. A total of 59,886 tests were conducted in the day, said the bullettin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/over-15000-beneficiaries-vaccinated-in-the-capital/article33866489.ece
18 February 2021||JAIPUR,||Aspirational districts gear up for children’s nutrition||The five aspirational districts in Rajasthan have geared up to improve nutritional status of children with the distribution of fortified rice through midday meal scheme and the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS). The initiative will be launched from April this year. Fortified rice will be supplied from the godowns of the Food Corporation of India (FCI) with the estimates of 4,551 metric tonnes for midday meal scheme and 77,736 metric tonnes for ICDS. The five aspirational districts selected in the State by NITI Aayog are Baran, Dholpur, Jaisalmer, Karauli and Sirohi. Food and Civil Supplies Secretary Naveen Jain said here on Wednesday that the fortified rice would have sufficient contents of iron, zinc, vitamins B1 and B12 and folic acid as well as micronutrients. The distribution of fortified rice at Anganwadi centres would help remove malnutrition among children and women, he said.  Pregnancy care Some other districts in the State are likely to be included in the next two phases of the programme. An online pregnancy and child care system is already operative in the aspirational districts, for which the development partners, such as UNICEF and UNFPA, are rendering technical assistance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aspirational-districts-gear-up-for-childrens-nutrition/article33866479.ece
18 February 2021||Agartala,||No alliance with INPT, says Tripura royal scion||Tripura royal scion Pradyot Kishore Debbarman on Wednesday dismissed reports that his party, the Tripura Indigenous People’s Regional Alliance (TIPRA), had forged an alliance with the Indigenous Nationalist Party of Tripura (INPT) for the upcoming elections to the Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous district Council (TTAADC). INPT president Bijoy Hrangkhawl recently claimed that they had reached to an electoral understanding with the TIPRA. “I have told INPT leaders that they should first recognise my ideology of Greater Tipraland and then we can talk on alliance issues,” Mr. Debbarman told reporters, adding that an electoral alliance should not be just limited to the TTAADC elections but should be relevant for the Assembly election in the State in 2023. “I will not accept any short time alliance,” he said, adding that he would not compromise with the concept of the Greater Tipraland. Mr. Debbarman earlier said that the tribal dominated areas that were left out should be included under the TTAADC which should eventually be recognised as the Greater Tipraland. He said his demand was not aimed at hurting any community, but supporting the indigenous people of the State and establishing their rights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/no-alliance-with-inpt-says-tripura-royal-scion/article33866480.ece
18 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. unnecessarily linking Disha to Khalistan: farmers||Protesting farmers at the Singhu border said the arrest of climate change activist Disha Ravi was wrong and there was no possibility of her to be linked to “Khalistan” or “Khalistani movement”. Gurjant Singh (67) from Moga said: “She is a south Indian girl. Why would she be concerned with Khalistan and the movement? They’re unnecessarily linking her to Khalistan”, adding that the government, “from the very beginning” is trying to link the protest with Khalistan. “We are not and never associated with any such movement. We are only here for our rights”. Jaswant Singh said that the “government has reached a new low” by authorising arrests of young women like Ms. Ravi and activist Nodeep Kaur, who is also lodged in jail. “If we were Khalistanis and had weapons, why would we sit here peacefully? By arresting young women who are supporting the farmer’s protest, they are trying to scare us but they don’t know that our women are prepared to be arrested if that’s what their plan is,” he said. ‘Will favour us’ Some farmers said that the arrest, though wrong, will work in their favour. “With these arrests, they’re bringing more attention towards us. Also, the UNO is watching everything. Even if we lose, we’ll complete three months of protest within a few days and make a record,” said a protester from Maharashtra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-unnecessarily-linking-disha-to-khalistan-farmers/article33866482.ece
18 February 2021||New Delhi,||Chowk to be named after Rinku: North Delhi Mayor||North Delhi Mayor Jai Prakash visited the family of Rinku Sharma, who was allegedly murdered last week in Mangolpuri, on Wednesday and announced that the road intersection near his house will be named after him. A day earlier, BJP leader Kapil Mishra had met Sharma’s family to provide financial assistance of Rs. 1 crore and alleged that the youth was targeted and killed for taking part in collection of donation for Ram temple construction in Ayodhya.The BJP, VHP and Bajrang Dal have alleged that the incident was a fallout of Sharma’s participation in a donation drive for the Ram temple. “The North Delhi Municipal Corporation will name Mangolpuri chowk in the name of Rinku Sharma, for which a proposal will be tabled by the area councillor Raj Prakash,” the Mayor was quoted as saying in a statement issued by his office. BJP national vice president and Delhi unit in-charge Baijayant Jay Panda, North West Delhi MP Hansraj Hans and Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta also met Sharma’s family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/chowk-to-be-named-after-rinku-north-delhi-mayor/article33866487.ece
18 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. waging war against youth: NSUI||The National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) on Wednesday protested against the arrest of climate change activist Disha Ravi and said that the government was “waging a war” against students and the country’s youth. Citing instances of recent arrests, the NSUI said, “By waging a war against students and the youth of India, [Prime Minister] Narendra Modi’s authoritarian face has been exposed once again.” NSUI president Neeraj Kundan said, “The government uses tough laws and misuses them to silence all dissenting voices.” The union said, “The autocratic government is trying to suppress the people who stand or point against the government.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-waging-war-against-youth-nsui/article33866483.ece
18 February 2021||Ghaziabad,||Four held for unauthorised COVID-19 vaccination||The Gautam Buddha Nagar Police on Wednesday arrested four persons in connection with unauthorised COVID 19 vaccination in Dadri town of the district. On Tuesday, four persons were detained after a team of the district health department raided Gopal Pathology Lab after it was ascertained that 18 people were vaccinated with the unauthorised vaccine at the camp. The premises were sealed, and more than 200 vials were seized. At present, only two vaccines: Covishield and Covaxin are approved for use in India.  ‘No permission taken’ Deepak Ohri, Chief Medical Officer, Gautam Buddha Nagar described it as a “fraud” exercise. “No permission was taken from the district health department for the camp. When we came to know about a vaccination drive being conducted in Dadri through social media, I sent a team to look into the matter.” Dr. Ohri said those who were conducting the exercise claimed that they were doing the third phase clinical trial of the vaccine developed by Zydus Cadila Healthcare Limited on behalf of Flores Hospital Ghaziabad. “Vaccination and clinical trial are two different things and for both clear SOPs have been laid out. It was a fraud. The lab was unregistered. We are looking into the role of Flores Hospital,” he said. Rajveer Singh Chauhan, SHO Dadri, said an FIR has been registered under section 420 of the IPC. “We have arrested four persons who were ‘vaccinating’ people,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/four-held-for-unauthorised-covid-19-vaccination/article33866478.ece
18 February 2021||New Delhi,||Nursery admissions to commence today||Nursery admission to over 1,700 private, unaided, recognised schools of Delhi is set to commence from today after being delayed by over two months due to the pandemic. Although schools are yet to open, the Delhi government had announced last week the criteria for schools to conduct the admission process. The last date to fill in applications is March 4.The first and second list will be released on March 20 and March 25, respectively with the DoE aiming to complete the entire process by March 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/nursery-admissions-to-commence-today/article33866485.ece
