19 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Rail roko’ by farmers passes off peacefully||Protesting farmers sat on railway tracks at hundreds of locations and stopped some trains during a four-hour ‘rail roko’ agitation on Thursday. The Railways said there was a “negligible” impact on the running of trains across the country. For a few passengers on trains stopped by the agitation, the ‘rail roko’ involved showering of flower petals and jaggery and distribution of milk by protesting farmers. In other locations, tractors were brought onto the tracks. Farm unions said thousands had participated in the nationwide agitation, including protests at a large number of stations in Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Jharkhand, Telangana, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka. Although protesters were detained at several locations, both the unions and the Railways said the protest passed off peacefully, without any incidents of violence. In Punjab, where farmers blocked rail lines and stations for several weeks last year, the core group of 32 protesting unions laid siege to tracks in at least 40 locations, according to Jagmohan Singh, general secretary of the Bharatiya Kisan Union-Dakaunda. “Farmers peacefully sat on a dharna on railway tracks to convey their anguish,” he said. Women join protest The BKU-Ekta Ugrahan, one of the largest farm unions in the State, which is not part of the 32 unions, said its members blocked the tracks at 22 locations, including Bathinda, Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Patiala districts. The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, which had refused to lift the earlier blockade of passenger trains even when other unions relented, blocked tracks at over 30 places including Amritsar, Gurdaspur and Kapurthala. Farmers, supported by khap panchayats, traders and workers’ unions, blocked rail lines at 44 points across Haryana, with a large number of women taking part in the Rohtak and Charkhi Dadri districts. Hisar, Sirsa, Jind and Rohtak accounted for more than half the protest sites. In Bahadurgarh, one of the sites of the sit-in agitation for the past two months, farmers blocked railway traffic at five points. Leading the agitation at Patuwas, farmer leader Raju Maan said they were ready to make any sacrifice to get the farm laws repealed. In Rajasthan, farmers brought a tractor on the track near the Ajarka station in Alwar district to block the movement of trains. A large group gathered at the Gandhi Nagar station in Jaipur and climbed on the engine of a goods train.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rail-roko-by-farmers-passes-off-peacefully/article33875564.ece
19 February 2021||TIRUPATI,||Veterans honoured on Indo-Pak war golden jubilee||It was a moment of goosebumps when the three award-winning Indo-Pak war veterans from Andhra Pradesh were honoured on the occasion of the ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’, the golden jubilee year of the war. Lieutenant Colonel Chittoor Venugopal, while commanding a battalion of Gorkha Rifles during the operations on the eastern front on the 4th of December 1971, came face to face with a well-fortified enemy defences at Uthali and Darsana. The position had a series of concrete pillboxes inter-connected with elaborate communication trenches. Showing scant regard for his personal safety, he planned the attack with great professional skill and led his team in capturing the two vital positions. The battalion relentlessly pursued the withdrawing enemy, giving them no time to regroup till Jhenida was captured three days later. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and others visited the residence of Major General Venugopal (95), a recipient of Maha Vir Chakra, and presented him a memento marking the 50th year of the momentous victory over Pakistan, on Thursday. In a personal chat with the nonagenarian, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy expressed awe at his age-defying agility. The Chief Minister later left for the mega event, where the family members of the other two war veterans, Naik Jajula Sanyasi, commander of a recoilless gun detachment of the battalion in Shakargarh Sector, and Sepoy Kolli John Krishthaper, serving a battalion of the Madras Regiment, were honoured. When the advancing Indian troops suffered a setback due to medium machine gun fire from two enemy bunkers, it was Sanyasi who manoeuvred his gun and destroyed both bunkers, for which valorous act he was awarded the Vir Chakra. Similarly, Krishthaper dashed through the only opening in a wall all alone and silenced the enemy with hand grenades. He too received Vir Chakra posthumously.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-honours-war-veterans/article33875557.ece
19 February 2021||Kolkata,||Mamata blames Railways for bomb attack||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday asked the Railways to own responsibility for the “lapses” resulting in the attack on Minister of State for Labour Jakir Hossain. She alleged that the incident was a “big conspiracy to kill him”. Mr. Hossain was injured in a bomb blast at the Nimtita railway station in Murshidabad district when he was about to catch a train to Kolkata late on Wednesday evening. The Jangipur MLA is also a prominent industrialist owning bidi-making factories. He suffered serious injuries to his legs and hands. “First of all, it happened at a railway station, and at the time of the blast there were no railway police. The place was dark as there were no lights on. The incident occurred on a railway property. It is not part of the law and order of the State,” Ms. Banerjee told journalists after visiting the State-run SSKM Hospital where Mr. Hossain and his supporters are admitted. Putting the blame squarely on the Railways, she questioned why they were taking such a serious “matter casually”. Opposition parties have raised questions on the State’s handling of law and order situation. The Left-Congress alliance and the BJP said law and order in the State had reached such low that ministers were not being spared. Goyal’s tweet “I condemn the dastardly bomb attack at Nimtita Railway Station in West Bengal. My prayers are for the quick recovery of the injured,” Railway Minister Piyush Goyal had tweeted. The Chief Minister said a special task force of the police’s Criminal Investigation Department had started a probe into the incident. Accusing the Railways of “non-cooperation”, she said that the blast was executed through a “remote device and many people have lost limbs in the attack”. “Mr. Hossain is in a serious condition. I spoke to him over telephone before he was taken to operation theatre,” she said. Fourteen people sustained serious injuries and 26 minor injuries in the attack. The government would provide a compensation of Rs. 5 lakh to those with serious injuries and Rs. 1 lakh to those with minor injuries. It would also provide prosthetic limbs to those injured, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mamata-blames-railways-for-bomb-attack/article33875723.ece
19 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||People yet to shed fears over vaccine||Public response to the COVID-19 vaccine has been lukewarm in Visakhapatnam district, with apprehensions over its side-effects still lurking in people’s minds. The vaccine was rolled out by the Union Government in coordination with States across the country on January 16. However, the response has not been desirable in the district, according to officials. From January 16 to till date, the number of health workers vaccinated in the first phase and the frontline workers in the second phase is around 35,000. Apprehensions among the people on the efficacy and side-effects of the vaccine continue to deter people from taking the jab, despite a large number of doctors and senior officers taking the vaccine and the number of adverse reactions being limited to a very miniscule number. In Visakhapatnam district, the ratio of people suffering from some kind of side-effect is around 1 for every 3,000. Of the 27,000 health workers who have taken the vaccine in the district in the first phase of rollout, adverse reactions have been seen in just two, said District COVID Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar. The ratio is 1:14,000, but despite that still people are sceptical, he added. So far in the district, hospitalisation was required for only two persons and both were patients of chronic asthma. Both suffered from anxiety neurosis, as they were patients of blood pressure. But they were discharged within two days, after mild medication, said Dr. Sudhakar. According to District Immunology Officer Jeevan Rani, while both phases are running simultaneously, there has been a slowdown due to the local body elections. We hope to pick up the pace again by the middle of March, she said. South African strain According to Dr. Sudhakar, so far the district has not recorded any of the strains from Britain, South Africa or Brazil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/people-yet-to-shed-fears-over-taking-covid-jab/article33876252.ece
19 February 2021||Coimbatore,||Two infants die within 24 hours of vaccination in Coimbatore||Two boys, both aged around two-and-a-half months, died within 24 hours of receiving regular paediatric vaccines in Coimbatore, the Health Department said on Thursday. The officials denied any link between the vaccination and the two deaths. Sources in the Health Department and District Administration said the first baby was vaccinated at an anganwadi in Masakalipalayam near Singanallur and the second baby was vaccinated at an urban primary health centre in Sowripalayam on Wednesday. Both were administered three vaccines – Pentavalent, rotavirus vaccine (RVV) and oral polio vaccine (OPV) – during their routine vaccinations at around 11 a.m. on Wednesday. The first baby reportedly developed difficulty in breathing after being brought to his residence at Masakalipalayam by his mother. She rushed him to the Upplipalayam Primary Health Centre and the baby was subsequently referred to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH), where the baby was declared as dead on arrival on Wednesday afternoon, the sources said. Following the completion of autopsy at CMCH on Thursday, pneumonic consolidation (filling of liquid) was discovered in the upper left lobe of the left lung and no adverse reactions due to vaccination were recorded. The child might have contracted pneumonia a week prior to his death, according to the sources. Meanwhile, the second baby was reportedly healthy till the end of Wednesday but did not wake up on Thursday. His parents took him to a private hospital at around 6 a.m. on Thursday, where the doctors declared the boy as dead on arrival. Sources said that the 13 other babies that were administered the vaccines at Masakalipalayam anganwadi were normal. Similarly, 14 children, excluding the deceased boy, were vaccinated at Sowripalayam UPHC on Wednesday and no adverse reactions were reported as of Thursday. The Health Department will send the vaccines administered to both the babies for laboratory testing, according to the sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-infants-die-after-vaccination-in-coimbatore/article33875669.ece
19 February 2021||MANGALURU,||Two kg gold seized from four air passengers||The Customs recovered from four passengers more than 2 kg gold that was being illegally smuggled into the international airport here on Thursday. The Customs recovered 1.103 kg and 805 grams gold respectively from two women passengers. The gold in powder form was mixed with gum and concealed in sanitary napkins. The passengers were identified after profiling and the gold was recovered. The Customs seized 404 grams of gold from a passenger who had concealed it in pouches. The Customs recovered 303 grams of gold from a 50-year-old passenger from Bhatkal who had concealed it in his rectum. The seizure was made by a team led by Deputy Commissioner Avinash Kiran Rongali and Superintendent Manokatyayini Bikram Chakraborty, said a press release.   The seizure was made by a team led by Deputy Commissioner Avinash Kiran Rongali and Superintendent Manokatyayini Bikram Chakraborty||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-kg-gold-seized-from-four-air-passengers/article33876177.ece
19 February 2021||Mumbai,||Congress questions silence of actors on fuel price hike||Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole on Thursday said that if actors like Amitabh Bachchan and Akshay Kumar who had tweeted against fuel price hike during the UPA rule failed to take a stand now, the party would not let shooting of their films take place within the State. “When the petrol price touched Rs. 70 per litre when Manmohan Singh was Prime Minister, actors like Mr. Bachchan and Mr. Kumar used to tweet against the government. Now that the petrol prices are touching Rs. 100 per litre, they are not uttering a word. Why is it so?” Mr. Patole asked. “If they do not take a stand now on the injustice meted out by the Central government under Narendra Modi, we will not let shootings of their films go ahead,” he said. Nationalist Congress party too slammed both the actors. “He (Mr. Kumar) is a citizen of Canada. Mr. Bachchan seemed to have suffered a memory loss about his past statements on the fuel price hike. Now they both find themselves cornered. What was the need in the first place to even enter into such a political game?” State Housing Minister Jitendra Awhad said. The Bharatiya Janata Party condemned the statement made by Mr. Patole. “Speaking about big actors gives publicity. We live in democracy and irrespective of whether a party is ruling or not, it cannot make such threats,” former Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/congress-questions-silence-of-actors-on-fuel-price-hike/article33876197.ece
19 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||PM to open three projects for city||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate through videoconference three projects here as part of SmartCity project on Friday. Mr. Modi will lay the foundation stone for an integrated command and control centre at the city Corporation office. The centre, to be built at a cost of Rs. 94 crore, will function as a control room in times of emergency. It will help unify the functioning of the police, Health, Revenue, and Food Safety Departments and the Fire and Rescue Services. The stone for the Rs. 427-crore smart roads scheme will also be laid on the occasion. The scheme aims at upgrade of 37 km of roads in the city to international standards. A 75-mld water treatment plant built at Aruvikkara as part of AMRUT Mission. The Rs. 20-crore project will provide 9.76 lakh people in the city drinking water. It will also help prevent supply disruptions when maintenance is taken up at the existing plant at Aruvikkara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pm-to-open-three-projects-for-city/article33876269.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,||3 girls found unconscious in Unnao, 2 die||Two minor girls were declared brought dead to hospital and another was in a serious condition after they were found in an unconscious state in a field at a village in Unnao district of Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday, the police said. The Dalit girls were found in the field in the evening by villagers when they did not return after leaving their house to collect fodder for cattle, sources said. Director-General of Police H.C. Awasthy said the cause of deaths could not be ascertained in the post-mortem, and the viscera had been preserved for chemical examination. No injury mark was found on the bodies of the deceased in the autopsy, he said. The officer said the third girl had been referred to a Kanpur hospital for better treatment. “According to the medical bulletin, it is a suspected case of poisoning and her condition is critical but stable,” he said. Six teams have been formed to investigate “all possible angles,” he added. Ramesh Chandra Prayalankar, Circle Officer, Purwa, said an FIR had been registered against unidentified persons under IPC Sections 302 and 201.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/3-girls-found-unconscious-in-unnao-2-die/article33875561.ece
19 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||‘Metroman’ set to join BJP||Elattuvalapil Sreedharan, Principal Adviser to the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation and popularly known as ‘Metroman’, is all set to join the BJP. Kerala State BJP president K. Surendran said in Kozhikode on Thursday that Mr. Sreedharan, 88, would officially join the party during the inauguration of the State-wide Vijaya Yatra from Kasaragod on February 21. The party had already requested him to contest the polls, Mr. Surendran added. Mr. Sreedharan said his approach to politics would be different and that he was open to contesting the coming Assembly election if the party wanted. “This has been communicated to the party’s State leadership. Formalities like taking the membership remain,” he told The Hindu over phone from his hometown Ponnani. “Since I have settled down in Kerala, I have seen different governments and the United Democratic Front and the Left Democratic Front have not been able to do anything substantial for the people over the years. Projects are delayed and corruption is rampant. Only parties leading the coalition fronts had benefited. There is no rapport with the Union government and the State is the ultimate loser and the political parties the gainer. A BJP government can alter this scenario,” he said. Mr. Sreedharan admitted that he was a “sympathiser” of the BJP since Narendra Modi became the Prime Minister. “I had worked with him closely when he was Chief Minister of Gujarat. There are black sheep in every political party. But the BJP is different as they have very few black sheep. Moreover, they do not give patronage to them,” he points out. “I am not against veteran Congress leader Oommen Chandy and Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan was nice to me. I am against how their party functions and on the State being denied the opportunities and benefits,” says Mr. Sreedharan. “If I am offered a seat to contest by the party, the campaign strategy will be different. I am against using money power and muscle power to win the elections.” Mr. Sreedharan sees a bright future for Kerala if it concentrates on infrastructure and industry. “No major industry has come to Kerala in the last two decades. The government has not been able to address the issues like nookukooli . Only industries can usher in employment and development,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/metroman-set-to-join-bjp/article33875558.ece
19 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||HC gives conditional relief to Nani||The High Court on Thursday granted permission to Civil Supplies Minister Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao (Nani) to speak to the media and groups of people but ordered that he should refrain from passing any objectionable remarks on the State Election Commission (SEC) headed by N. Ramesh Kumar, and the ongoing process of gram panchayat elections. Justice D.V.S.S. Somayajulu ruled that the Minister should not make comments on the election process. He observed the SEC cannot issue the gag order on the Minister as his right to freedom of speech could not be entirely curbed. Mr. Ramesh Kumar had issued a show-cause notice to the Minister for attributing motives but got an unsatisfactory explanation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-gives-conditional-relief-to-kodali-nani/article33875500.ece
19 February 2021||Canberra,||FB blocks access to news in Australia||Facebook on Thursday blocked Australians from sharing news stories, escalating a fight with the government over whether powerful tech companies should have to pay news organisations for content. The digital platforms fear that what is happening in Australia will become an expensive precedent for other countries. Facebook acted after the House of Representatives passed legislation that would make it and Google pay for Australian journalism, said Treasurer Josh Frydenberg. He said he was given no warning before Facebook acted. The legislation must be passed by the Senate to become law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fb-blocks-access-to-news-in-australia/article33875555.ece
19 February 2021||Coimbatore,||Two infants die after vaccination in Coimbatore||Two boys, both aged around two-and-a-half months, died within 24 hours of receiving regular paediatric vaccines in Coimbatore, the Health Department said on Thursday. Officials denied any link between the vaccination and the deaths. Sources in the Health Department and the district administration said the first baby was vaccinated at an anganwadi at Masakalipalayam, near Singanallur, and the second baby was vaccinated at the urban primary health centre at Sowripalayam on Wednesday. Both were administered three vaccines — Pentavalent, rotavirus vaccine and oral polio vaccine — during their routine vaccination around 11 a.m. The first baby reportedly developed difficulty in breathing after being brought home at Masakalipalayam. His mother rushed him to the Uppilipalayam Primary Health Centre and the baby was then referred to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH), where he was declared dead on arrival in the afternoon, the sources said. After autopsy at the CMCH on Thursday, pneumonic consolidation (filling of liquid) was discovered in the upper left lobe of the left lung, and no adverse reactions due to vaccination were recorded. The child might have contracted pneumonia a week ago, the sources said. The second baby was healthy till Wednesday but did not wake up on Thursday. His parents took him to a private hospital around 6 a.m., and the doctors there declared him dead on arrival. The sources noted that 13 other babies that were given the vaccines at the Masakalipalayam anganwadi were normal. Similarly, 14 children, excluding the deceased boy, were vaccinated at the Sowripalayam primary health centre on Wednesday, and no adverse reactions were reported as on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-infants-die-within-24-hours-of-vaccination-in-coimbatore/article33876066.ece
19 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||HC notices to State over lawyer couple’s murder||The Telangana High Court on Thursday issued notices suo motu to the State government regarding the murder of lawyer couple Gattu Vaman Rao and P.V. Nagamani. Describing the gory killing of the two practising lawyers as “most unfortunate”, Chief Justice Hima Kohli said severe action should be taken against the culprits. The notices should go from all top police officials concerned, right down to the House Officer of Ramagiri police station under whose jurisdiction the double murder was reported. The murders should be investigated adequately and properly, the CJ said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-notices-to-state-on-lawyer-couples-murder/article33876117.ece
19 February 2021||Kolkata,||Mamata, Shah trade charges over nephew and son||The South 24 Parganas district on Thursday witnessed a clash of titans with Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee holding public meetings. Mr. Shah, who launched the party’s fifth ‘Parivartan Yatra’ from the southernmost tip of the State targeted Ms. Banerjee accusing her of ignoring the interest of the people and only thinking of “bhatija kalyan [welfare of the nephew]”. The BJP leadership including Mr. Shah and party president J.P. Nadda have been relentlessly targeting Ms. Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee. Ms. Banerjee, who addressed the rally at Pailan, dared the Home Minister to contest against Mr. Banerjee. “Day and night they are talking about didi-bhatija. I challenge Mr. Shah — contest against Mr. Banerjee first and then me,” she said. She asked how Mr. Shah’s son has become part of the cricket administration. “How come your son became part of the cricket administration and made hundreds of crores of rupees?” she asked.The Home Minister raised the issue of political violence and said 130 BJP supporters have been killed at the hands of the Trinamool Congress. “If the BJP comes to power, we will assure that those behind the murders are punished. Even if they hide under the earth, we will find them out and put behind bars,” he said. Earlier in the day, Mr. Shah visited the Sagar island in the Sunderbans archipelago where the Ganga meets the sea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mamata-shah-trade-charges-over-nephew-and-son/article33875721.ece
19 February 2021||HUBBALLI,||Rail roko bid foiled||The rail roko attempts by various farmers organisations in various districts of North Karnataka in support of a call given by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha were foiled by the police who did not allow them to enter railway stations in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rail-roko-bid-foiled/article33875671.ece
19 February 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Air pollution led to 12,000 deaths in city’||A report released by Greenpeace Southeast Asia has estimated that Bengaluru, which fared better than Delhi and Mumbai, recorded an estimated 12,000 avoidable deaths owing to PM 2.5 pollution. Among the six cities featured in the analysis, Bengaluru is worse off when compared with Chennai, Hyderabad, and Lucknow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/air-pollution-led-to-12000-deaths-in-city/article33876039.ece
19 February 2021||New Delhi,||Fresh norms issued for international travellers||The Centre has issued a fresh set of air travel guidelines, as the country has reported the presence of the U.K., South Africa and Brazil mutant variants of SARS-CoV-2 that have demonstrated increased transmissibility. The new SOP (standard operating procedure), which will come into effect at 11.59 p.m. on February 22, was released late on Wednesday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fresh-norms-issued-for-international-travellers/article33875830.ece
19 February 2021||GUWAHATI,||Correcting historical mistakes in Assam: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said the Centre had taken up various development projects to correct the historical mistakes of neglecting Assam. He underlined the Centre’s commitment to infrastructure development in the State while virtually launching ‘Mahabahu Brahmaputra’, a package of multimodal water connectivity projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/correcting-historical-mistakes-in-assam-pm/article33875831.ece
19 February 2021||Hyderabad,||Hyderabad the only ‘Tree City of the World’ from India||Hyderabad city has received another feather in its cap by being chosen as one among the ‘Tree Cities of the World’ by the Arbor Day Foundation jointly with the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations Organisation. Hyderabad is the only city in the country to have been selected for this recognition in response to its commitment to growing and maintaining urban forestry, a statement from GHMC informed on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hyderabad-the-only-tree-city-of-the-world-from-india/article33876116.ece
19 February 2021||MANGALURU,||Latest signalling system operational||The Southern Railway has commissioned state-of-the-art Electronic Interlocking (EI) signalling system with Dual Digital Display Units at Netravathi Cabin and Mangaluru Central Railway Station along with the track doubling between the two points.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/latest-signalling-system-operational/article33876178.ece
19 February 2021||Mumbai,||No action yet against Haffkine officials||No action has been taken against errant officials of Haffkine Biopharmaceutical Corporation Ltd. though three years have passed since an inquiry committee submitted its report on the State government undertaking allegedly issuing tenders worth Rs. 150 crore in violation of Central Vigilance Commission guidelines. On February 3 this year, former chief minister and Congress MLA Prithviraj Chavan wrote to Dr. Sandeep Rathod, managing director of Haffkine Biopharmaceutical Corporation Ltd., seeking information on the status of the report and if any action has been taken on it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-action-yet-against-haffkine-officials/article33876195.ece
19 February 2021||Navi Mumbai,||NMMC presents Rs. 4,825 cr. budget||Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation Commissioner Abhijit Bangar on Thursday presented a budget of Rs. 4,825 crore for the financial year 2021-22. For the first time since 1995, the budget was presented without the elected representatives as the term of corporators ended in May 2020 and the election could not take place due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Hence, this year, the budget was presented and accepted by Mr. Bangar himself in the capacity of an administrator. The estimated expenditure for the next financial year is Rs. 4,822.30 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nmmc-presents-rs-4825-cr-budget/article33876196.ece
19 February 2021||Bengaluru,||State Budget to be presented on March 8||The Karnataka Budget for 2021-22 will be presented in the State legislature on March 8. The legislature session will commence on March 4 and the first two days (March 4 and 5) will be set aside for discussion related to “one nation-one election”. The legislature session will conclude by the end of March.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-budget-to-be-presented-on-march-8/article33875791.ece
19 February 2021||TENKASI,||Stalin tried to bring down govt.: Palaniswami||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday alleged that Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam president M.K. Stalin had adopted corrupt strategies to bring down the government and “become the Chief Minister through the back door”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stalin-tried-to-bring-down-govt-palaniswami/article33875591.ece
19 February 2021||CHENNAI,||T.N. adds 457 cases to COVD-19 tally||On a day when Tamil Nadu added 457 fresh cases of COVID-19, three districts recorded no new case and 24 saw fewer than 10 cases each. The State’s tally stood at 8,46,937 on Thursday. Six more persons succumbed to the infection, taking the death toll to 12,444.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-adds-457-cases-to-covd-19-tally/article33875592.ece
19 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||PSC rank holders’ protest turns violent in Kerala||The 24-day-old PSC rank holders’ agitation for government jobs in Kerala turned violent on Thursday. In support of the striking rank holders, activists of the Kerala Students Union (KSU) — the student wing of the Congress — clashed with the police in front of the Secretariat. At least five law enforcers and several activists were injured. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan condemned the violence. “KSU workers had attacked the police. They had singled out an officer for assault. However, the police had exercised maximum restraint,” he said. KSU State president K.M. Abhijith said Mr. Vijayan had tasked the police to unleash violence on KSU workers. Law enforcers without nameplates had targetted women activists. Interview disrupted The Congress appeared to have upped the ante in the conflict between the government and PSC rank holders. Youth Congress workers stormed the Senate Hall and disrupted an interview for Class IV university office assistants. In Palakkad, KSU workers locked in the staff at the local PSC office. The police later freed them. The Congress seemed determined to push the government to the negotiation table. Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy said Mr. Vijayan should shed his vanity and engage the job-seekers in talks. The administration has not displayed an interest in reconciliatory talks so far. However, DYFI leaders were in touch with the agitators to achieve detente. The striking rank holders also found support from athletes who had qualified in vain for State government employment by winning national medals. Women medallists sheared off their locks while men tonsured their heads in protest against the “employment denial”. The sportspersons displayed their hard-won medals. More support The Secretariat witnessed a tide of marches in support of the protesters. They included BJP and Youth Congress activists and an organisation for ASHA workers. The CPI(M) State secretariat said the PSC rankers’ demand for reviving obsolete rank lists was legally untenable. Many had abandoned the unfeasible cause and allied with the government. DYFI State president A. A. Rahim blamed the Youth Congress for the violence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/psc-rank-holders-protest-turns-violent-in-kerala/article33875498.ece
19 February 2021||New Delhi,||Did not leak Disha Ravi case documents: Delhi Police to HC||The Delhi Police on Thursday informed the Delhi High Court that it had not leaked any documents relating to its investigation into the FIR against climate change activist Disha Ravi, arrested in connection with the “toolkit” case. Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta informed Justice Prathiba M. Singh that there was “no leakage” from the police. Following the statement, the court asked the police to give an affidavit with the written submission that it had not leaked any information relating to the case to the media. The court also issued notice to the News Broadcasting Standards Authority (NBSA) and three media houses — News18, India Today and Times Now — named in the petition filed by Ms. Ravi. Seeks action The 22-year-old, in her plea, has sought to restrain the police from leaking any investigation material relating to her case to the media. She has also pleaded for action against News18, India Today and Times Now for publishing content or extracts of her private WhatsApp chats alleging it to be “violative of fair trial rights and right to privacy”. Ms. Ravi, a permanent resident of Bangalore, was arrested in connection with an FIR registered on February 4. The plea claimed that she was flown overnight to New Delhi without obtaining transit remand in flagrant violation of her constitutional rights. The petition stated that Ms. Ravi “is severely aggrieved and prejudiced by the media trial surrounding her arrest and the ongoing investigation, where she is being viscerally attacked by the Respondent No. 1 [Special Cell, Delhi Police] and several media houses... on the basis of leaked investigative matter”. Ms. Ravi said her mobile phone and laptop were seized by the Special Cell, Delhi Police, at 11 a.m. on February 13, and had not been accessed by her since then. “Thus, only Respondent No. 1 had access to the contents of the Petitioner’s private conversations and any leaks of the same necessarily constitutes the commission of a cognisable offence,” the plea said. “The further publication and dissemination of the Petitioner’s private alleged WhatsApp chats by media houses, including Respondent Nos. 4-6 (News18, India Today and Times Now), is a clear violation of the provisions of the Cable Sections the Cable Televisions Networks (Regulation) Act, 1995 (CTN Act), the Programme Code and the Uplinking and Downlinking Guidelines,” the plea added. The petition claimed that the police, on February 14, tweeted from their official Twitter handle that, “Disha Ravi, arrested by CyPAD Delhi Police, is an Editor of the Toolkit Google Doc & key conspirator in documents formulation & dissemination...”  ‘Direct violation’ This, she said, was in “direct violation of the Ministry of Home Affairs Office Memorandum dated 01.04.2010 Advisory on Media Policy of Police, because they outright prejudge the guilt of the Petitioner and disclose confidential and prejudicial information about the status of investigation”. The High Court will hear the case on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/disha-ravi-case-delhi-police-deny-leaking-documents/article33875508.ece
19 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||PM moots special visa scheme for medical staff in South Asia||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, at a workshop on “COVID-19 management: exchange of good practices in tackling pandemic and the way forward” with nine neighbouring countries on Thursday, suggested that they consider creating a special visa scheme for doctors and nurses so that they can travel quickly within the region during health emergencies, on the request of the receiving country. India is hosting a Secretary-level virtual meeting on COVID-19 management with the countries including Pakistan. It is being chaired by Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan. The Prime Minister suggested that the Civil Aviation Ministries could coordinate a regional air ambulance agreement for contingencies, and countries could come together to create a regional platform for collating, compiling and studying data about the effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines among our populations. Highlighting the work done during the pandemic, he said that when it hit the world last year, many experts voiced special concern about our densely populated region. “But, from the very beginning, we all met this challenge with a coordinated response. In March, we were the first to come together for recognising the threat and committing to fight it together. Many other regions and groups followed our early example,” he said. “Today, the hopes of our region and the world are focused on rapid deployment of vaccines. In this too, we must maintain the same cooperative and collaborative spirit.” Health Minister Harsh Vardhan delivered the valedictory address at the meet which saw the participation of Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, the Maldives, Mauritius, Nepal, Pakistan, the Seychelles and Sri Lanka. Sources said all countries including Pakistan supported the PM’s proposals and suggested a structured discussion for regional cooperation to take them forward.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-moots-special-visa-scheme-for-medical-staff-in-south-asia/article33875523.ece
19 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Biometric authentication to benefit farmers: Centre||In a bid to cut out the middleman and ensure greater transparency in the procurement of farm produce, the Centre is encouraging the States to deploy biometric authentication of farmers. The practice, already adopted in Uttar Pradesh and set to be rolled out in Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Odisha this year, will aid in tracking the end-use beneficiary, Food Minister Piyush Goyal said at a press conference on Thursday. The initiative comes at a time when farmers are agitating for a legal guarantee that all their crops will be procured at a minimum support price (MSP) and demanding the repeal of three farm reform laws that they believe will weaken the current system of procurement at State-run markets. In States such as Punjab and Haryana, where the agitation has been the strongest, middlemen who act as commission agents or arhitiyas are a key part of the procurement process at these mandis . The Centre had already taken steps to roll out online payments to farmers who sell their produce to the government, said Food Ministry Additional Secretary Edwin Kulbhushan Majhi. It had directed the State governments of Haryana and Punjab to ensure payments in e-mode from the upcoming season, and was expecting all the States to follow suit this year. “We would like all payments released by the Central government to the farmers... that we are able to track them online. There should not be any intermediaries, farmers should not be given cheques to be encashed. The money should go directly into the farmers’ accounts,” Mr. Majhi said. The next step was the biometric authentication scheme that Uttar Pradesh had already rolled out. “The entire process of procurement has to be made faster. Once you have data of farmers available and once they are bio-authenticated, the entire details are digitally available to the procurement machinery, the kind of crop he is cultivating, the kind of landholding he has, all the details are available,” Mr. Majhi said. This initiative reduced the need for extensive paperwork, prevented leakages and speeded up process of procurement, with payment settlement being completed within 72 hours, he said. “The other advantage is that the farmer gets a receipt for his goods, showing the quantity and the MSP price, so nobody can cheat the farmer,” said Mr. Goyal. He did not respond to a query whether bio authentication would be mandatory for farmers to participate in the procurement process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/biometric-authentication-to-benefit-farmers-centre/article33875516.ece
19 February 2021||New Delhi,||More roads on Arunachal border||The Union government has given the go-ahead for critical infrastructure development in Arunachal Pradesh at an estimated cost of more than Rs. 1,100 crore. It would include construction of roads and 18 foot-tracks measuring 598 km, a senior government official said. The official said most projects were earmarked in areas along the China border in north and northeast part of Arunachal. Arunachal shares its longest border with China, followed by Myanmar and Bhutan. Union Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju, who is an MP from Arunachal, said the pace of development along the China border had picked up after 2014. “Earlier, the government followed a restrictive policy and areas along the China border were not developed much. Many projects have been sanctioned along the China border now and the construction is taking place at a fast pace. The project includes motorable road, mule tracks and facilities for porters,” Mr. Rijiju told The Hindu . The Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS), headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in December 2020, cleared a proposal for “development of critical infrastructure” in Arunachal Pradesh “at a cost of Rs. 1162.19 crore”. China has made rapid strides in border areas of Arunachal by setting up new villages and a labyrinth of road network. Arduous task The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel took around 21 days to march on foot to the last patrolling point at the Arunachal-China border due to lack of road and foot-tracks, the official said. India and China recently reached a consensus to withdraw from the north and south banks of Pangong Tso (lake) in eastern Ladakh after a 10-month face-off. The build-up continues in other areas in Ladakh- Depsang, Demchok, Gogra-Hotsprings and Galwan Valley, where patrolling by Indian troops within India’s perception of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) has been blocked by the Chinese troops. In September 2020, the CCS cleared a proposal for construction of 32 roads under phase II of the Indo-China Border Roads (ICBR) scheme. The roads, measuring 638.12 km and amounting to Rs. 12,434.90 crore, are to come up in Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh. Many delays The first phase was initiated in 2005, when it was decided that the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) would construct 27 priority roads totalling 608 km along China areas at an estimated cost of Rs. 912 crore and other 14 roads will be built by agencies such as the Border Roads Organisation (BRO). The first phase has missed several deadlines, and in November 2017, at the height of the Doklam crisis, the Cabinet sanctioned another Rs. 3482.52 crore to complete the construction of roads by December 2020. According to a December 2019 report of a parliamentary standing committee, in all 137 roads are to be built along the China border in three phases- 41 under phase-I, 46 under phase-II and 50 in phase-III.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/more-roads-on-arunachal-border/article33875526.ece
19 February 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Polluted air killed 54,000 in Delhi’||Air pollution claimed approximately 54,000 lives in Delhi in 2020, according to a Greenpeace Southeast Asia analysis of cost to the economy due to air pollution. Six Indian cities — Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Chennai, Hyderabad and Lucknow — feature in the global analysis. Globally, approximately 1,60,000 deaths have been attributed to PM (particulate matter) 2.5 air pollution in the five most populous cities — Delhi, Mexico City, Sao Paulo, Shanghai and Tokyo. The damage is “equally worrying” in other Indian cities, said the report, released on Thursday. “An estimated 25,000 avoidable deaths in Mumbai in 2020 have been attributed to air pollution. Bengaluru, Chennai and Hyderabad estimated an approximate 12,000, 11,000, and 11,000 avoidable deaths respectively due to polluted air,” it said. According to the report, the ‘Cost Estimator’, an online tool that estimates the real-time health impact and economic cost from fine particulate matter (PM 2.5) air pollution in major world cities, was deployed in a collaboration between Greenpeace Southeast Asia, IQAir and the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air (CREA). Using real-time ground-level PM 2.5 measurements collated in IQAir’s database, the algorithm applies scientific risk models in combination with population and public health data to estimate the health and economic costs of air pollution exposure. Cost to economy To show the impact of air pollution-related deaths on the economy, the approach used by Greenpeace is called ‘willingness-to-pay’ — a lost life year or a year lived with disability is converted to money by the amount that people are willing to pay in order to avoid this negative outcome, a release from Greenpeace said. The cost estimator also sustained the estimated air pollution-related economic losses of Rs. 1,23,65,15,40,000. No time to lose “Despite a temporary reprieve in air quality owing to the lockdown, the latest figures from the report underscore the need to act immediately. The need of the hour is to rapidly scale up renewable energy, bring an end to fossil fuel emissions and boost sustainable transport systems,” said the report Last July, Greenpeace said that of the 28 global cities studied, Delhi bore the highest economic cost of air pollution with an estimated loss of 24,000 lives in the first half of 2020 despite a strict COVID-19 lockdown. In Mumbai, air pollution from PM 2.5 and NO2was responsible for the loss of an estimated 14,000 lives since January 1, 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/polluted-air-killed-54000-in-delhi/article33875490.ece
19 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Three arrested for murder of lawyers||Police on Thursday arrested three prime accused in the sensational lawyer couple murder, which triggered State wide protests by lawyers. While Kunta Srinivas, 44, and S. Chiranjeevi, 35, were picked up near Wankidi of Chandrapur on Telanagna-Maharashtra border area, the third accused Akkapaka Kumar , 44, was held in Manthani. They would be presented before the court on Friday. Another person Bittu Srinu, nephew of a local leader of ruling TRS party, emerged as one of the key conspirators in the case. Hunt is on for him. A statement from the Ramagundam Police Commissionerate said the investigation is still under progress. The accused would be taken into police remand and interrogated to further investigate the case with digital and electronic evidence material like the video clips that got circulated on social media. Reconstructing the sequence of events relating to the double murder, the police said Kunta Srinu learnt that Rao had come to Manthani court. Rao, who was living in Bowenpally, Hyderabad, would return home on completion of court work. Srinu hatched a plot to execute Rao on the latter’s return journey. Srinu gave his car to Kumar to keep tab on Rao’s movements. A person called Bittu Srinu gave his car and two sickles to Kunta Srinu. Chiranjeevi drove that car while Srinu sat beside him. On learning that Rao was heading for Hyderabad, the duo rushed onto Manthani-Peddapalli-Hyderabad road. They lay in wait on the fringes of Kalvacherla village at a spot where all vehicles had to slow down due to road repair work. Chiranjeevi rammed his car from a side into oncoming Vaman Rao’s vehicle. According to police, Kunta Srinu first broke windscreen on Rao’s car. The scared driver driver fled the spot. Sensing threat to his life, Vaman Rao got into driver seat and tried to zoom when Srinu dragged him outside and started attacking him. Meanwhile, Chiranjeevi rushed to rear seat of the car and attacked Nagamani with the sickle. Later, Srinu and Chiranjeevi inflicted multiple injuries on Rao with the same weapons even as passers-by watched in horror. They fled the spot in a black car, drove to Sundilla barrage where they dumped the blood-stained sickles into the water and went towards Maharashtra. Though once friends, Srinu and Rao developed differences over matters relating to the village in the past five years. Srinu, who was actively involved in the construction of a couple of temples in the village, bore grudge against Rao believing that the latter was creating trouble for him by often filing petitions in the court. He decided to eliminate Rao and joined hands with Bittu Srinu to execute the murder plot, the police statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/three-arrested-for-murder-of-lawyers/article33875753.ece
19 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Plot against Gogoi can’t be ruled out’||The Supreme Court on Thursday said the existence of a “conspiracy” against former Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi cannot be “completely ruled out”. It was referring to a report filed by the retired Supreme Court judge Justice A.K. Patnaik, who was tasked with investigating allegations of a “larger conspiracy” against the Supreme Court judiciary, including then Chief Justice Gogoi. The court said Justice Patnaik did not rule out a conspiracy though he was handicapped by limited investigative powers and access to records. A Bench led by Justice S.K. Kaul decided to close the suo motu case titled “In re: Matter of great public importance touching upon the independence of judiciary” registered in 2019. It said retrieving the electronic evidence to establish conspiracy was difficult now. The Bench, in its order, also referred to the final paragraph in Justice Patnaik’s report, which records a letter to him from the Intelligence Bureau Director on July 5, 2019. The letter, the court noted, indicated there was a “strong reason” to believe that Justice Gogoi may have been a target of a conspiracy hatched by persons “unhappy” with his “serious tough” judicial orders passed in cases like the Assam NRC and his decisions to streamline the Supreme Court Registry. The sexual harassment allegation against Justice Gogoi was set aside by an in-house inquiry committee. The former court staffer who levelled the allegation had pulled out of the committee hearings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plot-against-gogoi-cant-be-ruled-out/article33875521.ece
19 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||HC issues notice on lawyers’ killing||Observing that the gory killing of advocate couple practising at Telangana High Court as “most unfortunate”, Chief Justice Hima Kohli issued suo motu notices to the State government on the matter. When the bench of the CJ and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy assembled to hear the matters listed for the day, some lawyers raised the issue of the twin murders. The CJ announced that the HC was seized of the matter and directed Advocate General B.S. Prasad, who was present during the online proceedings, to accept notices on behalf of the State government. Expressing concern over the blatant manner in which the lawyer couple was killed, the bench remarked that it was sad that lives of lawyers whose goal was to save people were at risk. Lawyers espouse the cause of clients and their lives being lost was a matter of serious concern, the bench felt. The CJ told the AG that the notice should go to all respondents concerned including from the top police officials to the House Officer of Ramagiri police station, jurisdiction of which, the twin murders were committed. The CJ instructed the AG to “file a status report” on the case and conduct the investigation properly. All the material evidence, including the forensic evidence, should be preserved. Referring to the video clips, in which Vaman Rao lying ion the road with bleeding injuries was seen taking the names of the accused , the bench said all such evidence must be traced in its original form and preserved for presentation before the court. In another video clip, two persons were seen inflicting multiple injuries on Rao who slumped to the ground. These videos which went viral on social media should also be an important evidence, the bench said. Chief Justice Hima Kohli made it clear that the court would not direct the police on how to investigate the case but was only highlighting the finer points required for proper building up of the case so that tomorrow the prosecution should not come with excuses of not able to present clinching evidence. Responding to a lawyer’s suggestion that investigation of the case be assigned to an independent agency, the CJ made it clear that it was time now to focus on investigation of the crime. Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy suggested to the AG that two RTC buses with passengers were seen in a video clip as the killers were attacking Rao. They had seen the murders live and would become crucial eye witnesses to the twin murders, the judge said. They should be taken as witnesses, he said. The AG assured the bench that he would advise the police department to ensure thorough investigation. Towards that end, the CJ instructed the AG that there should be time-bound investigation and hoped that the investigators would live up to the expectations of the bar. “Nobody can take the law into their hands,” the CJ said. The matter was posted to March 1 for next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-issues-notice-on-lawyers-killing/article33875488.ece
19 February 2021||GUWAHATI,||‘Centre correcting historical mistakes of neglecting Assam’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said the Centre had taken up various development projects to correct the historical mistakes of neglecting Assam. He underlined the Centre’s commitment to infrastructure development in the State while virtually launching ‘Mahabahu Brahmaputra’, a package of multi-modal water connectivity projects that includes a 19.282-km bridge, which will be India’s longest across a river. “Assam was one of the States giving the highest revenues. Those days, petroleum products and tea used to reach the Chittagong port (in present-day Bangladesh) and Kolkata via Brahmaputra, Padma and Meghna rivers and the railway. Connectivity was the reason behind Assam’s prosperity. But after Independence, when this infrastructure was supposed to be modernised, Assam was left to its fate,” Mr. Modi said. He said negligence almost killed the waterways in Assam until former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee began correcting the mistakes. The State’s development is the Centre’s priority, he added. “Connectivity remained a challenge because work on connectivity via the Brahmaputra did not happen. Now, work is being expedited. The double engines of Assam and Central government tried to reduce the geographical and cultural distances,” Mr. Modi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-correcting-historical-mistakes-of-neglecting-assam/article33875510.ece
19 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||NC boycotts delimitation meet||The three National Conference MPs from Kashmir boycotted the first meeting of the Delimitation Commission with associate members from Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday. The two BJP representatives from Jammu, who attended the meeting, asked the panel to factor in terrain and existing boundaries when drawing the constituency lines in the Union Territory, according to a statement. The commission, chaired by Justice Ranjana Prakash Desai (retd.), met two of the five associate members to seek their suggestions on the process of delimitation in Jammu and Kashmir, a statement said. The ex-officio members of the commission, Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra and Jammu and Kashmir State Election Commissioner K.K. Sharma, attended the meeting as well. Minister of State in the PMO and Udhampur MP Jitendra Singh and Jammu MP Jugal Kishore Sharma attended the meeting, while National Conference MPs Farooq Abdullah, Mohammad Abkar Lone and Hasnain Masoodi gave it a miss. “The two associate members appreciated the commission’s efforts and suggested that delimitation of constituencies shall be as far as practicable, be for geographically compact areas and while delimiting them regard shall be given to physical features; existing boundaries of administrative units; facilities of communication and public convenience. They also suggested to give special attention to the difficult terrains while carrying out the delimitation exercise in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir,” the statement by the commission said. In a tweet, Mr. Singh said the meeting “went off with mutually shared inputs in a cordial atmosphere”. The three NC MPs wrote to Justice Desai on Wednesday saying that they would not attend as the delimitation exercise was being conducted under the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, 2019, whose legality is under challenge. They said the Act was unconstitutional.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nc-mps-boycott-delimitation-panel-meet/article33875532.ece
19 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||KCR orders tenders for digital survey||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has ordered tendering for digital survey State-wide to fix coordinates for agricultural lands. He said on Thursday that there was likelihood of name change of Revenue Department as its character had changed after the introduction of Dharani portal of land transactions. On account of Dharani portal, digital survey and other related issues, the maintenance of land records, registration and mutation will be simplified. They will take place without intervention of officials. Hence, there was need for changes in the functions of Revenue Department. Review meeting The government will come up with a job chart on the duties of revenue officials, Mr. Rao said reviewing revenue reforms in the State and services by Dharani portal at an official meeting. He expressed satisfaction that the portal delivered services expected of it in registration and mutation of agricultural lands. At the same time, there were wide ranging changes in the functioning of Revenue Department due to reforms that it underwent. Corruption in Revenue Department had ended due to Dharani. The notoriety of making book entries of lands in false names, disappearance of documents and piling up of cases in revenue courts had ended. Mr. Rao said it took government three years to enact the new revenue law after a hard toil. Now, the registrations and mutations are going on smoothly. Only lands recorded in Dharani could be bought or sold. They could be transferred to kin only by hereditary rights or gift deed. There was no scope for human intervention in transactions due to the strict measures adopted by government. Not even the Chief Commissioner of Land Administration nor the Chief Secretary can intervene. The process is totally system driven, Mr. Rao said. He added that a lot of issues related to agricultural lands were resolved due to Dharani, comprehensive changes in maintenance of land records and issue of pattadar passbooks. There are some minor problems left which will be addressed by digital survey.  Land coordinates As announced by him in Assembly earlier, Mr. Rao said the government will fix coordinates for all lands after the digital survey shortly. Nobody can change them. It will not given any scope for tampering with records. All the land related problems would be resolved in three to four months. The boundary disputes between farmers, forest - government lands and forest - private lands will also be resolved. Since the coordinates for agricultural lands will not change, the boundary disputes will also stop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kcr-orders-tenders-for-digital-survey/article33876119.ece
19 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||WhatsApp messaging users on privacy||WhatsApp, which faced a severe backlash over the latest update to its privacy policy, will now leverage its own platform to reach out to users directly via the “status” feature, while also putting up banners on the application, to share detailed information on the proposed policy updates. “We previously encountered a great deal of misinformation about this update and we continue to work hard to clear up any confusion... We’ll be doing much more to make our voice clear going forward,” the Facebook-owned instant messaging firm said. WhatsApp’s new policy was to come into effect on February 8. However, amid criticism and confusion over the updates resulting in sharing of users’ data with Facebook, the company had pushed back the roll-out to May 15. It has since clarified that this update does not expand its ability to share data with Facebook. It stressed that this update does not change the privacy of people’s personal conversations and is about “optional business features”. The company said during this time, some people may check out other apps to see what they have to offer. “We’ve seen some of our competitors try to get away with claiming they can’t see people’s messages — if an app doesn’t offer end-to-end encryption by default that means they can read your messages.” It said while other apps say they are better because they know even less information than WhatsApp, it believes that people are looking for apps to be both reliable and safe, even if that requires WhatsApp having some limited data. “We have reflected on what we could have done better here. We want everyone to know our history of defending end-to-end encryption and trust we are committed to protecting people’s privacy and security. We’re now using our Status feature to share our values and updates directly within WhatsApp. We’ll be doing much more to make our voice clear going forward.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/whatsapp-messaging-users-on-privacy/article33875520.ece
19 February 2021||New Delhi,||Centre issues fresh norms for air travel||The Union government has issued a fresh set of air travel guidelines, as the country reported the presence of the U.K., South Africa and Brazil mutant variants of SARS-CoV-2 that have demonstrated increased transmissibility, as reported by the World Health Organization. They have been currently detected in 86, 44 and 15 countries respectively, India being one of them. The new SOP (standard operating procedure), which will come into effect at 11.59 p.m. on February 22 was released late on Wednesday night. “Based on the risk assessment, this document shall be reviewed from time to time,” the guidelines say. All international travellers are required to submit a self-declaration form on Air Suvidha portal and upload a COVID-negative RT-PCR report, with the test having been conducted within 72 hours prior to undertaking the journey. Each passenger should also submit a declaration regarding the authenticity of the report and will be liable for criminal prosecution if found otherwise, the guidelines say. Only those travelling to India in case of emergencies such as the death of a family member will be allowed to arrive without a COVID-19 negative report. However, they should seek exemption on the online portal 72 hours prior to boarding. Mention of travel history For all international travellers coming from or transiting through flights originating from the UK, Europe and West Asia, apart from submitting the self-declaration form online and carrying the COVID-19 negative report, they are required to mention their travel history of the past 14 days. They also need to mention when they plan to disembark at the arrival airport or take further flights to India. Airlines are to identify travellers arriving from or transiting through the U.K., South Africa and Brazil and segregate them during the journey and while deboarding. These travellers will have to give their samples for testing before exiting the airport. If they test positive, they have to undergo treatment as per standard health protocol, the SOP says. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, in consultation with the Ministry of Civil Aviation, reviewed the situation with regard to point-of-entry actions and issued the guidelines. The contacts of any case of suspected infection are the co-passengers seated in the same row, three rows in front and three rows behind along with the identified cabin crew. Also, all the community contacts of those travellers who have tested positive (during home quarantine period) will be subjected to institutional quarantine in separate centres for 14 days and tested as per the Indian Council of Medical Research protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-issues-fresh-norms-for-international-travellers/article33875531.ece
19 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Quad meet: India, U.S. call for rule of law in Myanmar||India on Thursday joined Australia, Japan and the United States for a ministerial meeting under the quadrilateral grouping where key issues, including Myanmar, came up for discussion. External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and U.S. Secretary of State Antony J. Blinken said the military takeover in Myanmar featured in the talks and participants reiterated democratic values for the region. India also emphasised in its statement that the meeting expressed commitment to “upholding rules-based international order” and “peaceful resolution of disputes”. “Our positive agenda underlines our shared commitment to global good. [We] discussed contemporary challenges, especially impact of COVID-19 and exchanged views on issues across the Indo-Pacific,” Mr. Jaishankar said. The leaders referred to the military crackdown in Myanmar, with the U.S. highlighting “the urgent need to restore the democratically elected government in Burma, and the priority of strengthening democratic resilience in the broader region”. Significantly, the U.S. statement referred to Myanmar as Burma, the name that Naypyitaw had stopped using since 1989 after a brutal crackdown against the democratic movement. “In the discussion pertaining to developments in Myanmar, the upholding of rule of law and the democratic transition was reiterated by India,” the Ministry of External Affairs said. The meeting was held in the backdrop of the ongoing withdrawal of Chinese forces from positions along the Line of Actual Control but the months-long military tension did not find mention in the read outs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-us-call-for-rule-of-law-in-myanmar/article33875562.ece
19 February 2021||Jammu,||Visible change in J&K, say envoys||The 24 envoys, who toured Jammu on their second day visit to J&K on Thursday, told Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha that the situation was “witnessing a visible change” in the Union Territory (UT), “Change is visible in J&K. The envoys’ visit to J&K is an eye opener and improved the understanding of important issues concerning J&K,” Eritrea Ambassador Alem Tsehaye Woldermariam said, as he presented a vote of thanks on behalf of the delegation to Mr. Sinha in Jammu. Mr. Sinha said the August 5 move has “ended years of suffering for J&K people”. “Efforts of the Prime Minister have ushered the UT into a new era, bringing socio-economic development in the region and empowerment of people. We have developed an ecosystem of democratic values, welfare principles and economic development in J&K,” the L-G said. He apprised the envoys of investments made in infrastructure, industries, education, healthcare, skill development and sustainable livelihood. “Every citizen of J&K has a safe future and recognition,” the L-G said. Terming terrorism as the biggest enemy of humankind, the Lt. Governor said, “Despite relentless attempts by our neighbour to destabilise the security situation and trigger social disharmony by exporting terror, the government is resolute towards the holistic and equitable development of J&K.” He said the recent District Development Council polls were “peaceful, violence-free and fair”. Around 26 people representing civil society groups and elected members met the envoys too. “No one demanded statehood [during the meeting]. Everyone told them that they were happy with the abrogation of special status since they got their rights, which were denied before August 5, 2019 in J&K,” Jammu Municipal Corporation Mayor Chander Mohan Gupta said. J&K Congress president G.A Mir termed the envoys’ meetings as “stage-managed show”. Taking a jibe at the envoys, National Conference vice-president Omar Abdullah said, “Thank you for visiting Kashmir. Now please send some real tourists from your countries to visit J&K.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/visible-change-in-jk-say-envoys/article33875536.ece
19 February 2021||New Delhi,||‘Oram told Rahul to be brief at House panel discussion’||Chairman of the parliamentary panel on Defence Jual Oram reportedly asked Lok Sabha member and former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi to be brief while asking questions during a meeting of the panel on Thursday. The panel, of which Mr. Gandhi is a member, has been discussing the Demand for Grants for the Defence Ministry since Wednesday and will complete its deliberations on Friday. The panel is believed to have discussed sensitive issues, including the face-off with China on the Eastern Ladakh border. Sources said when Mr. Gandhi was asking questions regarding expenditure on officers and soldiers, Mr. Oram asked him to be brief. Congress member Rajeev Satav then asked the Chairperson to allow his leader to complete his question. Mr. Gandhi, after walking out of a meeting of the defence panel in protest last December, had written to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla. On December 16, 2020, when the defence panel was pre-scheduled to discuss the subject of “military uniform”, Mr. Gandhi wanted to discuss the military situation. But Mr. Oram did not allow him to “deviate” from the pre-fixed agenda. In protest, Mr. Gandhi not only walked out, he followed it up with a letter to the Speaker the next day in which he expressed his “dismay”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/oram-told-rahul-to-be-brief-at-house-panel-discussion/article33875538.ece
19 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Medical seat scam: over Rs. 402 cr. unearthed||Searches on medical colleges across Karnataka by the Income Tax Department on Wednesday have unearthed cash-for-seat malpractices in admission to MBBS, BDS, and postgraduate seats. Evidence gathered so far has revealed undisclosed amount of Rs. 402.78 crore accepted by educational institutions as illegal capitation fee. The fee has been collected illegally by manipulating the online admission process, said a release. As much as 81 kg of gold jewellery worth about Rs. 30 crore, cash of Rs. 15.09 crore, 50 carat diamond and 40 kg of silver items that are unexplained were found in the residential premises of the trustees. As many as 35 luxury cars registered in benami names and evidence towards undisclosed foreign assets of Rs. 2.39 crore in Ghana have been found, according to a release from the Central Board of Direct Taxes said on Thursday. The residences of trustees of several medical colleges and hospitals in Bengaluru, Tumakuru, Davangere, and Mangaluru were searched on Wednesday. They include BGS Hospital, Sapthagiri Hospital, Akash Institute of Medical Sciences in Bengaluru, Bapuji Institution in Davangere, Yenepoya Institute of Medical Sciences, A.J. Institute of Medical Sciences, Kanachoor Institute of Medical Sciences, and Srinivas Institute of Medical Science in Mangaluru. Among the documents seized during searches include notebooks, handwritten diaries, excel sheets containing details of cash received from brokers and students for admission in these colleges for various years. The release said that it was also observed that the management, faculty members, staff, meritorious students and brokers were working in close nexus to manipulate the online admission process. There was also evidence of one of the colleges having some sort of “package arrangement” for passing management quota students in written examination and viva voce for fixed a sum ranging from Rs. 1 lakh to Rs. 2 lakh. Further, evidence of cash accepted after manipulating admission process has been diverted for non-charitable purposes by the trustees, and a large number of investments had been made in immovable assets with huge cash component in clear violation of provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961, the release said. One of the colleges diversified into the business of timber/ plywood industries where evidence regarding under invoicing has been found.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/medical-seat-scam-it-searches-reveal-undisclosed-amount-of-over-rs-402-crore/article33875672.ece
19 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Hyderabad wins global ‘Tree City’ status||Hyderabad city has received another feather in its cap by being chosen as one among the ‘Tree Cities of the World’ by the Arbor Day Foundation jointly with the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations Organisation. Hyderabad is the only city in the country to have been selected for this recognition in response to its commitment to growing and maintaining urban forestry, a statement from GHMC informed on Thursday. The recognition stands Hyderabad alongside 120 cities from 23 countries, including developed nations such as USA, UK, Canada, Australia and others. Municipal Administration and Urban Development Department had applied for this recognition based on an online submission on January 31 this year, citing the State government’s Haritha Haram programme and its initiative for the Urban Forest Parks, the statement informed. The city was evaluated based on the five standards, which have been spelt out by the Foundation as ‘Establish Responsibility’, ‘Set the Rules’, ‘Know What You Have’, ‘Allocate the Resources’, and ‘Celebrate the Achievements’. Accordingly, the city has to have a written statement by city leaders delegating responsibility for the care of trees within municipal boundary to a staff member, a city department, or a group of citizens called a Tree Board. There should be a law or an official policy that governs the management of forests and trees. “Hyderabad City is demonstrating leadership in management of its urban trees and is serving as part of the solution to many of the global issues we face today. This recognition is a testament to its sustained and institutional efforts to plant, nurture, and celebrate trees, development of urban and peri-urban forestry actions, projects, and strategic planning and commitment to building a healthy city now and for the future,” the statement read. Minister for MA & UD K. T. Rama Rao expressed happiness over the development, and said, through his official Twitter account, that it was an acknowledgement of efforts to improve green cover as part of the Haritha Haram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hyderabad-wins-global-tree-city-status/article33875494.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,||SC seeks response for plea on remote electronic voting system||The Supreme Court on Thursday sought a response from the Union government and the Election Commission of India on a petition seeking the setting up of a “secured remote electronic voting system” to allow citizens to cast their vote virtually. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde issued notice to the authorities on a plea by a native of Kerala, K. Sathyan, represented by advocate Kaleeswaram Raj, that electoral law required to be brought in tune with the modern times and technology. Initially, the Bench sounded sceptical and asked the petitioner to approach the government. When Mr. Raj argued that many people had left their home places to earn a livelihood and may not be able to return to participate in the electoral process, the Bench agreed to issue notice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-seeks-response-for-plea-on-remote-electronic-voting-system/article33875514.ece
19 February 2021||CHENNAI,||Case against launch of TV channel dismissed||There is a rush of peace and serenity when one enters a place of worship and this sentiment is universal, the Madras High Court said on Thursday and hoped that television channelThirukkoyil, to be launched by the State government through the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department, will effectively showcase the significant wealth of philosophy, spiritualism and culture that India has. ‘Nothing new’ Dismissing a case filed against the move to start the television channel from the HR&CE temples’ common good fund without calling for public objections to it, Justices R. Mahadevan and Anita Sumanth said the concept of a television channel to disseminate spiritual inquiry, ancient but timeless teachings of seers, and the Sthala Purana (history) of places of worship is nothing novel and had been undertaken all over the world. “We are no exception to this trend,” the judges said and went on to quote Tiruvalluvar, who raised a query in one of his couplets that of what worth was education if it was unaccompanied by culture, learning and the ability to assimilate the ageless wisdom of the past. They pointed out that the avowed object of Thirukkoyil TV was to propagate the culture, ethos, spiritual and philosophical values represented and espoused by temples. Authoring the verdict, Justice Sumanth wrote: “Temple history has roots in the vedas and a temple could well be represented by any living space where the presence of the divine might be sensed and assimilated. However, it was in or around the 10th century AD that the Cholas codified temple architecture definitively, and the magnificent temples at Darasuram, Thanjavur and Gangaikonda Cholapuram stand testimony to their contributions.” The philosophy surrounding a temple, whether it was of the Nagara-type architecture found between the Himalayas and the Vindhyas, the Dravida in the south of India, or the Vesara in the Deccan region, had been studied by scholars over the years, the judge said, and referred to a two-volume tome titled The Hindu Temple and  penned by art historian Stella Kramrisch. “There is a significance attached to every stage of temple construction from the foundation to the final. The selection of the site is done carefully concluding with the diagram of a Vastu Purusha and a forecast of the temple is drawn on the selected area constituting the foundation upon which the structure, Vastu Purusha Mandala, is built. This site has great implications and significance as it is considered locationally both terrestrial and extra-terrestrial constituting a marriage between heaven and earth and where even a mere mortal can access a superior sense of being,” the Division Bench said and hoped that the television channel would kindle a deep sense of inquiry into strict codification in architecture, rituals and symbolism. The judges observed that the ancient wealth of philosophy and spiritualism sought to be showcased through the channel was universal, without barriers and confines of religion and religious propensities.   Temple history has its roots in the Vedas and a temple could well be represented by any living space where the presence of the divine might be sensed and assimilated||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/madras-hc-dismisses-case-against-launch-of-channel/article33876095.ece
19 February 2021||New Delhi,||Rs. 403 cr. illegally taken as capitation fees: I-T||The Income Tax department has detected illegal receipt of Rs. 402.78 crore in capitation fees by nine Trusts running educational institutions in Karnataka by allegedly manipulating the online admission process in collusion with agents and some students who scored high ranks in the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET). The agency has gathered proof about cash-for-seat malpractices for admission to the MBBS, BDS and postgraduate seats. The Trusts are registered in Bengaluru and Mangaluru. On Wednesday, the department carried out searches at 56 locations in Karnataka and Kerala, during which it seized Rs. 15.09 crore in cash, 81 kg gold jewellery worth about Rs. 30 crore, 50 carat diamonds and 40 kg of silver articles from the residential premises of the trustees. The process of selection to medical colleges through NEET was subverted by the trustees in conspiracy with others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-403-cr-illegally-taken-as-capitation-fees-i-t/article33876027.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Metroman’ Sreedharan set to join BJP||The Principal Adviser to the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation says he has withdrawn from all work outside Kerala and the post will cease by June 2021. In Kerala, Mr. Sreedharan says, his work will be over with the reconstruction of the Palarivattom bridge in March. “Mr. Surendran had visited me twice and requested me to join the party. So far no Central leader has contacted me,” he said. On the decision of the BJP not to give tickets to those above 75 years, which was implemented for the Lok Sabha polls, Mr. Sreedharan, who is 88, said it was true. “However, I am not interested in any Governor post,” he said.    Mr. Surendran said both the Congress-led United Democratic Front and the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front had opposed and humiliated Mr. Sreedharan on several occasions. Mr. Sreedharan was an asset for the State. The BJP had already requested him to contest the polls, he said.  (With inputs from   Biju Govind in Kozhikode)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/metroman-sreedharan-set-to-join-bjp/article33876029.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,||3 Unnao girls found unconscious, 2 die||“The girls were related to each other and were found in the mustard field of the family,” he told The Hindu.  He denied reports that the family members of the victims were detained at the police station and not allowed to talk to the media. “There is no such attempt. They were called to understand the sequence of events and now they have been sent home under police protection to conduct the last rites,” he said. Later, he said that the last rites would be conducted on Friday morning. “As it had turned dark, the family wanted to conduct the last rites on Friday,” he added. Chief Medical Superintendent of Unnao District Hospital Basant Bhatt said when the girl was brought in, she was in a serious condition. “Clinically, it appeared like a case of organo phosphorous poisoning. The chemical is used in insecticides. Froth was coming out of her mouth and she was gasping for breath. We have intubated her to take water out of lungs.” Conflicting claims However, videos have emerged where family members can be heard making conflicting claims about the condition in which the girls were found in the field. In one video, the brother of the girl, who is struggling for her life, can be heard saying that the victims were found with their limbs tied with their stoles. Locals questioned how the victims could have consumed poison if their hands were tied. In another video, the mother of the girl can be heard saying that the hands were not tied and didn’t express doubt on anybody. Police sources said policemen from nine stations were camping in the village. Enraged locals said they would dig the graves themselves and asked the administration not to use an earthmover for the purpose. Local sources said officials had agreed to the demand. Opposition demand The Opposition described it as yet another example of the deteriorating law and order situation in the State. Chandrashekhar Azad of the Bhim Army demanded that the survivor to be referred to AIIMS, Delhi. Earlier, members of the Bhim Army protested in front of a private hospital in Kanpur. A delegation of the Samajwadi Party met the family members of the victims. “First a daughter in Hathras, then a mother in Budaun and now sisters of Unnao – women are not safe in BJP rule,” SP president Akhilesh Yadav tweeted in Hindi.  Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath directed the Director-General of Police to submit a detailed report on the incident, an official release said. He directed officials to ensure the best possible treatment to the victim at government cost, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/3-unnao-girls-found-unconscious-2-die/article33875504.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Rail roko’ by farmers passes off peacefully||Farmers, supported by khap panchayats, traders and workers’ unions, blocked rail lines at 44 points across Haryana, with a large number of women taking part in the Rohtak and Charkhi Dadri districts. Hisar, Sirsa, Jind and Rohtak accounted for more than half the protest sites. In Bahadurgarh, one of the sites of the sit-in agitation for the past two months, farmers blocked railway traffic at five points. Leading the agitation at Patuwas, farmer leader Raju Maan said they were ready to make any sacrifice to get the farm laws repealed. In Rajasthan, farmers brought a tractor on the track near the Ajarka station in Alwar district to block the movement of trains. In Khurja town in Bulandshahr district of Uttar Pradesh, the Gomti Express was stopped and farmers showered petals on the driver. “Passengers were offered jaggery and children were treated with milk,” said Rajveer Singh of BKU-Tikait. It was about after one hour that the train was allowed to move towards Delhi. At Modinagar, railway authorities prevented the passage of passenger trains. “Only a goods train passed through and there was no point stopping it. So, we garlanded the railway track. It seems the government didn’t want us to interact with passengers and convey our pain or it was too scared after the January 26 episode,” said Mr. Singh. Farmers sat on tracks and platforms across western Uttar Pradesh, including at Ghaziabad, Meerut, Shamli, Baghpat and Agra. According to the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, the umbrella group of unions which issued the protest, the Mumbai-Amritsar Paschim Express was stopped at Panipat, the Bandra-Haridwar special was stopped by farmers at Meerut, and the Utkal Express running from Puri in Odisha to Haridwar in Uttarakhand was stopped at Ghaziabad, because farmers were sitting on the track at Modinagar. About a hundred activists were detained at Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh, while 500 were detained in Telangana, according to the All India Kisan Sabha. It also reported arrests in Bettiah in Bihar, and at Bangarpet in the Kolar district of Karnataka. According to the AIKS, protests took place at 77 stations in West Bengal, 65 stations in Jharkhand, 55 stations in Telangana, 30 stations in Odisha, 23 stations in Andhra Pradesh and 21 stations in Rajasthan. There was “negligible” or “minimal” impact on running of the trains, according to the Indian Railways. On the bomb blast at the railway station in Nimtita, West Bengal, in which about 25 people have been injured, railway sources said, “This incident is prima facie a result of political rivalry between Trinamool and CPI, and may have some links to the internal feud among the TMC cadres.”  (Inputs from Vikas Vasudeva in Chandigarh, Ashok Kumar in Gurugram, Mohammed Iqbal in Jaipur, Anuj Kumar in Ghaziabad, and Yuthika Bhargava and Priscilla Jebaraj in New Delhi)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rail-roko-by-farmers-passes-off-peacefully/article33875506.ece
19 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||25 cities in Nurturing Neighbourhoods contest||The Urban Affairs Ministry on Thursday announced the names of the 25 cities selected for the Nurturing Neighbourhoods Challenge under the Smart Cities Mission. The shortlisted cities would carry out projects for making early childhood-friendly neighbourhoods, the Ministry said. The selected cities were Agartala, Bengaluru, Coimbatore, Dharamshala, Erode, Hubballi-Dharwad, Hyderabad, Indore, Jabalpur, Kakinada, Kochi, Kohima, Kota, Nagpur, Rajkot, Ranchi, Rohtak, Rourkela, Salem, Surat, Thiruvananthapuram, Tiruppur, Ujjain, Vadodara, and Warangal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/25-cities-in-nurturing-neighbourhoods-contest/article33876031.ece
19 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Survey to address data gap on migrant workers||The lack of data on workers, which was evident during the COVID-19-induced lockdown in 2020, would be addressed by the five all-India labour surveys being conducted by the Labour Bureau, Labour and Employment Minister Santosh Kumar Gangwar said on Thursday. Speaking at the launch of the software and questionnaires for the surveys, Mr. Gangwar said the replies given in the Lok Sabha were akin to “running away from our responsibility”. He was referring to the Ministry’s lack of data on migrant workers when asked about their condition during the pandemic. He said when questions were raised, many people told him that it was the Home Ministry’s remit to give data — how many were walking home and if any unfortunate incidents occurred to them. The surveys on migrant and domestic workers, those employed by transport sector and by professionals as well as the all-India quarterly establishment-based employment survey would be completed in eight months, said Labour Secretary Apurva Chandra. “As we saw in the pandemic last year, we had data gaps. We have absolutely no data when questions come from Parliament on migrant workers,” he said. He said the surveys would be conducted using tablets, making the compilation of data much faster than traditional methods. In a first, they would be conducted in “major regional languages”, Labour Bureau Director General DPS Negi said. Continuous process The co-chair of the expert group on labour surveys, former Jawaharlal Nehru University Professor Dr. Amitabh Kundu, said the surveys should be comparable and not one-time exercises. However, he said it was important to see how the pandemic had affected the unorganised workers. “There is absolutely no harm in admitting we were caught unawares by the pandemic,” he said. Expert group co-chair and Kolkata University professor emeritus Dr. S.P. Mukherjee said an awareness campaign was vital before the survey starts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/survey-to-address-data-gap-on-migrant-workers/article33875534.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Committed to upholding rules-based global order’||The meeting was held in the backdrop of the ongoing withdrawal of Chinese forces from positions along the Line of Actual Control but the months-long military tension did not find mention in the read outs. “The Ministers emphasised their commitment to upholding a rules-based international order, underpinned by respect for territorial integrity and sovereignty, rule of law, transparency, freedom of navigation in the international seas and peaceful resolution of disputes,” the Ministry said. Japanese Foreign Minister Toshimitsu Motegi and his Australian counterpart Marise Payne also participated in the discussion which focused on joint efforts to combat the pandemic. The meeting agreed to enhance access to “affordable vaccines, medicines and medical equipment”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/committed-to-upholding-rules-based-global-order/article33875505.ece
19 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Elections to 7 MLC seats on March 15||The Election Commission on Thursday announced that elections to five Andhra Pradesh Legislative Council seats and byelections to one seat each in the Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka Legislative Councils would be held on March 15. Votes will be counted the same day. The bypolls are being held following the death of Challa Ramakrishna Reddy and S.L. Dharme Gowda. The terms of five AP Legislative Council members — Gundumala Thippe Swamy, Gummidi Sandhya Rani, Vattikuti Veera Venkanna Chowdary, Shaik Mohammed Iqbal and Subhaschandra Bose Pilli — end on March 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/elections-to-7-mlc-seats-on-march-15/article33875486.ece
19 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Book on NTR released||Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu on Thursday released “Maveric Messiah”, a political biography on former Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister N.T. Rama Rao authored by senior journalist Ramesh Kandula. ‘Profound change’ Mr. Venkaiah Naidu said that the political landscape underwent a profound change after NTR’s arrival on the scene. “Power, in NTR’s case, was truly drawn from the people,” he said. ‘Political idiom’ He added that the author quite rightly pointed out that NTR redefined the political culture in the then united Andhra Pradesh and scripted a new political idiom. NTR was ranked among top pioneers of ‘alternative politics’. His entry into politics and his ‘dramatic’ success within about nine months of floating a regional party gave a new direction to national politics, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/book-on-ntr-released/article33876130.ece
19 February 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Congress wins Mohali civic body election||The ruling Congress in Punjab won the Sahibzada Ajit Singh Nagar (Mohali) Municipal Corporation election on Thursday. The Congress won 37 of the 50 wards while 13 wards were won by Independents. The results were declared a day after results of the other seven municipal corporations were announced as the State Election Commission had directed re-polling in two wards of Mohali. Nine Independent councillors of the Moga Corporation, one from Pathankot and two from the Sujanpur Municipal Council joined the Congress in the presence of State Congress president Sunil Jakhar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-wins-mohali-civic-body-election/article33875511.ece
19 February 2021||New Delhi,||Shift Unnao survivor to Delhi: Cong.||The Congress on Thursday launched a scathing attack on the Yogi Adityanath government after two Dalit girls died under “suspicious circumstances” in a village in Unnao district of Uttar Pradesh, and demanded that the third survivor be immediately airlifted to find out the truth about the incident. Uttar Pradesh had become the “epicentre of violence against women” and the BJP’s slogan of “Beti Bachao” was a warning to save the girl child from such crimes, the Congress said. In a Facebook post, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who is in charge of Uttar Pradesh, alleged that the family of the victim had been put under house arrest that obstructed justice. “We request the UP government to listen to the family and take immediate steps to shift the third child to Delhi for treatment,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shift-unnao-survivor-to-delhi-cong/article33875517.ece
19 February 2021||New Delhi,||IWPC hails verdict in Ramani case||The Indian Women’s Press Corps (IWPC) has welcomed the court verdict acquitting Priya Ramani in a defamation case filed by former Union Minister M J Akbar, whom she had accused of sexual harassment. In a statement here, the IWPC commended the courage shown by Ms. Ramani and key defence witness and journalist Ghazala Wahab. “It is a vindication of us women journalists, who have forever protested sexual harassment and assault and shied away from unwelcome attention in the newsroom. All we want is a safe working space... ; instead, we often find that the predators are within,” the statement said. Even at the height of the “Me Too” movement, only 20 women journalists decided to go public about their ordeal, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/iwpc-hails-verdict-in-ramani-case/article33875518.ece
19 February 2021||Mumbai,||Tighter steps for prevention in Mumbai||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), in a bid to check the growing number of COVID-19 cases, said on Thursday that those violating rules while arranging wedding receptions and other programmes would face legal action. It also announced to double the number of marshals to fine citizens who do not wear masks in public places. Travellers from Brazil would be sent to a mandatory institutional quarantine of seven days. The BMC guidelines were issued after Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal chaired a meeting of civic administration officials to take stock of the situation. As per the guidelines, asymptomatic patients kept in home quarantine would be stamped on hand as per the previous practice. The civic administration would call the person five to six times a day to ensure that the person has not left home. In case the patient ventures out, a local war room has been directed to initiate legal action and the patient will be placed in an institutional quarantine facility. Further, all housing societies with the number of patients exceeding five will be sealed. Organisers and owners of marriage halls, hotels, shopping malls, and theatres can be fined for violation of safety norms. The present number of marshals to keep a tab on people with no masks and those who spit in public places will be increased from 2,400 to 4,800. A minimum 25,000 people would have to be fined daily, the guidelines said. Each of the suburban railway lines would have 100 marshals to enforce the compulsory mask-wearing rule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tighter-steps-for-prevention-in-mumbai/article33876032.ece
19 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Action of U.N. experts deplorable’||India on Thursday said raising the issues of Kashmir and the status of minorities by the U.N. Special Rapporteurs (SR) on minority issues and freedom of religion was “deplorable”. “It is deplorable that the SRs after sharing their questionnaire on February 10 did not even wait for our response. Instead, they chose to release their inaccurate assumptions to the media,” said Anurag Srivastava, spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/action-of-un-experts-deplorable/article33876033.ece
19 February 2021||New Delhi,||Chamoli death toll touches 61||The death toll in the Chamoli disaster in Uttarakhand went up to 61 on Thursday. The identities of 34 bodies have been determined. The search teams have so far recovered 28 human body parts from different places. A Defence Research and Development Organisation team, accompanied by Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel, is on its way to inspect the lake formed close to Rounthi Gad after the floods. They reached the confluence of Rishiganga and Raunthi Gad from Muranda axis on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chamoli-death-toll-touches-61/article33875540.ece
19 February 2021||Chennai,||Seat-sharing talks with AIADMK at appropriate time: Murugan||The BJP is working on strengthening itself in constituencies where it feels it has a good chance of winning and based on that, the party will hold seat-sharing talks with the AIADMK at an appropriate time, its State president L. Murugan said. On Thursday, Union Minsters of State and the party’s election in-charge Kishan Reddy and election co in-charge V.K. Singh, held a meeting with senior leaders of the Tamil Nadu unit and discussed the party’s election strategy. Following that, Mr. Murugan told reporters that there was still time for seat-sharing talks. Later, he told The Hindu that it might be completed before the announcement of the election. AIADMK MP’s visit In a surprise development, AIADMK MP O.P. Ravindranath, visited the venue of the meeting and met Mr. Reddy. Mr. Murugan said Mr. Ravindranath was an MP and Mr. Reddy was a Union Minister and hence there was nothing surprising about the meeting. But he added that he was not aware of the meeting or what transpired between the two.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/seat-sharing-talks-with-aiadmk-at-appropriate-time-says-murugan/article33876098.ece
19 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Karnataka moots RT-PCR tests for catering staff||Although the recent cluster outbreaks in the State may not be indicative of the beginning of a second wave as yet, COVID-19 experts suggest the government should be extra vigilant to ensure such clusters do not build up and the State is set to issue revised guidelines soon. Apart from compulsory RT-PCR negative tests for those coming from high-risk States, especially Kerala and Maharashtra, the State should make RT-PCR tests mandatory once in 15 days for those who work in catering companies and serve food, experts suggested. Besides, Seva Sindhu, the portal for registrations for people coming to Karnataka from other States, should again be activated, experts said and the same was discussed at the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) meeting on Wednesday. C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said that with the wedding season going on there should be stringent norms to ensure that they do not turn into super spreader events. “Caterers hopping between weddings and attending to guests who may have come from across the country are most vulnerable to infection. Catering staff should compulsorily undergo RT-PCR tests once in 15 days,” he said. Stating that he had also discussed the issue with BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad, Dr. Manjaunath said, “Most dining halls in wedding halls are in the basement which lack proper ventilation.” V. Ravi, member of TAC and former senior professor and head of Neurovirology at NIMHANS, added, “Besides, there is a lot of movement from Kerala and Maharashtra to Karnataka and vice-versa. These are two high-risk States. While the State has made RT-PCR negative certificate mandatory for all travellers from these States, we have also recommended that Seva Sindhu should be reactivated now.” State Health Commissioner K.V. Trilok Chandra said the department will soon issue revised travel advisories for Kerala and Maharashtra travellers. “We are also working on making it mandatory for all caterers to get their staff RT-PCR tested,” he said. “We will step up vigilance in the borders to high-risk States. We have already made it mandatory for RT-PCR negative tests for people coming in from Kerala to six districts — Dakshina Kannada, Bengaluru Urban, Udupi, Chamarajanagar, Mysuru, and Kodagu,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnataka-moots-rt-pcr-tests-for-catering-staff/article33875492.ece
19 February 2021||Kochi,||HC dismisses NIA appeal against bail||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Thursday dismissed appeals filed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) against the NIA special court orders granting bail to 13 accused in a case registered in connection with the diplomatic channel gold smuggling. The Bench comprising Justice A. Hariprasad and Justice M.R. Anitha, while dismissing the appeals, endorsed the view of the NIA special court judge that the materials produced before the court were insufficient to hold prima facie that the accused persons had committed a terrorist act as defined under Section 15 of the UA(P) Act. The Bench also agreed with the view of the special court that materials on record prima facie did not indicate that the accused to whom bail had been granted had acted with an intention to damage the economic security of India. Pre-trial measures Meanwhile, the Special Court of the NIA here recorded the presence of 20 accused. While two accused, Muhammadali Ibrahim and Jifsal, physically appeared before the court, a few accused appeared online and some others through their lawyers. The presence of the accused was recorded as part of the pre-trial measures. The Special Court posted the case for March 17.  Materials produced before court are insufficient to hold prima facie that the accused had committed a terrorist act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-dismisses-nia-appeal-against-bail/article33875495.ece
19 February 2021||Malappuram,||Kappan visits his ailing mother||Siddique Kappan, a Delhi-based Malayali journalist incarcerated by the Uttar Pradesh police on charges of sedition, reached his home at Vengara, near here, on Thursday to visit his ailing mother. Mr. Kappan, arrested and jailed by the Uttar Pradesh police while he was on his way to report the sensational Hathras incident on October 5 last year, was given a five-day bail by the Supreme Court to visit his ailing mother Khadeeja Kutty. Mr. Kappan was escorted by the personnel of the Delhi and Kerala police when he reached his mother in the morning, sources said. The court gave him bail on Monday on stringent conditions that included that he should not interact with anyone other than his family and his mother’s doctor. He has to be back in jail by Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kappan-visits-his-ailing-mother/article33875502.ece
19 February 2021||New Delhi,||L&T delivers 100th K9 Vajra howitzer to Army||Army Chief Gen Manoj Naravane on Thursday flagged off the 100th K9 Vajra tracked self-propelled howitzer built by Larsen & Toubro (L&T) at its armoured system complex at Hazira in Gujarat. With this, L&T had completed the delivery of all the howitzers under the contract awarded in May 2017 ahead of schedule, the company said. The howitzers were delivered with more than 80% indigenous work packages, the firm said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lt-delivers-100th-k9-vajra-howitzer-to-army/article33875524.ece
19 February 2021||New Delhi,||Left parties slam fuel price hike||The Left parties have slammed the yet another hike in excise duties on fuel, saying the hikes were meant to offset the losses to government revenue due to the tax concessions provided to corporates and were punishing the common man. The CPI(M) Polit Bureau said the hikes have come at a time when international oil prices had fallen by nearly 50% from 2014. That year, the base price of petrol was Rs. 47.12. In 2021, it was Rs. 29.34. The tax component was nearly 38% of the cost. The party pointed out that the tax levied by the Centre increased by a whopping 217% since the Modi government took over in 2014. “These hikes in the excise duties are clearly meant to offset the losses to government revenues due to the tax concessions provided to corporates and income tax payees,” the Polit Bureau said in a statement. The corporate tax revenue had dipped from Rs. 6.81 to Rs. 6.38 lakh crores in comparison to the previous year, while the income tax revenue had come down from Rs. 5.61 lakh crore to Rs. 5.47 lakh crore, the statement said. “The Modi government’s bonanza to the rich and its cronies is sought to be made up by these excise duty hikes imposing further burdens on the people, who are already groaning under the double whammy attack on their livelihoods by the pandemic and the economic recession,” it stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/left-parties-slam-fuel-price-hike/article33875527.ece
19 February 2021||MUMBAI,||Committee for Saibaba’s defence seeks his immediate release||The Committee for Defence and Release of Prof. G.N. Saibaba has sought his immediate release from jail as he has tested positive for COVID-19 and has severe body pain and muscle spasm. It asked Maharashtra Home Minister and the jail authorities to consider his case sympathetically and release him forthwith, or grant him parole to enable him to get proper treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/committee-for-saibabas-defence-seeks-his-immediate-release/article33875529.ece
19 February 2021||New Delhi,||SC makes queries to govt on felling of trees of a certain species, age||Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde on Thursday asked the government whether measures could be taken to prevent the felling of trees of a certain species and age. The remarks came as an expert committee filed a report that said the felling of 300 heritage trees to construct five railway overbridges in West Bengal would cost India a staggering Rs. 2.2 billion in ecological value.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-makes-queries-to-govt-on-felling-of-trees-of-a-certain-species-age/article33876034.ece
19 February 2021||Mumbai,||Actor/businessman Sachin Joshi remanded in ED custody till Feb. 22||A special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court on Thursday remanded actor and businessman Sachin Joshi in Enforcement Directorate (ED) custody till February 22 in a Rs. 22 crore slum rehabilitation fraud case involving the Omkar Group. ED counsel Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh sought an extension of Mr. Joshi’s custody because they wanted to interrogate him on a seized cellphone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/actorbusinessman-sachin-joshi-remanded-in-ed-custody-till-feb-22/article33875539.ece
19 February 2021||Hyderabad,||Neurologist told to pay Rs. 5 lakh compensation for negligence||A consumer commission directed a neurosurgeon to pay Rs. 5 lakh as compensation to the family of a person who died while undergoing treatment at a city hospital. The Telangana State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission in Hyderabad was dealing with a complaint filed by D. Srinivas Rao (50) and D. Vanaja (43), parents of the victim, against Dr. P. Asadharan and Karthik Super Speciality Hospital, both in Khammam. The complainants’ daughter Snehitha was taken to the opposite parties in Khammam on November 17, 2012, and admitted to the hospital two days later. An MRI lumbar spine test was conducted a day after. The commission noted that the report stated there were no obvious protruded discs and that incidental lipc haemangioma involving D 10 vertebral body marked as distended bowl loops. Only a conservative line of treatment was advised, and she was diagnosed with severe low backache para spinal muscle spasm. Then her parents took her to Osmania University, where she was a student. Here, she developed ‘an abnormal difference in her stomach’ and was suffering from pain. They consulted the doctor at the varsity who opined that they should get her operated upon. From there, she was taken to Kamineni Hospitals at King Koti, where a laporatomy was conducted but her condition did not improve and she was declared dead on November 24. For their part, the opposite parties denied all allegations. They stated medication was given and that the complainants were advised they get the blood tests done. The victim was advised strict bed rest. They also stated that despite this advice, they took the victim 200 km away to OU, where she developed problems and later died. The commission took note of this particular submission. Taking all arguments and evidence placed on record into consideration, the commission stated, “Subjecting the patient for an MRI, opposite party no. 1 doctor failed to notice the observation recorded in the MRI report. He should have alerted the patient about the severity of the complication and should have either addressed the problem or advised the patient and complainant. He failed to do either and treated it as a common place pain by advising bed rest.” Costs of Rs. 25,000 were imposed as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/neurologist-told-to-pay-rs-5-lakh-compensation-for-negligence/article33875501.ece
19 February 2021||Guwahati,||Sonowal running syndicate, not govt, says Baghel||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel said his Assam counterpart Sarbananda Sonowal, caught between two power centres, is running a syndicate instead of a government. While the BJP has been seeking votes in the name of cow protection, the Sonowal government is encouraging cattle trade across the border with Bangladesh, Mr. Baghel, who is in Assam to campaign for the Congress, told reporters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sonowal-running-syndicate-not-govt-says-baghel/article33875541.ece
19 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Eco-restoration of Adyar in full swing||The Water Resources Department is set to complete work on desilting a portion of the Adyar as part of its eco-restoration project by this month-end. The 25 km stretch of the river from the Thiru. Vi. Ka. bridge to the Tiruneermalai bridge would sport a clean look as the department is finishing the improvement work at a cost of Rs. 94 crore. About 10 lakh cubic metre of silt was removed from the riverbed as part of the project. Work is being carried out near Jaffarkhanpet now. Officials of the department said while a portion of the earth removed was used for strengthening the flood banks, the remaining loads of silt were conveyed to dumping yards at various places, including Perungudi and Kodungaiyur. While desilting has been completed even on the encroached portions of the river, nearly 5,000 structures are waiting to be removed as alternative housing for the residents is not yet ready. Encroachments need to be cleared in areas such as Burma Colony, Satya Nagar, Surya Nagar, Mallipoo Nagar, MGR Nagar, Thideer Nagar near Saidapet and Kesavapuram, said officials. About 11,400 encroachments were identified along the Adyar. An eviction drive was carried out along the riverbanks in 2016. Besides widening the river from 80 m to 400 m (near the Thiru.Vi.Ka. bridge) on various stretches, the department has built flood protection walls to a distance of 1,600 m at vulnerable points. “We have built retaining walls near the Saidapet railway bridge, Jaffarkhanpet and the Nandambakkam check dam. A 400 m retaining wall has been constructed near the point of confluence of the Adyar and the Chembarambakkam reservoir,” said an official. However, work on building the retaining walls, which were damaged during the 2015 floods, on a 2 km stretch from the Jaffarkhanpet bridge has not been taken up for want of funds. Such walls were essential to protect localities along the river from floods. The river carried more than 25,000 cusecs (cubic feet per second) of floodwater during the northeast monsoon last year. The department is awaiting coastal regulation zone clearance to take up a similar improvement work on the portion between the Adyar river mouth and the Thiru. Vi.Ka. bridge through the Chennai Rivers Restoration Trust.  A 400 metre retaining wall has been constructed near the point of confluence of the Adyar and the Chembarambakkam reservoir Official of Water Resources Department||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eco-restoration-of-adyar-in-full-swing/article33876068.ece
19 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Voters want welfare measures, textile park at Tiruttani||The Tiruttani Assembly constituency derives its growth and development from its position as a pilgrimage centre, from textile industry, agriculture and its proximity to Andhra Pradesh. Ahead of the Assembly election this year, the important civic issues that have dominated the minds of the electors include the loss of livelihood of handloom and powerloom workers, pollution of the Nandiyar and the Kosasthalaiyar, the decline in farm productivity because of pollution, poor transport connectivity and inadequate water supply. With local DMK workers trying to persuade party president M.K. Stalin to contest from the pilgrimage centre, the electors are waiting to see how things will pan out. S. Logan, a farmer, said farmers are losing revenue because of the government’s failure to establish a mandi with infrastructure to procure and store grain. “Farmers in Tiruttani lose at least Rs. 300, compared with those in Tiruvarur, during the sale of an 82 kg bag of ponni variety of paddy,” he said. With the reduction in productivity, a tussle has taken place between farmers and weavers over the pollution of waterbodies that are major sources of irrigation. “We have requested the government to develop treatment plants near rivers and lakes,” said P. Muthappa, a resident of Tiruttani. For instance, agriculture has been affected near the Pandaravedu lake owing to pollution. N. Selvam, a resident of Maddur, wants the government to develop a textile park. “We want government institutions to purchase textile goods. We want subsidy for procurement of raw materials for the powerlooms. Over 25 villages have powerlooms. The industry has declined owing to the failure of cooperative societies and the reluctance of officials to support us,” said M. Ravi, a weaving industry representative. “Over 25 villages, such as Maddur near Tiruttani, are among the few areas that have a climate suitable for the cotton textile industry. Issues such as the GST have affected the industry. I had six powerlooms. I sold them all,” said P.G. Panchatcharam, a resident. Many of the weavers depend on alternate jobs in neighbouring cities, with more than 10,000 residents taking the bus to Chennai every day. But they do not have adequate transport facilities. The residents have requested additional trains and a subway beneath the rail line dividing the eastern and western parts of Tiruttani, near the travellers’ bungalow. Residents have also demanded better public toilets, healthcare facilities and schools. The loss of livelihood in most of the 105 villages in the constituency has been significant during the COVID-19 pandemic, leading to an increase in the number of residents leaving their villages in pursuit of alternative employment. “Our relatives in Andhra Pradesh, who are a few kilometres away, have received Rs. 18,000 during the pandemic. We demand a similar measure. We do not get adequate wages under the scheme that guarantees 100 days of employment. We got less than 30 days this year,” said a woman, who did not wish to be named. AIADMK MLA P.M. Narasimhan said that over 70% of the work on the water supply scheme for Tiruttani had been completed at an estimated cost of Rs. 115 crore. “It involves laying of pipelines to a stretch of 64 km,” he said. “The bypass will be completed at an estimated cost of Rs. 38 crore. The tender will be finalised shortly for the Rs. 20 crore bus stand. Stormwater drains will be completed at an estimated cost of Rs. 20 crore. Work on a government arts college at Rs. 9 crore and a hospital building at Rs. 9 crore have been completed,” he says. DMK leader M. Boopathi said 15 villages had no bus connectivity. “Residents have to walk 5 km to get a bus to the nearest town. Residents have many demands. Our party established a lead of 85,000 votes in the Assembly segment in the 2019 Lok Sabha election. Our leader M.K. Stalin is expected to win by 1.5 lakh votes if he decides to contest from Tiruttani,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/voters-want-welfare-measures-textile-park-at-tiruttani/article33876078.ece
19 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sitting on hunger strike is not a suicide attempt, says HC||Will sitting on hunger strike for days together pressing certain demands and refusing to cooperate with the authorities in providing medical treatment amount to a criminal offence under Section 309 (attempt to commit suicide) of the Indian Penal Code? The Madras High Court has answered this question of law with a categorical no. Quashing one such case booked against a Sri Lankan refugee, Justice N. Anand Venkatesh said: “The mere fact that the petitioner has protested by sitting on hunger strike will not attract the offence under Section 309 IPC. Even if the materials available on record are taken as it is, it does not constitute an offence under Section 309 IPC.” Advocate P. Pugalenthi brought it to the notice of the court that the petitioner P. Chandrakumar was lodged in a special refugee camp functioning at Poonnamalee sub jail campus in 2013. Unlike those lodged in regular refugee campus, the inmates of special camps were denied the freedom of movement and not allowed to step out. Therefore, the petitioner sat on a hunger strike for nearly 10 days between August 15 and August 24, 2013. He was also accused of not cooperating with the local Tahsildar when attempts were made to provide medical treatment to him when his health condition worsened due to protest having been continued for nearly 10 days. Acting on the basis of a complaint lodged by a local policeman in-charge of the security in the special camp, a First Information Report (FIR) was registered against the petitioner under Section 309 of IPC and a charge sheet was also laid before a judicial magistrate who took cognisance in 2016 forcing the petitioner to move the High Court. The petitioner’s counsel primarily raised two grounds. One was that the act of going on a hunger strike or sitting on a fast would not amount to an offence under Section 309 of IPC. The second ground was that the Magistrate ought not to have taken cognisance after three years since such an act was barred by the period of limitation. It was brought to the notice of the court that Section 468 of the Code of Criminal Procedure states that courts should take cognisance of offences within six months if they were punishable with fine alone, within a year if the offence was punishable with prison term not exceeding one year and within three years if the offence was punishable with prison term exceeding one year but not exceeding three years. In the case of Section 309 of IPC, punishable with simple imprisonment which could extend up to one year or with fine or with both, the Magistrate ought to have taken cognisance within one year, the counsel argued and the judge concurred with him. “Taking cognizance of the final report by the court below is barred by law and stands vitiated,” the judge held.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sitting-on-hunger-strike-is-not-an-attempt-to-suicide-hc/article33875656.ece
19 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. hospitals set to resume transplants||With a long waitlist for organ transplants, government hospitals are taking steps to put transplant services back on track after they came to a halt during the pandemic. A number of hospitals are planning to resume transplant activities in March. Amid the pandemic, almost all services, except emergencies, came to a standstill, as government hospitals (GHs) were at the centre of COVID-19 management in the State. In the last few months, regular activities, including elective surgeries and outpatient services, have resumed at the institutions, with the exception being organ transplants — both living and deceased donor transplantations. Now work to resume transplants have taken off in a number of government medical college hospitals. Official sources said among the government medical college hospitals, the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital had started living donor renal transplants and was gearing up for the deceased donor transplant programme. “It is important that GHs re-start transplant programmes as the number of patients on the waiting lists is huge. For instance, nearly 3,000 patients are on the kidney waitlist in GHs in the State, of which around 1,800 are waiting for a transplant at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH). Many are managing with dialysis, but want to get the surgery at the earliest. Patients have started making calls, inquiring whether hospitals are starting transplants as the COVID-19 cases have declined,” an official said. While government institutions have been slow-paced in resuming transplant programmes, private hospitals have been performing both living donor and deceased donor organ transplants in the past year. As per data, a total of 80 organ transplants were performed from April 2020 to date. All transplants were performed at private hospitals — 26 kidney, 17 liver, 18 heart transplants, one heart and lung combined transplant and 18 dual lung transplants. In fact, from April 2020 to January 2021, a total of 297 living donor renal transplants and 190 liver transplants were performed. RGGGH dean E. Theranirajan said transplants were likely to be resumed by the first week of March. P. Balaji, dean of the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital, said living donor renal transplants were set to resume on February 24. P. Vasanthamani, dean of the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital, said they were planning to start living donor kidney transplants at the Government Royapettah Hospital, one of its affiliated institutions, by the second week of March. However, challenges are aplenty — a government transplant surgeon said the pandemic had disrupted organ transplants. As hospitals restart the live programme, both donors and recipients will be tested for COVID-19, 48 hours prior to surgery, he said, adding, “Our transplant operation area and post-transplant ward have to be located far away from COVID-19 patients, whose numbers are less now. Our staff, operation theatre personnel or anaesthesiologists with fever or cough will be screened before they are involved in transplant-related activities, while deceased donors will be screened for COVID-19 before donation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-hospitals-set-to-resume-transplants/article33876088.ece
19 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three districts see no case even as State records 457||On a day when Tamil Nadu added 457 fresh cases of COVID-19, three districts recorded no new case and 24 saw fewer than 10 cases each. The State’s tally stood at 8,46,937 on Thursday. Ariyalur, Kallakurichi and Perambalur had no new case, while districts including Madurai and Salem logged cases in single digits. A total of 138 persons tested positive for the infection in Chennai, and 48 and 40 in Chengalpattu and Coimbatore respectively. Tiruvallur saw 34 cases, while Erode and Kancheepuram recorded 19 each. Those testing positive included two returnees from Maharashtra and one from Bihar. Another 470 persons were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 8,30,320. Six more persons — two in private hospitals and four in government facilities — succumbed to the infection. Chennai recorded four deaths, while Tiruvallur and Tiruchi saw one each. Till date, 12,444 persons have died in the State. A 40-year-old man from Tiruchi, who had diabetes, died at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on February 16 due to COVID-19 pneumonia and respiratory failure. A 58-year-old man from Chennai who had no co-morbidities died at the Government Corona Hospital on February 17 due to COVID-19 pneumonia, respiratory failure, acute respiratory distress syndrome and non-ST elevation myocardial infarction. As many as 4,173 persons are currently under treatment for COVID-19, of which Chennai accounts for 1,629. In the last 24 hours, 51,101 samples were tested, taking the total figure to 1,69,67,271. Three more returnees from the U.K. have tested positive for COVID-19. Their samples have been sent for whole genome sequencing to check for the U.K. variant of the virus. Till date, 34 U.K. returnees have tested positive for the infection in the State. Of them, six are under treatment in separate isolation wards, while the remaining have tested negative on follow-up RT-PCR testing. Vaccination update A total of 20,440 persons — 14,813 healthcare workers, 3,500 frontline staff and 2,127 police personnel — were vaccinated on Thursday. Of these, 14,354 received the first dose, while the remaining 6,086 got the second. A total of 3,29,583 persons have been inoculated till date in the State. As many as 14,367 healthcare workers, 3,500 frontline staff and 2,049 police personnel received Covishield, while 446 health workers and 78 police personnel took Covaxin. No frontline worker took Covaxin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-districts-see-no-case-even-as-state-records-457/article33875620.ece
19 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Crop loan waiver spotlights skewed distribution of benefit||The Tamil Nadu government’s crop loan waiver scheme has again spotlighted how skewed the distribution of benefits is. Farmers in Salem, Tiruchi and Erode constitute a substantial chunk of the beneficiaries. Around 31% of the total outstanding loan amount waived — Rs. 3,727.72 crore out of Rs. 12,110.75 crore — is from these regions. Again, in terms of beneficiaries, those in these regions — 4,28,138 — account for 26% of the total of 16,43,347 farmers. This has evoked a strong reaction from some agriculturists. P.R. Pandian, a Mannargudi-based farmer-leader, contended that despite holding the pre-eminent position in agriculture, the Cauvery delta districts had been given a “raw deal”. The total amount of the loans waived in the revenue districts of Thanjavur, Thiruvarur, Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai is around Rs. 1,133 crore. K. N. Nehru, a senior leader of the DMK, who hails from Tiruchi, suspected that even at the time of loan disbursal this year, sections of the beneficiaries in the regions had sensed the formulation of such a scheme. However, senior officials dismissed these contentions. As for the three regions cornering a substantial chunk of the loan amount waived, they said that even under the loan waiver schemes of 2006 and 2016, the share of these regions was similar to the present one. Explaining the organisational structure of the cooperative institutions, they said Central Cooperative Banks (CCBs), whose functional jurisdiction includes Primary Agricultural Cooperative Credit Societies (PACCSs), cover more than one district. For example, the Salem CCB takes care of a part of Namakkal too. Likewise, Erode covers Tiruppur and another part of Namakkal. It is not correct to assume that one district has got more than others, going by the figures of the CCBs. Another factor is the area of operation handled by the CCBs. Thirdly, the economic strength of the PACCSs also matters. If some societies are profitable, they will be lending more funds than the sick societies. This is, in turn, governed by the ability of loanees to repay. Farmers in the western belt are generally known to be prompt in repayment, the officials pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crop-loan-waiver-spotlights-skewed-distribution-of-benefit/article33875618.ece
19 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Major reshuffle of IPS officers ahead of Assembly election||The Tamil Nadu government has transferred and reshuffled 54 IPS officers across the State ahead of the Assembly election. T.S. Anbu has been posted as Inspector General of Police (IGP)/Commissioner of Police, Tirunelveli city. K. Shankar has been posted as IGP, North Zone, Chennai. R. Dhinakaran has been appointed IGP, West Zone, Coimbatore, in place of K. Periaiah, who is now IGP, General, Chennai. Santosh Kumar has been posted as IGP/Commissioner of Police, Salem city, in place of T. Senthil Kumar, who will be the Additional Commissioner of Police, Law and Order, North, Chennai. Vidya Jayant Kulkarni has been posted as IGP/Additional Commissioner of Police, CCB, Greater Chennai Police. P.C. Thenmozhi is posted as IGP, Crime Branch CID, Chennai. N. Kannan, Additional Commissioner of Police, Traffic, Chennai, has been given Law and Order, South, Chennai. K. Bhavaneeswari will replace him as Additional Commissioner of Police, Traffic, Chennai. Officers have also been given new postings at the Deputy Inspector General (DIG)/Joint Commissioner of Police rank. S. Rajendran is now DIG Intelligence (Internal Security), Chennai. Apart from a reshuffle in Chennai, R. Sudhakar has been appointed DIG, Madurai, and M. Pandian as DIG, Villupuram. R. Krishnaraj will be Superintendent of Police (SP), Tirunelveli district; N. Manivannan, SP, Thoothukudi district; V. Baskaran, SP, Ariyalur district; and P. Rajan, SP, Tiruchi district, among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/major-reshuffle-of-ips-officers-ahead-of-assembly-election/article33875595.ece
19 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bharat Kalachar to pay musical tribute to P.B. Sreenivas||Bharath Kalachar will reopen after a long break due to the COVID-19 pandemic at 6.30 p.m. on Sunday with a musical evening with songs rendered by the legendary playback singer, poet and linguist P.B. Sreenivas. The YGP Auditorium on Thirumalai Road in T. Nagar, will come alive with songs composed by legends, including G. Ramanathan, Viswanathan-Ramamurthy, K.V.M. Sudarsanam and Adinarayana Rao. Murali’s Mouna Raagam Orchestra, along with playback singer Ananthu, super singer Sai Vignesh, Janaki, Sujatha Nagesh and Zee singer Karthik, will bring alive songs of yesteryears. There will be a whistle tribute by actor director Y. Gee Mahendra. Carnatic vocalist O.S. Arun will present a guest performance. Mr. Mahendra said that he chose to pay tribute to PBS for the reopening programme since he is considered the pithamaha of music. “Many guests who come for our programmes also have been requesting a programme with his songs. We are all tired after several months of being confined to our homes. His songs of romance and love and pathos will come as a soothing balm,” he said. The son of PBS, P.B. Phanindra, who will be present at the programme, recalled that his father always used to say that he was a fan of his fans. “He loved to spend time with his rasikas and anyone could access him at the Woodlands hotel. He enjoyed music and would appreciate musicians with his poetry,” he said. Tickets can be booked at Bookmyshow and at the venue on the day of the event, organised by Abbas Cultural and Roshini Fine Arts. Personal distancing would be maintained at the auditorium, and masks are mandatory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bharat-kalachar-to-pay-musical-tribute-to-pb-sreenivas/article33876082.ece
19 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Thondai Mandala Adheenam mutt gets a new pontiff||G. Natarajan has been elected the 233rd pontiff (Madathipathi) of the Kanchipuram Thondai Mandala Adheenam Sri Gnanaprakasa Desiga Paramacharya Swamigal Math. This was stated in a communication sent by P.T.R.K. Vijay Rajan, chairman of the advisory committee, to the Commissioner of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments on Monday. The election took place at a meeting of the devotees on February 13 in Chennai. P. Baskaran, former judge of the Madras High Court, presided over the meeting, which was attended by A.M. Swaminathan, former IAS officer, the letter said. The new pontiff would henceforth be known as Thiruchitrambala Gnanaprakasa Desiga Paramacharya Swamigal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thondai-mandala-adheenam-mutt-gets-a-new-pontiff/article33876084.ece
19 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Researchers find way to make HIV drugs effective||Researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras have found a way to make the drugs to combat HIV infection more effective. For 25 years, researchers worldwide have been trying to find effective drugs to prevent the virus from replicating. Drugs that are used to treat HIV infection are aimed at inhibiting the activity of HIV protease, an enzyme found in the virus. Sanjib Senapati, a faculty from the Department of Biotechnology, said he and his team were working on ways to improve the efficacy of the drugs. Typically, those on anti-retroviral therapy become drug-resistant over a period of time, and the virus takes over. “We looked at the HIV protease structure in all the drugs thoroughly and found something astonishing,” he said. Scientists believed thus far that by developing a molecule that could stick to the cavity of the HIV protease, the replication of the virus could be stopped, Mr. Senapati said. “All these drugs bind the cavity by an action called van der Waals interaction. We found that the interaction of these drugs and the cavity is a weak one, and secondly, HIV protease is very clever. So when it finds there is a molecule binding to its cavity, it mutates. By mutating, it makes the cavity bigger. The drug molecule that was binding nicely before finds a lose binding so the drug goes out,” he said. The researchers then found that in the cavity of the HIV protease a particular region was polar. The team used molecular dynamics simulations and showed that introducing electrostatic interaction sites on potential drug molecules could enhance the efficacy of the drug. “By this, you can stop the replication of HIV and that will ensure a better cure rate,” he said. The team included research scholars Mohammed Ahsan and Chinmai Pindi. Their work was published in Biochemistry , a peer-reviewed journal of the American Chemical Society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/researchers-find-way-to-make-hiv-drugs-effective/article33876063.ece
19 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man poses as bank officer, dupes woman||A caller pretending to be the manager of a reputed bank cheated a 63-year-old woman of Rs. 1.82 lakh. The police said Syamala, of Judge’s Colony near Tambaram Sanatorium, on Monday received a call from a person who offered banking services to senior citizens at their door step without their having to visit the bank during the pandemic. The caller asked her to share her account details, including the one-time password that she received on her mobile phone. Then she received alerts about funds having been transferred from her account nine times within an hour. Account blocked With the help of a friend, she blocked the account but by then, Rs. 1.82 lakh had been siphoned off. Ms. Syamala lives with her husband Kannan, 70, a retired doctor. Their children live abroad. The cyber cell is investigating the complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-poses-as-bank-officer-dupes-woman/article33876069.ece
19 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Huge haul of gutkha seized in Mambalam||A 24-year-old man accused of possessing banned gutkha products for sale and distribution at several outlets in the city has been arrested in the Mambalam police station limits. Over 1.2 tonnes of the contraband was seized from him. Following a tip-off on the movement of the contraband, a special team of police, led by the Mambalam inspector, mounted surveillance at the junction between Burkit Road and Dhandapani Road and nabbed the accused who was carrying two handbags. On searching him, the police recovered the contraband and the name of the accused was given as Saganapuram, 24, of Ambattur. The police recovered 1.2 tonnes of the contraband from a godown which he had taken on rent. Two arrested Two persons, who were carrying ganja to Purasawalkam, were arrested in the Vepery police station limits. The names of the accused were given as Pranav Gupta, 24, of Vepery, and G. Prasanth, 25, of Vadapalani. About 1 kg of ganja was seized from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/huge-haul-of-gutkha-seized-in-mambalam/article33876071.ece
19 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Six held for kidnapping teenager from Red Hills||A gang of six was nabbed on Thursday for allegedly kidnapping a 17-year-old teenager in the Red Hills police station limits. The police rescued the teen. The car by which the kidnappers were taking the teen was intercepted near Acharapakkam by the police. The accused were brought to the city. The victim has been identified as the son of a vegetable vendor in Red Hills. The police said the main accused Bhoopathi, 26, of Pudukottai, had secretly married the vegetable vendor’s daughter Jamuna, and the two were living away from their families. On learning about the marriage, Ms. Jamuna’s parents went to Pudukottai and brought her back to Chennai without Bhoopathi’s consent. This infuriated Bhoopathi, who decided to take revenge on the family with the help of his friends. The police said they accosted Bhoopathi’s brother-in-law while he was returning home from school and took him in a car. Bhoopathi’s associate Santhosh Kumar was dropped midway as they could not accommodate him in the car. Passersby, who grew suspicious, caught hold of Santhosh Kumar and alerted the police about the kidnap. On interrogation, Santhosh Kumar confessed to the police that the plan was to kidnap the teen and threaten Bhoopathi’s father-in-law. Immediately all police stations on National Highways leading to Pudukottai and toll plazas were alerted. A night patrol team intercepted the car near a toll plaza at Acharapakkam and caught the kidnappers with the teen. They were handed over to the Red Hills police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-held-for-kidnapping-teenager-from-red-hills/article33876072.ece
19 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Asian-Arab Chamber of Commerce opens office||The Asian-Arab Chamber of Commerce has set up its south India office in Chennai and plans to open 14 more trade offices in Tamil Nadu and Kerala. A statement from the chamber said there was huge interest as Arab countries were looking at India and Tamil Nadu as the investment hub, which was an emerging region with great scope for multilateral business opportunities due to its manufacturing base. “We will be launching an Arab Special Economic Zone in Thoothukudi on 300 acres of land parcel for collaboration with Arab companies. This is close to the port there,” said R.L. Kannan, who has been appointed the National Director of the South Zone and Goa. N. Srinivasan, vice-chairman and managing director of India Cements, who was the guest of honour, said India had emerged as a big market for manufactured products and services. India was a significant exporter of information technology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/asian-arab-chamber-of-commerce-opens-office/article33876083.ece
19 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Four arrested for grabbing property||The Anti-Land Grabbing Cell of the Central Crime Branch has arrested four persons, who allegedly grabbed property worth Rs. 1 crore belonging to a chartered accountant in Madhavaram, through impersonation and by producing forged documents. The police said Rathinam Gunam Rajendren, 70, had bought a plot measuring 3,040 sq ft in Madhavaram. In 2017, K. Ramachandran of Tiruvottiyur created an encumbrance on the property with the help of forged documents and by impersonation. He hired Dakshinamurty to pose as Mr. Rajendran and registered a power of attorney as if Mr. Rajendran was empowering him to alienate the land. Then Ramachandran got the property registered in the name of his brother Vanamamalai. They pledged the property with Repco Bank, Anna Nagar, and got a loan of Rs. 75 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-arrested-for-grabbing-property/article33876099.ece
19 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMDK, IJK call for applicants to contest poll||The DMDK on Thursday announced the distribution of applications for aspirants looking to contest the Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. DMDK founder Vijayakant said aspirants could submit their applications from February 25.  Application fee The application fee is Rs. 15,000 for general constituencies and Rs. 10,000 for reserved constituencies in Tamil Nadu.  The Indhiya Jananayaka Katchi (IJK), too, will be accepting applications from aspirants from February 22, P. Jayaseelan, general secretary of the party, said. The applications can be downloaded from the website www.ijkparty.org or can be obtained from the party’s head office in Ashok Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmdk-ijk-call-for-applicants-to-contest-poll/article33875616.ece
19 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Prioritise members of political parties, judiciary, mediapersons for the jab’||Tamil Nadu has sought the Union government’s permission to start vaccination of the elderly and persons with co-morbidities much earlier than the third phase. The State has also asked it to prioritise those who visited places where people converged, such as members of political parties and the judiciary and mediapersons, and to approve self-registration mode for them to expedite the process, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said on Thursday. “The Centre has said it would consider this,” he told reporters at the Government Kilpauk Medical College (KMC) Hospital. In the first phase, the Centre has given permission to include officials to be drafted for the Assembly election work in the vaccination programme. The State government has been reiterating the need to start vaccination of the elderly, mediapersons and members of political parties, he said. “Many of them are willing to take the vaccine and this need not be postponed. The Centre has said vaccination for the elderly — persons aged above 50 and persons aged below 50 with co-morbidities — will start in mid-March. But we are asking that this be expedited for States such as Tamil Nadu,” he added. Noting that the State had sufficient doses of the vaccines, he said 14.8 lakh doses were available and the required number of sessions could be held. “Though the start was slow in Tamil Nadu, we have gradually improved vaccination, and are covering 19,000 to 20,000 persons a day now,” he said. Arrangements have been made to make Covaxin available at 24 government medical college hospitals and 11 other places. Till now, Covaxin was administered at six sites. Noting that there were two to three challenges in Tamil Nadu, he said, “In many places, people are not wearing masks. Today, COVID-19 is a challenge in such places in Maharashtra as Mumbai, Nagpur, Pune and Nashik, and our neighbouring State of Kerala. We are reporting nearly 450 new cases after testing around 52,000 samples a day. This is not satisfactory... One person can spread the infection to many.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prioritise-members-of-political-parties-judiciary-mediapersons-for-the-jab/article33875621.ece
19 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PM must explain sudden removal of Bedi: Alagiri||Prime Minister Narendra Modi must explain the reason behind the sudden removal of Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi when the Congress had been complaining against her for the past four-and-a-half years without any action being taken, said Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri. “Kiran Bedi had said she would send Narayanasami [Chief Minister] out of the Cabinet and form the government. But today she has been sent out. We don’t know what is going to happen to Tamilisai. This is an anti-democratic act,” he said. Mr. Alagiri asked what issue had been found against Ms. Bedi now. “When we were complaining for the past four-and-a-half years that she was working against a democratically elected government, there was no action. But now the PM has removed her. What is the reason?” He said if the Prime Minister had taken action against Ms. Bedi years ago, they would have welcomed it. The Union Home Ministry must explain to the people the reason for the sudden removal, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/explain-sudden-removal-of-bedi-alagiri/article33876094.ece
19 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai International Film Festival begins||The 18th edition of the Chennai International Film Festival (CIFF), organised by the Indo Cine Appreciation Foundation (ICAF) in association with PVR, was inaugurated on Thursday. The French film The Girl with the Bracelet was screened as the opening film. “The support we have received from the State government, film lovers and various embassies in the city have made this festival possible,” said D. Ramakrishnan, vice-chairman of the festival. Katharina Görgen, director, Goethe-Institut, Chennai; Young-seup Kwon, Consul-General, Republic of Korea; Karin Christina Maria Stoll, Consul-General, Federal Republic of Germany; Lise Talbot Barré, Consul-General of France in Puducherry and Chennai; and Bruno Plasse, director, Alliance Francaise, were among the guests who participated in the inaugural. “Given the line-up of films from across the world, this festival is truly global and shows that there are no boundaries if you cooperate. As much as we cherish our respective cultures and identities, we must be open for exchange,” Ms. Maria Stoll said, speaking about cultural cooperation and the film festival. “French people and Indians love the cinema and going to the cinemas. It is a pleasure to see so many people attending the festival,” said Ms. Lise Talbot Barré. In its 18th edition, the film festival will screen 91 films from 53 countries over the next seven days. While films will be screened under the World Cinema, Indian panorama, Retrospective and Country Focus categories, 13 Tamil films will be screened as part of the Tamil film competition at the festival. Members of the Tamil film industry will conduct 12 master classes on various aspects of film-making through the duration of the festival. For more details regarding the schedule of the films, interested persons can visit at https: //chennaifilmfest.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-international-film-festival-begins/article33876080.ece
19 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Teenager, who was set free by police, harassed||A social activist has lodged a complaint with the police alleging that the 19-year-old girl, who stabbed her cousin when he tried to rape her in Sholavaram and was later released by the Tiruvallur district police on grounds of self-defence, was being harassed by the family of the accused. The 19-year-old teenager had gone to her aunt’s house in Sholavaram, Tiruvallur district, in January. Her 24-year-old cousin followed her and attempted to rape her at knife point. The girl pushed him away, grabbed took his knife and allegedly stabbed him. P. Aravindhan, SP, Tiruvallur, released the girl under Section 100, clause 3, of the IPC. “But some of the family members of the accused have started harassing her. Since she wears pants and shirt and does not like to grow long hair, they started calling her a transman. She and her family members are depressed,” said Kanya Babu, child and women rights activist, Co-founder of All India Movement for Service. The girl has lodged a complaint with the Superintendent of Police about this, and investigation is on. (Child Line operates a toll-free helpline for children in distress 1098.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teenager-who-was-set-free-by-police-harassed/article33876081.ece
19 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||98-year-old man undergoes hip replacement surgery||Doctors at Rela Institute and Medical Centre here have performed a hip replacement surgery for a 98-year-old man from Andhra Pradesh, who suffered a fracture in his right hip joint. A statement by the hospital said that the surgery was challenging as the success rate of hip replacement procedure was low for patients above 75 years. It was made even more challenging due to the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/98-year-old-man-undergoes-hip-replacement-surgery/article33876096.ece
19 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Temple property retrieved||The Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR and CE) Department on Thursday took possession of property estimated at Rs. 2.8 crore belonging to the Sri Parthasarathy Perumal temple in Triplicane. Sources said the 1,850-sq ft land located on Dr. Natesan Salai had been rented out to five persons several decades ago. “They had constructed shops and rented them out. This is not permitted and they owe the temple large amounts as dues, which is why the land was retrieved by the department after notices were served,” said an official. Seven shops and an ATM were functioning out of these shops. The temple has more land in the same locality where houses have been built. A large number of locals gathered and tried to prevent the takeover.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temple-property-retrieved/article33876089.ece
19 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Anand and Yadav are joint CEOs||The State government on Thursday posted IAS officers T. Anand and Ajay Yadav as joint Chief Electoral Officers in the Public (Elections) Department. Mr. Anand has been serving as Joint Secretary in the Agriculture Department and Mr. Yadav has been the Joint Secretary in the Health and Family Welfare Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anand-and-yadav-named-joint-ceos/article33875599.ece
19 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘435 children rescued in city’||Special teams of the city police conducted an operation and rescued 435 children — 361 boys and 74 girls — in 15 days. The children, who were wandering about and begging at various places in the city, were produced before the Child Welfare Committees in Chennai, Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur and sent to government child care institutions. On February 1, Commissioner of Police Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal launched the special initiative, ‘Operation Smile-2021’, to trace missing children and rescue those in need of care and protection, within the city police jurisdiction. H. Jayalakshmi, DCP, special wing for crime against women and children, said, “As part of the initiative, 24 special teams were formed with police officers, Labour Department officials, Child Welfare Committees, Child Line and other stakeholders. The operation was in full swing till February 15.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/435-children-rescued-in-city/article33876076.ece
19 February 2021||COIMBAORE,TAMIL NADU||One arrested in GST case||The GST and Central Excise Department, Coimbatore, recently arrested Ramesh Kumar Patel for issuing fake invoices and getting unlawful input tax credit to the tune of Rs. 7.69 crore. According to a release, the Central GST officers of Pollachi Division arrested Ramesh Kumar Patel after carrying out detailed investigation and multiple searches. It was found during the investigation that the arrested person had floated five companies - Thrisul Timber Traders, Sree Ashapura Impex, Ambika Timber Depot, Laxmi Narayana Timbers Pvt Ltd and Sree Ashapura Saw Mills - with an intention to commit GST credit fraud. These units indulged in bill (invoice) trading by receiving invoices without supply of goods. The arrested person, who was associated with the five timber units in various capacities such as proprietor, partner and director, admitted in his statements before the GST officers that he received invoices without the actual supply of goods (fake invoice) from various units and committed the GST credit fraud. He was produced before the Chief Judicial Magistrate on February 16 who remanded him to judicial custody till March 2. The release said the total tax evasion worked out to Rs. 7.69 crore, of which Rs. 1.16 crore had been realised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-arrested-in-gst-case/article33875650.ece
19 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Security arrangements stepped up in Coimbatore for PM’s visit||With Prime Minister Narendra Modi slated to visit Coimbatore on February 25, the Coimbatore city police has stepped up security measures a week in advance. The department convened a meeting with members from various sections of the society on Thursday to assist the police in detecting any suspicious activities. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) G. Stalin convened a meeting with over 100 persons, including autorickshaw drivers and owners of lodges, wedding halls and printing presses, police sources said. During the meeting, he instructed the lodge owners to receive documentary proofs of all their customers. Any suspicious activity must be reported to the nearest police station immediately. Wedding halls in the city must not allow large groups of people to stay on their premises. The printing presses must report to the police if any of their customers ask them to print any posters or pamphlets that contain controversial or communally sensitive content. Mr. Stalin warned that action will be initiated against those who print such content, the sources said. The autorickshaw drivers were asked to report any suspicious persons boarding their vehicles or if any of their customers were carrying objects that are potentially incriminating. Meanwhile, the police have deployed Armed Reserve Police personnel at CODISSIA trade fair complex grounds, where Mr. Modi will address a public meeting. A ‘mini control room’ has been set up around 1 km away from the venue. Till February 25, a police patrol vehicle will monitor the area between Coimbatore International Airport and CODISSIA grounds round the clock, according to the sources. The existing check-posts in the city will be strengthened using additional personnel. A team of two Assistant Commissioners of Police and eight police inspectors will be engaged in night patrolling, the sources noted. A statement from the department said all vehicles entering the city would be thoroughly checked and the bomb detection and disposal squad officials would check all public places including railway stations and bus terminuses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/security-stepped-up-for-pms-visit/article33875668.ece
19 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Avinashi Road flyover should have ramps’||The Avinashi Road flyover, under construction, should have up and down ramps as planned, said K. Kathirmathiyon, secretary of Coimbatore Consumer Cause. A group of land owners have obtained a stay order from the Madras High Court against acquisition of their lands and have sought redesigning of the flyover. They have called for a design without the ramps. Mr. Kathirmathiyon said the flyover was for 10 km and crossed several junctions. It would not benefit the public without the up and down ramps. Hence, the flyover should be constructed with the ramps. “The public interest should prevail over private interest,” he said. When any infrastructure came up and involved land acquisition, it would face resistance. The Gandhipuram flyover, which runs for just about one km, did not have any ramp. The public criticised its design and hence, the Highways Department planned to construct two ramps now. “Whatever is needed for the best possible design should be done. The public interest should not be compromised. If there are no ramps, the Avinashi Road flyover project can be dropped,” he said. However, the State Highways Department should also ensure that the project caused least inconvenience to the land owners. The government should provide higher compensation and look at different ways to compensate the owners who were parting with their land. The amount should be disbursed at the earliest, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/avinashi-road-flyover-should-have-ramps/article33876106.ece
19 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||CODISSIA to start construction of Defence incubation facility soon||The Coimbatore District Small Industries Association (CODISSIA) will start the construction of its Defence incubation and innovation centre shortly. The facility will come up at the CODISSIA Industrial Park at Kallapalayam. “The park was inaugurated by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami recently. The State government will release soon a grant of Rs. 10 crore to develop basic infrastructure at the park. We will set up a skill development centre and the Defence incubation and innovation centre at the park,” said M.V. Ramesh Babu, president of CODISSIA. “We have submitted the building plan for approval for the incubation and innovation facility and when we get it, the construction work will start,” he said. For the skill development centre, the Association is studying the different schemes of the State and Central governments. The CODISSIA has developed industrial parks at Moperipalayam and Kallapalayam here on about 250 acres and 140 acres respectively. Individual industries have started construction works at the parks. Over 400 MSMEs will come up at these two parks. The State government had given Rs. 10 crore grant for the Moperipalayam park, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/codissia-to-start-construction-of-defence-incubation-facility-soon/article33875651.ece
19 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Workshop on cancer surgery today||GEM Hospital would organise an online workshop on laparoscopic and robotic oesophageal cancer surgery on Friday. International surgeons including Simon Law from Hong Kong, D.J. Kim from South Korea and Peter Walter from Spain along with GEM Hospital chairman C. Palanivelu would participate and demonstrate surgeries during the workshop, a press release from the Hospital said. Surgeons may participate by logging in towww.televersity.organd contact 98422 10174 orinfo@geminstitute.infor further details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/workshop-on-cancer-surgery-today/article33876110.ece
19 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two convicted for electrocuting elephant||The Judicial Magistrate, Mettupalayam, on Thursday convicted and sentenced two men, who were siblings, to three years of imprisonment for electrocuting an elephant within the Sirumugai forest range in 2010. Legal sources said that in October 2010, A. Kanagaraj (58) and his brother Govindaraj (55) along with their father Ammasai set up electric fencing on poramboke land near Vedar Colony to kill an elephant that had allegedly destroyed their banana crops. On Thursday, Mettupalayam Judicial Magistrate S. Palani sentenced the accused to three years of rigorous imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 10,000 each. As Ammasai died during the course of the case, the charge against him stood abated, the sources said. Man ends life A 29-year-old man in Thondamuthur died by suicide on Wednesday due to alleged harassment by a private finance firm to repay the loan he had taken. The police said S. Anandan took the loan to construct a house and that he was unable to repay it. He had told his wife and brother regarding the alleged verbal harassment by the firm prior to his death, according to the police. The Thondamuthur police registered a case and further investigations are on.  Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.  Godown gutted  Fire broke out in a scrap godown in Sanganoor on Thursday morning, leaving most of the articles damaged. Around 18 personnel from three fire stations – Coimbatore North, Coimbatore South and Ganapathy – arrived at the spot at around 10 a.m. and brought the fire under control by noon, officials said. None were injured and the cause of fire is yet to be ascertained, according to the officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-convicted-for-electrocuting-elephant/article33876108.ece
19 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Ampere’s manufacturing unit coming up in Ranipet||Electric vehicle manufacturer Ampere Electric will set up an e-mobility manufacturing facility at Ranipet. Ampere Electric, which was acquired by Greaves Cotton two years ago, has signed a Memorandum of Understanding in this regard with the Tamil Nadu government. According to a press release, the company proposes to invest Rs. 700 crore over 10 years at the facility. With more than 1.4 million sq ft, the plant will be one of the largest state-of-the-art e-mobility manufacturing plants in the country when commissioned. The press statement said that Ampere Electric’s Ranipet plant will have the capacity to manufacture one lakh units in its first year of operation and the potential to scale up to one million units a year. This facility is expected to be operational in 2021. Nagesh Basavanhalli, group CEO and MD of Greaves Cotton, said, “This is a historic milestone for Greaves Cotton as we outline our investment to transform the clean mobility landscape in India... This move aligns with our mission of decarbonising last mile transportation for a cleaner planet and uninterrupted mobility.” Roy Kurian, COO of E-Mobility Business, Ampere Electric, said in the release, “The facility will help us expand our offerings.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/amperes-manufacturing-unit-coming-up-in-ranipet/article33876244.ece
19 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Garment exporters urged to explore opportunities in Mexico||Indian apparel exporters have huge potential to tap in Mexico, according to Indian Ambassador to Mexico Manpreet Vohra. Speaking at a virtual business-to-business meeting organised by the Apparel Export Promotion Council, the Ambassador said bilateral trade between the two countries was on a rising trend. It grew 46 % to about $ 10 billion since 2014. “Mexico is now India’s largest trading partner in Latin America and the second largest in entire America after the U.S. and has overtaken Canada and Brazil. Our trade is also fairly well balanced with only about $1 billion in India’s favour,” Mr. Vohra said. The Ambassador said that one of the most important products in the bilateral trade was garments and textiles. India was among Mexico’s top suppliers in this segment. In 2019, Mexico imported $ 381 million worth of textiles and clothing products from India. However, Mexico imported over $10.7 billion worth of garments and textiles from all over the world in 2019. Even 2020 data showed that from January to November, despite the pandemic, Mexico imported $ 7.9 billion worth of these items. India, therefore, had a huge potential to increase its exports to Mexico, he said. High quality PPE “More than 600 companies in India are certified to produce high quality Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) today. Global market for this is expected to be over $92 billion by 2025, up from only $52 billion in 2019. This is another good opportunity for Indian and Mexican companies to collaborate,” Mr. Vohra said. AEPC chairman A. Sakthivel said, “At the start of the coronavirus pandemic in India in March, production of medical textiles in the country was zero. Within 30 days, with the support of the government, production of medical textiles commenced. And, by June, India became the world’s second largest manufacturer of medical textiles.” Sudhir Sekhri, chairman of export promotion, AEPC, said, “Of the 10 top apparel products that are exported from India to Mexico only one item is based on MMF fabric. All other items are cotton fabrics. This is where the gap is and where we see growth.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/garment-exporters-urged-to-explore-opportunities-in-mexico/article33875652.ece
19 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Industries welcome policies||The Apparel Export Promotion Council and the Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore, have welcomed the State government’s Industrial Policy 2021 and MSME Policy. In a release, A. Sakthivel, chairman of the Council, said the two policies would further strengthen the economic development of the State and definitely fulfil the expectation of Tamil Nadu vision 2023. With these, the State would attract investments and generate more employment opportunities. Chamber president C. Balasubramanian said the Industrial Policy was designed to boost emerging sectors such as good processing. It focused on research and development and technology. However, the MSMEs need additional moratorium to repay loans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industries-welcome-policies/article33876104.ece
19 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||No plans to form a third front: SDPI||The Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) would not form any third front for the upcoming Assembly election and would take a decision regarding its alliance in March, said its national vice-president K.K.S.M Dehlan Baqavi here on Thursday. He told mediapersons that alliance talks were under way with secular parties. Emphasising that SDPI was not against any particular religion, he said the party opposed the BJP and the RSS as they were allegedly against minority communities. “The BJP dreams of piggybacking on AIADMK to gain representation in Tamil Nadu,” Mr. Baqavi claimed. Condemning the fuel price hike, he accused the Cente of betraying the public who voted them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-plans-to-form-a-third-front-sdpi/article33876107.ece
19 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Three-month-old boy dies hours after vaccination||A three-month-old boy was declared dead a few hours after receiving regular paediatric vaccines at an anganwadi in Coimbatore on Wednesday. The Health Department said the child died of pneumonia, and denied any link between the vaccination and his death. According to sources in the Health Department, 14 babies were administered three vaccines — Pentavalent, rotavirus vaccine (RVV) and oral polio vaccine (OPV) — at the anganwadi in Masakalipalayam in the morning. The three-month-old reportedly developed breathing difficulty after returning home. His mother rushed him to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival around 1.30 p.m., the sources said. Following an autopsy, the boy was diagnosed with pneumonic consolidation (filling of liquid) in the upper left lobe of the left lung, and no adverse reactions due to the vaccination were recorded, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-month-old-boy-dies-hours-after-vaccination/article33875626.ece
19 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||There will be no power supply from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. on February 20 in the following areas under Madampatty, Devarayapuram, and Thondamuthur sub-stations: Madhampatty, Alandurai, Kuppanur, Karadimadai, Poondi, Semmedu, Theethipalayam, Perur, Goundanur, Kalampalayam, Perur Chettipalayam, Devarayapuram, Boluvampatty, Viraliyur, Narasipuram, JN Palayam, Kaliannanpudur, Puthur, Thennamanallur, Kondayampalayam, Thendral Nagar, Thondamuthur, Kembanur, Muthipalayam, Kalikkanaickenpalayam, Poochiyur, Puthupalayam, Dheenampalaya, Uliyampalayam, Dhaliyur, Kulathupalayam, and west Chithirai Chavady.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article33876105.ece
19 February 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Delay in establishing Direct Purchase Centres||Farmers from Athur and nearby villages have urged the Collector to immediately arrange to establish direct purchase centres as many of them were keeping their produce in the open field. With severe cold weather being reported, the moisture content of paddy has increased, which may further bring down the yield and weight, they feared. The district’s rice bowl pockets include Athur, Sithayankottai, Narasingapuram, Alagar Nayakanpatti, Sedappati and Ayyampalayam. Paddy had been raised on as many as 3000 acres including IR-50, Akshaya and other varieties. Normally, the DPCs would be opened here by the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation. However, this season, despite the harvest being done in the last 7 to 10 days, officials have not thrown open the DPCs on a full scale. As a result, many small and marginal farmers had been forced to sell their produce at a rock-bottom price to vendors and middlemen, they alleged. Usually, a farmer harvested 60 to 70 bags of paddy from 1.5 acres but with the unseasonal rain in January, the yield had almost been halved, they said. Only 30 to 40 bags had been harvested. When such was the situation, the delay in lifting the paddy by the TNCSC resulted in further fall in the produce as the net weight was falling down due to rise in moisture content. When contacted, a TNCSC official said that there was some delay due to shortage of staff and farmers were informed about it. In the next two to three days, the backlog would be cleared, he assured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/delay-in-establishing-direct-purchase-centres/article33875648.ece
19 February 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Complaint filed against Inspector||Alleging that an Inspector has demanded bribe, a differently abled person lodged a complaint with the Superintendent of Police seeking action and justice here on Thursday. According to Sivakumar (28) of Pottiyapuram, Omalur Taluk, Salem district, he and Arumugam (52) worked in a stone quarry in Chitoor district, Andhra Pradesh, run by Lakshmi Narayan. However, in November 2020, Arumugam died and he had lost both his legs in a blast at the workspot. Under such circumstances, he claimed that Lakshmi Narayan’s whereabouts were not known immediately. Sivakumar came to know after a few months that Lakshmi Narayan had taken a stone quarry on lease at Dharmathupatti near Kanniwadi here. He lodged a complaint with the Inspector of Police to intervene. Lakshmi Narayan agreed to give Rs. six lakh to the legal heirs of Arumugam and Rs. 4 lakh to him, Sivakumar said. However, the police officer demanded Rs. two lakh from Arumugam’s compensation and Rs. 90000 from Sivakumar. The cheque issued in his favour for Rs. 3.10 lakh by Lakshmi Narayan was dishonoured for insufficient funds, he said and submitted a petition seeking inquiry and justice. The petitioner arrived at the office of the SP in an ambulance and was taken on a stretcher to submit his petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/complaint-filed-against-inspector/article33875630.ece
19 February 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Job fair on Feb. 20||An employment camp is being organised under the aegis of the district administration here on February 20, at the Government Polytechnic College in Uthangarai. The District Industries Centre jointly with the Government Polytechnic College is organising the employment camp for educated unemployed youth in the district. Firms from Chennai, Hosur, Krishnagiri and other places are scheduled to participate in the camp. Applicants between 18 and 45 years of age, with education qualification of Class V pass/fail and above and graduates and post-graduates are invited to take part in the camp with their resumes. The camp will commence at 9 a.m., according to a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/job-fair-on-feb-20/article33875660.ece
19 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||This election is for bringing about an ideological change, says Stalin||The ensuing election to State Assembly is not just for a change of guard, but to teach a lesson to the “fascist” Bharatiya Janata Party and its “slave” All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, said Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam president M.K. Stalin here on Thursday. Addressing a “political awakening” conference organised by Communist Party of India, Mr. Stalin said the election was for bringing about an ideological change. The Secular Progressive Alliance led by the DMK was not for election but for ideology, whereas the alliance of the AIADMK was for mutually saving each other. “While BJP wants to set its foot in Tamil Nadu through AIADMK, the State ruling party wants to escape from the corruption charges against it with the help of BJP. It is a selfish alliance,” he charged. Recalling the recent meeting in Chennai in which Prime Minister Narendra Modi had jointly lifted the hands of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Pannerselvam, Mr. Stalin said Modi’s hands stood for saffron and corporates. Stating that the DMK front represented the working class and farmers, he added that the election was to retrieve the State from looting gang and slaves and hand it over to ideologists. Modi’s quote He took a dig at the Prime Minister for merely quoting the works of Tamil poets without standing for values they preached. While Avvaiyar’s words, which the Prime Minister had quoted, stressed that elevation of the king depended on fertility of land, Mr. Stalin wondered how come Mr. Modi who was attempting to snatch the land of farmers through farm laws could use the words of Avvaiyar. The Prime Minister had promised that his government would always uphold the rights of Tamil fishermen. But the killing of Tamil fishermen by Sri Lankan Navy continued even now. He could not prevent it. The Centre had launched an economic attack on its citizens by increasing the prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas. Even when international price of crude oil was coming down, the Centre continued to increase the price of fuel. It had led to increase in transport fare and spiralling price of essential commodities. The AIADMK had given up State’s rights on education, agriculture and power. It had neglected Tamil and allowed imposition of Hindi, he said. CPI leader D. Raja said the Centre was against federalism, secularism and social justice. “It wanted to protect the corporates whereas the real wealth creators are the working class,” he said. Stating that privatisation of public sector units would deny reservation to the oppressed and backward classes, he said Tamil Nadu government never questioned the Centre on these issues. The AIADMK should be punished for its flaws, he said.  The Centre wants to protect the corporates whereas the real wealth creators are the working class D. Raja CPI leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/this-election-is-for-bringing-about-an-ideological-change-says-stalin/article33876169.ece
19 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||BJP wants to further Sanatana dharma, says Thirumavalavan||Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi founder president Thol. Thirumavalavan on Thursday said the Sangh Parivar had planned to have single party rule in the Centre and all the States. Addressing the CPI's “political awakening” conference in Madurai, he said the BJP’s plan extended beyond electoral gains and governance. Stating that the Constitution was blocking attempts to form a Hindu nation, Mr. Thirumavalavan said the BJP wanted to make Sanatana dharma as the Constitution of the country. The Constitution-guaranteed reservation had helped socio-economic development of the scheduled castes and backward classes. The BJP wanted to break this development. The Lok Sabha MP said the BJP adopted different pre-poll plan and post-poll plan. “While it is making a piggy-back ride on the AIADMK to win Assembly elections, after the polls, it will threaten the AIADMK MLAs and buy them to attempt a back door entry to form the government,” he said. For this, the government will misuse Income Tax and Enforcement departments. This is what the BJP has done in Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, and now trying in West Bengal and Puducherry, he said. The presence of both the major Dravidian parties had successfully blocked the attempts of Sanatana forces to set its foot in Tamil Nadu, he said. MDMK general secretary Vaiko said the Centre was adopting repressive measures to stifle the voices of opposition. Several social activists, who were aged and sick, were languishing in jail. He held the AIADMK government responsible for the death of 13 persons in the firing against anti-Sterlite protesters. Manithaneya Makkal Katchi leader M.H. Jawahirullah said the dictatorship in Northern India should not be allowed to be replicated in Tamil Nadu. M. Abdul Rahman of Indian Union Muslim League said the minorities would not fall for Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s promise that the alliance with BJP was only for electoral purpose and the party would protect them. Congress State president K.S. Alagiri, Communist Party of India (Marxist) State secretary K. Balakrishnan, CPI leaders R. Nallakannu and R. Mutharasan, Kali. Poongundran of Dravidar Kazhagam and general secretary of Kongunadu Makkal Desiya Katchi E.R. Eswaran were among those who addressed the meet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-wants-to-further-sanatana-dharma-says-thirumavalavan/article33876170.ece
19 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||NCB directed to pay damages to accused for delay in trial||Taking note of the fact that an accused in a case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act was remanded in judicial custody in 2018 and the trial was yet to commence in the case, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed that the petitioner’s right to speedy trial had been infringed. Justice G.R. Swaminathan observed that the prosecution had to be called to account and must pay for the lapse. The court directed the Narcotics Control Bureau to pay a sum of Rs. 1 lakh as compensation within a period of four weeks to the wife of the petitioner and the trial should be concluded within a period of three months. The court was hearing a bail petition filed by M. Ananthan. The petitioner and two others were apprehended by the Narcotics Control Bureau, Madurai. The vehicle of the accused was intercepted near Valavanthankottai toll plaza in Thuvakudi in Tiruchi district. The contraband was seized in 2018. The judge said the accused were remanded in judicial custody and a charge sheet was filed. The trial in the case was to begin in 2019, but did not take off. The accused were in no way responsible for the non-commencement of the trial. The High Court had not stayed the proceedings and no quash petition was filed. There was no justification whatsoever for not commencing the trial in time, the judge said. The court said the case on hand was one under the NDPS Act and involved commercial quantities of ganja. Therefore it could not be quashed and bail also could not be granted. The judge observed that when one of the accused in the case earlier moved the High Court for bail, the petition was dismissed with a direction to expedite the trial and conclude the same on merits within a period of six months. That period expired in 2020,.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ncb-asked-to-pay-relief-to-accused-for-delay-in-trial/article33875639.ece
19 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||BJP wants to further ‘Sanatana dharma’: Thirumavalavan||Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi founder-president Thol. Thirumavalavan on Thursday said the Sangh Parivar wants to have a single party rule at the Centre and all the States. Addressing the CPI’s “political awakening” conference in Madurai, Mr. Thirumavalavan said the BJP was not fighting elections for political governance. Stating that the Constitution was blocking attempts to form a Hindu nation, Mr. Thirumavalavan claimed the BJP wanted to make ‘Sanatana dharma’ the Constitution of the country. The Constitution-guaranteed reservation had helped socio-economic development of the Scheduled Castes and the Backward Classes. The BJP wanted to break this development, he charged. The Lok Sabha MP said the BJP adopted a different pre-poll plan and post-poll plan. “While it is riding piggyback on the AIADMK to win the Assembly election, after the poll, it will threaten the AIADMK MLAs and buy them to make an attempt for a backdoor entry to form the government,” he charged. For this, the party would misuse the Income Tax and Enforcement Departments. This was what the BJP had done in Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh, and was now trying in West Bengal and Puducherry, he said. The presence of both the major Dravidian parties had successfully blocked the attempts of ‘sanatana’ forces to set foot on Tamil Nadu. MDMK general secretary Vaiko said the Centre was adopting repressive measures to stifle the voices of opposition. Several aged and sick social activists were suffering in jail. Thoothukudi firing He held the AIADMK government responsible for the death of 13 people in the firing against anti-Sterlite protesters. Manithaneya Makkal Katchi leader M.H. Jawahirullah said the dictatorship in northern India should not be allowed in Tamil Nadu. M. Abdul Rahman of the Indian Union Muslim League said the minorities of Tamil Nadu would not fall for Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s promise that the alliance with the BJP was only for electoral purposes and that the party would protect the minorities. Congress State president K.S. Alagiri, Communist Party of India (Marxist) State secretary K. Balakrishnan, CPI leaders R. Nallakannu and R. Mutharasan, Kali. Poongundran of Dravidar Kazhagam and general secretary of Kongunadu Makkal Desiya Katchi E.R. Eswaran were among those who addressed the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-wants-to-further-sanatana-dharma-thirumavalavan/article33876101.ece
19 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Tourists begin to trickle into Madurai, much to the delight of stakeholders||With the relaxation of norms, the number of domestic tourists visiting popular tourist spots in the city is on the rise. However, it will take more time for complete revival of the tourism industry, as it needs intervention from the government, say stakeholders. With the reopening of Tirumalai Nayak Palace and relaxation of norms at Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple, there has been a marginal increase in arrival of domestic tourists, says S. Kaniraja, a tourist guide with 25 years of experience. “A small percentage of tourists from neighbouring States have started visiting Meenakshi temple. Though these numbers are minuscule when compared to pre-COVID-19 days, still it is a positive sign,” Mr. Kaniraja says. There has also been an increase in bookings at hotels for corporate meetings, weddings and special events, of late. “On wedding days, the hotels have good occupancy rate. But the room tariff is lower than the pre-COVID-19 days,” says G. Vasudevan, vice-president of Tamil Nadu Travel Mart Society. No foreigners Movement of foreign tourists is almost nil and that of tourists from other States is bare minimum, says Chitra Ganapathy, a member of Travel Club. “Since there are restrictions in performing pujas at temples, especially at Rameswaram, arrival of tourists and devotees from other States has not picked up,” she says. G. Raveendran, the president of Travel Club, says flight tickets are also high. So not many people book tour packages. The limited number of tourists ensure the survival of various stakeholders of tourism industry, says Mr. Vasudevan. “It will take at least another year for total revival of the industry,” he says. Government must intervene to help the stakeholders to pass this rough patch, says Ms. Chithra Ganapathy. “The measures that the government has announced for the tourism sector have not been fully beneficial to the stakeholders,” she adds. Mr. Raveendran says the government must announce sops in the form of tax redemption to the tourism industry.  Positive signs  Domestic tourists have started visiting Meenakshi temple and Mahal Devotees are staying back due to restrictions in performing pujas at temples||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tourists-trickle-in-much-to-the-delight-of-stakeholders/article33876174.ece
19 February 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Karur bus stand: HC orders status quo||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday ordered status quo be maintained in the issue pertaining to the additional mofussil bus stand in Karur. However, the court allowed the tender process to go on. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi passed the direction on a public interest litigation petition filed by R. Periyasamy of Karur district, who complained that the State had identified the site for the bus stand on the outskirts of Karur. The petitioner said this would not be convenient for the general public and sought a stay on the tender notification. The court said that it would hear the present case along with other sets of public interest litigation petitions pertaining to the same issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/karur-bus-stand-hc-orders-status-quo/article33875603.ece
19 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Set up DPCs for hill garlic’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday ordered notice to the State on a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to authorities concerned to set up direct purchase centres in Kodaikanal to sell hill garlic. In a petition, S. Manoj Immanuel of Kodaikanal sought a direction to the authorities to set up warehouses for storing hill garlic in the hill station. He said they had to be taken to markets and farmers had to spend for transport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/set-up-dpcs-for-hill-garlic/article33875638.ece
19 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘AIADMK-BJP alliance needs to be defeated’||The upcoming Assembly election is not just for a change of guard but to teach a lesson to the “fascist” BJP and its “slave” AIADMK, said DMK president M.K. Stalin on Thursday. Addressing a “political awakening” conference organised by the CPI in Madurai, Mr. Stalin said the election was for bringing about an ideological change. The Secular Progressive Alliance led by the DMK was not for the election but for an ideology, Mr. Stalin said. “While the BJP wants to set foot in Tamil Nadu through the AIADMK, the State’s ruling party wants to escape from the corruption charges against it with the help of the BJP. It is a selfish alliance,” he said. CPI leader D. Raja said the Centre was against federalism, secularism and social justice. “It wants to protect the corporates whereas the real wealth creators are the working class,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-bjp-alliance-needs-to-be-defeated/article33876060.ece
19 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Resume regular functioning of public libraries’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday directed the government to resume regular functioning of public libraries. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi passed the direction in a public interest litigation petition filed by M. Soundarya of Madurai. The petitioner said people in villages relied on newspapers in the libraries for information. Students preparing for competitive examinations were also dependent on libraries. If the public libraries did not function in a full-fledged manner, it would affect them, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/resume-regular-functioning-of-public-libraries/article33875632.ece
19 February 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Two found dead||A woman and a middle-aged man were found dead near Pudhuchitram here. The deceased allegedly committed suicide, police said. The deceased were identified as Govindaraj (45) and Sasikala (28) from Pappanaikenpatti. According to the police, the deceased were allegedly in an illicit relationship for over five years. Pudhuchitram police have registered a case and are investigating. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044- 24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-found-dead/article33875666.ece
19 February 2021||New Delhi,TAMIL NADU||NGT forms committee to probe Virudhunagar cracker unit blast||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has formed a committee headed by a former High Court judge and directed it to submit a report on a fireworks unit blast in Virudhunagar district, in which 19 workers were killed. The explosion occurred on February 12 when some chemicals were being mixed to produce fireworks at a unit in Acchankulam village. A Bench, headed by NGT Chairperson Justice A.K. Goel, issued notices to the Tamil Nadu government, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the State Pollution Control Board (SPCB), the Virudhunagar District Magistrate and Sree Mariyammal Fireworks factory. The green panel said to secure credible facts, it is constituting an eight-member committee, including former High Court judge K. Kannan, representatives of the Union Environment Ministry, the CPCB, the State Disaster Management Authority, the head of the Chemical Engineering Department of IIT-Madras, the Chief Controller of Explosives in Nagpur, a nominee of the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organization and the Chief Inspector of Factories, Tamil Nadu. “The District Magistrate, Virudhunagar, and the Regional Office of the State PCB may provide logistic support to the Committee to enable their fact-finding and reporting. The State PCB will bear the initial cost of functioning of the Committee, including the honorarium to the non-official members to be determined in consultation with them... The Committee will be at liberty to take assistance of such experts, individuals and institutions as may be considered necessary. The State PCB and the CPCB will jointly act as nodal agency for coordination and compliance,” the Bench said. The Committee (or such members as the Chairman may decide depending on availability) may visit the site preferably within one week and give the report within one month by e-mail, it said. The tribunal said that except for visit to the site at least once, the Committee will be free to conduct its proceedings online. “The Committee may suitably interact with the stakeholders and, apart from considering the present incident, also consider remedial measures for preventing such incident in the area or by other establishments even beyond the said area,” it said, and scheduled the hearing for April 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ngt-forms-committee-to-probe-virudhunagar-cracker-unit-blast/article33876092.ece
19 February 2021||New Delhi,TAMIL NADU||NGT forms panel to probe firecracker unit blast||The National Green Tribunal has formed a committee headed by a former High Court judge and directed it to submit a report in relation to a firecracker factory blast in Virudhunagar district in which 19 workers were killed. The explosion occurred on February 12 when some chemicals were being mixed to produce fireworks at the unit at Acchankulam. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice A K Goel issued notices to the Tamil Nadu government, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), State Pollution Control Board (SPCB), Virudhunagar District Magistrate and Sree Mariyammal Fireworks factory. The green panel said that to secure credible facts, it is constituting an eight-member committee including former High Court judge Justice K Kannan, representatives of Union Environment Ministry, CPCB, State Disaster Management Authority, Head of the Chemical Engineering Department of IIT Chennai, Chief Control of Explosives in Nagpur, Nominee of Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation and Chief Inspector of Factories, Tamil Nadu. ‘The District magistrate, Virudhunagar, and Regional Office, State PCB may provide logistic support to the committee to enable their fact-finding and reporting. State PCB will bear the initial cost of functioning of the committee, including the honorarium to non-official members to be determined in consultation with them. The committee will be at liberty to take assistance of such experts, individuals and institutions as may be considered necessary. The State PCB and the CPCB will jointly act as nodal agency for coordination and compliance,’ the Bench said. The committee (or such members as the Chairman may decide depending on availability) may visit the site preferably within one week and give its report within one month by e-mail, the NGT said. The National Green Tribunal has said that except for visit to the site at least once, the committee will be free to conduct its proceedings online. It will be free to take the assistance from any other expert/organisation. ‘The committee may suitably interact with the stakeholders and, apart from considering the present incident, also consider remedial measures for preventing such incident in the area or by other establishments even beyond the said area,’ it said while posting the matter for hearing on April 30. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Chief Minister K Palaniswami, Governor Banwarilal Purohit and Congress MP Rahul Gandhi were among those who condoled the deaths. Mr. Modi and Mr. Palaniswami announced an ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh each and Rs. 3 lakh each to the kin of the deceased. The factory building was damaged badly under the impact of the explosion and many suffered burns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ngt-forms-committee-to-probe-blast-in-firecracker-unit/article33875641.ece
19 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Tamilisai Soundararajan sworn in as L-G||Tamilisai Soundararajan was sworn in as the Lieutenant Governor (L-G) of Puducherry on Thursday. Chief Justice of the Madras High Court Sanjib Banerjee administered the oath of office to Dr. Soundararajan on the lawns of the Raj Nivas at 9.10 a.m. After the swearing-in ceremony, the Lt. Governor took a guard of honour given by the territorial police. Dr. Soundararajan is the fifth woman to assume the Lt. Governor’s office in the Union Territory. Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, his Cabinet colleagues, legislators, Opposition leader and AINRC chief N. Rangasamy, AIADMK legislators, DMK legislators, three nominated members belonging to the BJP and senior officials attended the swearing-in ceremony. Kiran Bedi, who was removed from the post of Lt. Governor on Tuesday, is staying at the Raj Nivas. She has sought two days to vacate the place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamilisai-soundararajan-sworn-in-as-l-g/article33875637.ece
19 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘I will take decisions based on issues’||Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Tamilisai Soundararajan on Thursday approved the long-pending demand to provide financial assistance to SC/ST students. Addressing a press conference after assuming office, the L-G said, “My intention is to serve the people. The first two decisions were to sanction financial assistance to SC/ST students and sanction funds for the AIDS Control Society,” she said. When her attention was drawn to the closure of public distribution outlets in the Union Territory due to non-disbursement of free rice, she said the issue would be studied and appropriate decisions will be taken to strengthen PDS outlets. “No one should starve, and my decision will be for the welfare of people,” the Lt. Governor said. She also made clear her intention to revive industrial activity. “I came to know that unemployment rate is slightly higher here. [We] will take a policy decision on utilising vacant land to promote industries and tourism,” she said. ‘I have no ego’ To a query on the tussle between the previous Lt. Governor and the ruling government, Dr. Soundararajan said, “I will not comment on the happenings before. The previous Lt. Governor may have her own style of working and I have my own. I am very much aware about the Constitutional powers of Governor, Lt. Governor, Chief Minister, elected representatives and officials. I have not come here with any political considerations.” “I have no ego. I will take decisions based on issues.” On the demand of political parties to appoint Tamil-speaking officials in key posts, including that of Collectors, she said, “I have taken my oath in Tamil and I am privileged to do so. As long as I remain Lt Governor, Tamil will be the top priority. The issue of officials will be examined.” Raj Nivas would be made accessible to the public, she said, promising that there would not be any barriers between her office and people. Dr. Soundararajan later visited the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Research Institute to assess the progress of the COVID-19 vaccination drive. “If I were a doctor, I would have taken the vaccine by this time. In my family, all doctors, including my husband, have been vaccinated. The feedback I got was that the progress of vaccination here is low. Vaccination has to be promoted and COVID-19 norms followed as the virus is still around. Don’t think that coronavirus has gone,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/my-intention-is-to-serve-the-people/article33875628.ece
19 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||City school bags award||Study Lecole Internationale has been ranked first in the ‘Top City Wise CBSE School’ category in Puducherry. The award, instituted by Education Today, an online education portal, was recently presented to Sandhya Cherian, correspondent of The Study at the ‘India School Merit Awards 2020’ during the 8th national conference on K-12 Leadership held in Bengaluru. Ms. Sandhya congratulated the principal and appreciated the staff for working towards this achievement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-school-bags-award/article33876250.ece
19 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Avoid online gaming’||Former national table tennis champion Venugopal Chandrashekar cautioned students against falling prey to the lure of online games. Mr. Chandrashekar, who was the chief guest at a workshop on ‘Bioethics and Humanities in Medicine’ held at the Pondicherry Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS), urged students to forego playing online games with their lure of easy money as they could lead to financial ruin and serious mental health issues. The former sportsperson said that students should take up sports and physical games as that could boost their mental and physical health and also open doors to a lot of opportunities across various fields. He appealed to doctors to be more considerate and attentive while handling patients. Mr. Chandrashekar, who is an Arjuna awardee and a gold medallist in economics and law from the University of Madras, also shared his experiences for the benefit of medical students, interns, postgraduates, administrators and faculty from the Medical and Nursing Colleges at PIMS. His autobiography, My fight back from death’s door, published by East West Books, Chennai, was launched on the occasion and copies made available at the PIMS library. John Sarai Nellimalai, advocate and member of Madras Medical Mission (MMM), delivered a talk on “What is medical negligence? A legal view.” M.M. Phillip, honorary secretary, MMM and chairman-PIMS Management Committee, Renu G’ Boy Varghese, Director-Principal, Babu Daniel and John Nellimalai, member, addressed the gathering.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/avoid-online-gaming-says-former-table-tennis-champion/article33876248.ece
19 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Names of dead, migrated voters being deleted||The Election Commission has started the process of purging names of deceased or migrated persons from the final electoral rolls for the 25 Assembly constituencies published in January. Purva Garg, District Election Officer, said the drive follows reports that names of dead or shifted persons had not been deleted from the rolls in Mangalam, Villianur, Ozhukkarai, Kadirkamam, Indira Nagar, Thattanchavady, Ouppalam, Oreleanpet, Nellithope, Mudaliarpet, Ariankuppam and Manavely constituencies. A detailed field verification had been done on complaints received from political parties and it was found that some electors had shifted/migrated to other places and some registered voters had died. The list of such voters is displayed at the office of the Electoral Registration Officers/Assistant Registration Officers, polling stations and is also posted on the website ceopuducherry.py.gov.in  Individual notices have also been sent. The electors are advised to file objections, if any, with proof of residence in the said address and relevant documents before the ERO concerned within seven days of receiving notice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/names-of-dead-migrated-voters-being-deleted/article33876251.ece
19 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry L-G orders floor test on Monday||The newly appointed Lieutenant Governor of Puducherry, Tamilisai Soundararajan, on Thursday directed the Assembly Secretariat to convene the House on February 22. A release issued by the Raj Nivas said the single agenda of the session should be to prove whether the Chief Minister enjoys the confidence of the House. The voting will be done by show of hands. Proceedings should be completed by 5 p.m. They would be video-graphed and should not be adjourned, delayed or suspended, the release said. Strength stands altered The Lt. Governor noted that consequent to the disqualification of one member and the resignation of four others, the strength stands altered: the Congress and its allies are deadlocked with the Opposition at 14 seats each. The Congress has 10 seats and the DMK has three. One Independent member supports the government. In the Opposition, the AINRC has seven seats, the AIADMK has four and the BJP three. The Lt. Governor also directed the authorities to conduct the proceedings in a peaceful manner. ‘Assurance’ Earlier in the day, Leader of the Opposition N. Rangasamy said the Lt. Governor had given the Opposition parties an assurance on their demand for a floor test for the Congress to prove its majority as per rules. Talking to reporters after calling on the Lt. Governor, he said Dr. Soundararajan had agreed to look into the demand of the Opposition parties. “She has agreed to act according to the provisions of the Constitution.” AIADMK leader A. Anbalagan, who was part of the delegation, said he requested the Lt. Governor to reopen public distribution outlets as soon as possible. He also requested the Lt. Governor to disburse the pending salary of employees of cooperative societies and government-run boards. Nominated legislator and BJP president V. Saminathan was also part of the delegation. Sworn in In the morning, Dr. Soundararajan was sworn in as the Lieutenant Governor. Chief Justice of the Madras High Court Sanjib Banerjee administered the oath of office to her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/l-g-orders-floor-test-on-monday/article33875601.ece
19 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Teachers urge govt. to pay pending salaries||The Puducherry Government Aided School Teachers’ and Employees’ Federation on Thursday launched an indefinite protest in front of the Education Department, seeking the release of salary and pension arrears. The association said the protests were being held to draw the attention of the Lt. Governor to the plight of teachers, employees and pensioners going without salary/pension for 14 months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teachers-urge-govt-to-pay-pending-salaries/article33876249.ece
19 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Active cases fall below 200||Puducherry recorded 20 new cases and 23 recoveries while active cases fell below the 200-mark for the first time in several weeks on Thursday. With no new deaths reported, the toll remained at 660. Puducherry accounted for 11 of the new cases, Mahe five and Karaikal four. Active cases stood at 199. Of these, 90 were in hospital-care and 109 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 1.16%, case fatality rate 1.67% and recovery rate 97.83%. The Health Department has carried out an estimated 6.13 lakh tests, of which about 5.69 lakh were negative. Meanwhile, 311 health workers and 21 frontline workers took the COVID-19 vaccine on Thursday. So far, 6,959 personnel, including 6,583 healthcare workers, have taken the vaccine in the UT.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/active-cases-fall-below-200/article33876247.ece
19 February 2021||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Man gets death penalty for sexual assault, murder of minor boy||The Mahila Court here on Thursday awarded death penalty to a 34-year-old man hailing from Gujarat for sexually assaulting and murdering a mentally retarded 17-year-old boy in December 2019.  Sources, said Patel, then working as a heavy vehicle operator in a private crusher unit near Kolathur, had kidnapped the boy from the bazaar area in Keeranur sub division on December 18, 2019. He had taken him to a desolate spot where he sexually assaulted the minor. Patel had also inserted a stick in the minor's anus causing grievous internal injuries. A local resident who noticed the crime alerted the villagers who caught Patel. The boy who underwent treatment for 20 days at the Pudukottai Medical College Hospital succumbed to injuries thereafter. The Keeranur All Women Police arrested Patel and registered a case against him under section 5 (i) read with section 6 (1) of the POSCO (Amendment) Act, 2019; section 5 (k) read with 6 (1) of the POCSO (Amendment) Act, 2019 and section 5 (j) (iv) read with 6 (1) of the POSCO (Amendment) Act, 2019 besides under IPC sections 302 (murder) and 363 (kidnap).  The Court awarded death penalties to Patel on three counts -- under Section 5 (i) read with 6 (1) of the POCSO (Amendment) Act, 2019; Section 5 (k) read with Section 6 (1) of the POCSO (Amendment) Act, 2019; and Section 5 (j) (iv) read with Section 6 (1) of the POCSO (Amendment) Act, 2019. The Court also sentenced Patel to undergo life imprisonment under IPC section 302 (murder). The accused was ordered to pay fine, totalling Rs. 30,000. The Court directed the government to pay a compensation of Rs. 3 lakh to the family of the victim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-gets-death-penalty-for-sexual-assault-murder-of-minor-boy/article33875615.ece
19 February 2021||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Panchayat school bags ISO certification||The Panchayat Union Middle School in Avanathankottai West village in Aranthangi taluk in the district has bagged the ISO 9001: 2015 certification. The certificate was issued on February 15 to the school that caters to the educational requirements of rural students residing in and around seven villages in its vicinity. Started as a primary school before Independence way back in 1936, it was upgraded into a middle school in 1986. A New Delhi based certifying agency, Quality Research Organisation, had independently assessed the school and found it compliant with the requirement of ISO 9001:2015 Quality Management System certification. Necessary documents pertaining to the school including the register, school monthly report, and other related information were all sent online to the certifying agency a month ago and these were examined online by the agency in view of the pandemic, said S. Bhaskaran, a teacher of the panchayat school. The ISO certification given for providing primary education to students was sent online by the certifying agency a few days ago with the first surveillance audit due on February 14, 2022 and the second surveillance audit due on February 14, 2023. The co-education school with a strength of 166, including 101 boys, has a team of seven teachers to handle various subjects from LKG to standard VIII. Thanks to donors’ contributions, the institution has a school van to transport students from nearby villages in the morning and drop them in the evening. This was being done before the school was closed owing to COVID-19, said Mr. Prakash. The fuel expenses were being borne by donors while the wages for the driver used to be collectively mobilised by the teachers and from donors, he said. In addition to seven classrooms, the school has a couple of smart classrooms including one equipped with an air-conditioned unit, separate toilets for boys and girls which were completely renovated, computer lab, children's park area and a shuttle badminton court. The entire premises of the school has been brought under the scope of CCTV cameras. Many of the facilities were created thanks to contribution from donors, he said. The school is also plastic-free with all plastic chairs replaced with those made of steel. In addition to regular subjects, there is a separate session to teach the students about organic farming and its importance, said Mr. Prakash adding that classes were now being handled through WhatsApp for which groups have been created class-wise. “The ISO certification is great recognition for our school and we feel immensely proud”, said school headmistress P. Kalaiselvi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panchayat-school-bags-iso-certification/article33875606.ece
19 February 2021||R. KrishnamoorthyTIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Northern Shoveler duck spotted at Thuraiyur Chinna Eri||The Chinna Eri in Thuraiyur has attracted Northern Shoveler, a duck species, much to the surprise of bird watchers since the pollution level has been on the rise. A pair of these birds, believed to have migrated from as far as northern Europe, was spotted by Q. Ashoka Chakkaravarthy, wildlife biologist. Passage migration - stopping for a short duration during the course of seasonal migration - could be the reason. It was possible that the heavy spells of rain had brought down the pollution level of the waterbody. Yet another possibility was that unseasonal cyclones had altered the migration route, Mr .Chakkaravarthy said. Northern Shoveler, with its large spoon-shaped bill, busily forages head down in shallow wetlands. Its unique-shaped bill has comb-like projections along its edges, which filters out tiny crustaceans and seeds from the water. Northern Shovelers are monogamous and remain together longer than pairs of most other dabbling ducks. The special character of a female Northern Shoveler is that it often defecates on its eggs, apparently to deter predators. Female Northern Shovelers have mottled brown, black and white feathers and a blue patch on their wings. It can fly more than 10,000 km. Northern Shoveler displays Sexual dimorphism (the differences in appearance between males and females of the same species). Northern shoveler is common in other wetlands but has been spotted for the first time in Chinna Eri, he said. The Chinna Eri wetland ecosystem has been a temporary home for avian visitors from far off places for long. But, of late, the high level of pollution has caused a dampening effect. The presence of the bird species depends on many factors like size of the wetland, food availability, threat level, level of pollution. Desiltation of the waterbody will be helpful in attracting migratory birds in large numbers, Mr.Chakkaravarthy said. Located in front of the Thuraiyur bus stand, the Chinna Eri, which was once a source of potable water, now is a dump for plastic and other polluting wastes. Plastic waste from shops, hospitals and restaurants are being dumped into the waterbody, causing a hazard to the ecosystem. The waterbody has become a breeding ground for mosquitoes due to the loss of predator organisms such as insects and birds. Diversion of contaminated household waste water, human faecal matter, and garbage have made matters worse, adversely impacting the habitat and camping of migratory birds. The municipality has a major role in protecting the habitat for migratory birds, Mr. Chakkaravarthy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/northern-shoveler-duck-spotted-at-thuraiyur-chinna-eri/article33876298.ece
19 February 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Tea shop worker gets life term||A fast track court sentenced a tea shop worker to undergo life imprisonment until his death here on Thursday. According to the prosecution, Marimuthu (33) was married and had two daughters. He was working in a tea shop near Sayalkudi. His wife left him as he had differences of opinion with her. However, he brought up his two children. On receipt of an information, Child Welfare Protection Committee chairman Durairaj found that Marimuthu was abusing his two children. Immediately, the All Women Police Station, Keelakarai registered a case in February 2020 and arrested Marimuthu. The judge Subadra, who heard the case, ordered Marimuthu to undergo life term in the prison till death and and imposed a fine of Rs. 8000. The court directed the State government to deposit Rs. 1.50 lakh each in the name of the two children. Advocate Manoranjitham appeared for the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/life-term-for-tea-shop-worker/article33875644.ece
19 February 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Chief Minister to inaugurate veterinary college on Feb. 22||Minister for Animal Husbandry Udumalai Radhakrishnan said that Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami will inaugurate the Veterinary Sciences College at Thalaivasal here on February 22. Mr. Radhakrishnan reviewed the progress of various works at Advanced Institute for Integrated Research on Livestock and Animal Sciences at Thalaivasal. Talking to presspersons, Mr. Radhakrishnan said that the construction works for Veterinary Sciences College and Research Park have been completed and the Chief Minister would inaugurate the park on February 22 afternoon. He added that Mr. Palaniswami would also distribute orders for college admission on the same day. Mr. Radhakrishnan said that Mr. Palaniswami had launched three veterinary sciences colleges in the State in the same year and admissions were progressing at all the three places. He added that the Thalaivasal institute would be the fifth college in State. “At Rs. 118 crore, the veterinary college has been constructed in an area of 73,8 acres,” he said. He added that works of 20 buildings with an area of 3,72,473 sq.ft including administrative block, hostels, and library and various others have been completed. Mr. Radhakrishnan said that the State government has granted administrative sanction for Rs. 564.44 crore for starting research park here. He added that works for protected drinking water supply to the institute are nearing completion and Rs. 262.16 crore had been allotted for the purpose. On allegations and corruption charges against the government by the Opposition, Mr. Radhakrishnan said that the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam government was dissolved for corruption and DMK cadres who couldn’t ingest the actions of the Chief Minister are deliberately levelling charges against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-minister-to-inaugurate-veterinary-college-on-feb-22/article33875662.ece
19 February 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Over 1,000 bulls take part in jallikattu||Over 1,000 bulls and 414 tamers from various parts of the State took part in the Puthrikoundampalayam jallikattu on Thursday. Minister for Animal Husbandry Udumalai Radhakrishnan flagged off the event along with District Collector S.A. Raman, Superintendent of Police S. Deepa Ganiger and MLAs. A total of 1,105 bulls from various parts of Salem, Tiruchi, Namakkal and other places participated in the event. A total of 36 tamers suffered minor injuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-1000-bulls-take-part-in-jallikattu/article33875663.ece
19 February 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Fuel price hike: lorry owners to go on token strike on Feb. 26||Lorry owners have decided to go on a one-day token strike on February 26 condemning hike in fuel prices. General Secretary of South Zone Motor Transporters’ Welfare Association G.R. Shanmughappa told reporters here that the government should call them for talks to find a solution to the issue. The lorry owners said that they have been severely affected due to the hike in prices. The lorry owners also demanded that the government should remove tolls operating beyond the contract period. Mr. Shanmughappa said that over 20 lakh trucks would keep off roads as part of the strike.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fuel-price-hike-lorry-owners-to-go-on-token-strike-on-feb-26/article33875653.ece
19 February 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Students seek permission to stay in hostel||Students of Government Girls Higher Secondary School at Vazhapadi on Thursday petitioned with the District Collector requesting him to permit them to stay at hostel. Close to 20 girl students studying in Plus One at the school petitioned the District Collector that they are natives of interior hamlets in Vazhapadi and have been studying at the school during the past years staying at the Adi Dravidar Welfare Hostel. The petitioners said that though the daily classes have resumed for them, they have not been allowed to stay at the school hostel as the rooms here have been allotted for students studying in Tenth and Plus Two. The students said in the petition that they are forced to travel 80 km every day for attending classes. The students requested the district administration to permit them to continue their studies staying at the hostel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/students-seek-permission-to-stay-in-hostel/article33875665.ece
19 February 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||CPI (M) protests against fuel price hike||Members of Communist Party of India (Marxist) protested in front of the Collectorate on Thursday condemning the Central government for hike in fuel prices and domestic gas. The protesters gathered in front of the Collectorate and raised slogans condemning the Central government for not taking measures to control hike in fuel prices and domestic gas. The protesters in a symbolic manner, garlanded a domestic gas cylinder. They demanded that the Centre take necessary measures to reduce the hike in fuel prices. The protesters alleged that the hike had severely affected daily lives of common people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-m-protests-against-fuel-price-hike/article33875664.ece
19 February 2021||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Project to capture images through drones||The Town and Country Planning department in the Sivaganga district has launched an innovative programme. Collector P Madhusudhan Reddy said on Wednesday the idea was to capture images through drones and upload them in the government website for public view. The objective was to help the public identify and choose residential areas in the district where they can construct their dwellings. Similarly, farmers can have a clear idea about availability of water. The data can be uploaded on the website and it would be user friendly for the public, he said and added that the drones would capture images of Central, state government offices, railway station, bus stand, places of worship, arterial roads, multi storey buildings and water bodies, among others. The project to capture the images had begun in Sivaganga and it would be extended to Thirupuvanam. Afterwards, images in Karaikudi would be covered, he said and said the exercise would be completed in two months. The Town and Country Planning officials said that drones could fly up to a height of 120 metres from the surface level and capture images. ‘We have obtained permission from both the Centre and State governments. Sivaganga was the first district in the State to launch the programme,’ they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/project-to-capture-images-through-drones/article33875640.ece
19 February 2021||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin tried to pull down my government, says Palaniswami||AIADMK co-coordinator and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday alleged that DMK president M.K. Stalin had adopted corrupt strategies to pull down the government and become the Chief Minister through the back door. Addressing an election meeting at Paavoorchathram in Tenkasi district, he said that after Jayalalithaa died, Mr. Stalin predicted that his government would collapse within a month. But his government proved his prediction false “with the people’s backing”. Several conspiracies were hatched by his political adversaries, but they were thwarted, again “with the overwhelming support of people”. He said Mr. Stalin’s attempts to capture power through dishonest means came to nought. When the AIADMK proved its majority in the Assembly, the DMK MLAs behaved in a “nauseating” manner. “With your support and blessings, we have completed the full term. It is you who have foiled the sinister designs of our political adversaries. If these evil forces come to power, Tamil Nadu will not be the place to lead a peaceful life,” he said. The Chief Minister said Mr. Stalin was disrespecting farmers and farming, and he would be taught a fitting lesson in the election. Mr. Palaniswami announced that one of the 10 mega markets to be created on an outlay of Rs. 20 crore in the district headquarters would be opened in Tirunelveli. The work on the channel to connect the Jambunadhi and the Ramanadhi had started, and the work on digging a channel to link the Rettaikulam to the Ooththumalai tank would begin shortly. After interacting with the workers of the AIADMK information technology wing at Alangulam, the Chief Minister met members of self-help groups at Tenkasi. While proceeding to Tenkasi, Mr. Palaniswami, along with Minister for Revenue R.B. Udhayakumar, who is in charge of the AIADMK’s election work in the district, and AIADMK Tirunelveli district secretary N. Ganesa Raja, had tea at a roadside shop at Mahizhvannanaathapuram, a hamlet. Mr. Stalin, who refused to meet the public when he was the Minister for Local Administration and the Deputy Chief Minister, is receiving petitions at “stage-managed events”, Mr. Palaniswami said while electioneering at Valliyoor. “Mr. Stalin should tell the people about the fate of the petitions he received during the 2019 Lok Sabha election,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-tried-to-pull-down-my-government-says-palaniswami/article33875623.ece
19 February 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||New municipal complex lacks basic amenities: DMK||The Kumbakonam Town DMK unit staged a demonstration at Kumbakonam on Thursday indicting the civic body for not ensuring basic infrastructure at the newly built municipal complex. The DMK cadre, led by Mayiladuthurai MP, S. Ramalingam, Kumbakonam MLA, G. Anbalagan, Thiruvidaimaruthur MLA, Govi.Chezhiaan and town secretary S. P. Thamizhazhagan went in a procession from Srinagar Colony to the new Municipal Office complex and staged a demonstration. They raised slogans condemning the civic body for the delay in the execution of drinking water and underground sewage network projects under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation and demanded roll back of property tax and house tax rates. Speaking to the media, Mr. Ramalingam claimed that the public was put to hardship as sewage overflowed at several places. The residents were moving in fear during night hours as there was no proper lighting system on the carriageways, he claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-municipal-complex-lacks-basic-amenities-dmk/article33875596.ece
19 February 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Illegal sand mining alleged||The Communist Party of India (Marxists) staged a demonstration on the Kollidam riverbed at Thiruchennampoondi in Budalur block on Thursday demanding streamlining of sand mining from the river. The demonstrators, led by CPI(M) Thanjavur District Executive Committee member, V. Jeevakumar alleged illegal sand mining activity at the government-run sand quarry functioning in Thiruchennampoondi area. Plundering of natural wealth would create problems for agricultural operations which depends mostly on the groundwater potential apart from affecting the drinking water availability, they pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/illegal-sand-mining-alleged/article33875613.ece
19 February 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Stalin warns of DVAC action against Panneerselvam||In a direct attack on Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam in his native district of Theni, DMK president M.K. Stalin on Thursday said he was indulging in corruption and the DMK, when voted to power, would initiate legal action against him through the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC). Speaking at “ Ungal Thoguthiyil Stalin ” (Stalin in your constituency), the poll outreach programme of the DMK, at Kokilapuram Pass near Uthamapalayam in Theni, he said in 2001, assets owned by Mr. Panneerselvam, as per his declaration, were at Rs. 17.44 lakh. In about five years, this had touched Rs. 1.77 crore. Then in the subsequent years, it had crossed several hundreds of crores, he said. “If the DMK is elected to power, I swear the new government under my leadership will take action against him,” he said. In 2002, the then Chief Minister Jayalalithaa had herself critically observed that Mr. Panneerselvam was not up to the mark as a PWD Minister and had expressed concern over his poor administrative qualities, Mr. Stalin said. “I have proof to support this,” he said, adding that Mr. Panneerselvam had projected himself as Bharata [Lord Rama’s brother] in advertisements released in some newspapers. But Shakuni [from the Mahabharata] would be apt for him, Mr. Stalin said. The AIADMK has given him a lot of respect and positions in the government but Mr. Panneerselvam has not been loyal to the party, he said. “For instance, there are a number of unanswered questions behind the death of Jayalalithaa. As the Chief Minister then, Mr. Panneerselvam is accountable,” Mr. Stalin said. During his speech, Mr. Stalin said the AIADMK coordinator had done nothing for the people in the Bodi Assembly constituency in Theni. Now at the fag end, he was claiming to have visited tribal villages in a jeep. Though Mr. Panneerselvam has been the Chief Minister thrice and currently is the Deputy Chief Minister, he has done nothing for the State. His brother is facing criminal charges in a temple priest’s death case. There are many other criminal cases. The DMK, if elected to power, will reopen all of them, he said. The DMK leader said, “I am the son of Kalaignar Karunanidhi... I am confident that I can solve all your problems in 100 days. I promise that I will keep my word. Believe me,” he said. The DMK will get into action from day one and development programmes will be initiated, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-warns-of-dvac-action-against-panneerselvam/article33875625.ece
19 February 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Night sweeping scaled down and garbage begins to pile up||At a time when residents are up in arms against the poor solid waste management in the city, the Tiruchi Corporation seems to have scaled down night sweeping in many areas. The civic body with an aim of supplementing the efficiency of solid waste management had introduced night sweeping in 2018. A group of sanitary workers, mostly men, were hand picked for all the four zones in the city to clean the main roads, Central Bus Stand, Chathiram Bus Stand, markets and other thickly populated market areas. Besides collecting garbage, they were tasked to remove the sand and mud accumulated along the important roads. Supervisors were also engaged to man the operation. At one point of time, the civic body had even put up notice boards on streets, where night sweeping was in force and this had yielded good results. By the time, the residents woke up to a new day, the workers ensured that the roads were clean. Complaints on garbage collections and street cleaning were minimal during the night sweeping days. It is learnt that the Corporation has suspended night sweeping except in Central Bus Stand, Thillai Nagar and a few roads. The sanitary workers, who were drawn for this purpose, have been redeployed in the day shift. Now, sanitary workers report for duty only around 7 a.m. at various places. By the time, garbage cleaning picks up, peak hour begins and the workers slow down their activity. This has resulted in the accumulation of garbage on streets and inefficient street cleaning, it was alleged. “Night sweeping is inevitable in a fast-growing city like Tiruchi. More than 50% of the garbage being generated could be cleaned within two to three hours after 9 p.m. as there will be no traffic. The city cannot afford to lose the advantages of night sweeping. To motivate the workers, special allowance should be given to them,” said N. Jamaludeen, a consumer activist.  When contacted S. Sivasubramanian, Commissioner, Tiruchi Corporation, told The Hindu that night sweeping was still on in Central Bus Stand and a few roads. He added that he would check and review the implementation of the night sweeping plan. Revival of night sweeping on a full scale would be ensured, he said and added that at least 10% of sanitary workers would be engaged in it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/night-sweeping-scaled-down-and-garbage-begins-to-pile-up/article33875594.ece
19 February 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 4-crore heritage park nears completion||Work on the Heritage Park (Purathana Poonga) on Butterworth Road is nearing completion. The park, being built on 1.27 acres, seeks to highlight the city’s historic importance. The park was planned in 2019, and the civil work began in December, however, it had to be stopped in March following the COVID-19 lockdown. “But for the lockdown, we would have finished the park and opened it up by now. However, work is under way and we hope to open it in two or three months,” S. Sivasubramanian, Corporation Commissioner said. The area where the park is to come up used to be a horse stable and the original archway, depicting two horses remains intact. It has been preserved and would be used as the main entrance of the park. The civic body has planned to display mural paintings, statues and plaques tracing the vibrant history of the city through the ages. According to the plan finalised under the Smart Cities Mission at a cost of Rs. 4 crore, the park will feature statues of Rani Mangammal, Karikala Chola and Raja Raja Chola, all rulers who ruled the region. Statues of Nayakar kings too are being made. “These are being made by sculptors of The Tamil Nadu Handicrafts Development Corporation in Mahabalipuram”, P. Sivapatham, Executive Engineer, Tiruchi Corporation said. “The statues and plaques alone cost Rs. 2 crore and will include detailed descriptions of various rulers and dynasties that the city had seen and also important landmarks. The park will be a walk-in history class. Students will be encouraged to come here to learn,” he said. A children's play area, a large herbal garden and an amphitheatre where cultural events can be held are also part of the plan. Nearly 70% of the work has been completed, and the park would be ready to open once the statues are installed. “We will throw open the park to the public by May. Children can visit the park during their summer vacations,” Mr. Sivapatham said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-4-crore-heritage-park-nears-completion/article33875608.ece
19 February 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Documents from DigiLocker to be accepted for passport applications||The Ministry of External Affairs has integrated the Passport Seva Project with the DigiLocker and started accepting e-documents stored in it. Disclosing this in a press release, R. Anand, Passport Officer, Tiruchi, said that the digital locker was one of the key initiatives under the Digital India programme aimed at eliminating usage of physical documents. Sharing of e-documents with Passport Seva system has been enabled with a mechanism to verify the authenticity of the documents online, he said. Applicants can share documents issued by government agencies from their DigLocker account to the Passport Seva System while filing passport applications. Digital documents or certificates issued by government departments of agencies integrated with DigiLocker can be shared. Aadhaar card, driving licence, Electors Photo Identity Cards, PAN verification record, arms licence, birth certificate, caste certificate, ration card, pension certificate, insurance policy certificate-life, Standard X passing certificate, electricity bill and telephone bill can also be shared with the Passport Seva system from DigiLocker, Mr. Anand said. Applicants can make use of a 24 x7 helpline by dialing the toll free number 1800-258-1800 for general enquiry, application status, police verification status and tracking of applications, the Passport Officer said. Enquiries can be made through telephone 0431-2707203 or 2707404 or sent by WhatsApp to 7598507203 or e-mail to:rpo.trichy@mea.gov.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/documents-from-digilocker-to-be-accepted-for-passport-applications/article33875598.ece
19 February 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||34 new COVID-19 cases recorded||The central districts on Thursday recorded 34 new COVID-19 cases. The region recorded one death- in Tiruchi, according to the bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. Ariyalur and Perambalur reported no new case on Thursday. A 40-year-old man hailing from Tiruchi with a history of diabetes succumbed to COVID-19 after suffering respiratory failure. All districts in the region except for Tiruchi and Thanjavur reported less than five new cases. Ten patients tested positive each in Thanjavur and Tiruchi. Four new cases each were reported in Pudukottai and Karur. Three patients each tested positive in Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur. No new case was reported in Ariyalur and Perambalur districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/34-new-covid-19-cases-recorded/article33875609.ece
19 February 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Workshop on fire hazards and safety held||The Tiruchi Corporation conducted a fire safety and awareness programme for commercial establishments ahead of the summer season. Owners of scrap yards, storage units and other such shops in the city took part in the awareness programme, organised by the Corporation. Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue personnel conducted a mock drill and demonstrated methods to put off fires caused by various materials and taught the traders basic first aid in case of injuries. At the meeting, a section of traders requested residents to segregate waste at their houses. Traders also assured the authorities that they would install fire extinguishers and other necessary equipment at their shops. Speaking at the event, S. Sivasubramanian, Corporation Commissioner, said that shops would not be allowed to operate without the Dangerous and Offensive Trade Licence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/workshop-on-fire-hazards-and-safety-held/article33876299.ece
19 February 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown tomorrow||Power supply will be suspended in the following areas from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Saturday in view of maintenance works to be taken up by Tangedco at Thiruvanaikovil and Samayapuram sub-stations: Thiruvanaikovil Sannidhi Street, North and South Inner Streets, Othatheru, Srinivasa Nagar, Nariyan Street, Nelson Road, Ambedkar Nagar, Panchakarai Road, Arul Murugan Garden, AUT Nagar, Raghavendra Garden, Gandhi Road, Trunk Road, Kumbakonam Salai, Sivaram Nagar, M.K.Pettai, Chennai By-pass Road, Kallanai Road, Keezh Kondayampettai, Nadu Kondayampettai, Jambukeswarar Nagar, Akilandeswari Nagar, Venkateswara Nagar, Tagore Street, Thiruvennainallur, Ponnurangapuram, Thiruvalarsolai, Panaiyapuram, Uttamarseeli, Killikoodu, Tollgate, Bikshandarkovil, Maruthi Nagar, Gokulam Colony, V.N.Nagar, Raja Nagar, Anand Nagar, Rayar Thoppu and Thalakudi; Samayapuram, Manachanallur Road, Vengankudi,VOC Nagar Park, Ezhil Nagar, Karunya City,Manachanallur, Irungalur, Kalpalayam, Meela Seedevimangalam,Purathakudi,Konalai, Kariyamanickam, Edumalai, Thiruvellarai,Poonampalayam, Kanniyakudi, Valaiyur, Paalaiyur,Sriperumpudur, Koothur, Nochiyam, Palur, Pachur, Thiruvasi, Azhagiyamanavalam,Kumarakudi,Thiruvarangapatti, Kovathakudi, Panamangalam, Edaiyapatti, Ayyampalayam, Thathamangalam, Thazhuthazhapatti,Sirukudi, Veerani,Sirupathur, Devimangalam, Akkaraipatti, Vangaram and Ayikudi. The Tangedco has also announced that power supply will remain suspended from 9.45 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Saturday in the following areas of the district owing to maintenance works to be taken up at the Vengaimandalam sub-station: Moovanur, Vengaimandalam, Thaneerpandal, Mela Kannukulam, Keezha Kannukulam, Paravthipuram, Kuruvampatti, Kallur, Veppanthurai, Chozhanganallur, Senthamaraikan, Sirugambur, No 2.Kariyamanickam, Sennakarai, Ramagiripatti, Senkudi, Vazhmalpalayam, Chettimangalam, Neiveli, Killiyanallur, Vathalai, V.Maniampatti, Silaiyaathi, Thudaiyur, Pandiyapuram, Sunaippunallur, Eachampatti, Manachanallur West and Town, Moovarayampalayam, Koundampatti, Kuruvikarankulam, Kattukulam, Theerampalayam, Thillampatti, Pazhaiyur, Senkuzhipatti, Udaiyampatti, Thirupainjeeli, Thiruvarangapatti and Peramangalam. Power supply will also remain suspended from 9.30 a.m. to 4 p.m. in the following areas owing to maintenance work to be taken up at Tiruverumbur substation: Tiruverumbur, Malaikovil, Prakash Nagar, Vengur, Koothaipar, Krishnasamudiram, Pathalapettai, Kiliyur, Tiruverumbur Industrial Estate, Mela Kumaresapuram, Cholamadevi, Cholamanagar, Pudutheru, Navalpattu, Burma Colony, Nehru Nagar, Anna Nagar, Policy Colony, Poolangudi, Suriyur, Kumbakudi, Pazhankanankudi, Kanthalur, MIET and Guntur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown-tomorrow/article33876300.ece
19 February 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Nine injured in jallikattu at Kalingapatti||Nine persons were injured in a traditional jallikattu event held at Kalingapatti village near Manapparai in Tiruchi district on Thursday. As many as 715 bulls were released during the event in which 230 tamers took part. Police sources said four among the injured were referred to hospital for treatment The remaining five injured were treated as out-patients, according to the sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nine-injured-in-jallikattu/article33875610.ece
19 February 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Youth found murdered||An 18-year-old youth was found murdered along the Cauvery river near Musiri on the Tiruchi - Namakkal highway on Wednesday. Police identified the victim as M. Gautham. Cut injuries were found on the youth's left forehead. The body was shifted to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital here for post mortem. The Musiri police have registered a case of murder, said police sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-found-murdered/article33875597.ece
19 February 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin remained away from public while in power: EPS||Taking a dig at DMK president M.K. Stalin for ‘having remained unapproachable for the public when he was in power’, Chief Minister and AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami said the government of Jayalalithaa was coming closer to the people by putting in place a dependable grievance redressal system. He was electioneering at Valliyoor on the second day of his campaign in southern districts. “After launching Chief Minster’s Special Grievances Redressal Meets in all districts, the latest initiative has been introduced to enable the people to submit their petitions through their mobile phones even when they are in their homes. We never cheat the people under the pretext of receiving petitions only during election,” Mr. Palaniswami said. The Chief Minister said the DMK, which was being administered like a ‘corporate firm’ was not allowing its senior leaders for higher positions and even for electioneering and considered only the members of the ‘first family’ for coveted party posts. “This is purely out of fear that anyone rivalling him or his son Udhayanidhi may pose a threat to their very existence in the DMK, and, hence, the head and all the ‘Board of Directors’ of the party are from his family.” He also came down heavily on Mr. Udhayanidhi during the campaign. “My political experience is his age…He is criticising the Tamil Nadu government, by spreading lies like his father [Mr. Stalin] in a bid to divert the people’s attention for the sake of fetching votes. However, they will not succeed as the people have fully understood the malicious campaign of the father–son duo.” He cautioned the people that the DMK, which had usurped thousands of acres of lands of the voiceless through coercion when the party was in power, should not get another chance as it would unleash violence everywhere, especially against the women. “You could have seen the videos showing DMK men brutally attacking a woman of a beauty parlour. Those who snatched away your lands and posed threats to you are spreading lies to come to power again, which should not happen. People should compare the governance of the DMK and the AIADMK before casting their votes,” Mr. Palaniswami said while addressing the women at Kalakkad. When he listed his government’s schemes for women’s welfare such as marriage assistance, two-wheeler scheme and Siddha formulation gift hampers for pregnant women and the gift hamper for newborns, the crowd received it with wild cheer. The freebies given to students and 7.50% reservation for government school students in medical college admission also elicited good response from the women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-takes-a-dig-at-stalin/article33875634.ece
19 February 2021||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||Liquor bottles seized||The Prohibition Enforcement Wing, Nannilam, has seized Rs. 1.50 lakh worth of liquor bottles brought from Puducherry in a mini-goods carrier during a vehicle check at Peralam on Wednesday. According to police, the PEW personnel were conducting a vehicle check near Peralam on Wednesday night when they intercepted a mini-goods carrier loaded with gunny bags containing some bottles. When the gunny bags were checked, the PEW personnel were shocked to notice the consignment was liquor bottles brought from Puducherry. A total of 2700 liquor bottles were seized and two persons, Jayakanthan and Mahendran both from Tranquebar were arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/liquor-bottles-seized/article33875604.ece
19 February 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Public to have a say in deciding themes at Ooty flower show this year||People will have a say on the overarching themes of the 124th Flower Show to be held at the Government Botanical Garden in Udhagamandalam later this year. For the first time, the Department of Horticulture and Plantation Crops along with the Nilgiris district administration has welcomed suggestions from the public as to what the themes behind the floral arrangements should be. Assistant Director of the Horticulture Department, Nilgiris district, M. Radhakrishnan, said the suggested themes should be non-political and non-religious and should in some way reflect the culture and heritage of India. The winning themes will be used to design the “mega” and “mini” floral arrangements that will be installed during the flower show which is expected to be held in May. The people or organisation, who design the theme, will be honoured at the event. Those interested can upload their ideas on the Nigiris district web portal –nilgiris.nic.in, with suitable pictures, said Mr. Radhakrishnan. This year, in order to encourage the local floriculture industry, the organisers of the flower show are looking at procuring flowers from local producers to be used in the show. “We have already had discussions with local farmers who can supply us with the flowers,” added Mr. Radhakrishnan. The two main structures that will be built for the floral exhibitions can hold upwards of 1.5 lakh flowers this year, officials said. If the flower show is held this year, the show will be taking place after a one-year hiatus, forced by the COVID-19 pandemic. Joint Director of Horticulture, Nilgiris district, Sivasubramaniam Samraj, said the flower and fruit show committee, headed by the Director of Horticulture and Plantation Crops, Subbaiyan. N will hold a meeting to decide on when and how the flower show will be held in line with COVID-19 protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/public-to-have-a-say-in-deciding-themes-at-ooty-flower-show-this-year/article33875654.ece
19 February 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore logs 11 fresh cases||The number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 20,910 with 11 new cases reported on Thursday. While 20,499 patients have been discharged, the active cases stand at 61. In Ranipet district, two persons tested positive and the total stood at 16,200. In Tirupattur district, two cases were reported, taking the total to 7,621. In Tiruvannamalai district, nine new cases were reported, taking the total tally to 19,450. Of this, 19,121 have been discharged and the active cases stand at 45.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-logs-11-fresh-cases/article33876245.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Cane farmers to get a portion of their dues||Bringing relief to sugarcane farmers, the National Cooperative Sugar Mills at Alanganallur near here has announced that a portion of arrears due to them will be settled. According to a press release from the mill, Rs. 1.18 crore - the profit for 2008-09 - would be distributed 2,669 farmers. Also, Rs. 10.73 crore, the State Advisory Price and dues for 2015-16, will be distributed to 1,604 farmers. The money will be credited to their bank accounts. State president of Tamil Nadu Sugarcane Farmers’ Association N. Palanichamy said a sum of Rs. 7 crore - dues for 2016-17 - were yet to be paid to the farmers. “The government’s announcement of releasing the dues is the result of continuous protests by the farmers,” he said. A dilemma However, the farmers were worried over the non-commencement of crushing at the Alanganallur mills for the past two years. Now, faced with many problems, they send the cane for crushing to factories in other districts where the local farmers compel the mills to procure their canes first. “When the procurement gets delayed due to this, the canes get dry and lose weight. Also, the truck drivers demand extra money for the additional days the truck gets detained on the factory premises. These factors demotivate farmers to cultivate sugarcane. So the government must resume crushing at the Alanganallur mill,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cane-farmers-to-get-portion-of-their-dues/article33875633.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 40 cases||Coimbatore district reported 40 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking the overall tally to 55,319. The Health Department did not report any deaths for the second consecutive day, and the toll stood at 679. The district had 403 active cases. A total of 55 patients were discharged on Thursday. Tiruppur reported 13 fresh cases, taking the district’s tally to 18,198. No deaths were reported in the district and the toll remained at 223. As many as 17,867 patients recovered and 108 were active cases. On Thursday, 14 patients were discharged. In the Nilgiris, nine persons tested positive and the total number of confirmed cases stood at 8,297. The toll was 48 on Thursday and 49 persons were under treatment. Erode district reported 19 new cases on Thursday, taking the tally to 14,675. While 19 persons were discharged, 129 persons continue to be under treatment. Eight COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Salem on Thursday. In Namakkal, five cases were reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-40-cases/article33876109.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||L-G orders floor test||The Lt. Governor also directed the authorities to conduct the proceedings in a peaceful manner. Earlier in the day, Leader of the Opposition N. Rangasamy said the Lt. Governor had given the Opposition parties an assurance on their demand for holding a floor test for the Congress to prove its majority as per the rules. Talking to reporters after calling on the Lt. Governor, he said Dr. Soundararajan agreed to look into the demand. “She has agreed to act in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution.” AIADMK leader A. Anbalagan, who was part of the delegation, said he requested the Lt. Governor to reopen public distribution outlets as soon as possible. He also requested the Lt. Governor to disburse the pending salary of employees of cooperative societies and government-run boards. Nominated legislator and BJP president V. Saminathan was present. In the morning, Dr. Soundararajan was sworn in as the Lieutenant Governor. Chief Justice of the Madras High Court Sanjib Banerjee administered the oath of office to her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/l-g-orders-floor-test/article33876091.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||BSNL employees observe one-day fast||Demanding disbursal of salary on a particular date of every month, Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited employees observed fast here on Thursday. The protestors, led by M. Jayamurugan, district president of BSNL Employees Union, observed fast on the BSNL General Manager’s office premises. They said the administration should guarantee disbursal of salary on a particular date every month and wage revision talks should be started immediately. Besides revoking the suspension order issued against contract workers, they should be given their one-year wage arrears, they added. BSNL should reconsider its decision to outsource landline and broadband services and unsettled medical bills of employees and pensioners should be granted without further delay. The shelved ‘compassionate grounds appointments’ should be revived for the benefit of children of ex-employees, the protestors further said. BSNL Employees’ Union office-bearers C. Panneerselvam and S. Paulraj and contract workers’ union district secretary E. Radhakrishnan participated in the hunger strike.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bsnl-employees-observe-one-day-fast/article33876304.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||TB awareness signature campaign conducted in Thoothukudi||A signature campaign was organised here on Thursday as part of Tuberculosis Awareness Week observed between February 17 and 23. The event is observed in all 14 TB units in the district The signature campaign was organised at Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital with the motto ‘Accelerate war against TB’. Dean Revathi Balan inaugurated the campaign. Deputy Director (Tuberculosis) K. Sundaralingam said diabetics, those with hypertension and smokers, who were vulnerable to TB, should go in for X-ray and sputum screening if they had symptoms such as fever and cough for about two weeks and loss of weight. Resident Medical Officer, Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital, J. Silas Jeyamani, Head, Department of Thoracic Medicine, Sangamithra, doctors and nurses took the ‘Anti-TB Pledge’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tb-awareness-signature-campaign-conducted-in-thoothukudi/article33875635.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: Erode reports 19 cases||Erode district reported 19 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking the tally to 14,675. While 19 persons were discharged, 129 persons continue to be under treatment. Eight positive cases were reported in Salem on Thursday. According to officials, four cases were indigenous and four were reported in Namakkal and Erode. In Namakkal, five cases were reported. As per the bulletin, all cases were indigenous. Coimbatore district reported 40 new cases, taking the overall tally to 55,319. The Health Department did not report any deaths for the second consecutive day, and the toll stood at 679. The district had 403 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-erode-reports-19-cases/article33875657.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Keeping watch||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/keeping-watch/article33876086.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tractor driver gets life for killing policeman||A 31-year-old tractor driver, who ran the vehicle over a police constable when he tried to stop him from smuggling sand in 2014, was sentenced to life by a court in Ranipet on Thursday. According to the police, in 2014, G. Kanagaraj and a sub-inspector left for the Kosasthalaiyar river bed near Purusai village after receiving information about sand smuggling. “When Kanagaraj tried to stop the tractor, he was run over by D. Suresh, who escaped,” said L. Ravikumar, additional public prosecutor. Suresh was later arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tractor-driver-gets-life-for-killing-policeman/article33876246.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Bikes gutted in showroom fire||Two-wheelers worth several lakhs of rupees were reduced to ashes when a fire broke out in a bike showroom at Sankarankovil on Thursday. Smoke was found billowing from the showroom of Kanagavel of Vendrilingapuram on Sankarankovil – Thiruvenkatam Road and Fire and Rescue Services personnel were alerted. Even as they arrived, some new vehicles, spare parts and bikes left there for service, worth several lakhs of rupees, were destroyed. The flames also badly damaged the interiors, furniture and computers at the showroom. While the fire-fighters managed to save two-wheelers showcased on the first floor of the building, the fire destroyed a good number of bikes in the service section. The police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bikes-gutted-in-showroom-fire/article33875629.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK cadre injured||Ten AIADMK cadre were injured when the van in which they were travelling overturned near Surandai on Thursday. Police said a group of AIADMK functionaries from Annamalaipudhur were going by vans to participate in Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s election campaign at Paavoorchathram. When they were crossing Parankundraapuram intersection, one of the vans overturned after the driver lost control of the vehicle. Ten passengers were injured and they were rushed to Tenkasi Government Hospital. Collector G.S. Sameeran visited them in hospital. The police have registered a case||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-cadre-injured/article33875645.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||General||Dr. NGP Arts and Science College: Panel discussion on Union Budget, 1.45 p.m.  Hindusthan College of Arts and Science: Inauguration of consumer club, 11.30 a.m.  KG College of Arts and Science: Webinar on AR/VR, 3 p.m.  Coimbatore Management Association: Management Day celebrations and awards presentation, Murugavel Janakiram, founder and CEO of Matrimony.com, chief guest, Hotel The Residency, 6.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/general/article33876103.ece
19 February 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Former Union Minister among 30 taken into custody in Belagavi||Police took into custody the former Union Minister Babagouda Patil and other farmers leaders for protesting against the new farm laws passed by the Union and State governments in Belagavi on Thursday. As many as 30 farmers were arrested and released by late evening. The protesters came in two groups to the city railway station and tried to enter it so that they could stop trains as part of the pan-India rail roko protest. But the police stopped them outside the barricades put up at the gates of the railway station. Farmers argued with the police that they could not stop them from carrying out a peaceful, non-violent protest. But the police said that they had orders to maintain law and order and to see that the running of trains was not disrupted. Babagouda Patil said that the police could not stop farmers from protesting. This is the land of Kittur Channamma and Sangolli Rayanna who fought injustice. “We are fighters too and no one can stop us from fighting for our rights. He asked the farmers to sit down on the road in front of the railway station. He addressed the protesters and said that the black laws have been brought out by the Centre only to enrich the corporations and to erase the lives of small farmers,” he said. “These laws are aimed at reducing farmers to farm labour in their own lands. They will turn food growers into beggars. In the name of eliminating middlemen, they are introducing corporate agencies, named farm produce aggregators. The poor farmer has been robbed of the right to approach courts if there is any injustice in contract farming. What is more, the difference between natural person and artificial person has been erased, enabling multi national companies with deep pockets to buy unlimited amounts of land. The new laws also provide exemption in income tax to big companies, as there has not been a corresponding change in the IT Act,” Mr. Patil said. The police tried to stop a group of farmers from entering the railway station, and there was some commotion. Appa Saheb Desai, senior farmers leader, fell down on the ground, when a policeman pushed another farmer. This further agitated the farmers who began shouting slogans loudly and tried to jump over the barricades. However, a team of city civil police and reserved police arrested all the farmers and took them away. Leaders Choonappa Pujari, Jayashree Gurannanavar, Prakash Naik and others led the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/former-union-minister-among-30-taken-into-custody-in-belagavi/article33875676.ece
19 February 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Dacoits loot house after threatening couple in early morning strike in Belagavi||Unidentified dacoits looted a house in Belagavi in the early hours of Thursday. Abhijit Samant, a trader who lives on Rana Pratap Road in Tilakwadi, has complained to the police that seven persons who were wearing towels to cover their faces, entered his house by breaking open the window grills at around 4 a.m. They ransacked the house and tried to break the treasury. They also woke up the couple and snatched the jewellery of Shanta Samant, the wife of the complainant. The dacoits pointed knives at Mr. Samant and his wife and threatened to kill them. Mr. Samant slapped one of the robbers and they tied his hands behind his back. The accused locked up the couple in the bedroom. They took away the woman’s mangalsutra and other jewellery of a total weight of 30 grams. They also fled with silver plates of 70 grams, Rs. 10,000 in cash and a mobile phone. “The dacoits spoke in Hindi and another language that we could not understand,” the complainant said. They took away the woman’s ring, ear rings and two necklaces. “They kept on asking aur kya hai, aur kya hai?’’ Ms. Samant told investigators. One of them was aged while the other six were middle aged. After the dacoits left, the couple got out of the room through a small vent in the wall. They called a relative who spoke to the Tilakwadi Police. A police team arrived within minutes, Ms. Samant told journalists. Tilakwadi Police visited the spot along with the city dog squad. Police Inspector Dayanand Shegunasi said that a team had been formed to crack the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dacoits-loot-house-after-threatening-couple-in-early-morning-strike-in-belagavi/article33875674.ece
19 February 2021||BELAGAVI,KARNATAKA||Heavy rain lashes Belagavi city||Heavy rain lashed Belagavi on Thursday afternoon, bringing down the temperature and plunging parts of the city into darkness due to the resultant power cuts in some areas. A coconut tree caught fire after being struck by lightning in Lakshmi Nagar in the old city. Rain caused traffic snarls in some of the main roads of the city. College students had to wade through water filled roads to reach bus stops and auto stands. Rainfall was also reported from nearby taluks like Khanapur and Hukkeri. Officials estimated that around five mm of rain was received in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/heavy-rain-lashes-belagavi-city/article33875678.ece
19 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Air pollution led to 12,000 deaths in city last year’||Despite recording relatively better air quality last year owing to strict lockdown, air pollution continues to be a serious public health issue which also drastically impacts our economy, a new analysis has found. A report released by Greenpeace Southeast Asia on Thursday estimated that Bengaluru, which fared better than Delhi and Mumbai, still recorded an estimated 12,000 avoidable deaths owing to PM 2.5 air pollution. Among the six Indian cities featured in the global analysis, Bengaluru is rated better than Delhi and Mumbai, but is worse off when compared with Chennai, Hyderabad, and Lucknow. The figures were arrived at as per the ‘Cost Estimator’ online tool that estimates the real-time health impact and economic cost from fine particulate matter (PM 2.5) air pollution using real-time ground-level PM 2.5 measurements collated in IQAir’s database. Commenting on the revelations made by Cost Estimator, CEO of IQAir Frank Hammes was quoted by a Greenpeace release as saying: “Breathing should not be deadly. The fact that poor air quality claimed an estimated 160,000 lives in the five largest cities alone should give us pause, especially in a year when many cities were seeing lower air pollution levels due to less economic activity. ” When asked about factors that Bengaluru needs to worry about, Avinash Kumar Chanchal, climate campaigner, Greenpeace India, told The Hindu , “Apart from other contributors such as waste burning, construction, industries, and DG sets, the transport sector is the key emission source for Bengaluru. The city needs a paradigm shift from the present fossil fuelled transportation sector.” He added that the authorities need to plan phasing out fossil fuel burning on a war footing, build an integrated and well-connected public transport network and encourage non-motorised transport such as walking and cycling. Polluted air increases the likelihood of deaths owing to cancer and stroke, spike in asthma attacks, and worsens severity of COVID-19 symptoms, he said. Other experts mentioned the need for clarity on spending of funds. CSTEP’s Pratima Singh, head of the Centre for Air Pollution Studies (CAPS), said the Union Budget 2020–21 had allocated Rs. 300 crore for 10 cities identified beforehand; of this amount, Bengaluru (Karnataka State Pollution Control Board) got Rs. 10 crore to tackle the city’s air pollution challenges. In addition to this, the 15th Finance Commission had allocated Rs. 4,400 crore to 40 cities with a million-plus population, including Bengaluru. Apart from the 40 cities identified by the commission, the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) has separately identified 122 cities as non-attainment cities (those that fail to meet the national standards on air pollution), she said. “Last year, of this list, 40 cities received funding support; this year, 42 cities will receive funding through NCAP. However, there is no still clarity about whether the cities selected for funding this year will be the same as last year’s or new ones. If the same cities receive more funding, then the other 80 cities (of the 122) would have been neglected and would struggle to develop strategies or implement any concrete actions on the ground. This would mean inevitable delays in achieving the NCAP target of reducing particulate matter emissions by 20–30% by 2024,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/air-pollution-led-to-12000-deaths-in-city-last-year/article33876045.ece
19 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Owners who part with their land set to get more developed area||In view of difficulties in acquiring land for industrial and commercial projects, the State Cabinet has decided to increase the allotment of developed land by 1,198 sq.ft per acre – from 9,583 sq.ft to 10,781 sq.ft – to owners for whom it is acquired. Generally, the KIADB acquires and develops land for industrial and commercial purposes in the State. It allocates developed land to farmers or other owners from whom the land is acquired, if they do not want cash compensation. Home and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Basavaraj Bommai told presspersons on Thursday that the Cabinet has also given approval for releasing Rs. 700 crore to private hospitals for treating COVID-19 patients till March 2021. Hospitals have provided treatment to 1,35,754 COVID-19 patients as on January 11. So far, the bill of hospitals was around Rs. 315 crore. Though Rs. 700 crore was not required, to be on the safer side, the amount was approved, Health and Family Welfare Minister K. Sudhakar said. The Cabinet ratified the action taken to issue orders giving administrative approval for development and rejuvenation of Koramangala valley from K.R. Market to Bellandur lake into the Citizens Waterway project in the city under DBOT at an estimated cost of Rs. 169 crore. Administrative approval was given for construction of multi-storied residential quarters at 3rd and 5th cross of Vasanthnagar in the city after demolishing the existing quarters for a cost of Rs. 117 crore. The Cabinet approved a term loan to be raised by Karnataka Road Development Corporation for the year 2020-21. Approval was given for construction of eight maternal and child hospitals, two general hospitals, and upgrade of Vijayapura district hospital under NHM at a cost of Rs. 199 crore. A sum of Rs. 14.64 crore was approved for procuring equipment for 22 newly constructed maternal and children hospitals. An agriculture college would be constructed at Chamarajanagar under NABARD funds of Rs. 39.92 crore. The Cabinet also decided to dismiss G.L. Harish, medical officer, who was convicted in sexual harassment case. The Cabinet approved development of eight housing schemes at a cost of Rs. 1,358 crore, Mr. Bommai said. It also approved the Karnataka Dispute Resolution Policy, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cabinet-o-wners-to-get-more-developed-land-for-area-acquired/article33875809.ece
19 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Rail roko’ protests have no impact on train services||The call for a nationwide ‘rail roko’ campaign by farmers’ leaders in Delhi against the Centre’s farm laws evoked a mixed response in Karnataka on Thursday. In Bengaluru, the protest was low key, but there was a good turnout of protesters in Raichur, Belagavi, and Davangere. The nationwide protest to demand the repeal of the three farm laws had no impact on train services in the State. The Bengaluru police as well as their counterparts in places such as Mysuru and Belagavi detained protesters even before they could enter the stations. The Railway Police Force, too, were out in full force to prevent protesters from entering stations. At Yeshwantpur railway station, farmers’ leader Kurubur Shanthakumar and others were detained by the police. Mr Shanthakumar had travelled from Mysuru to Yeshwantpur by train to take part in the protest, but was escorted out of the station. “The PM is functioning at the behest of corporate bodies. He should protect the interests of farmers and repeal the farm laws. As promised in the Rajya Sabha, the Prime Minister should convene a meeting with farmers and resolve the issues. The Central government should enact a law on minimum support price and repeal the laws which are against the interests of farmers. If it fails to do that, farmers will intensify the protest,” said Mr Shanthakumar. In Bengaluru division, farmers tried to enter railway stations such as Bangapret and Tumakuru. In other parts of the State, protests were carried out in districts such as Belagavi, Yadgir, Shivamogga, and Vijayapura. Chief PRO of South Western Railways (SWR) E. Vijaya said the protest did not impact passenger train services. “Elaborate security arrangements were made at the stations. Train services were operated as per schedule in SWR limits,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rail-roko-protests-have-no-impact-on-train-services/article33876050.ece
19 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Disha Ravi arrest: Parents issue statement asking govt. to ensure children’s safety||The arrest of Disha Ravi, a 22-year-old environmental activist from the city, has sparked outrage among parents across the country, many who have come together to demand freedom and safety for their children. In a statement issued to the media on Thursday, 231 parents have demanded that the Delhi police drop the “farcical investigation into the legitimate Right to Expression” of young adults and immediately release Ms. Ravi. “As parents of children, teenagers and young adults, we are shocked by this arrest. The arbitrariness of this case, which criminalizes an ordinary tool used both by the government and social movements, will have a chilling effect on youth and parents alike,” read the statement. Sudha N., activist-researcher and a parent, termed Ms. Ravi’s arrest ‘an abduction’. “It is unacceptable for us as parents to bring up a uni-dimensional child; that children have to put their heads down and not bother about issues that do not concern them,” she told The Hindu.  The letter highlights this concern. “We have striven to inculcate in our children a love for the planet and their fellow human beings. We value their concerns about the state of the world and their desire to stand up against injustice and make a difference. But the abduction of Disha by the Delhi Police tells us that no young person with a sense of curiosity and passion to change the world is safe in today’s India. The incarceration of activists across the country for expressing their views or standing up against injustice, including young women such as Amulya, Nodeep Kaur and Gulfisha, shows how this is a clear and present concern,” said the signatories in the letter. They also held the Karnataka government accountable for the nature of Ms. Ravi’s arrest. “It is a matter of shame that the Government of Karnataka, which has the responsibility of protecting the right to life of our people, has abdicated its responsibility... By criminalizing young people’s speech, thoughts and lawful actions, India fails its future citizens.”  It is unacceptable for us as parents to bring up a uni-dimensional child; that children have to put their heads down and not bother about issues that do not concern them. Sudha N. activist-researcher||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/disha-ravi-arrest-parents-issue-statement-asking-govt-to-ensure-childrens-safety/article33876042.ece
19 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Wistron to resume production in a few days, says Shettar||Wistron, the Taiwanese firm that makes iPhone for Apple Inc. at its Narasapura facility near Kolar, will resume production in the next few days, said Minister for Large and Medium Industries Jagadish Shettar on Thursday. However, sources at Wistron told The Hindu that they had not set a date as yet. “We do not have a date as yet. Our top officials met the Minister to apprise him that we restarted the hiring process, improved our HR methodology, strengthened systems and processes, and started deploying adequate security measures at the factory,” said a source. The plant has remained closed since mid-December 2020, when a section of workers at the plant went on a rampage over non-payment of their wages. The sources said the company now has a new, more stringent documentation and verification process for hiring. “The company has realised that given the large-scale chaos that happened there has to be a lot of order and system,” said sources Mr. Shettar informed a team of Wistron officials who visited him, led by company managing director Sudipto Gupta, that Karnataka was an industry-friendly State and that his government had been working hard to create a supportive environment for industries. “It is a matter of happiness that the re-appointment process has started at Wistron, and the production will soon resume. All required support will be given to the company by the government and the Industries Department,” assured the Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/wistron-to-resume-production-in-a-few-days-says-shettar/article33876053.ece
19 February 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Bihar election: Yatnal accuses Vijayendra of funding Cong., RJD||Escalating the attack on Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s son B.Y. Vijayendra, Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, BJP senior MLA, on Thursday alleged that the latter had funded the RJD and the Congress during the Bihar Assembly elections to defeat the party in a bid to weaken Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Mr. Yatnal told reporters in Bengaluru that Mr. Vijayendra was of the view that weakening Mr. Modi would ensure that his father would become powerful in Karnataka. He demanded that an enquiry be conducted. The allegations come at a time when the BJP national general secretary and Karnataka in-charge Arun Singh was in the State to participate in a party programme. However, Mr. Singh rejected these allegations as false. Mr. Yatnal also said that he had furnished a 11-page reply to the showcause notice served on him by the BJP disciplinary committee. The former Union Minister said he had not apologised anywhere in his reply. “Instead, I have explained clearly how Mr. Yediyurappa’s administration is defaming the BJP,” he said. He said he had also mentioned Mr. Vijayendra’s alleged visit to Mauritius in the letter and the reasons behind it. He alleged that a personal assistant of a former Home Minister had helped Mr. Vijayendra in this regard. In all, his reply comprised 45 pages, Mr. Yatnal said, and demanded another enquiry into the alleged interference of Mr. Yediyurappa’s family members. Allegations ‘rejected’ However, Mr. Singh stood by Mr. Yediyurappa and rejected Mr. Yatnal’s allegations. Mr. Singh told reporters: “Everyone knows the nature of Mr. Yatnal. He has been levelling such allegations for the last several years for the sake of media presence. There is no question of accepting his statement. Whatever he is saying is false.” “Mr. Yatnal is embarrassing the party time and again by reiterating false allegations. Party workers also don’t believe him now,” he maintained. On the statement by AICC general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala that the Congress would launch a protest in Karnataka against fuel price hike, he remarked that Mr. Surjewala should also go to the Congress-ruled Rajasthan where the prices are highest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bihar-election-yatnal-accuses-vijayendra-of-funding-cong-rjd/article33875812.ece
19 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Drug case accused in trouble for assaulting wife||An accused who was arrested by the Central Crime Branch police in the high-profile drug case linked to the Kannada film industry has once again run afoul of the local police. Businessman and accused drug peddler Vaibhav Jain, 35, was booked by the police for allegedly assaulting his wife and throwing her out of their house following a domestic row. The Vyalikaval Police arrested Jain on charges of assault and criminal intimidation based on a complaint filed by his wife last Friday. He has since made bail. “The couple have two children, aged five and one-and-a-half years. His wife, Pooja, looked after the family’s jewellery business, while Jain was in finance,” said a police officer. On February 9, he came out on bail in the drug case, but got into a fight with his wife over financial assets. In her complaint to the police, she said he assaulted and abused her. “When she resisted, he threw her out of the house with her children,” said a police officer. With the aid of a family member, his wife went to KC General Hospital to get her injuries treated before approaching the police. “There was another complaint of this nature against him filed earlier. Based on the victim’s statement, an FIR was registered against Vaibhav. He was later let out on station bail,” said the police. Vaibhav is one of the prime accused in the drug racket probed by the Central Crime Branch. He was arrested for his alleged involvement in organising drug parties, and is reportedly close to other accused in the case such as Viren Khanna and Ravishankar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/drug-case-accused-in-trouble-for-assaulting-wife/article33876043.ece
19 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Sharath Bache Gowda likely to join Congress||Sharath Bache Gowda, Independent MLA from Hoskote constituency, and son of B.N. Bache Gowda (BJP MP), met AICC general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala on Thursday and is said to have expressed his desire to join the Congress. Dinesh Gundu Rao and Krishna Byre Gowda, former Ministers and party MLAs, were present when Mr. Sharath Bache Gowda met Mr. Surjewala. Mr. Sharath Bache Gowda won the byelections against Minister N. Nagaraju (MTB) in Hoskote constituency. Meanwhile, leaders belonging to the Scheduled Caste (Left) met Mr. Surjewala and urged him to appoint a working president belonging to their community, which has a population of 60 lakh. Currently, there are five working presidents - Satish Jarkiholi, Eshwar Khandre, Saleem Ahmed, Ramalinga Reddy, and R. Dhruvanarayana. Mr. Surjewala met party leaders ahead of the polls to BBMP, taluk, and zilla panchayats. He said the Congress will launch a door-to-door, block-wise, and ward-wise awareness campaign-cum-protest on Bengaluru’s problems. Mr. Surjewala had lunch at senior leader C.M. Ibrahim’s residence in what was considered as the party’s attempt to retain him. Mr. Ibrahim is said to be considering quitting the Congress. “We didn’t discuss politics. Mr. Ibrahim won’t quit the Congress,” Mr. Surjewala said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sharath-bache-gowda-likely-to-join-congress/article33875808.ece
19 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Don’t link drive against begging to order on street children survey’||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday made it clear that the drive taken up by government authorities in Bengaluru under the Karnataka Prohibition of Beggary (KPB) Act, 1975, is not linked to its orders on PIL petitions, through which the court had ordered for conduct of survey of children selling articles at traffic junctions and others locations on streets. Those in charge of the drive taken up under the KPB Act should not link it with the data collection of street children taken up by the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA), the police, the BBMP, NGOs, and others, the court said. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum passed the order during the hearing of a petition filed by Letzkit Foundation, Bengaluru, on the need for providing education to children engaged in selling flowers and other articles on streets. Senior officers of the police, BBMP, representatives of NGOs were present physically or via videoconference on the direction of the court to coordinate with the KSLSA. The Bench asked KSLSA to coordinate with Shekhar Seshadri and team of SAMVAD (Support, Advocacy & Mental health interventions for children in Vulnerable circumstances And Distress), a national initiative and integrated resource for child protection, mental health and psychosocial care, of NIMHANS. It clarified that initially, only data would be collected and there was no need for any authority to take further action as it would depend on the analysis of the same. However, the Bench said all actions as per law can be initiated if any serious case like child trafficking is noticed, while pointing out that the object of data collection was to protect of rights of children and give them education, and not harm them. While directing members of special juvenile police unit and police to help survey team in the background in civil dress, the Bench said the team should ensure that parents or guardians of children should are sensitised to clear their apprehension on wellbeing of their children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dont-link-drive-against-begging-to-order-on-street-children-survey/article33876047.ece
19 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Budget to be presented on March 8||The Karnataka Budget for 2021-22 will be presented in the State legislature on March 8. The legislature session will commence on March 4 and the first two days (March 4 and 5) will be set aside for discussion related to “one nation-one election”. The legislature session will conclude by the end of March. This would be the BJP government’s second full-fledged Budget in this term. The Budget would be presented amidst severe financial difficulties faced by the State owing to COVID-19. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who also holds the finance portfolio, has begun Budget-related meetings with Ministers and officials of various departments.  The Cabinet meeting on Thursday approved the Karnataka Money Lenders (Amendment) Bill, 2020, of the Cooperation Department which would be tabled in the Budget session. Under the Bill, those who violate the provisions of Act will be convicted and the term of imprisonment increased from six month to one year and fine from Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 50,000, Minister Basavaraj Bommai told presspersons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/budget-to-be-presented-on-march-8/article33875810.ece
19 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Five more domestic destinations from KIA||Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) will soon introduce domestic flight services to five new destinations. By the end of February, Bengaluru will be connected with Rajkot (Gujarat), Durgapur (West Bengal) and Dibrugarh (Assam), and in March, to Agra and Kurnool (Andhra Pradesh). In a press release, KIA said it is currently catering to 61 destinations across the country, including three new services since the pandemic. orhat (Assam), Gorakhpur (Uttar Pradesh) and Jharsuguda (Odisha) commenced operations in January 2021. “A daily average of 270 flights, carrying an average of 30,000 passengers per day, departed to non-metro cities in January, 2021,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/five-more-domestic-destinations-from-kia/article33876041.ece
19 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||62,149 take second dose||From Monday onwards, when the second dose vaccination began in the State, 62,149 healthcare workers have been innoculated. According to data by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, Tumakuru recorded the highest (8,077) and Chikkaballapur the lowest (310) number of healthcare workers who took the second dose. Meanwhile, the State on Thursday reported 406 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 9,46,860.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/62149-take-second-dose/article33875686.ece
19 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC quashes case against founders of bitcoin firm||The High Court of Karnataka has quashed criminal proceedings initiated against two founders of city-based Unocoin Technologies Pvt. Ltd., one of the leading companies in India dealing with Bitcoin, a cryptocurrency. The order was passed on petitions filed by Sathvik Vishwanath, co-founder and CEO, and B.V. Harish, co-founder and Chief Financial and Compliance Officer of the company. The police in October 2018 had registered the case and seized the company’s first cryptocurrency ATM launched at a mall in the city on charges that the activities of the company was illegal as the RBI had in 2018 prohibited banks and entities regulated by it from providing services in relation to virtual currencies. As the apex court in 2020 had quashed the RBI’s circular banning cryptocurrencies, HC said criminal proceedings could not be continued now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-quashes-case-against-founders-of-bitcoin-firm/article33875807.ece
19 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||T.N. MP requests BSY to extend metro to Hosur||Member of Parliament from Krishnagiri in Tamil Nadu A. Chellakumar has written to Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa requesting him to extend Namma Metro service from Electronics City to Hosur via Attibele. In the letter, the MP said the extension of the metro by 20 km would be a boon to the economy and ease traffic in the area, thereby benefiting both States. He pointed out that Hosur has 3,000 MSMEs and most of their units as well as corporate offices are located in Bengaluru. People in Electronics City, Bommasandra Industrial Area, and Attibele live in and around Hosur and commute daily to Electronics City, he wrote. The MP claimed that the project would also benefit the BMRCL. “If the cost of the metro rail is very high, you can consider an alternative such as metro lite which is less expensive,” he wrote in the letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tn-mp-requests-bsy-to-extend-metro-to-hosur/article33876051.ece
19 February 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Opposition parties do not want farmers to prosper’||Stating that a majority of farmers in the country were happy with the BJP rule in the country, BJP General Secretary Arun Singh felt the Opposition parties were opposing the new farm laws as they did not want the farmers to prosper. Addressing party workers in Hassan on Wednesday, Mr. Singh, who is in charge of the party in Karnataka, said the Centre was committed to increasing the farmers' income. The government did not intend to close APMC markets; instead, the number of markets was being increased. “Farmers will get good price and investment in the agriculture sectors only when corporate companies enter the field. The corporate companies cannot give a competent price to the produces if they did not have an agreement with the farmers. These are all good measures in the interest of farmers”, he said. A majority of the farmers had been happy with the government’s measures. “However, the parties which have been supporting the middlemen are opposing the farm laws and misleading the public. Earlier, they were supporting the farmers’ protests indirectly, now they have entered the protest directly. Besides that, communists who do not want the country to progress, are actively involved in these protests”, he commented. Mr. Arun Singh called upon the workers to strengthen the party’s base by bringing new people into the party fold. The party had constituted different cells representing many sections of society. The members of the cells had to interact with people regularly and spread the message of the party and its achievement. “This is the party with the highest number of elected representatives in the country. And, it is the biggest party in the world itself. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is respected by people across the world. There are many positive things about the party, with which you can enter into a dialogue with any person and bring him to the party”, he said. The Congress workers could not strengthen their party’s base by speaking about their leader Rahul Gandhi, who hardly spoke about the budget during the debate on the budget. “Nobody can attract people towards the Congress keeping him as a leader”, he said. He also said that both the Congress and the JD(S) were on the decline in the State. In Hassan, at present, the BJP had only one MLA. “In the election, we will win all Aassembly seats of Hassan districts”, he said. BJP State president Nalin Kumar Kateel, Excise Minister K. Gopalaiah, Lok Sabha member Shivakumar Udasi, Rajya Sabha member K. Narayan, Hassan district BJP president H.K. Suresh, Hassan MLA Preetham Gowda and others were present. More than 850 party workers, representing different cells of the organisation, attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/opposition-parties-do-not-want-farmers-to-prosper/article33875793.ece
19 February 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Dharna by farmers at Shivamogga railway station||Farmers of Shivamogga staged a protest at the railway station in Shivamogga, opposing the farm laws of the Centre, on Thursday. The event was part of the nationwide ‘rail roko’ protest. However, the protesters did not stop any train. They staged a dharna on the premises of the railway station. KRRS leader H.R. Basavarajappa said the protest would continue across the country until the Centre withdrew the controversial laws. “This is not only farmers’ struggle, but it would become the second freedom struggle of the country if the government did not fulfill the demands”, he said. The Centre had been engaged in privatiszing all public sector units. With the new laws, corporate companies would enter the agriculture, leaving the farming community at loss, he said. K.T.Gangadhara, also a KRRS leader, said the Centre brought in the controversial laws without a debate in Parliament. The farmers had no other way than staging a protest on the streets. The protest had been spreading to all States and it would be intensified in the coming days, he added.  Attempt to stop train Leaders of Raitha Sangha attempted to stop the Mysuru-Talaguppa train at Sagar on Thursday, as part of the protest against the controversial farm laws. They staged a dharna on the track near the station and raised slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. Minutes before Mysuru-Talaguppa train could reach the spot, the police forcibly took all the protesters away and allowed the train to move. Members of Raitha Sangha and Hasiru Sene and others took part in the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dharna-by-farmers-at-shivamogga-railway-station/article33875805.ece
19 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Rail roko attempts foiled by police in several districts||The rail roko attempts by various farmers organisations in various districts of North Karnataka in support of a call given by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha were foiled by the police who did not allow them to enter railway stations in the region. Although members of farmers organisations accompanied by members of pro-farmer and progressive organisations and some from the Opposition parties tried to enter railway stations in their bid to stage rail roko seeking repeal of the three new farm laws promulgated by the Union government, a heavy posse of police prevented them from succeeding in their attempts. At Huballi Railway Station, police personnel outnumbered the protestors who had come with the intention of staging a rail roko. Members of Kalasa Banduri Nala Horata Samiti led by Siddu Teji, Babajan Mudhol, B.A. Mudhol and others were not allowed to enter the railway station and were stopped at a distance. As entry to the railway station was barricaded and guarded by a heavy posse of police personnel, the protestors were forced to stage a protest outside the railway station. The protestors raised slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah and said that the two were being apathetic towards the genuine demands of farmers who have been agitating braving cold weather for over two months. They said that the Union government was keen on implementing farm laws because it did not want to disappoint its corporate friends. As they were not allowed to enter the railway station, the protestors entered into a heated argument with the police. Subsequently, although they tried to forcibly enter the station, the police overpowered them and took them out of the station premises. The protestors alleged that the State government is trying to suppress the farmers agitation by using the police and vowed to continue the protest in different forms. A similar development was witnessed at Dharwad Railway Station where members of various organisations and farmers staged a protest under the aegis of Dharwad district unit of Samyukta Horata- Karnataka, an alliance formed in support of the ongoing farmers agitation at Delhi. Like in Hubballi, the protestors were not allowed to enter the railway station for staging the rail roko. The protestors led by office-bearers of various organisations B.S. Soppin, Laxman Jadagannavar, Kalmesh Ligade, Subhash Kalkeri, Laxman Doddamani, Venkanagouda Patil, Gangadhar Badiger, Bhavanishankar and others were prevented by the police at the entrance forcing them to stage the agitation outside. The protestors condemned the police action and raised slogans against both Union and State governments accusing them of being apathetic towards farmers demands. Subsequently, the protestors tried to forcibly enter the railway station but their attempt was foiled by the police personnel. Several of the protestors were taken into preventive custody and released later. Similar demonstrations were staged outside railway stations in Gadag, Haveri, Davangere and other places that are on the railway route as the police did not allow the protestors to enter the railway stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rail-roko-attempts-foiled-by-police-in-several-districts/article33875683.ece
19 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Nine-day Rangayana theatre festival starts tomorrow||Troupes from different units of Rangayana from across the State and other theatre groups will present a total of nine plays during the Ranga Navami theatre festival which will begin on Saturday. Dharwad Rangayana has organised the theatre festival which will be held from February 20 to 28 and the plays will be staged every day at 6.30 p.m. at the Basavaraj Rajguru Open Air Theatre in Dharwad. According to Director of Dharwad Rangayana Ramesh Paravinaikar, theatre troupes from Dharwad, Shivamogga, Kalaburagi, Mysuru, Belagavi and Udupi will stage dramas during the festival. The inaugural ceremony of the theatre festival will be held on Saturday at 6 p.m. Film actor Mandya Ramesh will inaugurate it and Union Minister Prahlad Joshi will be the chief guest. The first stage show of the comedy Akasmaat Hingaadra translated from Marathi by Yashwant Sardeshpande and directed by Ravi Kulkarni will be held on the inaugural day. On the second day (Sunday, February 21), a play Siripurandara directed by Mahadev Hadapad will be staged by Rangayana Kalaburagi and the same troupe team will stage a play Trayastha on Monday (February 22). Shivamogga Rangayana will stage Chanakya Prapancha directed by B.R. Venkataramana Aithal on Tuesday (February 23) and Hakki Kathe directed by Ganesh Mandarthi will be staged on Wednesday (February 24). Dharwad Rangayana will stage Samrat Ashok directed by Veena Sharma Bhusnurmath on Thursday (February 25), Yuvaranga Cultural Organisation of Belagavi will stage Vidushaka directed by Babasaheb Kamble on Friday (February 26). Snehajeevi troupe from Udupi will stage Annavaali directed by Ganesh Rao On Saturday (February 27) and the theatre festival will conclude with the staging of Chora Charanadasa directed by Mandya Ramesh by Natana Ranga Shale of Mysuru on Sunday (February 28).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nine-day-rangayana-theatre-festival-starts-tomorrow/article33875684.ece
19 February 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Police detain over 40||As the nation-wide rail roko protest by farmers against the Centre’s contentious farm laws started, scores of protesters gathered outside the railway station, demonstrating against the BJP-led Union government. The protest was led by former MLA B.R. Patil. Members of various pro-farmer organisations, including All India Kisan Sabha, Karnataka Pranth Raita Sangha, Raita Krishikarmikara Sanghatane, Ikya Horata Samiti, Republican Party of India, Dalit Sangharsh Samiti, under the banner of Samyukta Horata Karnataka, participated in a two-hour protest, They were detained by the Kalaburagi Police after they tried to scale the barricades and barge into the railway station. There was heavy security deployment outside the railway station from Wednesday night itself to ensure that no untoward incident occured. No train was cancelled or diverted during the rail roko agitation. Mr. Patil accused the Centre of not paying heed to farmers demands to roll back the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. Raita Krishikarmikara Sanghatane leader H.V. Diwakar expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP), leaving the agrarian community at the mercy of big corporates. In Bidar Meanwhile, the Bidar District Police stopped the entry of agitators into the railway station there during the rail roko protest, which led to a heated exchange of words between the agitators and the police on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-detain-over-40/article33875681.ece
19 February 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Free health camp in Kalaburagi today||As part of its ninth anniversary celebrations, the United Hospital, a Super Speciality Surgical Centre for Accident Trauma and Critical Care, is organising a free health check-up camp on its premises in Kalaburagi on Friday. Chairman and Managing Director of the hospital Vikram Siddareddy said that qualified doctors and specialists will examine patients in the camp that will open at 10 a.m. and close at 4 p.m. He appealed to the people to make use of the opportunity. The camp will offer blood tests (CBC, RFT, LFT, electrolytes, dengue, malaria and thyroid), ECG, X-Ray, ultrasound scanning, body mass index (BMI) and medicines free. “Started as a small facility with just 23 beds and minimum infrastructure in 2012, the United Hospital has now developed into 75-bed super-speciality hospital with world-class infrastructure and highly qualified staff offering high-quality healthcare services at affordable costs. Its pro-people approach of Treatment First and Billing Later has saved thousands of valuable lives all these years. As part of our consistent efforts to serve society, we have been organising free health check-up camps on the foundation day every year,” Dr. Siddareddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/free-health-camp-in-kalaburagi-today/article33875673.ece
19 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Latest signalling system operational||The Southern Railway has commissioned state-of-the-art Electronic Interlocking (EI) signalling system with Dual Digital Display Units at Netravathi Cabin and Mangaluru Central Railway Station along with the track doubling between the two points. This system brings absolute safety and more flexibility in train operations by replacing the conventional panel-operated Route Relay Interlocking (RRI) System at these two points, said a release from Southern Raiwlay’s Palakkad Division here. Based on microprocessor technology, EI processes safety aspects for signal clearance through sophisticated software and microprocessors. The Station Master would be able to monitor and control train movements in the yard with the help of digital display monitors that provide a clear visual indication of engagement of track, signalling positions, setting of points, level crossing gate status and train occupation in the adjacent block sections. Operating under commands from the Station Master through visual display system, the EI system collects data from the yard and processes it to ensure safety aspects. The required route is automatically set and locked before clearing the signal for train movement thereby ensuring safety. Maintainers Terminal which is provided along with Electronic Interlocking System ensures recording of every movement related to train operations. It also helps in tracking wrong movements and in analysing failures. This can be used as a tool for monitoring the Electronic Interlocking System on a regular basis. Southern Railway Construction Organisation executed the work with the support from Palakkad Division team at a cost of Rs. 10 crore. Electronic Interlocking with Visual Display Unit (VDU) was first introduced in Palakkad Division at Mangaluru Junction Station on May 10, 2012 during yard remodelling as a part of Netravathi Cabin-Mangaluru Junction line doubling. Jokatte Railway Station has been functioning with EI system and Dual VDUs since its inception from January 29, 2017. EI system Mangaluru Junction was upgraded with Dual Video Display Units as part of the doubling between Mangaluru Junction and Padil in March 2020. The operational station Padil too got Electronic Interlocking Signalling system as part of the work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/latest-signalling-system-operational/article33876188.ece
19 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘There is so much joy in loving and sharing’||Motivational speaker and Chairman of Academy for Creative Teaching Gururaj Karajagi on Thursday untangled life and said life was beautiful and there was so much joy in loving and sharing. “Eighty-five per cent of people in the World are good; don’t listen to the remaining 15% who make all the noises,” he said. Delivering the Founders Day lecture of Karnataka Bank here, Dr. Karajagi spoke about several gifts, including unaddressed love, kindness, imbibing values, valuing one’s culture and the belief in the concept of God, could make life beautiful. He asked personnel managing a bank branch to smile at customers. The face of the bank is not its head office, but the branches. “If you smile, the entire bank smiles and if you frown, the entire bank frowns,” he said giving tip about brand development. Giving examples of the former President Late A.P.J. Abdul Kalam with whom he had a long association, Dr. Karajagi said that kindness, care and compassion one shows to others come back to one. Similarly, throwing tantrums at others too come back to one, he noted. Acts of kindness would go a long way. What Lord Ram did was hug all Vanars; they loved him back for his gesture and not for that he was a King. He said that it was the duty of elders to encourage children for their good deeds and added the Ramayana has said this in many ways giving the example of Jambavantha enlightening Anjaneya of his hidden strengths. Everyone has to become a Jambavantha for their children in the present day. Narrating the story of a girl student who got her head shaved to give company to her classmate boy who had lost his hair due to chemotherapy for cancer, Dr. Karajagi said that unaddressed love makes life beautiful. Values are important in everyone’s life and they could be imbibed among children not by teaching; but by demonstrating. “If you want your children to be ethical, you become ethical first and the child follows you,” he said. At the same time, one has to value one’s culture. If the youth need to be strong, the culture of India should be deep-rooted and strong. Teach culture to children, he said. While none has seen God, he believes in the existence of a power, Dr. Karajagi said and asked parents to give the concept of God to children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/there-is-so-much-joy-in-loving-and-sharing/article33876182.ece
19 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Court sentences two to life imprisonment for murder||III Additional District and Sessions Judge Basappa Balappa Jakati on Tuesday sentenced to life two persons who were found guilty of murdering Rekhappa Lamani, a native of Haveri, in Panambur here in September 2016. The judge sentenced Nagaraj Govindappa Lamani (28) and his friend Veeresh Shivappa Lamani (32), both hailing from Haveri, to life and asked each one of the two to pay fine Rs. 10,000. Of the total fine amount of Rs. 20,000, the judge said Rs. 10,000 should be paid as compensation to Rekhappa Lamani’s wife Paapi alias Savitri. The judge asked the District Legal Service Authority to consider paying compensation to Ms. Savitri under the Karnataka Victim Compensation Scheme. According to charge-sheet filed by the then Panambur Police Inspector A.C. Lokesh, Nagaraj had come to Hosangadi in Kasaragod district of Kerala to work in the construction field in 2013. He was staying along with his friends, Eresh and Girish, in a room on the second floor of Hill Side Hall. Rekhappa Lamani, who is co-brother of Nagaraj, also joined to live with them in the room. Rekhappa Lamani got to know that Nagaraj was eyeing his wife and he decided to leave for his native place. Nagaraj and Veeresh planned to murder Rekhappa Lamani and joined the latter to drop him to the bus stand in Mangaluru on September 4, 2016. In Mangaluru, the three went to a bar at Rao and Rao Circle at around 7 p.m. to consume alcohol. The two took Rekhappa Lamani to a secluded area, off Dixy Cross Road in Panambur, and hacked him to death. The two worked in a transport company in Baikampady till around 11 p.m. They hitched a ride on a motorcycle and an autorickshaw to reach Pumpwell and proceeded to Hosangadi. Prosecutor Narayan Sherigar U. examined 22 witness, including the motorcycle rider and autorickshaw driver who had dropped the accused at Pumpwell. Based on circumstantial evidence, the judge convicted the two accused under Section 302 of Indian Penal Code.  On that eventful night, the two took the victim to a bar to consume alcohol and later hacked him to death||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/court-sentences-two-to-life-imprisonment-for-murder/article33876190.ece
19 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Bal Bhavan Society proposes 70 permanent posts||The Bal Bhavan Society has submitted a proposal to the State government to create 70 permanent posts of programme coordinators, assistants and special officers for managing 30 district Bal Bhavans, said chairperson of the society Chikkamma Basavaraj here on Wednesday. Talking to reporters, Ms. Basavaraj said that programme coordinator and assistant each are working in each one of the district Bal Bhavans and their services have been outsourced. These programme coordinators and assistants are being paid paltry sum every month and this forces many of them leave the job. “This is the reason why many of our programmes are not being implemented effectively at Bal Bhavans,” she said. This, she said, resulted in the proposal to create permanent posts of programme coordinator and assistant for each district Bal Bhavan. The society has proposed appointment of a special officer for every 10 district Bal Bhavans. “This, I hope, will bring a qualitative change in the working of Bal Bhavans,” she said. The society has proposed outlay of Rs. 2.68 crore for these 70 posts and also asked the government to frame cadre and recruitment rules. Ms. Basavaraj said that the State government is yet to allow Bal Bhavans to conduct art, music, dance and other extra curricular activities for children. “While the government has allowed most of activities, it is yet to allow us (Bal Bhavans) who play an important part in a child’s development to function,” Ms. Basavaraj said and added that the request of the society has been pending since a fortnight. Meanwhile, she said, since March last year, the society was conducting online art, music and other workshops online for students associated with Bal Bhavans. As many as 1.5 lakh children were associated with Bal Bhavans and a good number of these children were attending online classes, she said. The society has asked district Bal Bhavan coordinators to ask the respective Deputy Commissioners for allotment of space for opening Bal Bhavans in each taluk. The Union government sanctioned Rs. 10 crore for Bal Bhavans last year. This year the society has sought Rs. 17 crore, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bal-bhavan-society-proposes-70-permanent-posts/article33876180.ece
19 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Karnataka Bank to take up renovation of Pumpwell Circle||Karnataka Bank has plans to redevelop the Mahaveer (Pumpwell) Circle in the coming days, said its Managing Director and CEO M.S. Mahabaleshwara on Thursday. Speaking at the inauguration of barricades and gardens on the median of National Highway 66 between KPT Junction and Mahaveer Circle sponsored by the bank here, Mr. Mahabaleshwara said that the bank was committed to giving back to society. The barricades and median gardens bought at a cost of Rs. 1.1 crore for a distance of 3.1 km was one such initiative, he said. While the barricades would ensure safety of general public, the garden would enhance the beauty of the city. The bank has completed the project in association with the district administration under its corporate social responsibility initiative, he said. Bank Chairman P. Jayarama Bhat inaugurated the new facility at Nanthoor in the presence of MLA D. Vedavyasa Kamath, Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra, Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar, Superintendent of Police B.M. Laxmi Prasad, Mangaluru City Corporation Commissioner Akshy Sridhar and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-bank-to-take-up-renovation-of-pumpwell-circle/article33876184.ece
19 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Lockdown made everyone realise the importance of communication’||The former ISRO physicist Pramod Kale has said that lockdown has made everyone realise the importance of communication, especially in the field of education. Delivering a keynote address at the webinar organised by Manipal Institute of Communication, MAHE, at Manipal, to commemorate the birth centenary celebrations of India’s space technology legend, Vikram Sarabhai, the communication expert emphasised on the changing dimensions of technology post SITE (Satellite Instructional Television Experiment). He said that the communication revolution will incorporate several changes in the days to come. Sharing his experience of his association with SITE, the physicist said that the project ushered in new expectations from the country's space and communication arena. Veteran anthropologist Binid C. Agrawal said that anthropological qualitative descriptive studies are essential to understand the ground realities of Indian society and villages. Science Networks in Communication (SONIC), North Western University, U.S., Director Noshir Contractor highlighted the role and impact of satellite television from four met theoretical viewpoints. The utopian view that technology is intrinsically good for humankind, the dystopian view that technology is an unmitigated curse, the neutral view that technology per se has no intrinsic effects on society, and the contingency view that the potentially desirable and undesirable impacts of technology are differentially determined by the context in which technology is introduced at a particular time, he added. MAHE Registrar Narayan Sabhahit elaborated on how SITE was the brainchild of Late Sarabhai and was implemented after his death in 1971. SITE led the pathway towards INSAT, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lockdown-made-everyone-realise-the-importance-of-communication/article33876186.ece
19 February 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||‘Rail roko’ has no impact in Mysuru, farmers rounded up||The ‘rail roko’ agitation of farmers protesting the enactment of farm laws and demanding their abrogation, had no effect anywhere in the Mysuru division of South Western Railway. The Divisional Security Commissioner, Thomas John, said that the farmers were not allowed inside the railway station anywhere in the division and no trains were stopped or their movements affected. In Mysuru a group of farmers staged a demonstration outside the railway station premises and then marched to gain entry into the station. But their attempts were foiled and the police rounded them up and whisked them away in a bus to City Armed Reserve grounds . However, they were later released. Kurubur Shanthakumar, President, Karnataka State Sugarcane Cultivators Association, said the agitation was in solidarity with the entire kisan community protesting across the country. There was a war of words between farmers and the police at the railway station precincts with the latter denying them entry. Mr. Shanthakumar condemned the police action and said their democratic right to protest against a law that endangered their future, was being suppressed by the State and Central governments. State organising secretary Attahalli Devaraj, district president P. Somashekar, DSS activist B. Somanna were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rail-roko-has-no-impact-in-mysuru-farmers-rounded-up/article33875798.ece
19 February 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Tourism stakeholders’ wish list||Ahead of the State budget to be tabled next month, stakeholders in the tourism sector in Mysuru have come out with a wish list to kickstart the travel and leisure industry which is crucial for the city. The sector took a hit due to the pandemic and the resultant lockdown. It is only now with graded unlocking that the sector is witnessing a revival though it is yet to reach the pre-COVID-19 levels. Mr. Narayana Gowda, president, Hotel Owners Association, Mysuru, said they want the government to appoint a brand ambassador to promote the city and the region, and constitution of an authority to promote tourism in Mysuru as a destination for all seasons. Drawing attention of the government to the importance of Dasara, the stakeholders reiterated a pending demand that another authority be constituted to oversee the preparations and conduct of the festival including its promotion so as to generate more footfall. The argument by the stakeholders was that such promotions will drive tourist traffic even during the post-Dasara season when the climate is salubrious. In view of the loss suffered by the hotel industry during the prolonged lockdown, the association has sought a tax holiday for two years with regard to property tax. Mr. Gowda argued that it was only now that the sector is witnessing a positive churning but the loss incurred due to the lockdown for greater part of the year will take a couple of years to get neutralised. Hence the demand for a holiday on property tax, he said. The issue of a nominal and uniform tax for tourist vehicles entering the State was also raised by the stakeholders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tourism-stakeholders-wish-list/article33875804.ece
19 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||After new advisory, tough task for Kodagu||After the State government issued new guidelines on testing for those coming from Kerala, the task before the districts is challenging.Kerala returnees in the last two weeks have to be compulsorily tested as a precaution to control the spread. Kodagu shares its border with Kerala and the district administration has its task cut out since many had travelled to the district before the new guidelines were issued. As per the new guidelines, all those coming from Kerala to the State were supposed to carry a negative RT-PCR test report not older than 72 hours. Also, those who have come from Kerala since February 2, have to undergo the COVID-19 test compulsorily unless they have the negative test report. Kodagu District Health Officer K. Mohan on Thursday said those who had returned from Kerala since last two weeks have been asked to provide their swab samples to the nearest government healthcare centre for the test. They include workers, and students staying in residential schools and colleges. Sources in the Health Department said the guidelines had been issued for controlling the spread of the infection from Kerala where more fresh cases are being reported. The pandemic is under control in border districts including Kodagu. The task is to prevent the infection from spreading and therefore the negative test report has been compulsory, they add. The question is how many of those who returned recently will volunteer for the test. Before the new guidelines, hotels, homestays and resorts in Kodagu have been told to request tourists from Kerala to get tested for COVID-19 in case they have any symptoms before visiting the district for sightseeing as a safety precaution. Since the district was by and large free from the cases, the district Health Department wanted to ensure total control of the pandemic. In this connection, the hospitality industry’s support was sought and it agreed to comply, apprising the Kerala guests on the situation. Signs of recovery Many tourists from Kerala were thronging Kodagu, the tourist hub, after the curbs were lifted. Although the Kodagu tourism industry is yet to recover fully from the impact of the pandemic, there are signs of recovery. The homestays and resorts were of late seeing improvement in the occupancy, and they had 100 per cent occupancy during New Year celebrations and nearly 20-40 per cent of the guests were from Kerala, sources in the sector said. The advisory on tourists was aimed at controlling the pandemic as the district took strict measures to bring the cases under full control, said Dr. Mohan. Kodagu Hotels, Resorts and Restaurants’ Association President Nagendra Prasad said the association members had agreed to implement the advisory in the interest of the district which successfully fought the pandemic all these months. “We too don’t want the cases to return. The cases have dropped to single digits and we hope the cases will hit zero soon. Therefore, we advised our guests to get the tests done if they have any symptoms of COVID-19 after spurt in cases in Kerala. At the time of booking, the guests were informed and those who have already booked are told about the mandatory testing before coming to the district,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/after-new-advisory-tough-task-for-kodagu/article33875796.ece
19 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Four-lane road to Kushalnagar soon: MP||Mysuru-Kodagu MP Pratap Simha on Wednesday said the road between Srirangapatna and Kushalnagar bypassing Mysuru city will become a four-lane highway and the work is expected to start in about 15 months. Presiding over a meeting in Madikeri, he said the highway has been planned in view of increase in vehicle density between Mysuru and Madikeri. Vehicles heading to Madikeri from Bengaluru can as well take a detour at Srirangapatna to join the Madikeri highway, instead of entering Mysuru city, helping decongestion of the busy stretch, once the road becomes four-lane. The work between Srirangapatna and Kushalnagar is expected to ease congestion between Srirangapatna and Mysuru. The MP told the officials to expedite the work on developing an industrial area in Kushalnagar, which is now a newly-established taluk, and submit a proposal to him for establishing a 25 to 50 bed ESI hospital in the town. Mr. Simha said the Mysuru-Madikeri highway needs repair besides fixing of defensive barriers at some stretches. The stretch at Tavarekere in Kushalanagar town gets submerged during the monsoon and it has to be elevated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-lane-road-to-kushalnagar-soon-mp/article33875799.ece
19 February 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||4 projects shortlisted for award||Four projects of students from the Department of Information Science and Engineering, GSSS Institute of Engineering and Technology for Women, have been shortlisted for the AICTE Chhatra Vishwakarma Awards 2020.  The awards are a means to provide a platform to look at societal challenges, with an aim to provide an innovative and low cost solution. The projects listed are as follows: “Web crawler for Child Sexual Abuse using Convolutional Neural network (CNN)” by N. Harshitha, V. Harshitha, Tasima Khan guided by Reshma Banu, Professor and Head, Department of ISE. This project is related to Gender Responsive Mechanism to Combat Domestic violence. “Self-Efficient and Sustainable Autonomous Lawn Mover ” by V. Neha Kowshik, S.Meghana, S.Likitha and Vaidehi M Purohit which will promote value-added agricultural products which was also guided by Reshma Banu; “COVID-19 vaccine provenance using IOT by R. Mahima, R. Medha, S. Rashika, and P. Yashaswini and guided by Ayesha Taranum, Assistant Professor, Department of ISE and the project is for ensuring occupational health and safety issues. The fourth project is “RFID-Based Smart Ticketing System for Public Transport System” by M.G. Shreya, S.K. Ranjitha, and K.J. Sanjana, guided by K.C. Thangamma, Assistant Professor, Department of ISE and the project is about reskilling /upskilling for ensuring livelihood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/4-projects-shortlisted-for-award/article33875794.ece
19 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Minister promises grant for play||Rangayana Mysuru is gearing for a major theatre event for the first time post-pandemic. Novelist S.L. Bhyrappa’s novel ‘Parva’ has been adapted into a play which will be staged on March 12 at Kalamandira. The second and third shows will be staged on March 13 and 14. Theatre personality Prakash Belavadi has directed the play. Minister for Forest and Kannada and Culture Arvind Limbavali on Thursday visited Rangayana and interacted with the entire team of ‘Parva’. Rangayana Director Addanda Cariappa and senior artistes were present. “I have sanctioned a sum of Rs. 50 lakh for the play and the grant is expected to reach Rangayana soon. I’m confident of it getting the budget sanction,” the Minister said. The Minister said he would make efforts to bring Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa for watching the first show of ‘Parva’. Mr. Limbavali watched the rehearsal of the play at the Bhoomigeetha auditorium. Earlier, the Minister visited the Chamarajendra Academy of Visual Arts (CAVA) and spoke with the authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-promises-grant-for-play/article33875795.ece
19 February 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah pays last respect to fan||Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly and former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah paid a visit to Koodidoddi village in Mandya district on Thursday in fulfilment of the ‘wishes’ of his admirer who died recently. The person, Ramakrishna, had written a death note stating that he was a fan of Mr. Siddaramiah and that the latter should attend his funeral. Mr. Siddarmaiah, on learning of the developments, paid a visit to the village and spoke to the relatives of the deceased and offered his condolences. Expressing dismay over the incident, Mr. Siddaramaiah said one should surmount the difficulties or face them without succumbing to the pulls and pressures of life.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph.: 104 for help.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/siddaramaiah-pays-last-respect-to-fan/article33875800.ece
19 February 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Police take 40 activists into custody in Raichur||Police took into custody at least 40 activists from different organisations when they tried to enter the railway station in Raichur for rail roko against the Union government's new farm laws. To support the protest led by farmers and other organisations at Delhi, activists of farmers organisations and labour unions gathered outside the railway station and forcibly tried to enter the railway station by pushing down the barricades put up outside to prevent them from entering the station. They shouted slogans against the Central government calling the farm laws as anti-farmers. Though the police instructed the protesters not to force their entry into the railway station, they continued with their efforts. Then, the police took all the protesters into custody and foiled their bid to enter the railway station.  Though the police instructed the protesters not to force their entry into the railway station, they continued with their efforts. Then, the police took all the protesters into custody and foiled their bid to enter the railway station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-take-40-activists-into-custody-in-raichur/article33875682.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Governor asks Chief Secretary to look into complaint against Narayana Gowda||Governor Vajubhai R. Vala has asked Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar to look into a private complaint that has alleged Minister for Municipal Administration and Horticulture K.C. Narayana Gowda of declaring false affidavits on annual income filed before the Lokayukta and the Election Commission. The complaint had sought sanction for prosecution under Section 19 of Prevention of Corruption Act and Section 197 of Criminal Procedure Code. In a letter addressed to the Chief Secretary on February 15, the Special Secretary to the Governor in the Governor’s Secretariat has, with permission from the Governor, forwarded “for further necessary action” the complaint received from social activist Dinesh Kallahalli. In the complaint to the Governor on January 13, 2021, Mr. Kallahalli had alleged that the Minister, who has been elected to the Karnataka Legislative Assembly from K.R. Pete, had made a wrong declaration of annual income, and that there were discrepancies in the same. Mr. Gowda has been a member of the legislative Assembly from K.R. Pete in Mandya district since 2013, and has been elected thrice, twice on the JD(S) ticket and recently from the BJP in 2019. He was among the 17 Congress-JD(S) legislators who switched sides after resigning, leading to the fall of the JD(S)-Congress coalition government in 2019 July. Mr. Kallahalli, in his complaint, alleged that Mr. Gowda possessed wealth and property disproportionate to his known sources of income. “This amounts to criminal misconduct by a public servant under provisions of Prevention of Corruption Act, and Representation of People Act, and Indian Penal Code,” he said in the complaint. Mr. Kallahalli relied on the affidavits filed by Mr. Gowda with the Lokayukta between 2012-2013 and 2017-2018, and the election affidavit in 2013 and 2018. He alleged that between the affidavit filed before the Lokayukta for the financial year 2016-2017 and the election affidavit in 2018, the Minister’s assets went up by a whopping 2,300%. Sources close to the Minister, however, said that the Chief Secretary was not the authority to sanction prosecution, and that the Cabinet has to decide on the issue. Sources in the legal fraternity said the Governor has not sought any opinion from the State but has merely forwarded the letter for further action. The procedure is that it will go to the Cabinet through the department concerned, and the Cabinet will advise the Governor. In the earlier case involving B.S.Yediyurappa, the Cabinet resolved not to grant sanction against him but the then Governor H.R. Bharadwaj had granted sanction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/governor-asks-chief-secretary-to-look-into-complaint-against-narayana-gowda/article33875813.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Celebrating literary heritage||sammelan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/celebrating-literary-heritage/article33875802.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Car festival||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/car-festival/article33876192.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Kateel hits out at critics of donation drive||BJP State President Nalin Kumar Kateel argued that those opposing construction of the Ram temple at Ayodhya were opposing the Supreme Court’s ruling and the Constitution. Addressing a meeting of the party’s cells from 16 districts in Hassan on Thursday, Mr. Kateel said the temple was not being constructed either by the Vishwa Hindu Parishat or the RSS. The trust that came into existence as per the Supreme Court’s order was constructing the temple at Ayodhya, he said. Referring to former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy’s statement that he was threatened for not paying money, he said no member of VHP or RSS would meet him for donations. “If they had come, they would have gone believing he is a Rama devotee. But, they are not goondas,” he said. Seeks apology Meanwhile, BJP State spokesperson Captain Ganesh Karnik demanded public apology from former Chief Ministers Siddaramaiah and Mr. Kumaraswamy for casting “unfounded” aspersions on the ongoing donation collection exercise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kateel-hits-out-at-critics-of-donation-drive/article33875815.ece
19 February 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Work on rice park begins||With an aim to produce Kuttanad brand rice and value-added products, the construction of an integrated rice technology park has begun at Mulakuzha, near Chengannur. It was inaugurated by Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan on Thursday. Speaking at the function, Mr. Jayarajan said that the Kuttanad rice park would give impetus to paddy cultivation in the region. “The project will bring major changes in the agriculture sector in Kuttanad. Rice procured from Kuttanad and Upper Kuttanad regions will be processed at the park. Once the rice park is made operational, the government can directly deliver the rice procured from farmers in Kuttanad to the market bypassing private mills. This will help remove middlemen and farmers will get good price,” he said. The Minister said that apart from the rice, rice flour, rice flakes and tin food would also be manufactured at the plant. The products would be marketed through the Kerala State Civil Supplies Corporation (Supplyco) and Kerala State Co-operatives Consumers' Federation (Consumerfed). The rice park will come up on 5.22 acres of land in the possession of Prabhuram Mills under Kerala State Textile Corporation at a cost of Rs. 66.05 crore. It will be constructed under the aegis of the Kerala Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation (KINFRA). Officials said that modern machinery would be installed at the park with an eye on the international market for the Kuttanad brand. Silos would be built to store rice. Mr. Jayarajan also launched an autoconer machine installed at Prabhuram Mills. Saji Cherian, MLA, presided. Chengannur Block Panchayat president Jebin P. Varghese, Mulakuzha grama panchayat president M. Padmakaran and others attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rice-park-to-promote-kuttanad-brand/article33875756.ece
19 February 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Coir and craft stores in all local bodies soon: Isaac||Coir and craft stores to provide a market for coir and handicraft products will be opened in all local bodies in the State, Minister for Finance and Coir T.M. Thomas Isaac has said. He was inaugurating a coir and craft store opened jointly by the Kudumbashree Mission and the Kerala State Co-operative Coir Marketing Federation (Coirfed) here on Thursday. “Coir and craft stores were announced in the Chief Minister’s 100-day programme. We will start 1,000 coir and craft stores in the State,” Dr. Isaac said. The Minister said Coirfed was on the path of growth. “Coir procurement has increased fivefold. By next year, we are going to see a tenfold rise in coir procurement,” he said. Diversification Later, speaking at a virtual seminar organised in connection with Coir Kerala 2021, Dr. Isaac said development and diversification of the coir sector would be ensured with the help of modern technology. He said the government would provide all assistance for research aimed at product diversification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/coir-and-craft-stores-in-all-local-bodies-soon-isaac/article33875767.ece
19 February 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Gold ornaments stolen from jewellery||Around 15 sovereigns of gold ornaments were stolen from a jewellery at Karuvatta, near Haripad, in the early hours of Thursday. The police said the burglars gained entry into Brothers Jewellery owned by Purushan, a native of Karuvatta, after breaking open the shutter. The ornaments kept in the showcase were stolen. The police said the owner of the shop was alerted when a security alarm on his mobile phone went off when burglars tried to open the locker. Although he soon reached the shop, the burglars escaped from the scene, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gold-ornaments-stolen-from-jewellery/article33875773.ece
19 February 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Recalling an era of colourful gardens||Imagine a colourful garden close to a colonial building in the tea plantation area on the banks of the Muthirapuzha river. Flower gardens were part of the Raj era plantation life with estate bungalows usually situated on top of a hill providing a panoramic view of the surrounding green. After Independence, the Scottish plantation style of life continued in major tea plantation areas. The flower gardens were maintained well and the bungalows where the top management staff lived were kept intact. The flower gardens maintained by the Kanan Devan Hills Plantations (KDHP) close to the former railway station building of the erstwhile Kundaly Valley Light Railway is an attraction now. “Every building of the Raj era was in beautiful locations. The beauty of the location is not the one when seen from outside but from within the buildings. The gardens are also seen as part of the buildings. In Devikulam taluk even the estate lanes (quarters for workers) are also placed beautifully with space for vegetable gardens,” says Kiran Mathew who has studied the British era life in Munnar. There are some flower plants which were of foreign origin in Munnar. The cool climate and soil conditions in Munnar are best suited for flower plants, he said. It is a riot of colours in the cool climate of Munnar at the old railway garden now. A variety of flowers including Zinnias, Marigolds, Larkspur, Hollyhocks, Gloxinia, Lady's Lace, Antirrhinums, common orchids, Aster, Cosmos, Alstroemeria, Alyssum, Geraniums, Phlox, Cineraria, Giant Sunflower, Dwarf Antirrhinum , Salvias, and a variety of roses form this colourful sight in the well-manicured old railway station garden. The Kundaly Valley Light Railway was launched by the erstwhile British- owned KDHP Company way back in 1909 for the transport of passengers as well as goods between Munnar and Top Station. This railway network was badly damaged by the floods of 1924 and later abandoned. Authorities are now planning to introduce the hill railway network for tourists reaching Munnar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/recalling-an-era-of-colourful-gardens/article33875755.ece
19 February 2021||Idukki,KERALA||UDF, BJP using stir for political gains: CPI||The United Democratic Front (UDF) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) are using the PSC rank holders’ agitation to gain political mileage, Communist Party of India central committee member Binoy Viswam said on Thursday. He was speaking to mediapersons as part of the Left Democratic Front’s Vikasana Munnetta Yatra at Thodupuzha. Communist party of India (Marxist) State secretariat member M.V. Govindan also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-bjp-using-stir-for-political-gains-cpi/article33875759.ece
19 February 2021||Idukki,KERALA||Tata announces tea unit lockdown||Tata Consumer Products Ltd has announced a lockdown of its instant tea operations at its factory in Munnar. In a statement here on Thursday, it said the company had made significant investments and a new machinery had been installed at the factory. It was aimed at seven-day operations and providing more job opportunities to local people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tata-announces-tea-unit-lockdown/article33875786.ece
19 February 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||948 polling booths will be set up in Wayanad, says District Collector||As many as 948 polling booths, including 372 auxiliary booths, would be set up in the district for the forthcoming Assembly elections, Wayanad District Collector Adeela Abdulla has said. Speaking to mediapersons here on Thursday, Ms. Abdulla, who is also the district electoral officer, said that the auxiliary booths would be set in those booths where the number of voters would exceed 1,000. Web casting facilities would be set up in all booths. Polling materials would be supplied at three centres in the district, including Mary Matha College at Mananthavady, St. Mary’s College, Sulthan Bathery, and SKMJ High School, Kalpetta, she said. Postal vote facilities would be provided to COVID-19 patients, multiple challenged persons and those above 80 years old, Ms. Abdulla said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/948-polling-booths-will-be-set-up-in-wayanad-says-district-collector/article33875702.ece
19 February 2021||Kalpetta,KERALA||Minister to open condensed milk plant||Minister for Industries and Commerce E.P. Jayarajan will inaugurate the condensed milk plant of the Milma Wayanad dairy here at 3 p.m. on Friday. Addressing a press meet here on Thursday, K.M. Vijayakumar, managing director, Malabar Regional Co-operative Milk Producers’ Union (MRCMPU) Ltd. of the Milma, said many a time milk procured from the Wayanad district could not be sold in the region as milk production in the district had increased considerably. “The issue will be solved once the new milk plant starts its operation,” he said. The plant, first such plant in the cooperative sector of the State, has been established at a cost of Rs. 5 crore. It has a capacity of 3,000 litres per hour. Milk procurement in the Malabar region had reported a surplus of 1.26 lakh litres during the last fiscal. However, it had again increased to 2.12 lakh litres, prompting the government to establish the plant at Chuzhaly here.  C.K. Saseendran, MLA, will preside over the function. Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University Vice Chancellor M.R. Saseendranath will be the chief guest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-to-open-condensed-milk-plant/article33875703.ece
19 February 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||CM opens cargo complex at Kannur airport||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday said that efforts were being made to introduce more services, including those of foreign airlines, from the Kannur International Airport. He expressed hope that the Central government would take a positive approach in this regard. The Chief Minister was speaking after inaugurating online the cargo complex of the Kannur International Airport. He asked Union Minister of State for Civil Aviation, Hardeep Singh Puri, who was the chief guest, to take a favourable approach in allowing foreign companies to operate services from Kannur. E.P. Jayarajan, Industry, Sports and Youth Welfare Minister, presided over the function. Ports and Archaeology Minister Ramachandran Kadannapally and KIAL managing director V. Tulsidas inaugurated the newly opened duty free shop at the airport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-opens-cargo-complex-at-kannur-airport/article33875706.ece
19 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Congestion eases at NHAI toll plazas||Traffic snarls and chaos at the two toll plazas of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) in Ernakulam eased on Thursday, two days since the authority made FasTag mandatory and began collecting double the regular toll from motorists who did not have it on the windscreen of their vehicles. As on Thursday evening, vehicles bearing FasTag which crossed the Kumbalam toll plaza on the Edappally-Aroor NH Bypass rose to 63%, while it was 75% at the Ponnarimangalam plaza on Container Road. The higher adherence on Container Road could be because container-laden and other lorries dominate the stretch, unlike on the NH Bypass which sees more number of four-wheelers and bigger passenger vehicles. All others have to pay double the toll and that too for a single journey. They will have to wait in the queue and pay double the rate for return journey as well, official sources said. Faced with this, several motorists have begun purchasing FasTag from 24x7 counters that have been opened near the plazas. The activation takes 10 to 15 minutes. The owner’s cell number must be given and not the driver’s. One can also utilise apps or obtain it from banks. Vehicle dealerships too provide it for new vehicles, they added. For insurance too Apart from being a convenient mode of toll payment, it also helps vehicle owners trace vehicles in case they are stolen or if they suspect that they are being misused. Above all, FasTag will be mandatory from April 1 to pay vehicle insurance. With FasTag being made mandatory from Tuesday, after two postponements, social media was agog with a copy of an order which permits cashless commute through toll plazas in case the machine at the counter fails to read the FasTag. But vehicles which have been blacklisted for reasons like misusing the tag, using a worn-out tag, or whose bank account does not have minimum balance cannot cite this and avoid toll, sources said. In the meantime, people residing in the vicinity of toll booths have been demanding restoration of concessional travel, since they otherwise have to pay hefty toll for using just a few hundred metres of NH corridors. The district administration will convene a meeting in a week to sort out problems raised by local residents near Container Road, it is learnt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/congestion-eases-at-nhai-toll-plazas/article33876160.ece
19 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||IFFK’s focus on the Third World intact||The Kerala State Chalachitra Academy has debunked allegations that the International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK) has diluted over the years its stated policy of showcasing Afro-Asian-Latin American movies. Speaking to The Hindu on the sidelines of the Kochi leg of the IFFK on Thursday, Academy Chairman Kamal said the international competition segment of the festival was still restricted to films from the three regions. Besides, African, Asian and Latin American movies, including those in the waiting list of international cinema as recommended by the selection committee, also feature in the world cinema category. “Hand-holding movies from third world countries is the politics espoused by the IFFK. That is the character of our fest, and that remains intact,” said Mr. Kamal, flanked by Academy Vice Chairperson Bina Paul and executive committee member and filmmaker Sibi Malayil. The defence came a day after renowned filmmaker and one of the founding members of the IFFK, Shaji N. Karun, criticised the changing character of the fest. Ms. Paul said the number of films had come down from around 200 to nearly 80 owing to the pandemic, and that there had been a proportionate fall in the number of Asian, African and Latin American films. However, the composition of the international competition remains unchanged. The competition segment features two Malayalam movies, two non-Malayalam Indian movies, and 10 foreign language movies. Mr. Malayil said any change in policy decisions could not be taken by the seven-member executive committee alone and needed the ratification of the 21-member governing council of the Academy. Mr. Kamal said a needless ambiguity was being made by creating an impression about the shifting priorities and character of the IFFK. He also shot down allegations that Mr. Karun was not invited to the festival. “Adoor Gopalakrishnan and Shaji sir were among the first to be informed about the plans to hold the fest in four different locations. I also personally met him with updates, and he was invited both for the State film awards and the IFFK inaugural function. But he mailed me citing personal reasons for not accepting the invitations,” Mr. Kamal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iffk-focus-on-third-world-to-continue/article33875768.ece
19 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Residents for decentralised waste management||Can the Kochi Corporation switch, at least to some extent, to a decentralised waste management system? With some effort, it could be a feasible system that will reduce the corporation’s dependence on Brahmapuram, according to residents. The health standing committee of the civic agency recently presented the draft of a plan to make the city cleaner. The proposal, which does not have details yet, suggests promoting treatment of biodegradable waste at source wherever possible, and setting up centres at the division level to sort and sell non-biodegradable waste. For biodegradable waste, compost pits will not be a feasible option for houses on small plots and where courtyards are covered with interlocking tiles, said I.J. Jolly of a residents’ association at Panayapilly, West Kochi. He added that a common facility for the division, maybe a biogas plant, or other mechanism that the corporation could provide at subsidised prices to residents, would be ideal. As an interim plan, before the waste-to-energy plant comes up at Brahmapuram, a decentralised system, wherever possible, will be good, said Sujith Karun, district coordinator, Haritha Keralam Mission. For this to work, a massive awareness campaign will have to be launched to ensure proper segregation of waste and to wean residents off a system where all waste is collected and dumped out of their sight. Community systems Community systems like aerobic composting bins, small biogas treatment plants at institutions, and biobins for homes are workable decentralised treatment models, Mr. Karun said. Corporations like Thiruvananthapuram and Thrissur have shifted to the decentralised system where aerobic bins and windrow composting facilities have been set up. The Kothamangalam Municipality made an effort to set up a windrow composting system, while the Eloor Municipality has placed aerobic composting bins, Mr. Karun said. Deepa Varma, councillor representing Edappally, said for treatment of waste at the division level, private land is lying vacant, but permission will have to be sought from owners. The division had earlier had a biogas plant set up at the community health centre, which had been useful for a few years before it ceased to function. The corporation had in the past attempted to distribute bins for waste management locally, but that was done in a piecemeal manner and did not cover all households, said Anil Kumar, secretary, Karikkamuri Residents’ Association, in the Ernakulam South division. Roping in all residents’ associations and implementing such a project in a systematic and centralised fashion that covers all divisions and households will be crucial to deal with waste, he added. Even in the central areas of the city there are spaces, empty plots in particular, that can be used for waste treatment at the division level rather than burdening Brahmapuram, he suggested. Incidentally, the corporation council had recently shelved a proposal to set up biogas plants on school and hospital premises. “Biogas plants have not been successful where they were placed. There was one at the Ernakulam market which stopped functioning as well. They can get clogged quickly if the waste is not watched carefully,” Mayor M. Anilkumar said. While biogas plants are an option for homes where it is used properly, biobins are another alternative, he added. Krishnan Vijaykumar, a resident of Ponnurunni, said he had set up a pipe composting system that had been useful and took up little space. But all households will not be able to establish a local waste management system, and a centralised treatment facility will still be necessary, he said. Besides, most residents have grown accustomed to a collection system, he added.  Biogas plants have not been successful where they were placed. There was one at the Ernakulam market which stopped functioning as well M. Anilkumar Mayor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/residents-for-decentralised-waste-management/article33876164.ece
19 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||‘I will never make a film to push an agenda’||If 0-41* was a strange enough name for the work by a debut director, then the tag Made in Kanhangad, a sleepy Kasaragod town, made it even more curious. The docu-drama made in 2016 reached another level when Bollywood filmmaker Anurag Kashyap posted a tweet hailing it, elevating its maker Senna Hegde to limelight. Four years since the debut, Mr. Hegde has hit the headlines again with his second outing in Malayalam Thinkalazhcha Nischayam that was widely appreciated at the International Film Festival of Kerala. Journey after 0-41* It was good. I sold it to Anurag Kashyap’s Phantom Digital. Then I made Katheyondu Shuruvaagide in Kannada. It did reasonably well and became a big deal after its release on Amazon Prime. Then I decided to make a movie in Malayalam, as it is connected to my roots [his father is from Kanhangad, mother from Karnataka]. Thinkalazhcha Nischayam is another 0-41*, but with a proper budget. It happens in a house in Kanhangad and is about the dynamics that emerge between people two days before an engagement. On newcomers Like my first movie, this one too had 80-90% newcomers in the cast. The collective experience of these actors could be probably less than 10 minutes of screen time before. I like working with newcomers, as they have their innocence intact. We can use their energy to seek the spontaneity in their performance. I get the freedom and flexibility to push them where I want. OTT platforms, new chances Making movies has become way too easy now. But getting a movie released is the hardest part, as it revolves around factors like who acted in it or who made the music. OTT is also business. Generating revenue and working with newcomers at the same time required an extra push. Challenges in making a movie of your choice in the present political landscape I consciously stay away from telling people what to do. We think we know what is right, and it becomes an agenda when we want to push our ideas into somebody else. If I have a story to tell, I will find out a way to tell it. I am not apologetic about what I put on the screen. But I will never make a movie to push an agenda or tell people what is right or wrong.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/it-is-far-easier-to-work-with-newcomers/article33876153.ece
19 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Police station sets a model in hospitality||The Kalamassery police station, the first Janamaithri police station in the State, has undertaken yet another pioneering effort. Visitors to the station can now have tea or snacks for free, before submitting complaints or defending allegations. A vending machine worth Rs. 25,000, which was supplied by its manufacturer at a discounted rate, was inaugurated at the station on Wednesday. Police personnel and others pooled in funds to purchase a substantial quantity of biscuits and snacks, said sources in the station. “On an average, the station records 100 visitors per day, apart from the 60 personnel who man it during different shifts. The vending machine has come in handy to provide tea to even people in the lock-up. This is in keeping with worldwide norms to accord humane treatment to everyone. It is also helpful for personnel on night shift, when shops around the station are shut. To sustain the system, personnel attached to the station hope to pool in a few hundred rupees each month,” they added. During the lockdown, a board had been erected outside the Kalamassery station with the offer of food for the hungry as shops remained shut. The immediate trigger for the installation of the machine was the sight of a father and daughter who arrived at the station to register a dowry harassment case. They came in the morning and it took a while to register their detailed statement, by which time they became very tired. A few personnel purchased snacks and juice for them. “Such acts of kindness give us tremendous mental satisfaction. Higher officials lauded our efforts in installing the vending machine,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-station-sets-a-model-in-hospitality/article33876162.ece
19 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Writer not keen on cinematic adaptation of Meesha||Noted author S. Hareesh has ruled out the cinematic adaptation of his much acclaimed work Meesha , which was adjudged the best novel in the recently announced Kerala Sahitya Akademi awards. He revealed this while speaking to The Hindu on the sidelines of the Kochi leg of the International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK) on Thursday. Mr. Hareesh said though some had evinced interest in such a proposal, he was not interested in it. Lijo Jose Pellissery had adapted Mr. Hareesh’s short story Maoist for his film Jallikettu last year. The writer predicted a revival of the adaptation of literary works in Malayalam cinema. “There are many good stories in Malayalam that could be made into movies. Stories of Abin Joseph, G.R. Indugopan, and Vinay Thomas are some that come to mind,” Mr. Hareesh said. He added that there need not be any friction between the filmmaker and the author of a literary work being adapted for the big screen. “Just as I am inspired by life’s incidents to write, a literary work is just an inspiration for a filmmaker. And, a filmmaker has full creative freedom when it comes to the adaptation of a literary work. If you are not comfortable with it, then better do not give the rights to adapt your work,” said Mr. Hareesh who felt that the author himself doubling up as scriptwriter for the cinematic adaptation was not an imperative. He said that Mr. Pellissery was interested in the madness of the mob while adapting his work Maoist for Jellikettu . “He made it very clear from the outset,” recalled Mr. Hareesh. On whether he harbours a wish to direct a movie at some point, the affable writer said he would rather do things he knew. Not a regular at IFFK, Mr. Hareesh was at the venue of the fest for watching Mr. Pellissery’s latest movie Churuli that was screened on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/writer-not-keen-on-cinematic-adaptation-of-meesha/article33876157.ece
19 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Walayar girls’ death case: High Court asks Centre to take a call||The Kerala High Court on Thursday asked the Union government and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to take a decision on the State government recommendation for a CBI probe into the death of two minor girls at Walayar as expeditiously as possible. When a petition filed by the mother of the two girls seeking a court-monitored investigation and a CBI probe into the death of her younger daughter came up for hearing, the Central government submitted that the files in this regard would have to go to the Union Ministry of Home Affairs. Therefore, it needed time to ascertain the status of the file and inform the court about it. Notifications Justice V.G. Arun orally observed that the government had already issued notifications requesting the CBI to take over the investigation. It was, therefore, for the Central government and the CBI to take a final call on it. Senior public prosecutor Suman Chakravarthy submitted that the government had already issued notification authorising the CBI to conduct an investigation into the death of both girls. The mother had earlier pointed out that the State government had given its consent for a CBI probe only into the death of her elder daughter. As a result, the CBI could not conduct a probe into the death of her younger daughter. So, she sought a directive to entrust the death of her younger daughter as well to the CBI. The 13-year-old elder daughter of the petitioner was found dead by hanging at her home and her nine-year-old younger daughter committed suicide on March 05, 2017. Later, the Special Court for POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences ) cases had acquitted the accused in the cases on the ground that the prosecution failed miserably to prove the cases. However, the Kerala High Court set aside the acquittal and demanded a fresh trial. The prosecution had later filed a petition seeking to conduct a fresh probe in the case before the Special Court. In the meantime, the government had taken a decision to entrust the investigation to the CBI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/walayar-girls-death-case-high-court-asks-centre-to-take-a-call/article33875774.ece
19 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Ban on compostable carry bags quashed||The Kerala High Court has quashed the government order banning the manufacture, stocking, and sale of compostable plastic carry bags by bringing it under the purview of prohibited single-use/one-time-use plastic bags. The court, however, made it clear that the government could take an appropriate policy decision on the ban after gathering sufficient data/material to support such a decision. The court passed the verdict on Thursday when allowing a batch of writ petitions filed by manufacturers and distributors against the ban. They contended that the order infringed on their fundamental right under Article 19 (1)(g) of the Constitution to carry on their trade and business. Task force report The government said it took the decision based on a report of a technical task force that suggested that there was a growing number of instances where carry bags made from non-compostable plastic were being passed off as compostable ones. The court observed that the government decision necessarily had to be based on reliable material. Only in such an event would the government be able to justify the curtailment of a fundamental right to trade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ban-on-compostable-carry-bags-quashed/article33875787.ece
19 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||609 new cases, 597 recoveries in Ernakulam||There were 609 new COVID-19 cases and 597 recoveries in Ernakulam on Thursday. Thuravur recorded 22 new cases, Kavalangad 20, Thripunithura 19, Thrikkakara and North Paravur 17 each and Kaloor and Pindimana had 15 new cases each. Around 10,000 frontline workers have taken the first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/609-new-cases-597-recoveries-in-ernakulam/article33876158.ece
19 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Filmmaker Don Palathara lauds fest||Filmmaker Don Palathara has said that the decision to hold the International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK) in four zones despite the pandemic is admirable. Palathara, whose films 1965 , Central Travancore and Santhoshathinte Onnam Rahasyam (Joyful Mystery) are being screened at the fest, said that the screening of films at four places across the State augured well for several parallel films. ‘An honour’ As a person making such films, he deemed it an honour to have two of his vastly different films screened at the fest.  1965, Central Travancore has nature as a powerful character. It is about the migration for agriculture to the hills of central Kerala in the mid-1950s.  Santhoshathinte Onnam Rahasyam , a single-take film shot inside a car during the pandemic, has already won kudos.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/filmmaker-don-palathara-lauds-fest/article33876151.ece
19 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Film festival helps with livelihood too||Sudevan was hoping delegates to throng the Kochi leg of the International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK) and turn it into a resounding success. But that has got nothing to do with his love for movies but was borne out of the desperation to keep his livelihood alive. The 62-year-old was among the eight autorickshaw drivers to be roped in for the commute of delegates between the four different venues by the Kerala State Chalachithra Academy. “Our income has more than halved since the COVID-19 outbreak. Hopefully, the festival serves as a little booster and keep us going. Having driven autorickshaw for 42 years and married off and my two daughters depending on that income, I cannot simply walk away from this job now. No matter how tough the going, I will hang on to this job,” he said. Many drop out Sasi, another autorickshaw driver of over three decades standing, shared the perilous nature of the profession citing the alarming rate at which autorickshaw workers were leaving the field. “During the short period since the lockdown, 42 people left the profession from five different autorickshaw stands near South,” he said. With diesel price skyrocketing, now in the high 80s, Joseph, an autorickshaw driver for 22 years, fears it is just a matter of time before more leave the field. “It is a double blow, and the fuel price hike could not have come at a more inopportune time. Already left with very little income, even maintenance of the vehicle is becoming hard, and the fuel price hike could prove to be the deadliest blow,” he said. Every bit helps Ajesh, the youngest of the lot, had a nonchalant look as he said that though five days of short trips made little difference to their fate, in the present situation, they could hardly do anything else but hang on to every sliver of hope.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/film-festival-helps-with-livelihood-too/article33876289.ece
19 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Film Chamber||The Kerala Film Chamber of Commerce has urged the government to permit second shows in cinemas to tide over the financial crisis induced by the pandemic. Cinemas have been allowed to function from 9 a.m to 9 p.m since January 5. “With only three shows possible under the present timings, the revenue gap has gone up. A major section of the film lovers, who are employed, prefer second shows in view of their job timings,” said K. Vijayakumar, president of the chamber.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/film-chamber/article33875782.ece
19 February 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Snakebite that caused Uthra’s death not natural: Vava Suresh||Snake-handler Vava Suresh has testified before the court that the snakebite that caused the death of Uthra does not seem natural. Giving his statement as a witness during the Uthra murder case trial, he added that it was normally not possible for a snake (cobra in this case) to reach the first floor of the house and even the bite seemed prompted. Mr. Suresh suspected foul play from the first day and had advised the victim’s relatives to inform the police. The police had recorded his statement during the investigation and Mr. Suresh, who had been bitten by snakes several times, had pointed out that someone must have forced the snake to bite Uthra. Also, he had observed that the bite might have caused acute pain and since it was not normal for a person to sleep after that she might be under some kind of sedation. Uthra was found dead on May 7 at her home in Anchal and her family had raised domestic violence and dowry harassment complaints after the death. The 25-year-old had died due to snakebite and at the time of her death she was recuperating after a similar incident. She was first bitten by a viper and then a cobra and as per the autopsy of the cobra, it was confirmed that the same snake had killed her. During investigation, it was found that her husband Sooraj had brought both the snakes and threw them over his wife while she was asleep.  It is normally not possible for a snake to reach the first floor of the house||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/snakebite-that-caused-uthras-death-not-natural-vava-suresh/article33875760.ece
19 February 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam lauded||Kollam’s child development indicators, including health and education, are very high compared to many other parts of the country making it a child-friendly district, National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) member R.G. Anand has said. He was addressing a press meet here on Tuesday. He observed that most of the 34 police stations in the district were child-friendly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-lauded/article33875766.ece
19 February 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Many find succour at adalat||The complaint redressal adalat, Santhwana Sparsham, organised by the State government in Kottayam and Pathanamthitta districts over three days from February 15 drew to a close on Thursday. In Kottayam, authorities disbursed a total of Rs. 3.05 crore from the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund to 2,685 applicants across five taluks. This also included Rs. 86.61 lakh allotted to 842 applicants during the adalat held at Vaikom on Thursday. As many as 341 ration cards, including 88 in Vaikom, were issued after considering 500 applications. Of the 6,287 applications pertaining to other issues, 5,182 had already been disposed of while steps were on to settle the remaining complaints within the next few days. Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel and Civil Supplies Minister P.Thilothaman led the adalat on the final day. In Pathanamthitta, Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran and Local Self-Government Minister A.C. Moideen led the adalat held at Thiruvalla on Thursday. As many as 99 ration cards were distributed while 367 applicants were included in the priority list. This was in addition to the distribution of 20 title deeds to applicants from Thiruvalla and Mallappally taluks and financial assistance allotted to various applicants. In Pathanamthitta, a total assistance of Rs. 74.18 lakh was distributed from the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund. Of the 7,593 complaints, as many as 4,914 were disposed of . A total of 60 title deeds and 351 ration cards too were distributed over the three days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/many-find-succour-at-adalat/article33875762.ece
19 February 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Pala prepares for high-stakes poll battle with padayatra||Pala, which has been at the centre of a significant political churning that led to a role reversal of sorts for Kerala Congress (M) chairman Jose K. Mani and sitting MLA Mani C. Kappan, is now set for a busy start to its election season even before a formal announcement. Dropping clear signals about the high -stakes battle that is on the cards, Mr.Mani and Mr. Kappan have already kick-started their preparatory works in the Assembly segment that was long regarded as a United Demonstration Front bastion. Interestingly, both leaders are planning to launch their campaign with massive rallies across the constituency to directly address the voters. According to Kerala Congress (M) sources, Mr.Mani will take up a padayatra (rally on foot) in all local bodies in the constituency from February 20 to 27. It will highlight the development projects initiated under Mr. Mani during his tenure as Member of Parliament. “Besides upholding the Pala model of development, a concept upheld by the KC(M) patriarch the late K.M.Mani, it will also focus on reinforcing the element of ‘Mani Sir' among the voters of Pala. A statue of K. M. Mani will be unveiled in Pala town at a grand function to be attended by various Left Democratic Front leaders on February 24,” said a KC(M) leader. The administrative gains of the LDF government and its decisions in favour of the rubber farmers and the decision to issue ration cards for the clergy and nuns too will be highlighted. Mr.Kappan, on the other hand, is slated to relaunch his rally highlighting the developmental initiatives taken up over the last 15 months since the byelection in 2019 . His plan to carry out the rally in coordination with the LDF had to be dropped following a switching of sides to the UDF. “Mr.Kappan will be using the event as a platform to interact directly with the voters, collecting their feedback on the projects to be implemented while also receiving their complaints,” said a leader of the NCP breakaway faction that supports him. According to him, the rally will be organised with the support of all constituents in the UDF. Meanwhile, the Kerala Janapaksham (Secular), led by P.C. George, MLA, also appears keen on contesting from the seat this time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pala-prepares-for-high-stakes-electoral-battle-with-rallies/article33875775.ece
19 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Number plate recognition cameras commissioned||The improved Closed Circuit Television Camera Control Room and Command Centre connected with Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) cameras was commissioned in Kozhikode city on Thursday. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurated the new project, which is expected to streamline the camera surveillance measures within the city police limits. Officials at the police control room said the ANPR cameras were introduced in Kozhikode district first to effectively track the details of vehicles using the registration number tracking feature. A 24x7 live surveillance would be possible to monitor vehicles, with the special cameras, they said. A senior official attached to the Special Branch said all the major entrances and traffic junctions within the city limits had already been brought under the coverage of ANPR cameras. The new command centre would be able to watch visuals live from these cameras. Along with the existing CCTV camera network, the ANPR cameras too would assist the police to quickly track traffic-related offences, hit-and-run cases and vehicle thefts with digital evidence. Officials said the visuals stored at the command centre would also be helpful for investigations into various other criminal cases. The formation of the new Feroke police subdivision was also announced by the Chief Minister on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/number-plate-recognition-cameras-commissioned/article33875699.ece
19 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Vijayaraghavan stirs up yet another row||Left Democratic Front (LDF) convener and Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan has whipped up a storm yet again with a comment that minority communalism is the most extremist form of communalism. Mr. Vijayaraghavan made the statement while being accorded a reception when the northern leg of the Vikasana Munnetta Yatra he is leading entered Kozhikode district at Mukkom on Wednesday evening. But he maintained that the solution to minority communalism was not supporting majority communalism. On Thursday, he retracted his statement saying he had commented that majority communalism was more dangerous than minority communalism. He also averred that majority communalism was more dangerous as it had the influence of power. He also blamed a section of the media for twisting his words. Last month, the CPI(M) State secretariat had asked Mr. Vijayaraghavan to exercise caution after his alleged communal remark about the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) and the Panakkad family in Malappuram. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala termed the comment of Mr. Vijayaraghavan as the language of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. What Bharatiya Janata Party State president K. Surendran said in the morning, Mr. Vijayaraghavan repeated in the afternoon, he said. Reacting to the statement, IUML State general secretary K.P.A. Majeed said the LDF convener’s statements pointed to the CPI(M)’s communal agenda while party general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty said the concealed communalism of the CPI(M) was coming out publicly over and over again. At the same time, Mr. Surendran said Mr. Vijayaraghavan had been always deceiving the poor sections of the Hindu community through his statements. He had to withdraw his statement when he criticised the Panakkad Thangals. Now his statement on minority communalism did not last even for 24 hours, Mr. Surendran added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vijayaraghavan-stirs-up-yet-another-row/article33875772.ece
19 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Ammathottil’ to come up at beach hospital||An ‘Ammathottil’, an electronic cradle to provide succour to abandoned infants, has been included in the master plan for the development of the Government General Hospital, Kozhikode. According to a release on Thursday, A. Pradeep Kumar, MLA, has allocated Rs. 20.23 lakh from his local area development fund for the purpose. The cradle would come up on the southern side of the hospital facing the road. The entrance door would open when someone comes there with an infant and will close by itself after the baby is placed in the cradle. The officials would get to know about it through a siren. The security of the child has been ensured. The child would be transferred to the relevant government department after the hospital officials check the health status. Sources said that Rs. 177 crore had been allocated for the master plan in total. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday inaugurated the works for the master plan. Mr. Vijayan also opened new facilities at the taluk hospitals in Balussery, Koyilandy, and Feroke and launched a new dialysis centre at the government hospital, Nadapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ammathottil-to-come-up-at-beach-hospital/article33875708.ece
19 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Appointment of head teachers in focus||The Kerala Administrative Tribunal (KAT) is likely to take up a plea filed by a section of primary school teachers against what they term an “hurried attempt by the Education Department to elevate unqualified senior teachers as head teachers in government and aided primary schools” in the State. Those who filed the petition told The Hindu on Thursday that the Education Department issued a circular on February 16 to bypass the criteria for promotion as head teachers. The Right to Education Act stipulates that a teacher should have at least 12 years of experience and passed department-level tests along with an exam on the Kerala Education Act and Rules (KEAR). Mandatory test The Act also gave three years for head teacher aspirants to pass the mandatory Account (lower) test, conducted by the Kerala Public Service Commission, and the KEAR test. Appointment of head teachers in primary schools, however, had not been happening since April last year following cases filed in the Supreme Court, Kerala High Court and KAT by both qualified teachers and incumbent head teachers who are unqualified. The apex court had asked the government to maintain the status quo as a final verdict is yet to be issued. The section of teachers who have approached the KAT claimed that the State government had also issued a gazette notification in December 2020 and later a correction in January this year relaxing the above criteria for those aged above 50. Now, the circular issued on February 16 says that the vacancies of head teachers reported till May 31, 2020 should be filled in the next 10 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/appointment-of-head-teachers-in-focus/article33875785.ece
19 February 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||School named after poet Kakkad||The Government Higher Secondary School, Avitanallur, Kozhikode, has been named after the late poet N.N. Kakkad, who was a native of the place. This was officially declared by Minister for General Education C. Ravindranath on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/school-named-after-poet-kakkad/article33875697.ece
19 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||638 fresh cases recorded||As many as 638 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Thursday while 708 people recovered from the infection. The District Medical Officer said in a release that there were 623 cases of local transmission of the infection, and the source of 13 others was not known. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 210 locally acquired infections, Koyilandy and Kunnamangalam 23 each. A total of 1,655 people were given vaccination on Thursday at 28 centres, of whom 950 got the second dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/638-fresh-cases-recorded/article33875705.ece
19 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Narrow escape for 3 fishers as boat capsizes||Three fishermen from Chaliyam had a narrow escape when their fibre boat capsized off the Parappanangadi coast on Thursday. Fisheries Department sources said that the incident occurred after an unidentified fishing boat hit the fibre boat, 13 nautical miles off the coast. The fishermen, P.K. Ashraf, P.K. Yusef, and Hareesh Chaliyappadam, were rescued nearly three hours after the incident. The fishermen said they were spotted by a group of fishermen from Tamil Nadu. Till their arrival, the three men were floating in the sea by holding on to the damaged boat. None of them suffered serious injuries. The coastal police said they were yet to get any clue about the larger boat which had hit the fibre boat and sped away without trying to rescue the occupants. “The damaged boat and costly fishing nets were also lost in the incident,” they said. Based on the statement of the fishers, the police said it was likely not a purposeful attempt to endanger the boat. The rope, which was used to tie the fishing net with the fibre boat, reportedly got trapped under the larger fishing boat. This caused the boat to drift towards the fibre boat and hit it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/narrow-escape-for-3-fishers-as-boat-capsizes/article33875701.ece
19 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Govt. approves alignment for tunnel road||The alignment submitted by the Konkan Railway Corporation for the proposed Anakkampoyil-Meppady tunnel road has been approved by the State government. Thiruvambadi MLA George M. Thomas said that the Marippuzha-Meenakshi bridge alignment submitted as the second choice was the approved plan as per the latest government order. There were four proposals for the consideration of the government, he said. The tunnel road, as per the newly approved alignment, would have a length of 8 km. Mr. Thomas said the Detailed Project Report would be prepared soon to start the construction work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-approves-alignment-for-tunnel-road/article33875700.ece
19 February 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||New Principal for medical college||M.P. Sasi, Principal, Government Medical College, Manjeri, is expected to take charge as Principal, Government Medical College, Kozhikode, on Friday. According to sources, the incumbent, Dr. V.R. Rajendran, will replace Dr. Sasi at the Manjeri Medical College. Dr. Sasi was earlier head of the department of surgery at the Kozhikode Medical College.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-principal-for-medical-college/article33875704.ece
19 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kairali, Sree theatres thrown open to film buffs||With advanced screening technologies and improved facilities, the renovated Kairali-Sree theatre complex of the Kerala State Film Development Corporation was thrown open to film buffs in Kozhikode on Thursday. Minister for Cultural Affairs A.K. Balan inaugurated the renovated complex through videoconferencing. The work was completed at a cost of Rs. 7 crore. Three dimension screens with 4K picture clarity and Dolby Atmos sound system, spacious lobby, parking slots with pre-booking facilities, feeding room for mothers, VIP lounge, art gallery and book stall are among the new facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kairali-sree-theatres-thrown-open-to-film-buffs/article33875709.ece
19 February 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||KSU activists lock up PSC employees||Kerala Students Union (KSU) activists on Thursday locked up employees of the Kerala Public Service Commission (PSC) inside their office here in protest against the police action on KSU workers, including its State president, in Thiruvananthapuram. The protest was against the government’s alleged backdoor appointments by circumventing the PSC. The protesters locked the PSC office door and staged a sit-in in front of the office. The police arrested the protesters, and rescued the office staff by breaking the lock open. The employees were held up in the office for about half an hour. Arrested KSU district president K.S. Jayaghosh, district leaders Vinod Cherad, Vipin, Satheesh Thiruvalathoor, Ajaz Kuzhalmannam, Syam Devadas, Rinu, Ekbal and Amal were arrested by the police. A court remanded them in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksu-activists-lock-up-psc-employees/article33876293.ece
19 February 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Pathanamthitta logs 492 cases||As many as 492 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Thursday. Of the new cases, 452 persons contracted the virus through local contact. Among local bodies, Pathanamthitta reported 33 cases, followed by Eraviperoor with 26 cases. The disease claimed three more lives in the district. With 572 recoveries during the day, the district has 5,853 active cases at present. 361 in Kottayam As many as 361 persons tested positive in Kottayam on Thursday. Of the new cases, 357 contracted the virus through local contact. The fresh cases also included 38 children and 58 persons aged above 60. With 403 recoveries during the day, the district has 4,888 active cases now. 251 in Alappuzha Alappuzha logged 251 cases on Thursday. Among the new cases, 243 patients contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of two persons remains unidentified. The district also reported 429 recoveries. The active caseload in the district stands at 4,499. ( With inputs from Kottayam and Alappuzha bureaus )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pathanamthitta-logs-492-cases/article33875758.ece
19 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two species of joyweeds discovered||Researchers have come across two new species of Alternanthera, a genus of flowering plants popularly known as joyweeds, during field explorations in the State. What makes the discoveries botanically significant is that this is the first time that hitherto unreported species of this genus have been spotted in India. The findings have been published in the botany journal Phytotaxa . Both species, christened Alternanthera ebracteolata and Alternanthera indica , have been identified by V.S. Anil Kumar and S. Arya of the Department of Botany, University College, Thiruvananthapuram.  Alternanthera ebracteolata has been spotted in Kasaragod during field surveys and Alternanthera indica in southern Kerala. The paper on Alternanthera indica has been co-authored with Duilio Iamonico, Department of Botany, University of Pisa, and Ivonne Sanchez-Del Pino of the Centro de Investigacion Cientifica de Yucatan, Mexico, two experts on the order Caryophyllales. The genus Alternanthera is part of the Amaranth family. “Seven species of Alternanthera, which are also found elsewhere in the world, exist in India. But Alternanthera ebracteolata and Alternanthera indica are being reported for the first time anywhere,” Dr. Anil Kumar said. The genus Alternanthera (family Amaranthaceae) has between 80 and 200 reported species. “Alternanthera is a very difficult genus and its identification can prove very tough. Some species of this genus are considered noxious weeds, while several others are used as food or ornamental plants,” said Ms. Arya. A full-grown Alternanthera ebracteolata stands 100-120 cm tall, has peduncled inflorescence, short stamens, and globular, whitish-green seeds. The researchers found about 50 individual plants in four locations in Kasaragod district within a five-sq-km area. Capital and Kollam  Alternanthera indica is an annual herb which grows to a height of 80-100 cm. It occurs in moist wastelands near waterbodies and in the evergreen forest areas of Kulathupuzha in Kollam and Bonacaud in Thiruvananthapuram. Given their low population, both species can be classified as critically endangered applying the IUCN  Red List criteria, according to Dr. Anil Kumar and Ms. Arya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-species-of-joyweeds-discovered/article33876270.ece
19 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSU agitation turns city streets into battleground||Around 15 people, including women activists and police personnel, sustained injuries when Kerala Students Union (KSU) activists clashed with the police outside the Secretariat on Thursday. The vicinity turned a battleground for over an hour with stones, sticks, slippers, lathis, and shields strewn around. The activists marched to the Secretariat to pledge solidarity with the protesting Kerala Public Service Commission (PSC) rank-holders and Youth Congress State president Shafi Parambil and vice president K.S. Sabarinadhan who have been observing a fast for five days. Soon after the demonstration was inaugurated by Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president Mullappally Ramachandran, the KSU workers attempted to topple and climb over the barricades erected in front of the Secretariat gates. This prompted the police to use water cannons, but the agitators refused to disperse. The situation escalated after the protesters charged at the police officers and threatened to attack the Cantonment Assistant Commissioner, paving way for the large police posse to lathicharge the activists. While the police had hitherto restrained from using forceful methods to quell demonstrations that surrounded the rank-holders’ protest, this move marked a shift in their riot-control tactic.  Outside North gate The lathicharge led to a fierce street fight as the KSU activists hurled stones, sticks, and slippers towards the police contingent. A police man was also rounded up by a group of protesters who manhandled him after he fell on the road. The clash occurred outside the North gate and near the rank-holders’ agitation venue where a group of women activists made a futile attempt to jump over the fence to enter the Secretariat premises. Nine activists, including KSU state president K.M. Abhijith, vice president Sneha S. Nair, and State secretary Bahul Krishna, sustained head injuries. Four police personnel also were hospitalised. The KSU has declared Statewide demonstrations on Friday in protest against the alleged police excesses. They claimed that the women activists were manhandled and by male police officers, who also hurled abuses at them. They also alleged that some of the police personnel had their name plates removed from their uniform to prevent identification. Following the clash, the Secretariat and its vicinity turned into a fortress with the police strengthening security in anticipation of further demonstrations. Meanwhile, the ongoing demonstration by the last-grade servants’ post rank-holders completed 24 days, while that by the civil police officers job aspirants will enter its 15th day on Friday. More agitatators A group of National Games medal-winning sportspersons, who have also been agitating in the area for jobs that had been assured to them by the government, protested with the men tonsuring their heads and the women cutting their hair. Yet another bunch of job aspirants, who had appeared for a PSC test for the KSRTC mechanic grade II posts six years ago, has also began to agitate outside the Secretariat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksu-agitation-turns-city-streets-into-battleground/article33876279.ece
19 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Akkulam tourist village gets more facilities||A musical fountain, artificial waterfall, bicycle track, swimming pool, children’s park, and cafeteria are the new additions awaiting visitors at the Akkulam tourist village. Executed by the Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society, the musical fountain focusses on the theme ‘Unity in Diversity’ and reflects the rich and diverse culture of Kerala. Its effect is created by DMX technology and gives a right feel of spatial dimensions and harmony of the elements — water, earth, and air. The bicycle track, expected to attract youngsters in large numbers, is laid out on the hilltop and seating facilities are also arranged along the track. Children’s park Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran on Thursday inaugurated the second-phase development projects at the tourist village completed at a cost of Rs. 9.34 crore, including the Rs. 4.5-crore children’s park. At the function presided over by Mayor Arya Rajendran, the Minister also laid the foundation for the Rs. 185.23-crore Akkulam Lake conservation project, to be funded by the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). The project is to preserve the lake with the active participation of the local community. Long-cherished dream “For Akkulam, the development project is a long-cherished dream. The children’s park and other facilities have been designed and executed attractively. The next stage is the completion of Akkulam Lake preservation,” the Minister said. Rani George, Principal Secretary, Tourism, said the Tourism Department gave priority to the development of basic infrastructure in tourism centres. “We were able to complete the development and renovation projects in tourism centres across the State within the time-frame,” she added. Tourism Director P. Bala Kiran said Akkulam had immense possibility for tourism development and the department was aiming at implementing an overall development plan for the area in various phases. In addition to the Rs. 9.34-crore projects commissioned, work on a flight simulator museum at a cost of Rs. 2 crore is nearing completion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/akkulam-tourist-village-gets-more-facilities/article33876283.ece
19 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||TCS inks pact to set up digital hub at Technocity||IT major Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) has firmed up plans to expand its operations in Kerala by signing a Memorandum of Understanding for leasing 97 acres of land at the Technocity campus at Pallipuram near here to set up a digital hub for engineering, product development and IT services in manufacturing, defence and aerospace sectors with focus on new generation technologies. The project is expected to bring in an investment of Rs. 1200-Rs. 1500 crore to the State and generate 20,000 direct jobs. The MoU was signed between TCS and Technopark in the presence of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan who termed the agreement as a major stride in the State’s quest to become a knowledge economy. “The setting up of the proposed Startup Incubator within the TCS campus will help to strengthen the startup ecosystem in Kerala. India has acknowledged Kerala as a State having best practices in the startup sector,” the Chief Minister added. New technology The TCS hub would focus on new technologies such as Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Robotics, Internet of Things, Data Analytics and BlockChain. Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta and IT Secretary Mohammed Y. Safirulla were among those present. The agreement was exchanged between Sasi Pilacheri Meethal, CEO, Technopark and Dinesh P. Thampi, Vice President and Head, Kerala Operations, TCS. Group company Tata Elxsi will also set up their Digital Development Centre within the TCS campus at Technocity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tcs-inks-pact-to-set-up-digital-hub-at-technocity/article33875790.ece
19 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Lockdown set his imagination on fire||The COVID-19-induced lockdown period was one of inactivity for most, but for artist Aswany Kumar V.S., it was one of frenetic activity and of sleepless nights spent painting one canvas after another. Now, the Kerala Lalithakala Akademi has organised an exhibition of all those works done by him during the pandemic period, at the Vyloppilly Samskrithi Bhavan. In contrast to the mood of gloom and fear outside during this period, these paintings are of a world of myriad colours, reflecting the longing for a time gone by. Farms and coasts “I was born in a family involved in farming activities in the rural area of Venjaramoodu. Some of the images in this series have been drawn from memories of childhood, of the nature scenes, and objects usually seen around back then. Many of my paintings are based on agrarian lives and lives of farmers, as well as the sea and coastal life. I used much of the COVID-19 period for painting and reading. I would sit at the canvas from 7 p.m. and the session would go on till 3 a.m. or so,” says Mr. Aswany Kumar. Recurring in these paintings are intricate patterns made of fine lines and dots placed close to each other to form kaleidoscopic images. He attributes these to the patience he has gained as an art teacher, an experience which saw him shift from the surrealistic paintings of his younger days to more realistic works now. While a majority of these acrylic paintings are in colour, a few are done using black ink. A couple of paintings are based on patterns he saw in bones and x-rays while he was admitted to the hospital for a surgery. Regular exhibitions An alumnus of the Government Fine Arts College here, he has been an art teacher for 23 years at the Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan and has taken part in exhibitions at the State and national levels. For about ten years, he had taken a break from painting anything personally, even though he continued with his teaching stint. Since 2015, he has been regularly exhibiting his works in the State and outside. Now, he balances his time between online art classes for his students and his own painting experiments. The exhibition concludes on February 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lockdown-set-his-imagination-on-fire/article33876272.ece
19 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State orders 5% annual increase in water charges||The State government has issued orders indicating that water charges in the State will be subject to a ''5% annual increase'' from the next financial year for all categories of consumers. Issued by the Water Resources Department, the February 10 order is meant to meet certain conditions set by the Central government for making the State eligible for the additional borrowing of 2% of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP), the department noted. The Kerala Water Authority (KWA) had not issued any formal order fixing revised tariffs for the different consumer categories, KWA officials said. The KWA water tariffs were last revised in 2014. According to the February 10 order, the existing water charges, including sewerage charges, were being notified as floor rates ''with 5% annual increase from next financial year onwards for all categories as part of implementing reforms in this sector.” Following the COVID-19 outbreak, the Union Finance Ministry had allowed States to make 2% additional borrowing of GSDP during 2020-21. Part of this borrowing was subject to the implementation of certain reforms in a number of areas, including urban local body revenues and the power sector. “As per the reforms for strengthening local bodies, the State will have to notify floor rates of user charges in respect of the provision of water supply, drainage and sewerage which reflect current costs/past inflation,'' the Water Resources Department noted in its order. Although the cash-strapped KWA has been clamouring for water tariff revision for some time now, the State government has not permitted it. No hike now: Minister The government did not intend to increase the KWA water tariffs at present, Water Resources Minister K. Krishnankutty said. The order was issued by the Water Resources Department as part of the measures being adopted to meet the Central government requirement, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-orders-5-annual-increase-in-water-charges/article33875788.ece
19 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Samagra Shiksha move to boost English learning||How about watching animated videos or hearing audios on YouTube to improve English. That is what Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, has done for students from Classes I to VII in State schools as part of its Hello English programme. As teaching-learning continues virtually this academic year, Samagra Shiksha has come out with digital interactive learning materials to boost English learning. The ‘Hello World’ learning material that is based on new media will be sent by teachers to students through their WhatsApp groups. Only one page will be given to students a week. The pages will have audio-video embedded material that will be linked to YouTube. A click on the page and students will be able to see YouTube videos or audio and get instructions from a teacher on what to do as well. Android platform Stories, songs, presentations, activities, and animation prepared on Android platform have been included so as to keep the young students hooked. At the end, an activity is given that the students have to complete and send it to their teachers who, in turn, will give their feedback and make recommendations to improve students’ work. In areas where students lack digital facilities, Hello World will be made available through local resource centres and online learning centres. Samagra Shiksha plans to continue the activities even during the vacations. As the activities are not textbook-related, they can be repeated later too. Training to introduce teachers of Classes I to VII to the material through a one-day familiarising programme is under way. The district-level training is over in Thiruvananthapuram, and the sub-district level is expected to be completed in a few days. The digital interactive learning material is expected to be in the hands of students by the last week of the month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/samagra-shiksha-move-to-boost-english-learning/article33876274.ece
19 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||25 police sub-divisions and new buildings launched||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan formally inaugurated 25 police sub-divisions on Thursday. With this, the number of police sub-divisions has gone up to 83 in the State. Twenty-five of the senior-most inspectors (or station house officers) have also been promoted to fill the newly created posts for Deputy Superintendents of Police (Dy.SPs) and helm the sub-divisions. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Vijayan said that their launch marked a milestone in the maintenance of law and order in the State. The decease in the number of police stations under each sub-division is bound to boost coordination and surveillance at the levels of Dy.SPs, he added. Training centres He added that the government had adopted a number of steps to enhance professionalism in the police force and impart its personnel with knowledge on emerging technologies. Training centres were being established in each district for the purpose. Besides one such facility in Pathanamthitta, several other police station buildings were inaugurated across the State during the programme. District Command and Control Centres have also been established under the Thrissur City and Thiruvananthapuram Rural police districts. Pointing out that the centre in Thrissur is unique in various respects, the Chief Minister said 203 cameras installed across the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation had been linked to the facility established by Kerala Police in collaboration with the local body at a cost of Rs. 5.20 crore. Thirteen of these cameras can capture visuals of number plates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-sub-divisions-new-buildings-launched/article33876150.ece
19 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||4,584 new cases||Kerala reported 4,584 new cases of COVID-19 on Thursday when 67,506 samples were tested over the past 24 hours, taking the State’s cumulative case burden to 10,21,432 cases. The test positivity rate remained more or less constant at 6.79% Of the 67,506 tests done by the State, 41,165 were rapid antigen assay while the RT-PCR tests dropped to 23,904 tests. Other molecular diagnostic tests like Truenat, CBNAAT , constituted the remaining tests. The active case pool of the State now has 60,178 people, with 5,193 people reported to have recovered from the disease. The cumulative recoveries reported in Kerala till date has risen to 9,56,935. On Thursday, 14 more deaths were added to the official list of COVID fatalities, taking the State’s COVID toll ever since the pandemic began to 4,046 deaths. Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode reported three deaths each, Thrissur and Malappuram two each, while Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, Ernakulam and Palakkad reported one death each. Among districts, Kozhikode reported the maximum number of new cases at 638, followed by Ernakulam 609, Malappuram 493, Pathanamthitta 492, Kollam 366, Kottayam 361, Thrissur 346, Thiruvananthapuram 300, Alappuzha 251, Kannur 211, Kasaragod 176, Wayanad 133, Palakkad 130 and Idukki 78cases. With two more travellers from the U.K. testing positive for COVID-19 in the past 24 hours, 86 people who reached the State from the U.K. since mid-December have tested positive for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/4584-new-cases/article33875777.ece
19 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Shadow-boxing in BJP’s State unit comes to the fore||The purported shadow-boxing in the State unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) seemed to come to the fore at the venue of the PSC ranker holders’ agitation in front of the Secretariat here on Thursday. BJP national executive member and BJP State vice president Sobha Surendran launched a 48-hour sit-in protest on Wednesday to express solidarity with the agitating jobseekers. However, Ms. Surendran’s lean-to appeared devoid of BJP flags and other party symbols. Senior BJP leaders were conspicuous by their absence. The Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha also called off a march to express support to the agitators. The perceived solitariness of Ms. Surendran’s protest contrasted starkly with the rousing reception she had received at the same venue during the Sabarimala agitation in 2018. Ms. Surendran had been in political hibernation for nearly 10 months following alleged differences with BJP State president K. Surendran. She has thrust herself into political limelight on Wednesday by finding common cause with the agitating PSC rank holders. Ms. Surendran’s critics, including BJP supporters, lampooned her on social media for “self-promotion”. They accused her of resorting to theatrics to wangle an Assembly seat. Some commentators said Ms. Surendran’s protest did not have the BJP’s imprimatur. Seemingly stung by the tide of criticism, Ms. Surendran hastily summoned a press conference. She said she had conveyed her unwillingness to contest to the BJP’s State and national leaderships. Her intention was merely to spotlight the plight of PSC rank holders. She had no other agenda. Not aware BJP State president K. Surendran said he was unaware of Ms. Surendran’s decision not to contest the elections. She had not informed the State leadership. The BJP national leadership decided candidates. Individual workers had to bow to the will of the party. Mr. Surendran said the party could not blame Ms. Surendran for becoming active in public life and intervening in pressing issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shadow-boxing-in-state-unit-of-bjp-comes-to-fore/article33875779.ece
19 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Stone laid for Rs. 2,200-cr. projects||The government has been able to bring about a major change in the health-care sector in the State that had resulted in it garnering national recognition, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He was speaking after laying the foundation stone online for construction activities to the tune of Rs. 2,200 crore in various health-care institutions in the State with financial assistance from the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). The Chief Minister said the Ardram Mission targeted development of the health-care sector in keeping with the times. Forty-four dialysis centres and 10 cath labs had been set up.  Minister for Health K.K. Shylaja, who presided over the function, said the Government Medical College Hospital in the State capital would become a centre of excellence with the completion of the second phase of a master plan. Development of roads on the hospital premises at a cost of Rs. 15 crore was taken up in the first phase, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/health-sector-works-launched/article33876163.ece
19 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||89 school buildings, 41 renovated labs opened||Along with improvements in the quality of public school education in the State, transformation of the higher education sector too has been kicked off, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He was speaking ahead of the inauguration of 89 school buildings and 41 renovated labs, laying of foundation stone of 68 school buildings, and distribution of free uniforms and textbooks for students for the 2021-22 academic year here on Thursday. The Chief Minister said that colleges and universities too would become centres of excellence and attain national and international recognition. KIIFB funds The government, Mr. Vijayan said, was making efforts to create a public education hub. Towards this end, nearly Rs. 5,000 crore from Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) and through the Plan fund had been spent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/89-school-buildings-41-renovated-labs-opened/article33876273.ece
19 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Trains cancelled||Railways have cancelled two daily special trains of February 19 owing to traffic block for construction work on the Gangaikondan-Talaiyuthu-Tirunelveli and Kovilpatti-Kadambur sections as a part of the Madurai-Vanchi Maniyachchi Junction-Tirunelveli doubling project. According to Railways, 02627 Tiruchchirappalli Junction-Thiruvananthapuram Central Daily special train via Nagercoil Town-Tiruneveli Junction-Madurai Junction and the return 02628 Thiruvananthapuram Central-Tiruchchirappalli Junction Daily Special train via Madurai Junction-Tirunelveli Junction-Nagercoil Town have been fully cancelled. All reserved passengers will be provided full refund, Railways have said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-special-trains-cancelled/article33875765.ece
19 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital sees 300 new cases, 364 recoveries||The district recorded 300 COVID-19 cases and 364 recoveries as the number of active cases fell to 4,043 on Thursday. The death toll rose to 805 as on Wednesday, according to official statistics. As many as four recent deaths were attributed to the disease. They included three men, aged 57, 68, and 75, and a 71-year-old woman. While almost all the new cases were attributed to local transmission of the infection, five health-care workers also tested positive. The district administration placed 1,779 people in quarantine while 1,858 were excluded from quarantine after completing the mandated period in self-isolation without exhibiting any COVID-19 symptoms. There were currently 25,983 people who were quarantined at their houses and 56 in various institutions in the district. The police initiated legal action against 63 people for violating COVID-19 norms. These included 28 people who were booked under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020, and 31 who were cumulatively fined Rs. 15,500 for not wearing masks outdoors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-sees-300-new-cases-364-recoveries/article33876285.ece
19 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Less festivity, more security for Pongala||The Thiruvananthapuram City police have made elaborate security arrangements for the 10-day Attukal Pongala festival set to commence on Friday. Around 1,500 police personnel will be deputed in two phases, District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram city) Balram Kumar Upadhyay said. Five-hundred police officers will be stationed on the Attukal Bhagavathy temple premises and elsewhere in the initial phase until February 25. An additional deployment of 1,000 personnel will be made from the next day until the conclusion of the festival on February 28. Entry to the temple compound will be permitted only in line with COVID-19 norms. While the Vilakkukettu processions will not be permitted in the city, vehicles that transport the structures that bear idols will be allowed access until the temple premises. The use of microphone and sound boxes at junctions and the distribution of food packets will not be permitted this year. Surveillance cameras and drone cameras will keep a close watch on the proceedings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/less-festivity-more-security-for-pongala/article33876287.ece
19 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Audio-visual studio opened at NISH||The National Institute of Speech and Hearing (NISH) has risen to international standards, Minister for Health and Social Justice K.K. Shylaja has said. She was speaking after inaugurating online an audio-visual studio set up for the differently abled by NISH. The studio, the Minister said, would be an asset for the development of the differently abled. NISH’s growth was in tandem with the programmes of the Social Justice Department. It was starting the State’s first graduate course in occupational therapy to meet the growing demand for professionally trained occupational therapists in the State and outside, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/audio-visual-studio-opened-at-nish/article33876275.ece
19 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||300 receive placements at job fair||Around 300 job aspirants received placements and over 700 others were shortlisted for interviews at the end of the Kazhakuttam job fair organised at Kazhakuttam on Thursday. Tourism Minister and local MLA Kadakampally Surendran opened the event. Over 80 companies representing various avenues, including IT, management, BPO, digital marketing, hospitality, and sales and marketing, conducted recruitments at the job fair that was attended by close to 2,000 participants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/300-receive-placements-at-job-fair/article33876277.ece
19 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Polling officials will be vaccinated: Collector||District Collector Navjot Khosa, who is also the District Election Officer for the upcoming Assembly polls, has said that all polling officials will be administered both doses of the COVID-19 vaccine ahead of the elections. Convening a meeting at the District Collectorate on Thursday, Ms. Khosa instructed the district heads of the departments concerned to submit before February 20 the details of all officers who would be deputed for polling duty. 14 days ahead The measures to expedite the process of inoculating the officials were made in wake of an Election Commission of India directive to administer the vaccine doses 14 days prior to the elections. The Collector said the lists collected by the district administration would be handed over to the Health Department to arrange for the vaccinations. She added that the ongoing vaccination drive for COVID-19 front-line workers was progressing at a healthy pace.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/polling-officials-will-be-vaccinated-collector/article33876286.ece
19 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Training programme||A training programme being organised by the Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights for trainers of the Balasouhruda Keralam project will be held at Maria Rani training centre at Sreekaryam here on Friday and Saturday. Minister for Women and Child Development K.K. Shylaja will inaugurate the programme at 11 a.m. Commission chairperson K.V. Manoj Kumar will preside.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/training-programme/article33876276.ece
19 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||UDF inciting violence: Anavoor||Communist Party of India (Marxist) district secretary Anavoor Nagappan has said that the Left Democratic Front (LDF) will organise protest gatherings in each constituency against the United Democratic Front (UDF)’s purported attempts to unleash violence in the State capital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-inciting-violence-anavoor/article33876280.ece
19 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Webinar on home science||T.K. Anandi, gender advisor to the State government, inaugurated a three-day national webinar on ‘Paradigm shift in Home Science education’ organised by Home Science Association of India (HSAI-Kerala chapter) on Thursday. HSAI president Vasugi Raaja, dean of Home Science, Avinashilingam Deemed University, delivered the keynote address.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/webinar-on-home-science/article33876281.ece
19 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||K.V. Thomas takes charge||Congress leader K.V. Thomas on Thursday assumed office as working president of the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee. KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran officiated at the function. KPCC vice president Joseph Vazhackan and general secretaries Thampanoor Ravi and K. P. Anil Kumar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kv-thomas-takes-charge/article33875780.ece
19 February 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||CCTV cameras to monitor Thrissur||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday inaugurated online the first phase of Smart and Safe City programme, which will install CCTV cameras at the main junctions in the city. Mayor M.K. Varghese, who presided over the programme, inaugurated the district police command and control room. The city Corporation and the Kerala Police are implementing the project with public participation. The system is expected to help reduce crime and improve the traffic system. 85 junctions In all, 253 CCTV cameras will be installed at 85 junctions at a cost of Rs. 5.2 crore. The police can monitor places including Swaraj Round, Thekkinkadu Maidan, Sakthan bus stand, and KSRTC bus stand from the control room. GPON (Gigabit Passive Optical Network) technology is being used to install the 190 IP cameras. ANPR (Automatic Number Plate Recognition) cameras will be installed at 13 junctions. The control room has facilities to monitor number plates 24X7. Radio frequency identification tags and readers to monitor movements of drinking water lorries and sanitation vehicles of the Corporation have also been installed. The Smart and Safe City programme contains an announcement facility for the police to control the crowds, especially during festivals.  Swaraj Round, Thekkinkadu Maidan, Sakthan bus stand, and KSRTC bus stand can be monitored from the control room||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cctv-cameras-to-monitor-thrissur/article33876242.ece
19 February 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||346 cases in Thrissur||A total of 346 COVID-19 cases were reported in Thrissur on Thursday while 340 people recovered from the infection. There are 4,132 active cases in the district. Of the newly infected, 338 contracted the disease through local contact. Of them, 58 people are above the age of 60 and 20 children are below 10. A total of 6,473 samples were collected for testing on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/346-cases-in-thrissur/article33876291.ece
19 February 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Super-specialty block’s work begins at MCH||Chief Minister Pinarayi Viyajan inaugurated online the works on the super-specialty block at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) in Thrissur on Thursday. Health Minister K.K. Shylaja presided over the function. The facility will be set up in a 38246-sq ft, nine-storey building. It will have 300 beds, 38 dialysis beds, 126 ICU, 28 isolation rooms, OP rooms and 16 operation theatres. It will have state-of-the-art wards and laboratory facilities. The new block will have specialty wings such as cardiology, cardiothoracic, neurology, neuro surgery, stroke unit, gastroenterology, gastro surgery, nephrology, urology, dialysis, and pulmonology. A separate floor will be arranged for organ transplantation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/super-specialty-blocks-work-begins-at-mch/article33876292.ece
19 February 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||PM to open power transmission project||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the 2,000-MW Pugalur-Thrissur power transmission project through videoconferencing on Friday. The project will ensure reliable and quality power in the State by the transfer of 2,000 MW from the western region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pm-to-open-power-transmission-project/article33875776.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Rank holders’ stir turns violent||Youth Congress workers stormed the Senate Hall and disrupted an interview for Class IV university office assistants. In Palakkad, KSU workers locked in the staff at the local PSC office. The police later freed them. The Congress seemed determined to push the government to the negotiation table. Former Chief Minister Oomen Chandy said Mr. Vijayan should shed his vanity and engage the job-seekers in talks. The administration has not displayed an interest in reconciliatory talks so far. However, DYFI leaders were in touch with the agitators to achieve detente. The striking rank holders also found support from athletes who had qualified in vain for State government employment by winning national medals. Women medallists sheared off their locks while men tonsured their heads in protest against the “employment denial”. The sportspersons displayed their hard-won medals. The Secretariat witnessed a tide of marches in support of the strikers. They included BSP and Youth Congress activists and an organisation for ASHA workers. The CPI(M) State secretariat said the PSC ranker’s demand for reviving obsolete rank lists was legally untenable. Many had abandoned the unfeasible cause and allied with the government. The remaining few should guard themselves against falling prey to the intrigues of Opposition parties. DYFI State president A. A. Rahim blamed the Youth Congress for the violence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rank-holders-stir-turns-violent/article33875764.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Winners all||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/winners-all/article33875770.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Proud champs||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/proud-champs/article33876295.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Bloodied and battered||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bloodied-and-battered/article33875784.ece
19 February 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur girl sets her eyes on Mt. Everest||Having conquered seven peaks in Nepal and Ladakh, a mountaineer from Anantapur, Pathan Sameera Khan, has set her eyes on Mount Everest, the highest peak in the world. She has plans to begin her expedition from the Tibet side, the northern face of the mountain, which is less crowded and but more difficult when compared to its Nepal side. Ms. Sameera, youngest among her five siblings, lives in a modest two-room house of her eldest sister in Anantapur. She is prepping her up with some strength exercise now. COVID hiatus “I began my preparations for the expedition in November 2019, with a target of climbing the 8,848-metre peak in May 2020. However, the coronavirus pandemic and lack of sufficient support from the sponsors played spoilsport. I had to put off my plans,” says Ms. Sameera. On November 13, 2018, she climbed the 6,859-metre Ama Dablam peak in Nepal. “I gave me the confidence for the Mount Everest expedition. My focus is on pushing the boundaries. I am climbing heights with weights and the time I took for it is reducing gradually,” she says, adding that if everything goes as planned, she would start the expedition in May next year.  Ms. Sameera is planning to go to Nepal in March and climb a few peaks there, saying that it would help her work on her shortcomings and finetune skills.  The mountaineeer is also trying to garner financial support for her expedition, which, she says, would be anywhere between Rs. 35 lakh and Rs. 40 lakh. “I have been saving money from my business. I am approaching the government agencies to get some sponsorship. I am hoping to work out something by the middle of this year,” says Ms. Sameera. Ms. Sameera says she found her calling in mountaineering when she was associated with the relief work during the Kashmir floods in 2014. “I had trekked to Amarnath, Kedarnath, and other pilgrims’ destinations in Uttarakhand as a practice before my expeditions to the Himalayan ranges,” says the mountaineer, who has so far climbed seven peaks above 6,000 feet in Nepal and Ladakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anantapur-girl-sets-her-eyes-on-mt-everest/article33876202.ece
19 February 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP has no intention to privatise VSP, says Somu||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president Somu Veerraju on Thursday claimed that the party was not in favour of privatising the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP). Mr. Veerraju, who visited Gorantla as part of the exercise to rejuvenate the village-level party cadres, said ‘unnecessary criticism’ of the Central government was being made by the Telugu Desam Party (TDP, Left parties, on this issue. “Neither did any union Minister make a statement pertaining to privatisation of the steel plant, nor any official communication was issued,” he told the media here. “There are 6,000 acres of land given for mines which are still intact. The steel plant will not be privatised and the BJP has no such intentions,” he said. Referring to the results of panchayat elections, the BJP leader said that winning or losing was of no consequence. “The BJP is focussing on rejuvenating its cadres at the grassroots level. The YSRCP government doled out Rs. 2,000 crore in form of welfare schemes just before the elections and spent a lot of money for buying votes,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-has-no-intention-to-privatise-vsp-says-somu/article33875569.ece
19 February 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kadiri cricketer selected for auction in IPL||S. Shoiab Khan hailing from Kadiri in the district has been selected to go under the hammer at the IPL Cricket Auction 2021 to be held at the end of this month. Anantapur District Cricket Association, in a statement on Thursday, said that Shoiab Khan a native of Kadiri town, has later settled in Madanapalle. He has been representing the Anantapur District Cricket Association (ADCA) for the past 13 years. He has been playing for the Andhra Cricket Association (ACA) in the senior one day game, T-20 and Ranji Trophy for the past five years as an all-rounder. The right-arm off-spinner and right-hand middle-order batsman has recently played in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Tournament and performed very well in the Andhra T-20 held at Anantapur, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kadiri-cricketer-selected-for-auction-in-ipl/article33876232.ece
19 February 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||VRO caught accepting bribe||The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths on Thursday caught Mandalapalli Village Revenue Officer R. Chandramouli red-hadnded when he was accepting a bribe of Rs. 10,000 from person at a cool drink shop in Gorantla mandal for doing an official favour. According to ACB Deputy Superintendent of Police Kulashekhar Reddy, a person had approached the ACB alleging that the accused officer was seeking a bribe of Rs. 20,000 for putting online the details of land documents of 1-B Adangal and completing the mutation proceedings. After verifying the facts, the ACB officials laid a trap and caught the VRO when he was accepting the bribe amount. Further investigation is on, the DSP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vro-caught-accepting-bribe-of-rs-10000/article33875565.ece
19 February 2021||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Former TDP MLA arrested||The Pedavegi police on Thursday arrested former TDP MLA Chintamaneni Prabhakar for allegedly instigating a clash between two groups, which led to poll-related violence. He was produced in court, said a police official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/former-tdp-mla-arrested/article33876310.ece
19 February 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagananna colonies should be model dwelling places: CM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has reiterated that the YSR Jagananna Colonies should be designed as model colonies and should not have an appearance of slums. Since the colonies are being built by the State government, they should have all amenities. “I urge the Housing Department to lay emphasis on the beautification of the colonies. Every colony should be revisited and plans should be made so that they look green and spacious with all amenities,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy during a review meeting on PMAY-YSR Pedalandariki Illu scheme at his camp office at Tadepalli on Thursday. While directing the officials concerned to draw a schedule to facilitate release of funds so that the completion of houses would be on time, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that 15 lakh houses would be constructed in the first phase. The officials explained that 83 percent of beneficiaries have selected their option.  “Whichever the option they have chosen, I want the officials to ensure that cement and steel are provided at subsidised rates. Keep all the construction material at hand, so that the beneficiaries who want to build their own homes, can use them,” he said. Earlier, the MD of AP Housing Corporation Narayana Bharat Gupta explained that geo-tagging of all houses has been completed. He also directed that all colonies should have underground drainage and roads should be laid at an elevated level. An anganwadi centre for every 2,000 people and a library for every 1,500 to 5,000 people should be established.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagananna-colonies-should-be-model-dwelling-places-cm/article33876221.ece
19 February 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘With defeat in home turf, Naidu’s political innings coming to an end’||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has lost his senses following the defeat of the contestants backed by his party in his home turf Kuppam, Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy, Adviser (Public Affairs), has alleged. “Mr. Naidu’s desperate outbursts point to the fact that his political innings are coming to an end,” Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said while addressing the media here on Thursday. He said the people of Kuppam had finally come out of the clutches of Mr. Naidu. Brushing aside the criticism that the YSRCP leaders had threatened the voters through the village volunteers, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said there was no necessity to threaten the voters as the government was delivering welfare schemes at their doorstep on a saturation basis. Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy slammed Mr. Naidu for alleging that democracy failed with the victory of YSRCP. “Only Mr. Naidu can pass such irresponsible comments,” he said. While Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had fulfilled every promise made in a most responsible way, irrespective of the beneficiary’s caste, religion, or the party they voted for, Mr. Naidu had done nothing for Kuppam constituency, which was why people had taught him a lesson. Stating that the YSRCP supporters had won in 2,424 panchayats and TDP in only 527, he challenged Mr. Naidu to prove them wrong. “Mr. Naidu has earlier conspired with the SEC and created hurdles for the government. Now, he is going against the SEC as the poll results are not satisfactory,” he alleged, thanked people who voted for the YSRCP supporters in spite of the TDP’s evil propaganda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/with-deafeat-in-home-turf-naidus-political-innings-coming-to-an-end/article33876223.ece
19 February 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Inland container depots play key role in supply chain’||Deputy Chief Executive Officer, A.P. Martime Board, Ravindranath Reddy, on Thursday visited the Guntur Container Terminal. Stating that Inland Container Terminals/Depots (ICD), which are also known as Dry Ports, play a key role in the global supply chain, he said that the ICDs were helpful to exporters and importers situated far away from sea ports. He said the aim of the A.P. Maritime Board is to generate and facilitate more trade from the State . He suggested methods by which these services could be made available to customers from places far away from ports and asked the officials to plan for it. He promised that the board will give support to such proposals. He inspected the facilities available at the terminal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/inland-container-depots-play-key-role-in-supply-chain/article33876313.ece
19 February 2021||KUKUNOOR (WEST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Single vote loser stages dharna||Tension prevailed at Kukunoor on Wednesday night when the sarpanch candidate, Mulisetty Nageswari, staged a dharna along with her followers at the counting centre after she was defeated by Lavu Meena Kumari by just one vote during the third phase of the gram panchayat elections. Ms. Nageswari left the counting centre, but returned after some time and demanded recounting. The polling officers and security personnel explained the rule position and pacified her. The protest continued up to 2 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/single-vote-loser-stages-dharna/article33876227.ece
19 February 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Justice sought for TS lawyer couple||Members of the Kurnool District Bar Association on Thursday took out a rally from the District Courts Complex in protest against the brutal murder of advocate couple—Vananarao and Nagamani—in the Peddapalli district of Telangana. They staged a rasta roko near Rajavihar Junction. Kurnool District Bar Association president Y. Jayaraju demanded that a law be made to provide protection to advocates. “The murder case should be tried in a special court . It is time the Bar Council of India and State Bar Council laid focus on the security of advocates,” said Mr. Jayaraju. He wanted the case trial be done under the supervision of the Telangana High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/justice-sought-for-ts-lawyer-couple/article33875570.ece
19 February 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Health workers urged to take COVID vaccine||Kurnool Government General Hospital Superintendent Narendranath Reddy has urged the health professionals and other frontline workers to get themselves inoculated with COVID vaccine. Mr. Narendranath Reddy, who was inoculated with the second dose of vaccine here on Thursday, 28 days after he was administered with the first dose, said that none of the 3,153 people who got the first dose in the district faced any health issues. “I did not feel any uneasiness. Rather, the vaccine gave me more strength to fight the virus. All the medical and para-medical staff must get the vaccines which are being provided free of cost by the government,” he said. The COVID cases were on the rise in Karnataka, Kerala and other States. Given the scenario, health workers can treat patients without fear if they get themselves vaccinated, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/health-workers-urged-to-take-covid-vaccine/article33875572.ece
19 February 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP-backed candidates win big in South Coastal A.P.||The candidates supported by the YSRCP continued their winning spree with an overwhelming majority in the third phase of the panchayat elections in the south coastal districts of Nellore and Prakasam. In Nellore, it was a repeat of the performance of the YSRCP in the 2019 general elections, as the candidates backed by the ruling party won 207 panchayats hands down in the Assembly segments of Gudur, Sullurpeta and Venkatagiri. The candidates backed by the TDP garnered the sarpanch posts only in 63 panchayats in these Assembly segments. BJP MLC Vakati Narayana Reddy’s mother Vakati Bujamma won the sarpanch seat in Chenigunta, near Tada in the elections held on a non-party basis on Wednesday. In Prakasam, 201 candidates backed by the YSRCP won sarpanch posts while the TDP had to be content with just 47. In Kondepi Assembly segment, which remained a bastion of teh TDP for several terms, the YSRCP-sponsored candidates bagged the sarpanch posts in 58 panchayats. The TDP-supported nominees could retain the posts only in 15 panchayats. In Kanigiri Assembly segment, the candidates backed by the ruling party bagged 90 sarpanch posts when compared to the TDP’s tally of 20. The candidates selected by Kadukur YSRCP MLA M. Mahidhar Reddy emerged victorious in 53 panchayats while those backed by the TDP bagged 12 panchayat in the Assembly segment. ‘Official machinery misused’ Referring to the poll results, former Union Minister Panabaka Lakshmi, a TDP nominee for the byelection to Tirupati Lok Sabha seat, alleged that the YSRCP had misused official machinery and threatened people to stop the benefits of welfare schemes if they did not vote in favour of the candidates backed by the party. YSRCP MLA V. Varaprasad said the YSRCP-supported candidates bagged sarpanch posts in 99 panchayats in Gudur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-backed-candidates-win-big-in-south-coastal-ap/article33875573.ece
19 February 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||We have not infringed on disputed territory, says A.P.||The Andhra pradesh government has rejected Odisha’s contempt petition in the Supreme Court accusing Andhra of “infringing” on disputed inter-State border villages to conduct polls, saying that claims made by the neighbouring State were “grossly misconceived”. “Andhra Pradesh has not taken any step in violation of any agreement/direction. It has been duly administrating its own territories and has not infringed upon the territory of the petitioner [Odisha],” Andhra government, represented by advocate Mahfooz A. Nazki, clarified. Old dispute Odisha has sought contempt action against its neighbour for allegedly violating a status quo order of the Supreme Court in the inter-State border dispute. The dispute concerns the territorial jurisdiction over certain villages, popularly called the ‘Kotia Group of villages’. The tussle had first reached the top court in 1968 when Odisha, on the basis of three notifications issued on December 1, 1920, October 8, 1923 and October 15, 1927, claimed that Andhra Pradesh had trespassed into its well-defined territory. The court had steered the dispute into peaceful waters in 2006 by drawing an assurance from both States to maintain status quo. Odisha has now returned to the Supreme Court, alleging that Andhra has broken its promise by notifying Panchayat elections in some of these villages. However, Andhra, in its response, said the State had been holding elections in Ganjaybadra, Pattuchennuru and Paguluchennuru villages for long. They fall within the Araku parliamentary constituency and Saluru Assembly constituency. “Elections have consistently been held to Lok Sabha and the State Assembly in these villages since the year 1952. So far as the local body elections are concerned, the State of Andhra Pradesh has conducted local body elections in these three villages since inception of the Panchayat Raj Act. Even in 2006 and 2013, elections were held to the panchayats concerned.” Andhra said the villages fall within its territory. "There is, therefore, absolutely no contempt that is made out. The petitioner [Odisha] has failed to even refer to any document that entitles it to claim rights over the villages,” Andhra government argued. No jurisdiction It said Odisha was trying to raise a “substantive dispute” to claim the villages in the guise of a contempt petition. “The Supreme Court has already, vide 2006 judgment, categorically ruled that this court does not have jurisdiction to entertain such matters. The petition is therefore grossly misconceived... It is settled in law that what cannot be done directly can certainly not be done indirectly,” Andhra contended. The court is scheduled to take up the case on February 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-rejects-odishas-claims/article33875503.ece
19 February 2021||POLAVARAM (WEST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Young electors reminisce childhood days in tribal heartland||Many youngsters, some of them first-time voters, who settled at various places reached their native habitations to exercise their franchise during the third phase of the gram panchayat elections in the Polavaram project affected area. Students pursuing higher education at far-off places and those who landed jobs in government departments, Multi-National Companies, and private firms descended on their hamlets in advance for the elections in the Agency area on Wednesday. “Our fathers and forefathers had lived on the banks of the Godavari. We were born in the tribal heartland and brought up in the forests. It is very difficult to digest the fact that our habitations will disappear soon due to the Polavaram project,” they bemoaned while reminiscing their childhood. Many young tribal people were seen standing in serpentine queues carrying the Electoral Photo Identity Card (EPIC) and Aadhaar card at the polling stations at Katkuru, Tekuru, Koida, and Mediaplli in Velerupadu mandal and at Kukunoor, Kivvaka, Thondi Paka, Vinjaram and other habitations in the Kukunoor mandal. “Thousands of young voters arrived from Chennai, Bengaluru, Delhi, Hyderabad and other cities to vote for the last time in their native palaces and have a look at their habitations,” R.V. Suryanarayana, K.R. Puram ITDA Project Officer, told The Hindu . About 1.03 lakh project-displaced families will be shifted under the Polavaram Relief and Rehabilitation (R&R) package in East and West Godavari districts. The government has already shifted the villagers from 17 habitations in the two districts. “I completed schooling here and I am pursuing my PG course at a college in Rajamahendravaram. I came in order to not miss the opportunity to exercise my franchise for the last time in the village,” said M. Swathi of Velerupadu mandal. Another voter from Kukunoor, P. Karthik, who works in a private company in Hyderabad, has come all the way to vote in his native village. ‘Unbelievable’ “We had played on the banks of the Godavari. We used to go into the forest along with our grandparents to collect the forest produce. Every plant has medicinal value in the Agency area. We used to organise ‘jatara’ for the tribal goddesses. The water and air are pure in the forests. It is unbelievable that our villages will vanish now,” said the voters belonging to the Koya and Kondareddy tribes. “More than 85% voters turn up in many habitations in the Agency area,” Mr. Suryanarayana said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/young-electors-reminisce-childhood-days-in-tribal-heartland/article33876229.ece
19 February 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VIP passes introduced to streamline darshan at Arasavalli||In the backdrop of previous bitter experiences and stampede of devotees, the district administration has brought several reforms to ensure a hassle-free darshan on Ratha Sapthami on Friday for devotees at Sri Suryanarayana Swamy temple here. After a gap of many years, it introduced pass system even for VIPs. All VIPs, including public representatives, senior officials, judges and others need to take passes in advance for darshan. In the absence of pass system for VIPs, many unauthorised persons were entering the VIP queue line causing inconvenience to those in the queue. The lack of coordination among revenue, police and endowments department only made the matters worse at the VIP entrance. As a result, the protocol wing was unable to ensure a hassle-free darshan even for Ministers and MLAs in the last three years.  Protocol vehicles Collector J. Nivas and Superintendent of Police Amit Bardar said that VIP cars will not be allowed till the main gate. “We are arranging protocol vehicles from 80 Feet Road. Those with valid passes will have to use these vehicles to reach the temple,” they added. A separate queue line was created for the donors who can have darshan till 10 a.m. Exclusive queue lines for Rs. 500 and Rs. 100 tickets were also arranged this year. Meanwhile, the temple wore a festive look with the arrival of devotees from different parts of the State. Many of them entered the queue lines on Thursday evening itself as darshan will be allowed from midnight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vip-passes-introduced-to-streamline-darshan-at-arasavalli/article33876204.ece
19 February 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TB awareness drive in Srikakulam||The District Medical and Health Department launched a week-long awareness campaign on Thursday to control tuberculosis in the district. The teams which have been moving in remote areas of Srikakulam mandal are spreading the message that TB is a curable disease and medicines are being supplied free of cost. District T.B. Control Association honorary secretary Mantri Venkata Swamy urged people to take treatment immediately on being diagnosed with tuberculosis. “Many people are neglecting treatment for TB which will further deteriorate their health and infect others within no time,” he said. He thanked the people of Lankam for taking an oath to make the village as TB-free.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tb-awareness-drive-in-srikakulam/article33876206.ece
19 February 2021||SRIKAKULAM/VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bar assn. condemns killing of advocates||Srikakulam District Bar Association president Sisthu Ramesh and senior advocates Jallu Tirupati Rao and Vana Krishna Chand condemned the murder of two High Court lawyers in Peddapalli district of Telangana on Wednesday. The advocates, Gattu Vaman Rao and Nagamani, were brutally killed in broad daylight. The bar association representatives submitted a memorandum to the Principal District Judge for initiating necessary steps for the protection of advocates. Mr. Tirupati Rao said that an Act was the need of the hour for the protection of judges and advocates. “Judicial officers and advocates deal very sensitive cases. The litigants who cannot digest adverse judgements may indulge in violence. The A.P. government has brought Disha Act quickly to protect women. A similar Act is needed for legal fraternity,” he added. Vizianagaram Bar Association former president Kantubhukta Srinivasa Rao urged the government to take the opinion of judges and advocates for ensuring proper protection for them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bar-association-condemns-killing-of-advocates/article33876207.ece
19 February 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirumala spruced up for Ratha Sapthami||Elaborate arrangements are in place for the annual Ratha Sapthami festival here on Friday. Devotees from different parts of the country arrive here to witness the processions of Lord Venkateswara on seven vahanams (carriers) in a single day. TTD Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy on Thursday inspected the galleries around the mada streets and took stock of the arrangements. He urged the officials to ensure free distribution of food packets, uninterrupted supply of drinking water besides milk to children at the galleries. The temple, engineering and vigilance officials were asked to take required precautions in the conduct of the periodical processions without any inconvenience to the congregated devotees. Earlier, at a meeting with the nitya annadanam staff, he asked them to ensure round-the-clock supply of food to the visitors. The proprietor of Guntur-based Vijaya food products K. Ramu donated seven types of pickles worth Rs. 12.65 lakh, three quintals of turmeric, two quintals of chilly powder and three quintals of pulihora paste to the TTD. Superintending Engineer-2 Nageswar Rao, Deputy EOs Harindranath, Nagaraju, and others accompanied the TTD EO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tirumala-spruced-up-for-ratha-sapthami/article33876233.ece
19 February 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Triumph in Naidu’s Kuppam a gift to Jagan, says Peddireddi||Panchayat Raj Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy has hailed the triumph of the YSRCP-backed candidates in the third phase of the panchayat elections in Kuppam constituency, the home turf of TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu, and has termed the “landslide victory” as a gift to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. The ruling party leaders are visibly elated over bringing into their kitty more than 80% of the panchayats in the constituency, considered the fortress of the Leader of the Opposition leader. Terming the victory as a clear indication of the voters’ acceptance of Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s administration, Mr. Ramachandra Reddy said, “The opposition party has been blaming the well-intended welfare schemes, creating legal hurdles for developmental projects and spreading canards that the government is pushing the State into a debt trap.” “Now, the verdict has come as a death blow to the TDP as it vindicates our governance.” Mr. Ramachandra Reddy told the media at his residence here on Thursday. The Minister flayed the opposition party for twisting facts and spreading misinformation through select media platforms that the TDP supporters had won a majority of the seats. Dubbing Mr. Naidu as a “perennial conspirator,” he advised him to mend his ways and wake up to the reality before his popularity slid further. He acknowledged that the tide turned in favour of the YSRCP due to the unstinting efforts of the Chittoor MP N. Reddeppa and Kuppam Assembly constituency in-charge K. Bharat. Demanding Mr. Naidu’s resignation on moral grounds, he wondered how the TDP leader had managed to win in Kuppam for two decades with dissatisfaction so rife among the voters. Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/triumph-in-naidus-kuppam-a-gift-to-jagan-says-peddireddi/article33876225.ece
19 February 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Taipei delegation lauds industrial infrastructure at Sri City||A delegation of Taipei Economic and Cultural Centre (TECC), Chennai, has rated the industrial infrastructure at Sri City as ‘number one’ among the industrial parks in the country. Upon their arrival in Sri City on Thursday, the delegation led by TECC Director-General Ben Wang was accorded a warm welcome by Sri City Foundation’s president Ramesh Subramaniam. He gave them a detailed presentation on the infrastructure and unique features of the integrated business city, while highlighting the incentives being offered by the Central and State governments to the prospective investors. Foreign investment “We rate Sri City ‘Number One’ among several industrial parks visited by us in India,” said Mr. Ben Wang. He also expressed confidence that some Taiwanese companies would be very keen on investing in the Sri City. Sri City Founder Managing Director Ravindra Sannareddy pointed to the presence of Taiwanese electronics major Foxconn in the area, adding that it helped create a strong ecosystem for electronic manufacturing sector. The delegation members also visited the production unit of Foxconn. Meanwhile, Mr. Sannareddy met the Japan’s Consulate General Masayuki Taga in Chennai. It may be noted that the Consulate General met Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/taipei-delegation-lauds-industrial-infrastructure-at-sri-city/article33876234.ece
19 February 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP made a mockery of democracy, alleges Naidu||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Thursday alleged that the YSRCP had resorted to strong-arm tactics in the gram panchayat elections. “The conduct of YSRCP is an affront to democracy,” Mr. Naidu told the media. Mr. Naidu alleged that the YSRCP leaders got the election results manipulated at many places by threatening the election officials. The State Election Commission (SEC) remained a mute spectator in spite of availability of evidence, he alleged, and vowed to fight against the elections that had been made unanimous through intimidation of those who stood up against the ruling party. “This has been the trend since the first phase of elections against the TDP’s commendable performance, which indicates an imminent decline in the YSRCP’s electoral fortunes,” Mr. Naidu claimed. The high voting percentage in all the three phases of elections conducted so far was due to the fighting spirit of the TDP. It was because the TDP stood by the masses amidst a palpable sense of fear of attacks by the YSRCP cadres and their attempts to lure the voters, Mr. Naidu said. He alleged that the police were acting as per the whims and fancies of the ruling party leaders. The police made many candidates withdraw their nominations by blackmailing them, he alleged. Mr. Naidu wondered what the SEC was doing as the YSRCP leaders made a mockery of the democratic process, and insisted that they were behind the poll machinations in his native Kuppam in Chittoor district. On the proposed privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, Mr. Naidu demanded that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy strongly oppose the move, and advised him not to be content with writing letters to the Prime Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-made-a-mockery-of-democracy-alleges-naidu/article33876216.ece
19 February 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||People voted undaunted by threats, says SEC||State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar has said people reposed their confidence in democracy by turning out in large numbers to vote in the third phase of the gram panchayat elections. In a press release on Thursday, Mr. Ramesh Kumar said there was a call to boycott the elections in 350 polling stations in the Agency areas, but the tribal people cast their votes undaunted by any threats. He acknowledged the effort made by government officers and the police for the smooth conduct of the elections. Mr. Ramesh Kumar further said there were sporadic incidents of violence in the elections held across the State, and expressed happiness that people exercised their right to vote freely. Pat for officials He made a particular mention of the dedication shown by the District Collectors and Superintendents of Police to conduct the elections in a peaceful manner, and hoped that they would show the same spirit to ensure that the last phase slated for February 21 would also pass off without major hindrances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/people-voted-undaunted-by-threats-says-sec/article33876218.ece
19 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSRTC likely to get electric buses soon||The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) is mulling the idea of introducing electric buses on some routes in order to save on exorbitant fuel costs. According to information, with the surge in fuel costs, the APSRTC is looking for alternative options to bring down operational costs. Authorities feel that it is ‘feasible to run’ the electric buses given the diesel costs. The APSRTC is likely to introduce around 150 electric buses on routes across the State. The move assumes significance in the wake of the government’s decision in November last year to drop its plans of procuring 350 electric buses as the costs were working out to be too high. In the same month, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) requested the government to introduce the electric buses in Tirumala to maintain the holy hills as a ‘zero carbon emission zone’. When contacted, APSRTC Vice-Chairman and Managing Director (VC&MD) R.P. Thakur has confirmed that the APSRTC has sent a proposal to the government recently and that a decision is awaited. In view of rising fuel costs, the APSRTC is examining all options such as bio-diesel, CNG and electric buses. “It is feasible to ply electric buses between Tirupati and Tirumala,” he said. A litre of diesel used to cost Rs. 67 in March 2020. Now, it has crossed Rs. 82 per litre. The RTC has to shell out about Rs. 2,100 crore (as per 2019) on diesel alone. The fares have not been revised since then. The gap between revenue and expenditure was widening due to factors including diesel, salaries, etc. COVID impact The situation has worsened due to the Covid. Consequently, the RTC was availing of bank loans to manage the show. The employee liabilities, including PF, gratuity etc., and loans stand at Rs. 6,000 crore, he points out. Mr. Thakur said the APSRTC was taking many steps to make it profitable. A total revamp of the cargo services, fully operating buses in Telangana State, 10% concession in AC bus fare to early birds (48 hours advanced reservation), early darshan at Tirumala, AC buses between Anantapur and Hyderabad, increasing punctuality—both arrival and departure, and reintroducing hire buses were some of the measures. The APSRTC is also planning to introduce end-to-end cargo services and targets a revenue of Rs. 300 crore as against the existing Rs. 100 crore, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apsrtc-likely-to-get-electric-buses-soon/article33876236.ece
19 February 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||A chance for aspirants who were ‘forced’ to withdraw||The State Election Commission (SEC) has asked the District Collectors and the district election authorities to submit reports by February 20 on specific instances of prevention of candidates, who aspired to contest the elections to the MPTCs and ZPTCs, from filing their nominations and forced withdrawal of nominations, in order to resume the election process that was stalled in March 2020 due to the outbreak of COVID-19. State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar stated in a press release that he received representations / complaints of prevention of candidates from filing nominations, withdrawal of nominations under duress and inducements during the earlier process of elections. The commission had also received complaints / representations from major political parties on poll aberrations, he said. The SEC obtained legal opinion, on the basis of which it was proceeding with the conduct of the MPTC and ZPTC elections. Accordingly, it formulated guidelines and sought information from the District Collectors on the actions that vitiated the election process. ‘Submit evidence’ Mr. Ramesh Kumar said the affected parties could now approach the District Collectors and the district election authorities with evidence of prevention from filing nominations, or instances of withdrawal of nominations under pressure. They should submit evidence in the form of complaints lodged with the returning officers and the police and adduce credible information widely available in the public domain. In view of the inability of some contestants to pursue their cases further under the existing avenues, the Commission empowered the District Collectors to issue speaking orders to revive their candidatures in the interest of free and fair elections and to include them in the election process so as to maintain the integrity of elections, and thereby ensure a level-playing field for all the bona fide contestants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-chance-for-aspirants-who-were-forced-to-withdraw/article33876219.ece
19 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Civil Services a right platform to serve the needy: APSCHE chief||Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCE) Chairman K. Hemachandra Reddy on Thursday said youngsters with a passion to serve society, especially the down-trodden and the weaker sections, should choose the Civil Services as it provides a perfect platform to serve the lesser privileged sections in society. Speaking at the 6th annual day celebrations of Takshasila IAS Academy at Kanuru, Prof. Reddy said proper planning and hard work would help the candidates crack the examination. He said, if an individual had the will and vigour, it was not difficult to succeed in the Civil Services examinations, and went on to explain in detail how to overcome the Preliminary and the Main examinations citing examples of his old students. A firm grip on current affairs and general knowledge was important, he emphasised. Takshasila academic director N. Nageswara Rao, a former IAS officer, said the students at the institution were being trained on a par with Delhi institutions in every aspect, including personality development. Reiterating the academy’s commitment for quality coaching, Mr. Rao said all kinds of resources needed to crack the Civil Services were made available. The institution had hired faculty from Delhi and it was equipped with the test series and material, a 24-hour digital library and proficient mentors, among other facilities. Institution Managing Director B.S.N. Durga Prasad said the academy was planning to introduce incentives for the academically bright students from Economically Backward Sections in the days to come. Prof. Hemachandra, Dr. Nageswara Rao and Mr. Durga Prasad also answered questions by the aspirants and clarified their doubts. Later, Prof. Hemachandra Reddy and Dr. Nageswara Rao distributed prizes to the winners of games, sports and various other cultural programmes organised on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/civil-services-a-right-platform-to-serve-the-needy-apsche-chief/article33876237.ece
19 February 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special status, Kadapa steel plant on zonal council meet agenda||Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das said the agenda for the Southern Zonal Council (SZC) meeting scheduled to be chaired by Union Home Minister Amit Shah in Tirupati on March 4 has a total of 41 items, including 15 related to the A.P. Reorganisation Act, 2014 (APRA) and 26 regular ones. The regular items are water resources, energy, medical and health, agriculture, industries and commerce, IT and communications, municipal administration and urban development, and subjects in the purview of the Home Department, the Chief Secretary said, and instructed officials to furnish up-to-date information on issues arising from APRA in order to submit the same to the Central government for appropriate action. In a review meeting on arrangements for the SZC meeting, Mr. Aditya Nath Das said the 15 items related to the State mainly include the demand for Special Category Status, funding of Polavaram project, development of Visakhapatnam-Chennai Industrial Corridor, tax incentives, establishment of an integrated steel plant in Kadapa district, Central support for the capital city project, metro rail projects in Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam, and upgrading of Visakhapatnam and Tirupati airports. The Chief Secretary said Chief Ministers, Ministers, Chief Secretaries, and top officials of Telangana, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry would participate in the deliberations. Top administrators of Andaman & Nicobar and Lakshadweep Islands are special invitees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-status-kadapa-steel-plant-on-zonal-council-meet-agenda/article33876231.ece
19 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||VIT-AP introduces scholarships for non-engg. programmes||The VIT-AP University has introduced two new merit-based scholarships. Vice-president of the University Sekar Viswanathan said the newly-introduced GV Merit Scholarship and Tmt. Rajeswari Ammal Merit Scholarship would support the students enrolled in undergraduate courses such as BBA, law, B. Com, B. Sc. and BA. These scholarships are in addition to the existing CSR activity of the STARS programme, he said. The GV Merit Scholarship would be given to the topper of any board examinations across the country, said the Vice-Chancellor S.V. Kota Reddy, adding that the beneficiary students would get 100% scholarship for the entire undergraduate programme. Registrar C.LV. Siva Kumar said a student who emerges district topper from any State across the country could be a beneficiary of the Tmt. Rajeswari Ammal merit scholarship. Under this, a 50% concession would be given in tuition fee for the entire degree programme. If the beneficiary happens to be a girl, she would get an additional 25% concession, making it a 75% scholarship, he said. UG programmes The university offers courses in BBA in general management and with specialisations such as business analytics, fintech and digital marketing. It also has courses in BA, LLB (hons.) and BBA. LLB (Hons.), dual degree programmes such as BA and MA in public services and B. Sc and M. Sc in data science and a unique B. Com programme. The two merit scholarships can be availed by any student seeking admission in a non-engineering undergraduate course from the academic year 2021. Apllication The application process was started on Wednesday (February 17) and the last date for receipt of the application is May 31. Students seeking more details can visitwww.vitap.ac.inor send mails toadmission@vitap.ac.inor call 7901091283, said R. Thahiya Afzal, Assistant Director, Admissions, VIT-AP University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vit-ap-introduces-scholarships-for-non-engineering-courses/article33876314.ece
19 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||One death and 67 new cases in State||The State witnessed one COVID-19 death and 67 new infections in the 24 hours ending Thursday morning, taking the toll to 7,166 and the tally to 8,89,077. The lone death was reported in Visakhapatnam district. The mortality and recovery rates remained at 0.81% and 99.12% respectively. The number of recoveries increased to 8,81,292 as 54 more patients recovered during the period. This left 619 active cases in the State, and most of them were in Chittoor (96) and Krishna (95) districts. In last one day, 28,239 samples were tested with a positivity rate of 0.24%. The overall positivity rate of the 1.364 crore samples tested was 6.52%. Chittoor reported the highest single-day tally of 17. It was followed by Guntur (12), East Godavari and Visakhapatnam (10 each), Kadapa and Nellore (4 each), Krishna (3), Prakasam, West Godavari and Anantapur (2 each) and Vizianagaram (1). There were no new cases in Kurnool and Srikakulam. The overall tallies are: East Godavari (1,24,382), West Godavari (94,300), Chittoor (87,260), Guntur (75,643), Anantapur (67,704), Nellore (62,412), Prakasam (62,195), Kurnool (60,849), Visakhapatnam (59,951), Kadapa (55,328), Krishna (48,841), Srikakulam (46,165) and Vizianagaram (41,152).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-death-and-67-new-cases-in-state/article33876213.ece
19 February 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Take steps to rationalise regulatory compliances’||Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das enquired about the status of uploading of information related to various departments on the Regulatory Compliance Portal (RCP) brought out by the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT), in a meeting held at the Secretariat on Thursday. He said the objective of the RCP was to serve as a bridge between the citizens, the industries and the governments for minimising burdensome compliances, and as a first-of-its-kind central online repository of all Central and State-level compliances. All Central Ministries and Departments, States and Union Territories are supposed to examine laws, regulations and rules in their purview, and implement an action plan to rationalise and simplify all the processes and remove burdensome compliances, decriminalise laws and repeal redundant Acts. “The RCP will play an instrumental role in achieving the vision of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ and in improving the Ease-of-Doing Business for industry and the ease of living for citizens,” he said. Mr. Das said the RCP was one of the main items on the agenda of the NITI Aayog’s Governing Council meeting scheduled for February 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/take-steps-to-rationalise-regulatory-compliances/article33876214.ece
19 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||ACB sleuths inspect offices at Durga temple||Sleuths of the Anti-Corruption Bureau inspected the offices of Sri Durga Malleswara Swamy Varla Devastanam (Kanaka Durga temple) atop Indrakeeladri and other places in the city on Thursday. They also inspected the records in various counters and offices under the control of the temple administration. The inspection is likely to continue on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/acb-sleuths-inspect-offices-at-durga-temple/article33876312.ece
19 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Interview for lecturer posts on Feb. 25||The Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) has decided to call eight more candidates for the oral test (interview) on February 25 for the posts of lecturer in the Government Degree Colleges in the A.P. Collegiate Education Service. The documents like the call letter (Memo), check-list, attestation form, non-creamy layer certificate and deformity certificate (if required) for provisionally qualified candidates is available on the Commission’s websitehttps://psc.ap.gov.in. The Commission also placed on its website the fresh list of candidates for the post of Assistant Inspector of Fisheries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/interview-for-lecturer-posts-on-feb-25/article33876226.ece
19 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Won’t allow privatisation of VSP at any cost: CPI(M)||CPI(M) State secretary P. Madhu said that the decision of the Centre to privatise Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) will not be allowed at any cost. Addressing a meeting of VSP workers and trade unions at Kurmannapalem on Thursday, Mr. Madhu said that the BJP, after assuming power for the second consecutive time, has embarked on a privatisation mission. He alleged that the Adani group was sanctioned 12 coal mines and airports and the labour codes were brought out to suppress the rights of employees, he alleged. Ridiculing the reasons cited by the Centre to privatise VSP as absurd, the CPI(M) leader wondered what then was the reason to privatise Life Insurance Corporation (LIC), which he said was among the most profitable public sector insurance companies in the world. Mr. Madhu warned of a State-wide bandh and protests if the Centre failed to revoke its decision. He called upon the people of the State to be prepared for any sacrifice to save the steel plant, which was achieved after innumerable struggles and sacrifices. He explained that the allocation of captive mines was the only way out to put VSP on the road to profits, but not sale of surplus lands of the plant. He alleged that the Centre has written off the loans taken by Essar Steels from public sector banks to the tune of Rs. 50,000 crore. United stand CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna expressed happiness that all parties were united in the agitation against privatisation of VSP. He alleged that the Centre has cheated Andhra Pradesh by failing to implement the promises made in the A.P. State Reorganisation Act, 2014, and now it has decided to privatise VSP. Former Minister Bandaru Satyanarayana Murthy called for a united struggle by all parties by setting aside ideological differences. Jana Sena leader Sivasankar said party chief Pawan Kalyan had articulated the sentiments of the people on VSP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/wont-allow-privatisation-of-vsp-at-any-cost-cpim/article33876323.ece
19 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Early solution sought to panchagramalu row||The promise made by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddyof finding a solution to the the Simhachalam panchagramalu (land) issue, remains unresolved with no progress on the issue till date, except for the issue of a Government Order appointing a committee in 2019. A panel was formed after the YSRCP assumed power in 2019. But no solution has been found to the problem. On the contrary, the government has complicated the issue by including those in the panel, who were in no way connected to the issue , Forum for Development of North Andhra (FDNA) general secretary A. Aja Sarma and Samaikhya Praja Rythu Sankshema Sangham president P.V.V. Sastry said on Thursday. It was ironical that none of the one lakh people, who were directly involved with the issue, have been contacted by the panel and the issue is not making any progress in nearly two years, . They said the house and land owners were unable to raise funds to meet their emergency needs. They were not even allowed to undertake repairs to old buildings. The police had arrested ‘sangham’ leadersbefore the arrival of the Chief Minister in the city on Wednesday. They alleged that the police had behaved in a high-handed manner . They demanded cancellation of the ryotwari pattas issued to the Simhachalam Devasthanam during 1996 and 1997 and granting permission to the land and building owners to take up construction and repair works as per the High Court order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/early-solution-sought-to-panchagramalu-row/article33876319.ece
19 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Will intensify agitation, warns CPI leader||CPI leader K. Ramakrishna has said that the decision on privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant is taken as part of the larger policy decision of the Centre to privatise all PSUs in the country. Addressing the media on Thursday, he alleged that the BSNL was weakened and employees were forced into voluntary retirement with the objective of privatising the telecom giant. Measures were being taken to privatise Air India, Railways and the LIC, which has assets worth over Rs. 1 lakh crore, he alleged. Mr. Ramakrishna alleged that the crisis due to the COVID-19 pandemic was being exploited by the Centre to put the privatisation policy on fast-track mode. Expressing the view that the letter written by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to the Prime Minister was not enough, he said the alternatives put forth by Mr. Reddy could be considered only after an assurance was given by the Centre. He suggested that the Chief Minister should lead an all-party delegation to Delhi. Mr. Ramakrishna said a Statewide bandh would be organised and protests would also be held in Delhi. The CPI would tour all districts and create awareness among the people on the issue after the local body polls, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/will-intensify-agitation-warns-cpi-leader/article33876320.ece
19 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘State govt. should take over plant if all else fails’||The TDP leaders organised a protest against the privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) at Gandhi Statue near the GVMC office on Thursday. Led by the party’s official representative Sanapala Panduranga Rao, the protesters raised the slogan ‘Visakha Ukku—Andhrula Hakku’ and demanded that the steel plant continue to be in the public sector. Mr. Panduranga Rao said it was not right on the part of the Chief Minister to talk of saving VSP by selling its surplus land. He demanded convening of a special session of the Assembly and adoption of a resolution against privatisation of VSP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-govt-should-take-over-plant-if-all-else-fails/article33876321.ece
19 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag cricketer selected by RCB for IPL season||K.S. Bharat, a wicketkeeper-batsman from the city, has been picked up by Royal Challengers Bangalore for this year’s IPL season. He was picked up at the auction held on Thursday. Bharat, who was earlier selected by Delhi Daredevils, will now play for RCB, led by Indian skipper Virat Kohli. Bharat has scored 720 runs from 48 matches in the T20 format. The 28-year-old cricketer was earlier selected by the BCCI for the historic Pink Ball Test Match played between India and Bangladesh in 2019. Bharat was the first cricketer from Vizag to be selected for the Test squad. The only other cricketer to make it big from Vizag earlier was Y. Venugopla Rao, who only played One-Day Internationals. The cricketer has scored a lot of runs in domestic cricket while playing for Andhra. He is also the first wicketkeeper-batsman to score a triple century in a Ranji Trophy match. Born in 1993, Bharat did his schooling from St. Aloysius and later obtained his degree from Dr. Lankapalli Bullayya College. The only other cricketer from Andhra, apart from Ambati Rayudu and Bharat, to get picked up for this year’s IPL was fast bowler Harishankar Reddy. He was picked up by Chennai Super Kings and will be playing alongside Rayudu under M.S. Dhoni’s captaincy. Congratulating the cricketers and appreciating their consistent performance, Y. Venugopal Rao, Director-Cricket Operations of ACA, said that ACA president P. Sarath Chandra Reddy had a strong commitment to see that more players from Andhra get picked up by Team India and even in IPL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/selected/article33876208.ece
19 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nagalakshmi is new GVMC Commissioner||S. Nagalakshmi has assumed charge as the new Commissioner of Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) here on Thursday. Ms. Nagalakshmi said her priority would be improvement of sanitation, drinking water and streetlights. She held a meeting with GVMC officials and directed them to ensure smooth conduct of the forthcoming GVMC polls, Swachh Sarvekshan-2021 and COVID-19 vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nagalakshmi-is-new-gvmc-commissioner/article33876309.ece
19 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Horse burnt to death||The gruesome killing of a domesticated horse has created a sensation at V. Madugula in the district. According to reports reaching here late on Thursday night, the horse, belonging to Buddhala Ramana, a former president of Sagaram village of Madugula mandal, was burnt to death by some unidentified miscreants on Wednesday night. The Chodavaram CI inspected the scene of the crime. Ramana had purchased the horse for Rs. 2 lakh in Maharashtra two years ago. He said that the horse used to win awards at the annual competitions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/horse-burnt-to-death-at-v-madugula/article33876238.ece
19 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Only 6.9% of ECE graduates employable’||Founder and Director of Ameya World School Mohan Mandava delivered a lecture followed by an interactive session for ECE students at Dr. Lankapalli Bullayya College of Engineering, here on Thursday. He focussed on how to bridge the gap between the skills that the students have and industry needs. He pointed out that the National Employability Report Engineers 2019 found that only 6.9% of the Electronics Engineering students were found to be employable and that hands-on expertise and industry interaction was lacking. Mr. Mohan urged students to take interest in devices and development across the globe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/only-69-of-ece-graduates-employable/article33876324.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||No municipal elections in Penukonda, Pamidi on March 10||Elections will be held to only 11 of the 13 civic bodies in Anantapur district on March 10 as the gazette notification pertaining to the upgradation of Pamidi and Penukonda mucipalities was issued after the poll schedules were out. The district administration is gearing up for the conduct of the urban local body (ULB) elections. Collector Gandham Chandrudu told The Hindu that the halted withdrawal process of the candidates in Anantapur Municipal Corporation, three selection grade municipalities, four nagar panchayats, two Grade-3 municipalities, and one each of special grade, grade-1, grade-2 municipalities will begin on March 2. The final list of the candidates will be announced on March 3 evening, the Collector said. Revival of candidature “If any candidate comes up with a complaint pertaining to forced withdrawal of nomination, and produces enough proof, the District Election Officer can recommend for the restoration of his candidature,” he said, adding that the State Election Commission (SEC) and the State Election Authority (Commissioner CDMA) will take the final decision in this regard. “The nomitation can be withdrawan only if the candidate is present before the Returning Officer in person,” said the Collector. In all, 34 election officers had to be changed in the district from those assigned the job last year when the process had begun. One person died of COVID-19, five had health problems and 28 of them got transferred. The elections will be held for 358 wards in the 11 ULBs at 908 polling stations in 336 locations using 1476 ballot boxes. Among them, 439 polling stations have more than 1,000 voters, 453 polling stations have 600 to 1,000 voters, and only 16 have less than 600 voters. Training sessions Training sessions for the election officers and other poll staff would be conducted next week. The preparation for readying the material has started. The counting of all votes, however, will be done at one place in Anantapur city on March 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-municipal-elections-in-penukonda-pamidi-on-march-10/article33875567.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM honours war veterans||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and others visited the residence of Major General Venugopal (95), a recipient of Maha Vir Chakra, and presented him a memento marking the 50th year of the momentous victory over Pakistan, on Thursday. In a personal chat with the nonagenarian, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy expressed awe at his age-defying agility and wanted to know if he had any memories of the war, to which Mr. Venugopal nodded positively. After wishing his family members and also his personal caretaker for three decades, the Chief Minister left for the mega event, where the family members of the other two war veterans, Naik Jajula Sanyasi, commander of a recoilless gun detachment of the battalion in Shakargarh Sector and Sepoy Kolli John Krishthaper, serving a battalion of the Madras Regiment, were honoured.  Valorous act When the advancing Indian troops suffered a setback due to medium machine gun fire from two enemy bunkers, it was Sanyasi who manoeuvred his gun and destroyed both bunkers, for which valorous act he was awarded the Vir Chakra. Similarly, Krishthaper dashed through the only opening in a wall all alone, behind which the holed up enemy troops were firing heavy automatic fire that held up the Indian platoon. The Sepoy silenced the enemy with hand grenades and got killed in the process. He too received Vir Chakra posthumously.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-honours-war-veterans/article33876209.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD E.O. releases book on Gita||‘Bhagavadgita’, a book authored by retired bureaucrat P. Krishnaiah in Telugu language was released by Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy at the ISKCON’s Lotus Temple here on Thursday. “There are many commentaries available on the Gita. However, I wanted to write this book in simple Telugu language which can be understood and comprehended by the people,” said Mr. P. Krishnaiah, while acknowledging the efforts of his erstwhile mentor Samudrala Lakshmanaiah and ‘Sahasravadhani’ Medasani Mohan in brining out this book. “I utilised the COVID lockdown period for writing the 150-page book. The Gita is a treatise that can help build self-confidence in a person and perceive a comprehensive view of issues,” said Mr. Krishnaiah, former Collector of Chittoor district and former TTD Executive Officer. Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu sent a congratulatory message to Mr. Krishnaiah. Former DGP of undivided AP, K. Aravinda Rao, who has written the foreward for the book, said the Gita should be introduced in school curriculum . The book was published by Emesco Books. ISKCON Tirupati head Revati Raman Das was present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/retired-bureaucrats-book-on-gita-released/article33875574.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Veterans of Indo-Pak war honoured||After wishing his family members and also his personal caretaker for three decades, the Chief Minister left for the mega event, where the family members of the other two war veterans, Naik Jajula Sanyasi, commander of a recoilless gun detachment of the battalion in Shakargarh Sector and Sepoy Kolli John Krishthaper, serving a battalion of the Madras Regiment, were honoured. When the advancing Indian troops suffered a setback due to medium machine gun fire from two enemy bunkers, it was Sanyasi who manoeuvred his gun and destroyed both bunkers, for which valorous act he was awarded the Vir Chakra. Similarly, Krishthaper dashed through the only opening in a wall all alone, behind which the holed up enemy troops were firing heavy automatic fire that held up the Indian platoon. The Sepoy silenced the enemy with hand grenades and got killed in the process. He too received Vir Chakra posthumously.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/veterans-of-indo-pak-war-honoured/article33876253.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Brisk business||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/brisk-business/article33876240.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||New look||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-look/article33876211.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSDMA gearing up to deal with heatwave||With the day temperatures increasing, Andhra Pradesh State Disaster Management Authority (APSDMA) was gearing up to mitigate the impact of the heatwave and other extreme climatic conditions in the State. APSDMA Chief Executive Officer C. Nagaraju conducted a meeting with the officials of various departments including National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), A.P. State Disaster Response and Fire Services, Police, Revenue and others. Mr. Nagaraju said the APSDMA was preparing an action plan to tackle the heatwave condition. “We will issue five day weather forecast and two-day heatwave warnings daily to the district administrations,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apsdma-gearing-up-to-deal-with-heatwave/article33876311.ece
19 February 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Two held for aiding Maoists||The Dummugudem police on Thursday arrested two persons on charge of supplying explosive materials to Maoists. The police identified the arrested persons as Muthu Nagaraju, 44, of Addakal village in Wanaparthy district, and Kommaraju Kanakaiah, 31, of Turkapalli village in Medchal district. A joint patrolling team of the police and the CRPF personnel nabbed them while they were allegedly moving surreptitiously at Sitanagaram village near the famous pilgrim centre of Parnashala in Dummugudem mandal on Thursday early morning, police sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-held-for-aiding-maoists/article33876141.ece
19 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Mop-up round for HCWs who missed 2nd dose||The Health department would conduct a mop-up round for Health Care Workers (HCW) who did not take the second dose of COVID-19 vaccine. Out of the targeted 67,173 beneficiaries, 14,029 HCWs did not take the vaccine from February 13 to 16. The COVID-19 vaccine is given in two doses with a gap of 28 days. The vaccination drive was launched on January 16. After 28 days’ gap, HCWs started to receive the second dose from February 13 and it is ongoing. General public not opting for the jab altogether because of vaccine hesitancy was expected. However, thousands of HCWs did not take the second dose too. Senior Health officials listed three primary reasons behind their staff giving the drive a miss. The first reason was that HCWs who developed minor Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI) such as fever, giddiness, or were hospitalised after the first dose, were hesitant to take the second dose. The second reason was that some of the beneficiaries had health problems on the day they were scheduled to take the second dose. Third was that they had some personal engagements. “A few of our staff who developed minor AEFI after the first dose said that they will take the second dose if we stand beside them at the session site. They took it in our presence,” a district Health official said. Director of Public Health Dr. G. Srinivasa Rao said that they will hold a mop-up round for those who missed taking the second dose. From January 16 to February 16, a total of 2,79,518 HCWs and Front Line Workers (FLWs) were administered the first dose. All of them have to take the second dose to complete the vaccination. A few district Health officials are anticipating that some of the FLWs too would hesitate for the second jab. 25,695 HCWs get jab The Health Department gave the second dose of COVID vaccine to 25,695 HCWs on Thursday. While the target was 29,215, only 88% beneficiaries took the jab. One case of minor AEFI was reported. The second dose will also be given on Friday. According to the daily bulletin, vaccine hesitancy is higher among FLWs than HCWs. While 58% of the targeted HCWs took the first dose, only 34% of targeted FLWs took the COVID jab for the first time. No inquiry There would be no inquiry into how two senior resident doctors contracted COVID-19 after taking the first dose of the vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mop-up-round-for-hcws-who-missed-2nd-dose/article33876123.ece
19 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Glasses, cataract surgeries best options for eye care||Cataract surgeries and dispensing glasses for people suffering from moderate to severe vision loss, accounting for more than 90% unmet eye needs, are cost-effective solutions for countries to improve the health and economic outlook for achieving universal health coverage and the 2030 UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). A Global Eye Health Commission report, published in ‘The Lancet Global Health Journal’ earlier this week, has called for eye health to be within the primary healthcare and that the general healthcare workers should be trained in eye care because 1.1 billion are living with untreated vision impairment in 2020 and it is expected to grow to 1.8 billion by 2050, of which 108 million will be living in South Asia. The report was authored by 73 leading experts from 25 countries, including researchers from the city-based LV Prasad Eye Institute (LVPEI), Dr. G.N. Rao and Dr. Rohit Khanna, Dr. G.V.S Murthy from the Institute of Public Health (IIPH) and Lions Aravind Institute of Community Ophthalmology (Madurai) along with the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. It calls for quality eye care access to rural areas using technology and expanding the workforce to meet the population needs. “It is unacceptable that more than a billion people are needlessly living with treatable vision impairment,” said co-chair of The Lancet Commission and Director, International Centre for Eye Health, The London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine (UK) Prof. Matthew Burton. “Treating avoidable vision impairment alongside increasing access to vision rehabilitation services and creating more inclusive environments are practical and cost-effective ways of unlocking the human potential,” said commission co-author, associate professor, The Johns Hopkins Wilmer Eye Institute (US) Dr. Bonnielin Swenor. It is also because women and girls are more likely than men to have vision loss and less likely to receive treatment. “With investment and a co-ordinated response, we have an opportunity to help create a fairer society for future generations through improved eye health,” said commission co-chair and professor of international eye health, University of Calabar (Nigeria), Professor Hannah Faal. The commission analysed that productivity losses from unaddressed vision impairment in people of working age in 2020 was US $411 billion globally and regionally - East Asia (US $90 billion) and South Asia (US $70 billion). Global rates of blindness and vision impairment in all ages declined by around 29% between 1990-2020, however, the progress hangs in the balance due to ageing population together with physical inactivity and poor diets. The study was supported by grants from: The Queen Elizabeth Diamond Jubilee Trust; Moorfields Eye Charity; NIHR Moorfields Biomedical Research Centre; The Wellcome Trust; Sightsavers; The Fred Hollows Foundation; SEVA Foundation; British Council for the Prevention of Blindness; and the Christian Blind Mission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/glasses-cataract-surgeries-best-options-for-eye-care/article33876128.ece
19 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Applications sought from start-ups for incentives||The Telangana government is inviting applications from start-ups desirous of availing themselves of the incentives offered under the Innovation Policy. Eligible start-ups can access the incentives under the categories of Performance Grant, Patent Expenditure reimbursement, SGST reimbursement and Recruitment Assistance, a release from the office of the IT and Industries Minister K.T. Rama Rao on Thursday said. Announcing that applications are open for the next batch of Telangana State incentives for start-ups, the release said the incentives under the Innovation Policy were recently handed over to 11 start-ups who met the eligibility criteria and submitted necessary documentary evidence. A total of 67 applications were received from 32 start-ups under the four categories. Out of them, 17 applications were sanctioned to 11 start-ups. The start-ups received the incentives from Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, where Industries and IT Secretary Jayesh Ranjan was present. The release said Telangana is a start-up State and helping start-ups in a sector-specific manner. It sought to assist them in multiple ways, including by providing mentorship, facilitating connections to investors as well as extending funding support under the incentives initiative. Applications for the second batch of the incentives are open and eligible start-ups can apply at www.startup.telangana.gov.in, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/applications-sought-from-start-ups-for-incentives/article33876126.ece
19 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hyderabad, Warangal chosen for ‘India Cycles 4 Change’||Hyderabad and Warangal are the two cities from Telangana State which have been chosen for the ‘India Cycles 4 Change Challenge’ sponsored by the Central government through the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs. The two cities are among the 25 cities which have been selected for Phase-I implementation, from a total of 95 cities registered from across the country, a statement from the Ministry of Municipal Administration & Urban Development informed.  Smart Cities Mission The ‘India Cycles 4 Change Challenge’ under MOHUA’s Smart Cities Mission, aims to create extensive cycling-networks through low-cost interventions like pop-up cycle lanes and traffic-calmed or non-motorised zones. Cities could launch programmes such as community-led cycle rental schemes that increase the availability of cycles to citizens and promote the usage of cycling through public events and outreach. The statement informed that HMDA along with the Hyderabad Unified Metropolitan Transport Authority is offering technical advise and guidance within the GHMC’s purview. Cycling tracks Already, cycling tracks have been established in KBR Park and the Necklace Road stretch, the statement said. Apart from the 100 cities implementing the Smart Cities Mission, cities with population of over five lakh and capitals of States and Union Territories were eligible to apply for the challenge. A total of 11 shortlisted cities will be given Rs. 1 crore grant and guidance from national and international experts to further scale up the initiatives, MOHUA had informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hyderabad-chosen-for-india-cycles-4-change/article33876134.ece
19 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CM’s open threat led to murder of lawyers: ex-MLA||BJP State vice president and former MLA N.V.S.S. Prabhakar said the TRS government should take responsibility for the heinous murder of the lawyer couple in Peddapalli district, allegedly by a ruling party member on Friday. "This is the direct result of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao's threatening outburst to finish off political detractors during the recent public meeting in Nagarjunasagar last week. His remarks has only emboldened his partymen to take law into their hands as it has happened on Wednesday,” he charged, at a press conference. ‘File cases’ The BJP leader demanded DGP M. Mahender Reddy file case against the Chief Minister for his ‘provocative remarks.’ He pointed out that the slain couple did not get personal protection despite explicit orders by the High Court. He accused the local police of trying to pass off the incident as a case of “personnel rivalry” when it was a clear case of political murder needing a judicial inquiry. Mr. Prabhakar also took the opportunity to swipe against the rallies being taken out by Congress leaders and felt it was only part of the ongoing tussle among the seniors to become the State party president, and has nothing to do with farmers welfare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cms-open-threat-led-to-murder-of-lawyers-ex-mla/article33876264.ece
19 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Lawyer couple’s last rites performed||Final rites of lawyer couple Gattu Vaman Rao and P.V. Nagamani were performed at their Kunjapadugu village near Manthani on Thursday. Post mortem examination of the bodies was completed at Peddapalli government hospital. Later, the bodies were handed over to their family members. Anticipating possible protests or trouble from the supporters of the victims, teams of policemen were deployed at the government hospital while the autopsy was on. Later, the bodies were taken to Gunjapadugu village. Large number of people turned up at the village to pay last respects to the departed souls. Manthani MLA D. Sridhar Babu accompanied by his party workers and others paid tributes. Funeral pyre was lit by Rao’s brother Indrashekhar. North zone IG Nagi Reddy, who rushed Godavarikhani the previous night, visited the scene of offence and instructed the local police on the measures to be taken for preserving the evidence. He went to the government hospital at Peddapalli and was camping at Godvarikhani to oversee the investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lawyer-couples-last-rites-performed/article33876142.ece
19 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Lawyers organise rallies, stage protests||Lawyers on Thursday erupted in protests across the State by taking out rallies, organising demonstrations and raising slogans, denouncing the gorykilling of a lawyer couple Gattu Vaman Rao and P.V. Nagamani. Police detained nearly 40 lawyers who headed for Raj Bhavan after holding protests at Nampally Criminal Court complex. They were shifted to Goshamahal ground. They condemned detention by police stating that they wanted to submit a memorandum peacefully in Raj Bhavan seeking protection to lawyers community. Work at Telangana High Court got stalled on Thursday as advocates abstained from work in protest against the twin murders reported near Kalvacherla in Peddapalli district the previous day. Telangana High Court Advocates Association president Suryakaran Reddy appeared before the First Court online and told the bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy that members of the HC bar association decided to quit work in protest against the double murder. He appealed to the bench to cooperate with the bar association and adjourn all the matters of the day to any other date. Chief Justice Hima Kohli assured cooperation but a few lawyers continued to make mentions claiming that they had some urgency. After a few minutes, Mr. Suryakaran Reddy appeared again in the virtual court and appealed to the lawyers to abstain from work. Eventually, the First Court and all other benches of the HC got adjourned without hearing any matters for the day. Advocates assembled outside the HC gate and called upon the Central and State governments to bring Advocates Protection Act for the safety of lawyers. Lawyers of Ranga Reddy district courts squatted on Hyderabad-Vijayawada highway demanding stringent against the killers. Earlier, they boycotted the courts and raised slogans. Meanwhile, students of Osmania University College of Law called for a bandh and enforced it on the university campus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lawyers-stage-protests/article33876144.ece
19 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP demands suspension of CP||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday demanded Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy to suspend Ramagundam Police Commissioner and the local ACP immediately and appoint a special team of officers to investigate the murder of the lawyer couple. “We request you to refrain the local police from the investigation as their complicity is also being suggested. We also request you to bring to justice the political leaders who masterminded the brutal killing as expeditiously as possible,” it said, in a memorandum submitted to the DGP, a copy of which was released to the media. Sand-land mafia Party leaders led by MLC and prominent lawyer N. Ramchander Rao, legal cell’s K. Anthony Reddy and G. Rama Rao Yadav submitted the memorandum and charged that the incident of the ghastly day-light murder of G. Vaman Rao and his wife P.V Nagamani at Kalavacherla in Peddpally district on Wednesday “once again highlighted the failure of the law enforcing agencies in anticipating and providing security for those fighting against sand-land mafia and the goons of the ruling party”. “The victims have been selflessly filing PILs in the High Court and other statutory, judicial platforms against perceived injustices. In this regard, they had filed a case even against the local police for the alleged custodial death. They filed cases against the land-sand mafia in the region and incurred their wrath. The couple had also sought police protection which was denied to them despite being aware that they faced threat perception. Had they been given police protection as had been sought by them several times, they wouldn't have been killed,” the memorandum said. Political patronage Further, the party charged that the culprits, “who explicitly enjoy the patronage of the ruling masters” knew that the couple had no protection and therefore they were able to effect brutal murder in full view of people. “It is evident that the local police had miserably failed to assess the situation as they were prejudicial to the victims. We believe that CP of Ramagundam failed in his duty and it is his laxity and prejudice towards the victims that led to the murder. We also believe there are bigwigs behind the murder who wanted to silence voices fighting consistently against the atrocities of the ruling class," the leaders mentioned, in their memorandum.  We believe that the Ramagundam Commissioner of Police failed in his duty and it is his laxity and prejudice towards the victims that led to the murder. BJP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-demands-suspension-of-cp/article33876136.ece
19 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TRS top leadership has a lot to answer: Uttam||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) President and Nalgonda MP, N. Uttam Kumar Reddy has alleged that top TRS leadership was behind the murder of the lawyer couple. He also questioned the silence of the Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao in condemning the brutal daylight killings. He suspected the involvement of TRS-backed sand mafia behind the murder. Speaking to reporters here, he said the Congress party would meet Chief Justice of Telangana High Court Hima Kohli and also write a letter to Chief Justice of Supreme Court S.A. Bobde seeking a CBI enquiry on the murder. The TPCC chief claimed that the lawyer couple was murdered to cover up a lock-up death of a Dalit, Sheelam Rangaiah in Manthani. He said the lawyer couple had also filed several cases against TRS party's Peddapalli Zilla Parishad chairman Putta Madhukar and also ineligibility case against Manthani municipal chairperson Putta Shailaja, wife of Madhukar. These facts clearly show that the murders were politically motivated to silence the whistle-blowers. Revanth faults KCR Meanwhile, Congress MP and Parliament member A. Revanth Reddy alleged that the murders are a direct result of the instigation of the ruling party leaders against their opponents. Speaking to reporters in New Delhi he faulted the statements of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao in Haliya meeting, Minister K.T. Rama Rao and MLA Balka Suman of not sparing anyone who raise their voice against the government. They should be booked for their provocative statements that have emboldened the TRS activists, he claimed. The Congress MP said the accused, Kunta Srinivas, was the mandal president of the party, and alleged that such people had the backing of top leaderships in silencing the opposition. He also questioned the lethargy shown by the police in reacting to the daylight murder. None of the senior officers visited the spot and junior officers who went did not protect the crime scene, he alleged Congress MLC T. Jeevan Reddy recalled KCR's speech in the Haliya meeting and said the CM threatened to crush the opposition and such language of the top leader had given courage to such murderous elements. Mr. Reddy also attacked the police saying they have become “TRS-friendly” rather than “people-friendly.”  ‘Murder politics’ At a separate press conference, Nalgonda MP, Komatireddy Venkatreddy said the TRS is now resorting to murder politics and stifling the questioning voices. The accused Kunta Srinivas participated in the birthday celebrations of the Chief Minister and went straight to kill the lawyers, he alleged. "Is this the Golden Telangana that TRS is promoting," he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-has-a-lot-to-answer-uttam/article33876139.ece
19 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘EFLU recruitment being rushed without following BC quota’||Former minister G. Chinna Reddy and AICC national spokesperson Sravan Dasoju have appealed to Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan to immediately scrap the ‘illegal’ faculty recruitment being done by the English and Foreign Languages University (EFLU). Addressing a press conference here they said gross injustice is done to the OBCs in implementation of BC Reservation in the State and Central universities, including the EFLU, and constitutional rights are being deliberately violated. “BCs are not beggars and are only asking for their legitimate rights. All the institutions must implement 27% OBC Reservation without any further delay and the Congress Party is ready to fight on this sensitive issue to any extent,” they warned. Mr. Sravan Dasoju also sent a letter to the Governor seeking her intervention in implementation of BC Reservation Roster system which is being openly violated by the EFLU. He said the UGC sanctioned strength of teachers to EFLU is 238 and the OBCs must get 63 posts constituting 27% of the OBC reservation. Out of the 63 OBC sanctioned posts at EFLU, there should be 8 professors, 16 associate professors, and 39 assistant professors. But till now the number of OBC professors and associate professors recruited is zero and only 23 assistant professors are working out of 39 allotted posts, he pointed out.  NCBC order He said the National Commission for Backward Classes (NCBC) also took note of it after his complaints and the EFLU authorities have appeared before it with insufficient information to avoid the appointments of OBCs. Even the High Court has refused to give a stay on the NCBC orders asking the interviews to be stopped. “But, they went on conducting interviews until February 02, 2021, which is a violation of the stay order issued by NCBC,” he said. Mr. Sravan claimed that the EFLU authorities had also plan to conduct an emergency Executive Council Meeting to ratify the list of selected candidates and immediately issue them the appointment letters illegally. ‘So I appeal to the Government to stop the appointments immediately,” the Congress leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bc-quota-not-followed-in-eflu/article33876148.ece
19 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IIIT-H, TalentSprint launch IoT and Smart Analytics course||The International Institute of Information Technology, Hyderabad (IIIT-H) and TalentSprint, an NSE Group company, have announced launch of a PG certificate programme in IoT and Smart Analytics. A nine-month programme, it is designed both for IoT engineers who want to master Analytics as well as other tech professionals and managers from industries disrupted by IoT adoption. A team of faculty at IIIT-H will teach the participants through live, interactive online classes and mentor them as they apply learnings on leading industry projects. According to a release, the first cohort is scheduled to start in June and applications for the same are open. A few select fresh graduates will also get to join the programme. IIIT-H director P.J. Narayanan said it is the third programme the institute is offering in partnership with TalentSprint. The first six months of the programme will teach foundations and include simple experiments, while the last three months will be hands-on application-based learning. TalentSprint CEO and MD Santanu Paul said the programme will meet industry’s critical need for technical experts required to fulfil its ambitions of interconnectivity. “Through this programme, we aim to up skill over 1,000 professionals in the next 3-5 years,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/iiit-h-talentsprint-launch-iot-and-smart-analytics-course/article33876124.ece
19 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS records 163 COVID cases||Telangana recorded 163 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the total to 2,97,113. While 24,920 people were examined, results of 637 were awaited. Two more patients have died. The new 163 cases include 31 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 12 each from Medchal-Malkajgiri and Rangareddy. No case was reported in Wanaparthy and Narayanpet, and only one case each was detected in four other districts. From March 2, 2020, to February 17 of this year, 83,85,870 people were tested and 2,97,113 were detected with coronavirus. Of the total cases, 1,700 were active cases, 2,93,791 have recovered, and 1,622 people have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-records-163-covid-cases/article33876120.ece
19 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ISB tops in research output||The Indian School of Business (ISB) on Thursday said that research by its marketing department has been ranked number one in Asia and number 44th globally in American Marketing Association (AMA) 2020 DocSIG research productivity rankings. AMA DocSIG had recently ranked global universities based on their research productivity in premier AMA journals during 2011-2020. A release from ISB said it is the youngest B School to achieve this recognition. The research produced by the marketing department of ISB is on a par with many well-established old players, highlighting the research productivity of a young business school from India. Last year, ISB’s dean Rajendra Srivastava was selected as AMA fellow. AMA Academic Journals publishes the latest peer-reviewed research aimed at advancing the industry and equipping business professionals with the insights needed to make better managerial decisions, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/isb-tops-in-research-output/article33876125.ece
19 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||SR varsity offers aid to 8 start-ups||Technology Business Incubator SR Innovation Exchange (SRiX), Warangal, has disbursed the grant-in-aid of Rs. 44 lakh to eight start-ups under TIDE 2.0, a MeitY scheme. Vice-Chancellor, SR University, Warangal, GRC Reddy said that the grant was facilitated through TIDE 2.0, an initiative of the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology(MeitY), under the MeitY Start-up Hub to promote tech entrepreneurship through financial and technical support to incubators working on technologies such as IoT, Artificial Intelligence, Block Chain and Robotics. The recipients of the grant are Varaha Innovation Studios and Technologies, Youcode Intelligence Solutions, Oakmont RSM Info Solutions, Viben QR Innovations, Garudaastra Aeroinventive Solutions, Cloudchip Technologies, MHFICTIO Creations and Gryptrx Solutions. “TIDE grant will provide the initial ignition needed for them to develop a market ready product. Their presence on the campus will help students and faculty to associate,” Dr. GRC Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sr-varsity-offers-aid-to-8-start-ups/article33876131.ece
19 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Fleming talks State’s welfare with B. Vinod||British Deputy High Commissioner Andrew Fleming called on State Planning Board vice-chairman B. Vinod Kumar at his house on Thursday where the latter shared the State’s developmental activities with him. He shared his views on the government activities acquired through his visits to different districts. Mr. Fleming said that Telangana had made rapid progress in the sectors of agriculture, power and irrigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fleming-talks-states-welfare-with-b-vinod/article33876132.ece
19 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TRS suspends murder accused||The Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) has suspended Kunta Srinivas, accused in the murder of the lawyer couple in Manthani, from the party. Party general secretary M. Srinivas Reddy said the decision would come into effect immediately. Kunta Srinivas is a close follower of former Manthani MLA and Peddapalli Zilla Parishad chairperson Putta Madhu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-suspends-murder-accused/article33876140.ece
19 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KCR sends chader for Urs (briefly with photo)||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Thursday sent a chadar for the annual urs celebrations at Ajmer dargah. Elders of Muslim community showed Mr. Rao the chadar specially designed on his behalf before it was taken. Special prayers were offered on the occasion at his camp office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-sends-chader-for-urs-briefly-with-photo/article33876138.ece
19 February 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||11 nominations filed in Nalgonda||A total of 11 nominations, including six by independent candidates, were filed for the biennial election of Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda Graduates’ constituency before the Returning Officer and District Collector Prashant J Patil on Thursday. A set of nomination on behalf of sitting MLC Palla Rajeshwar Reddy, who retires on March 29 and which necessitates the election, was also filed by some proposers. Mr. Rajeshwar Reddy is the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi’s candidate. From the Bharatiya Janata Party, Gujjula Premendar Reddy, accompanied by the party’s district president K. Sridhar Reddy submitted his nomination. Dr. Cheruku Sudhakar, founder of Telangana Inti Party, who has been one of the actively campaigning leaders for the election, and Nallamothu Thirumala Rao of Aam Admi Party and independent candidates – Sheik Shabbir Ali, Madagoni Balanaga Saidulu, Poosa Srinivas, Martha Srinivas, Gunturu Venkata Narayana and Lingidi Venkateshwarlu filed the nominations. Unlike the other candidates, former MLC Sabavath Ramulu Naik who filed his nomination from the Congress party, was supported by a large number of his State and senior leaders .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/11-nominations-filed-in-nalgonda/article33876265.ece
19 February 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Send a strong message to Centre and State: Mallu||Congress Legislature Party leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka called on farmers in Nagarjunasagar Assembly constituency on Thursday, urged them to vote for Congress party and send a message to “anti-farmer” governments in the Centre and the State. “With Jana Reddy’s victory in Nagarjunasagar, the message to TRS government will be to continue the produce procurement centres, and to the Centre, not to bring any anti-farmer policies,” he said. Mr. Vikramarka, as part of his Polam Baata ‘face-to-face’ with farmers, was at Thummadam village in Nidmanoor mandal in the district. Seated along with senior leader K. Jana Reddy, he interacted with farmers and residents. “People of Nagarjunasagar, with this election, will be remembered for saving every farmer’s future in Telangana. Jana Reddy’s election will mark a new change in the State politics,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/reject-anti-farmer-govts-mallu/article33876146.ece
19 February 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||‘Official’s commitment to HC violated’||In a move to speed up the completion of Mallannasagar reservoir in the district, the officials are bringing pressure on the displaced persons to vacate villages, that would get submerged in the project, without waiting for the Rehabilitation and Resettlement process to be completed. The displaced persons are being asked to vacate even though keys of new houses are not yet handed over. The displaced persons from Erravalli and Singaram of Kondapaka mandal have already been shifted from the villages and provided with temporary accommodation near Mutrajpally with a promise that the houses assigned to them in the R&R Colony would be handed over to them shortly. The displaced persons from Vemulaghat and Etigaddakishtapur are unhappy with administration bringing pressure on them. They point out that the authorities had given an assurance in response to writ petitions number 17222/2018 filed by Naini Saritha and 92 others of Etigaddakishtapur of Toguta mandal. On June 6, 2018, in a note submitted on the writ petition the Administrator for Rehabilitation and Resettlement and Joint Collector, Siddipet, had told the High Court that the oustees will be asked to vacate their village only after the houses were handed over to them. It was further stated: “It is further submitted that even though the land has been procured, the farmers are in possession and under cultivation of lands, since displacement of villagers and land owners will be taken up only after payment of R&R benefits and construction of R&R Colony.” Now the oustees are referring to this note and questioning the commitment of administration. “This was the note signed and submitted by the Joint Collector. What is the value of this note if it is not honoured?” questioned Md. Hayatuddin, one of the villagers from Vemulaghat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/officials-commitment-to-hc-violated/article33876258.ece
19 February 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Court misled on land boundaries, says oustee||Gandla Tirupathi, Son of Srisailam, resident of Vemulaghat village of Toguta mandal, has lodged a complaint with Siddpet Collector on Thursday alleging that wrong information was provided by the officials with regard to identification of his land as directed by the High Court. He has added some documents claiming that the borders demarcating the nearly one acre land shown as his land were different from the ones recorded in the title documents. Recently, Mr. Tirupathi approached the High Court alleging that the officials have violated court directions and his land was tilled over completely erasing all the boundary markings. The authorities informed the court that his land was intact and they were ready to show it and hand it over to him. The Court has directed the district authorities to physically show the land to Mr. Tirupathi. On February 11, the Toguta Tahsildar has conducted a panchanama and shown a parcel of land to Mr. Tirupathi stating that it this was the actual land that was in his document. He rejected it and informed the officials the same day. “I stand by my claim that the land shown by the officials not belongs to me,” Mr. Tirupathi told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/court-misled-on-land-boundaries-says-oustee/article33876259.ece
19 February 2021||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Official in ACB net||Officials of Anti-Corruption Bureau, Hyderabad, on Thursday caught an assistant labour officer red-handed while taking bribe of Rs. 5,000 for an official service. P. Srinivas Rao, ALO at Kodad, demanded Rs. 15, 000 bribe to process an application.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/official-in-acb-net/article33876263.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Arrangements made for Legislative Council polls||The district administration has begun finalising the election management plan for the upcoming Legislative Council elections to the Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda Graduates constituency scheduled to be held on March 14. The predominantly tribal populated district has a total of 41,571 registered graduate voters including 24,733 male, 16,829 female and nine in “Others” category. For the next month’s MLC election, as many as 62 polling stations have been identified with 671 voters per polling station on an average in the district, sources said. Around 300 polling personnel including 75 each Presiding Officers and Assistant Presiding Officers are expected to be drafted for the election duty. Collector M V Reddy on Thursday said a control room has been set up to attend to election related complaints, if any. The phone number is 08744 241950.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/arrangements-made-for-legislative-council-polls/article33876268.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Caution sounded against forest fire||Principal Chief Conservator of Forests R.Sobha has put the district level officials on alert about the possibility of forest fires in the upcoming summer months, and asked them to take all precautionary measures required to prevent such accidents. Addressing a video conference with circle level and district level forest officials on Thursday, Ms.Sobha asked the officials to identify fire prone regions, and increase surveillance. She issued directions for increased foot patrolling by the forest staff, and measures to spread awareness among the wayfarers about the behaviour that could lead to fire accidents. When fire is reported, ground truthing should be done to ascertain the causes. Fire tenders and quick response teams should be kept available in each district, she added. The PCCF also reviewed water availability for the wildlife, preparations for Haritha Haram, project clearances and other issues, during the video conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/call-for-measures-to-prevent-forest-fire/article33876149.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||In full glory||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/in-full-glory/article33876256.ece
19 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Local meetings ensured huge turnout for rail roko stir’||With railway tracks being blocked in several parts of the country, protesting farmers at the Singhu border on Thursday said that while they were holding fort at the Capital’s borders, several localised meetings had ensured that people from their respective villages had participated in large numbers in the rail roko protest. Stationed at the Delhi borders for nearly three months, the farmers from Delhi’s neighbouring States had called for a rail roko protest on Thursday. Emphasising on regular meetings for mobilisation for the protest, Sukhjeet Singh, a farmer from Patiala’s Ajrawar village said: “Around 40 people from our village have gone for the rail roko protest. Several others have joined from neighbouring villages as well and assembled at Shambhu railway station which is on the Punjab-Haryana border.” “Several meetings have taken place over the last few weeks to increase awareness among the farmers and villagers in all districts. We also had discussions on the Food Safety Act, Labour Act and so on. We are attempting to have a larger discussion among villagers to highlight how these series of legislations will be detrimental to all,” said Mr. Singh. Action plans Apart from mahapanchayats that are being organised across Haryana, Punjab and U.P., preparation for further action plans are also under way, the farmers said. Reiterating their demands for a complete repeal of the three laws, they said they would peacefully carry out directions of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha and their respective calls for protest. Ramandeep Singh, a farmer from Punjab’s Allowal village, said: “Around 15-20 people from our village have gone today [Thursday] for the protest. Whatever calls we get from the unions will be followed and we will ensure they are peaceful. We are not going to do anything that will affect the common citizens.” “All we can hope now is that the government accepts our demands. Nobody wants to live away from their homes. We are here out of sheer helplessness. But what the government also needs to realise is that we will continue staying here till the laws are repealed, no matter how long it takes,” added Mr. Singh. Increased mobilisation Manpreet Singh, another farmer from Punjab’s Fatehgarh Sahib district, meanwhile, said, “Just like we observed the ‘chakka jam’ protest peacefully, farmers and villagers ensured that the rail roko protest is peaceful. We will continue registering our protest in a peaceful manner and with the increase in awareness we are seeing an increased mobilisation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/local-meetings-ensured-huge-turnout-for-rail-roko-stir/article33875828.ece
19 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||ABVP holds protest, calls for complete reopening of DU||The Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) on Thursday organised a protest at Delhi University’s North Campus calling for the complete reopening of the university and resumption of on-campus classes. The students said that several universities have started a phased reopening as per the guidelines issued by the Central government, and the university authorities had issued guidelines for the commencement of physical classes. Reopening of library The students also demanded that they be allowed to choose between online and offline modes regarding the term-end examinations, besides calling for the reopening of libraries, hostels and declaration of results. The ABVP said that a delegation of office-bearers called on the Proctor and Dean, Students Welfare and presented a memorandum of grievances and were assured by the university that the phased reopening of the campus had already started and by the first week of March, several facilities that are still unavailable would be made available to students. Sidharth Yadav, State secretary, ABVP Delhi, said: “While we have pushed for an expeditious reopening of the varsity, we have not insisted on compulsory attendance. Post resumption, the university administration must ensure the continued availability of virtual classroom instructions and on-campus attendance for students should remain voluntary.” He added that the delegation’s meeting with the officials of the varsity was promising and that the process of reopening the university campus would be set in motion without further delay to safeguard the interests of the student community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/abvp-holds-protest-calls-for-complete-reopening-of-du/article33875822.ece
19 February 2021||New Delhi,||Six held for illegal supply of ammunition||Six members of a syndicate illegally supplying ammunition were arrested with 4,500 live cartridges, the police said on Thursday. The accused have been identified as Ramesh Kumar (46), Dipanshu Mishra (35), Ikram (40), Akram (42), Manoj Kumar (39) and Amit Rao (33), they said. The police claimed that it is one of the biggest haul of cartridges in Delhi. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav said six people were arrested by the northern range of Delhi Police’s Special Cell and 4,500 live cartridges were seized from them. Mr. Yadav said the first arrest in the case was made on February 14. A trap was laid near Mukundpur flyover on Outer Ring Road where Ramesh arrived in a car and handed over a plastic bag to Deepanshu. Both of them were arrested after a brief chase and 4,000 illegal cartridges were recovered from them, the senior official said. At the instance of these two accused, the main source of supply of this syndicate, Amit, was arrested from Mansarovar Industrial Area in Jaipur on Tuesday, he said. Following more raid the next day, Ikram was arrested from Panipat and Akram from Karnal and 500 cartridges were recovered from his possession. Manoj was arrested from Panchkula, he added. “During interrogation, all the accused disclosed that they are part of an illegal cartridges supply syndicate and received the ammunition from Ramesh. They then supplied them to various people, including criminals in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh,” Mr. Yadav said. To earn quick buck Investigations revealed that Ramesh had been working at Ambala Gun House since 2018 and earned Rs. 10,000 per month. But owing to his low income, he lured Amit, the owner of Ambala Gun House to sell cartridges illegally in the grey market so that they could earn a quick buck, the senior police officer said. Amit used to buy cartridges from an ammunition company, but did not make proper entry in the record book. Ramesh and Amit then sold these cartridges at higher rates to various people, including Deepanshu and others at Rs. 125 per cartridge, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/six-held-for-illegal-supply-of-ammunition/article33875825.ece
19 February 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi court seeks filing status of chargesheets forwarded in 3 years||Taking a strong note of non-filing of chargesheets by the Investigating Officers (IOs) despite being forwarded by a senior officer, a Delhi court has sought the filing status of chargesheets forwarded in the last three years and said it would definitely “unearth many hidden ghosts” (files) and “wake many souls [IOs] from slumber”. Non-filing of chargesheets despite being forwarded by a senior officer amounted to undermining the hierarchy and discipline of service, the court said. It added that late filing of chargesheets despite timely completion of the investigation shook the confidence of an ordinary citizen in the justice delivery system. A time period be fixed for filing forwarded chargesheets and IOs should be asked to strictly comply with it, the court said, adding that such time should not be more than 30 days from the date of forwarding of chargesheet by the ACP concerned. Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Arvind Bansal directed the Additional Commissioners of Police (ACPs) concerned to prepare a list of the chargesheets forwarded in the last three years – 2018 to 2020 – and sought status report of filing from the IOs concerned. It further directed the ACPs concerned to devise a mechanism under the guidance of DCP (South-East) to check and ensure that all the chargesheets signed/forwarded by them were duly submitted with the court. “It is observed that non-filing of chargesheets despite being forwarded by a senior officer amounts to undermining the hierarchy and discipline of service. “The ACPs concerned should prepare a list of chargesheets forwarded in the last three years [2018-2020] and seek status of filing from the IOs concerned. It is firmly believed that the same would definitely unearth many hidden ghosts [files] and wake up many souls [IOs] from slumber,” the court said in its order passed on February 16. It said retaining of “forwarded” files by IOs reflects a missing link in the chain of factors requiring expeditious administration of criminal justice. The court said it could not find any rule in the ‘standing order’ of the worthy Commissioner of Police, Delhi, requiring the IOs to submit the chargesheets with the court within a certain time.  ACPs concerned should prepare a list of chargesheets forwarded in the last three years [2018-2020] and seek status of filing from the IOs concerned Delhi court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-court-seeks-filing-status-of-chargesheets-forwarded-in-3-years/article33875818.ece
19 February 2021||New Delhi,||Caste-based question in DSSSB exam: FIR ordered||A Delhi court has directed the authority concerned to register an FIR under the provisions of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, in a case of caste-based question being allegedly asked in the primary teachers’ recruitment exam by the Delhi Subordinate Services Selection Board (DSSSB). Additional Sessions Judge Ravinder Bedi said prima facie, the alleged words in questions papers of 2018 and 2019 disclosed commission of various cognisable offences committed by the DSSSB. The court directed the officer empowered under the Act to conduct an investigation in the case and file a monthly report before the court. “I observe that the question with caste abusive words was set up in paper by paper setter not only once i.e. on October 13, 2018, but again the very next vear i.e. in paper dated August 18, 2019. “Prima facie, the alleged words in questions papers of 2018 and 2019, as pointed out by complainant, disclose commission of various cognisable offences committed by the respondent/DSSSB and an investigation is required into these,” the judge said in his order passed on February 17. The court’s directions came while allowing an application filed by advocate Satya Prakash Gautam, seeking action against the DSSSB Chairman and the erring officials of the examination committee under the Act. The application claimed that a caste-based question was asked in the exam conducted on October 13, 2018, by the DSSSB. The judge said that his attention has been drawn to the detailed report by the IO, filed in September 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/caste-based-question-in-dsssb-exam-fir-ordered/article33875819.ece
19 February 2021||New Delhi,||3 held for demanding Rs. 1 cr. from businessman||Three members of Neeraj Bawana gang were arrested for allegedly demanding Rs. 1 crore from a businessman, the police said on Thursday. The accused have been identified as Vivek Dabas alias Rahul (23), a resident of Sultanpur Dabas village and Himanshu (20) and Ravi Dalala (25), both residents of Hiran Kudna village, they said. On February 2, Jafapur Kalan police station received information that some unidentified men had fired outside a shop, the police said. Tarun, who was the complainant and runs a spare parts shop, said two men came to his shop and assaulted him. They also demanded “protection money”. He alleged that a few days back, he had also got a slip asking him to pay Rs. 1 crore, a senior police officer said. On December 4 last year, Begumpur police station also received information that a person had sustained bullet injury in Rohini’s Sector-24, they said. The police reached the spot and found two people with injuries. One of them, Yovin, was taken to a hospital where he was declared brought dead, while the other, Sachin, received treatment, the officer said. “ The police got a tip-off on that Vivek, involved in the murder case, would come with his accomplices at a place in Najafgarh. Thereafter, a trap was laid and three people were nabbed,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said. Interrogation revealed that the accused, all members of Neeraj Bawana gang, were planning a double murder to establish their clout. Vivek and his accomplices had Rs. 1 crore from the businessman after they were told to do so by Sunny Issapur and Naveen Bali, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/3-held-for-demanding-rs-1-cr-from-businessman/article33875820.ece
19 February 2021||New Delhi,||AQI expected to be ‘very poor’ today||The air quality of Delhi and Noida continued to be in ‘very poor’ category and Gurugram’s in ‘poor’ category on Thursday, according to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. Air pollution of ‘very poor’ level can cause respiratory illness on prolonged exposure, as per the CPCB. The AQI (Air Quality Index) of Delhi is expected to remain at the same level on Friday. “Surface winds are low and forecast to stay low today [Friday] and tomorrow [Saturday]. Low ventilation is likely to influence the AQI negatively. The AQI is likely to marginally deteriorate and stay within the middle end of ‘very poor’ category on February 19. The AQI is likely to improve on February 20 and 21,” said a statement by government-run monitoring agency, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). The speed of surface-level winds was “low”, which led to accumulation of pollutants near the surface. Also, the “mixing layer height”, which is the height from ground level up to which pollutants can be dispersed, was “moderate”. This led to lesser accumulation of pollutants near the surface. The AQI of Delhi was 302 on Thursday, as per the CPCB’s 4 p.m. bulletin, which is an average of the past 24 hours. The values for Gurugram and Noida were 296 and 315. An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/aqi-expected-to-be-very-poor-today/article33875823.ece
19 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||DMRC shuts 4 metro stations for five hours||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Thursday closed entry and exit gates of four stations for nearly five hours in view of the rail blockade called by the protesting farmers. Tikri border, Pandit Shree Ram Sharma, Bahadurgarh City and Brigadier Hoshiar Singh metro stations on the Green Line were closed around 11.20 a.m. following security advisories. Services normalised around 4.20 p.m., said the DMRC. Earlier in the day, the police tightened security in several parts of the national capital, especially near the railway tracks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dmrc-shuts-4-metro-stations-for-five-hours/article33875826.ece
19 February 2021||Mumbai,||No action yet against Haffkine officials for flouting CVC norms||No action has been taken against errant officials of Haffkine Biopharmaceutical Corporation Ltd. though three years have passed since an inquiry committee submitted its report on the State government undertaking allegedly issuing tenders worth Rs. 150 crore in violation of Central Vigilance Commission guidelines. On February 3 this year, former chief minister and Congress MLA Prithviraj Chavan wrote to Dr. Sandeep Rathod, managing director of Haffkine Biopharmaceutical Corporation Ltd., seeking information on the status of the report and if any action has been taken. However, Mr. Chavan did not receive a response. Mr. Rathod said, “I am not aware of Mr. Chavan’s letter. I will have to look into the report being talked about. As of now, I have not come across the report.”    The Hindu was first to report on the alleged violation of norms and it has now learnt that attempts to access the report through the Right to Information Act have been thwarted. Following the allegations, the then State government on October 30, 2017, constituted a four-member inquiry committee and directed it to submit a report within a month. In the State Assembly’s winter session in December 2017, Mr. Chavan had raised the issue and the then minister-in-charge of Haffkine, Girish Bapat, said the government was looking into the allegations. The committee finally submitted its report in May 2018, but it has been kept under wraps since then. All attempts to bring the report into the public domain have been stonewalled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/no-action-yet-against-haffkine-officials-for-flouting-cvc-norms/article33875749.ece
19 February 2021||Mumbai,||Amid spike, duration of budget session in doubt||There is uncertainty over the duration of the Maharashtra Assembly’s budget session owing to a sudden spike in COVID-19 cases in the State. Though a four-week-long session had been planned, a meeting of the Business Advisory Committee on Thursday mulled reducing it to one week. Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari has written to the State government to conduct the election for the Speaker’s post during the session. The post became vacant when Nana Patole quit as Speaker and took over as the State Congress chief. A senior minister said, “The election will be held by voice vote on the first day or Deputy Speaker Narhari Zirwal will conduct proceedings and the election will be held on the session’s last day.” Contenders for the post include Congress MLAs Sangram Thopte, Suresh Varpudkar and Amin Patel, and Tribal Affairs Minister K.C. Padvi. Meanwhile, Leader of the Opposition Devendra Fadnavis asked why the State government was scared to hold an election to fill the post despite being in majority in the Assembly. The BJP leader said the budget session should be held as planned for four weeks. “The legislature is a place where issues concerned with people are discussed. If Parliament can be held, why can’t we hold an Assembly session here?” Mr. Fadnavis said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/amid-spike-duration-of-budget-session-in-doubt/article33875748.ece
19 February 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Navi Mumbai corporation presents Rs. 4,825 cr. budget||Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) Commissioner Abhijit Bangar on Thursday presented a budget of Rs. 4,825 crore for the financial year 2021-22. For the first time since 1995, the budget was presented without the elected representatives as the term of corporators ended in May 2020 and the election could not take place due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Hence, this year, the budget was presented and accepted by Mr. Bangar himself in the capacity of an administrator. “The budget is citizen-focused, and we have given more importance to environment, education, and health,” Mr. Bangar said. The estimated expenditure for the next financial year is Rs. 4,822.30 crore. In view of COVID-19, the health department has been allocated Rs. 100 crore more than what was earmarked last year. While Rs. 166.60 crore was allocated for 2020-21, the figure is Rs. 276.6 crore for 2021-22. Of the Rs. 166.60 crore, Rs. 44.81 crore will be spent on setting up new hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/navi-mumbai-corporation-presents-rs-4825-cr-budget/article33875752.ece
19 February 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra records nearly 5,500 fresh cases||Maharashtra reported a spike of 5,427 COVID-19 cases on Thursday as the State’s active case tally breached the 40,000 mark to reach 40,858. The total case tally now stands at 20,81,520. With 38 fatalities, the total death toll has climbed to 51,669. Just 2,543 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of recoveries to 19,85,261. While the recovery rate dipped to 95.5%, the case fatality rate stood at 2.48%. Amid the surge, Nationalist Congress Party leaders Jayant Patil and Eknath Khadse became the latest politicians in the State to test positive for the virus. While both leaders took to Twitter to say they were “doing fine”, Mr. Patil, the Water Resources Minister, said he would be “undertaking his duties via video-conferencing”. Both leaders have urged people who have come in contact with them over the past few days to self-isolate and get tested. The surge in cases has set alarm bells ringing in districts in the Vidarbha region, which reported steep spikes in the past fortnight. District administrations in Amravati, Buldhana and Yavatmal imposed restrictions on gatherings, and the Buldhana District Collector issued orders for schools, colleges and private coaching classes to remain shut till February 28. Weekly markets in Buldhana will remain closed after 4 p.m. and only 50 people will be allowed to attend religious processions and functions, including weddings. Pune reported more than 850 new cases to take its total case tally to 3,97,402. A single death took the death toll to 8,019. As per district authorities, the active case tally rose to 5,294, with a recovery rate of 96.36%. 736 cases in Mumbai Mumbai reported a consecutive surge of more than 700 cases. With 736 new cases pushed its total case tally to 3,16,487, of which 4,782 are active. Four fatalities saw the city’s death toll reach 11,432. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported nearly 700 new cases, taking the district’s total case tally to 1,42,585, of which 5,466 are currently active. Eleven deaths saw the total death toll rise to 3,450. Amravati reported a consecutive second-day surge of more than 700 cases, taking its total tally to 27,874, of which 4,020 are active. No deaths were reported as its toll stayed constant at 419. Yavatmal reported 131 cases, taking its total to 16,682, of which 692 are active. No deaths were reported as the death toll stayed at 465. Buldhana reported 144 fresh cases but no deaths. Its case tally stands at 16,152, of which 1,093 are active, while the toll remains at 254. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported no deaths, while 87 fresh cases saw the total case tally rise to 57,726, of which just 868 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,833. Sangli reported just 18 cases as the district’s reported cases reached 51,122, of which only 492 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,789.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-records-nearly-5500-fresh-cases/article33875751.ece
19 February 2021||Houston,||Texas shivers amid power outages, water shortages||Power was gradually being restored but hundreds of thousands of households remained without electricity on Thursday across Texas, the oil and gas capital of the U.S., with some facing water shortages as a deadly winter cold spell that pummelled the southeastern part of the country headed east. The National Weather Service (NWS) issued a winter storm warning. It said the storm would bring ice, sleet and heavy snow to parts of Texas, Louisiana, Arkansas and Mississippi as it tracks to the northeast, causing power outages, tree damage and making driving hazardous. Even though the Arctic air mass was beginning to lose its grip on an area of the country not used to such extreme cold, the frigid temperatures would continue, the NWS said. More than 30 storm-related deaths have been reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/texas-shivers-amid-power-outages-water-shortages/article33875482.ece
19 February 2021||Yangon,||Anti-coup hackers target Myanmar government sites||Hackers targeted Myanmar government websites on Thursday to protest against the military coup, as the junta pressed on with its attempts to stymie nationwide opposition with Internet blockades and troop deployments. The cyberattacks came a day after tens of thousands of people rallied across the country to protest against the generals toppling Aung San Suu Kyi’s civilian government earlier this month. A group called Myanmar Hackers disrupted websites including the Central Bank, the Myanmar military’s propaganda page, state-run broadcaster MRTV, the Port Authority, and the Food and Drug Administration. “We are fighting for justice in Myanmar,” the group said on its Facebook page. “It is like mass protesting of people in front of government websites.” State-run newspaper New Light of Myanmar also confirmed that military websites were “under attacks”, with delays on Wednesday. For a second day, motorists in Yangon blockaded roads with vehicles, leaving their bonnets up and pretending they were broken down to stop security forces from moving around.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/anti-coup-hackers-target-myanmar-government-sites/article33875476.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,||A megaphone for Trumpism that preceded Trump’s rise||Rush Limbaugh, a popular radio commentary host who dominated the “conservative airwaves” in the U.S., died at the age of 70 on Wednesday. Limbaugh was a powerful voice for the conservative movement and a strident and rabid critique of liberalism and progressivism. His four-decade-old radio stint took a turn towards hardline political commentary in the late 1980s after the Reagan administration revoked the Fairness Doctrine, a decision that opened the floodgates for unbalanced opinion on controversial issues on broadcast channels. Limbaugh’s no-holds-barred commentary continually pressed for hardline policies on issues such as welfare, promoted slander and diatribe against Democrats, liberal politicians, feminists, LGBT activists and intellectuals, upheld hard-right Republicans and went on to become one of the biggest cheerleaders for Donald Trump and his brand of politics. The support for Mr. Trump has featured a coalition of eclectic voices — non-college educated white voters, including working class people who bought into his strident talk of trade protectionism, white supremacists across several class segments, social conservatives who were buoyed by his packing of courts with conservative judges, and conspiracy theorists who have traditionally shared a deep distrust of the U.S. state or its “government”. Mr. Trump’s recourse to repeated disinformation and his questionable way of governance have never been an impediment to his core support base for whom “political correctness”, intellectualism, and progressive ideals have been anathema. One reason for Mr. Trump’s resilience despite his poor governance has been the work of Limbaugh and other conservative voices across radio and powerful TV networks such as Fox News. Limbaugh’s radio programme preceded even the establishment of Fox News, as his railing against the Washington establishment and its Democrat section in particular provided him with considerable fan following. Even before Mr. Trump became known for it, Limbaugh used racist dog whistles, controversial language and misogyny to build his image as a standard bearer for “anti-establishment” conservatism, which provided him a significant heft and an outsized influence within the Republican Party itself. Civilian honour It is no wonder that the Trump administration awarded him with the Presidential Medal of Freedom, among the highest civilian honours in the U.S.. Limbaugh and later imitators such as Glenn Beck, Sean Hannity, etc. had already blazed the path for Trumpism to take over and institutionalise itself. Limbaugh was among the key proponents of Mr. Trump’s unsubstantiated claims about the November elections and he had also compared the rioters on Capitol Hill on January 6 with partisans of the American War of Independence of the 18th century. Limbaugh’s radio megaphone pushed the establishment wing of the GOP further into the far-right in the U.S. on issues such as immigration and voter suppression. It also ultimately enabled the capture of the Republican Party by fact-free far-right ideologues. When Mr. Trump was tried in the Senate for incitement of a mob that attacked Capitol Hill on January 6 with protesters seeking out ex-Vice President Mike Pence, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi among others as the targets of their ire, only seven Republicans voted along with the 50 Democrats to convict the former President, 10 short of the two-thirds majority needed. The reticence of the bulk of the GOP to convict him was not unexpected — Mr. Trump continues to hold a lot of sway in the party base. The traditional factions represented by the fiscal conservatives, the social conservatives and the neoconservatives are subsumed under just two wings now — the ones who endorse Mr. Trump and his brand and the others who are uncomfortable with it. The latter includes sections who have thrown their lot with Mr. Trump fearful of alienating the GOP base and only a minority is willing to defy him. Years of radicalisation of the party base, thanks to the stridence of right-wing commentary, made this possible and Limbaugh played a vital role in this.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/a-megaphone-for-trumpism-that-preceded-trumps-rise/article33875484.ece
19 February 2021||Taipei,||China steps up online control over bloggers||Ma Xiaolin frequently wrote about current affairs on one of China’s leading microblogging sites, where he has 2 million followers. But recently, the Weibo site called and asked him not to post original content on topics ranging from politics to economic and military issues. “It looks like I can only go the route of entertainment, food and beverage now,” the international relations professor wrote on January 31. Beginning next week, the Cyberspace Administration of China will require bloggers and influencers to have a government-approved credential before they can publish on a wide range of subjects. Some fear that only state media and official propaganda accounts will get permission. While permits have been needed since at least 2017 to write about topics such as political and military affairs, enforcement has not been widespread. The new rules expand that requirement to health, economics, education and judicial matters. The move is in line with restrictive regulations under President Xi Jinping that constrict an already narrow space for discourse.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-steps-up-online-control-over-bloggers/article33875479.ece
19 February 2021||Washington,||Democrats set to unveil Biden’s immigration Bill||U.S. President Joe Biden’s immigration Bill, which aims to create a path to citizenship for 11 million undocumented immigrants, will be unveiled on Thursday to begin its legislative process, senior White House officials said. Two Democratic legislators, California Congresswoman Linda Sanchez and New Jersey Senator Bob Menendez, will present the initiative in the House of Representatives and the Senate, respectively. The Bill aims to create a path to citizenship for 11 million undocumented immigrants who can prove they were in the U.S. on January 1. The legislation will benefit the so-called Dreamers, people who were brought to the U.S. illegally as children and grew up there. Former President Barack Obama issued an executive order in 2012 which offered protection for Dreamers at renewable two-year periods, including authorisation to work. His successor Donald Trump attempted to end the programme in 2017. The U.S. Supreme Court ruled that the administration had not followed proper administrative procedures to end the policy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/democrats-set-to-unveil-bidens-immigration-bill/article33875480.ece
19 February 2021||Thimpu,||Bhutan General, 2 judges held for ‘overthrow’ bid||Police in Bhutan have detained a top General and two judges over an alleged plot to overthrow the country’s top military officer and Chief Justice. Former Royal Bodyguard Commandant Brigadier Thinley Tobgay, Supreme Court judge Kuenley Tshering and top district court judge Yeshey Dorji appeared in court on Wednesday after being detained at their homes. The three have been accused of plotting to overthrow the country’s top military officer, Lieutenant General Batoo Tshering, by implicating him in a corruption scandal. All were denied bail by the Thimphu district court and remanded in custody until a first formal hearing on February 27. According to reports, Brigadier Tobgay was alleged to have illegally obtained military documents on the procurement of vehicles from the United Nations.  The Bhutanese newspaper said that while the tender was handled publicly and fairly, the documents were to be used to undermine the position of the military number one.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/bhutan-general-2-judges-held-for-overthrow-plan/article33875485.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,||The way of tradition||The Vaishnava tradition upholds the pristine truths enshrined in the Vedas and the Upanishads through the hymns of the azhwars and the lineage of acharyas for the benefit of the jivatmas. The Divya Prabandha hymns of the Azhwars were brought to light through the efforts of Nathamuni, who is held to be the foremost acharya. Nathamuni was directly inspired by Nammazhwar and he codified the Prabandha hymns. In a discourse, Vanamaamalai Sri Padmanabha Swamy drew attention to an oft-quoted analogy that expresses how the tradition has evolved and has been preserved by the lineage. The Azhwars are compared to the rain bearing clouds and have drawn from the boundless ocean of grace of Lord Ranganatha to pour the essence on to the hill of Nathamuni. The waterfalls from this source refer to the teachings of Nathamuni’s immediate disciples, the Poorvacharyas like Alavandar who have been immersed in the hymns of azhwars. They have also been blessed to intuitively grasp their inner thoughts. To continue the analogy, just as the water from the falls collects as ponds and pools, their explanations, interpretations, discourses, etc, reach Ramanuja and his disciples. From here it further trickles as rivulets to reach the many jivatmas struggling to get out of samsara. The tradition has thus been preserved in the ‘Eedu,’ the valuable commentaries of the acharyas. The disciples down the line have tried to re-state and consolidate the teachings of the masters as further commentaries. The main message is one of hope that the Lord’s feet can be attained by every jivatma who longs for it. The determined jiva has to wait for the Lord’s grace once he has surrendered to His feet. Azhwars have displayed this patient wait in their hymns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/the-way-of-tradition/article33875472.ece
19 February 2021||Minsk,||Belarus jails journalists for two years over protest coverage||A Belarus court on Thursday sentenced a pair of television journalists to two years in prison for covering a protest last year, the first lengthy jail term in a legal crackdown on independent news media. Standing defiant in a cage, Katerina Bakhvalova, 27, and Daria Chultsova, 23, flashed “V” for victory signs. The two women were detained in November while filming anti-government rallies after strongman Alexander Lukashenko claimed victory in an August election.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/belarus-jails-journalists-for-two-years-over-protest-coverage/article33875478.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Is India criminalising comedy and entertainment?||Producers of entertainment content, especially stand-up comedians, are increasingly becoming the target of legal action. To take just two examples, while Kunal Kamra is facing contempt proceedings for remarks about the Supreme Court, fellow comedian Munawar Faruqui had to spend more than a month in jail on vague charges before getting bail. Are Indians so lacking in humour that their first response to a joke is to take offence and then file a case? In a discussion moderated by G. Sampath , Agrima Joshua and Arti Raghavan explore this question. Edited excerpts: All of a sudden comedians seem to be offending everybody’s feelings. What’s going on? Agrima Joshua:I don’t think this is all of a sudden. The culture of taking offence started right around the time stand-up comedy began picking up an audience on the Internet. Was this in 2011? AJ:No, 2015. In 2011, comedy was still happening mostly in clubs. As soon as comedy began reaching out to the masses on YouTube, some mainstream comedians began attracting huge amounts of outrage. So, this culture of outrage and offence has been pretty standard. What has changed since 2015? AJ:The comedy scene has evolved. Initially, it was just people coming on stage and talking about their nagging wives, women drivers, and so on. But as a particular art form evolves, you start to explore different topics, the depth and richness of your material increases. Comedians began to have an impact. I remember AIB was able to do a successful campaign on net neutrality. As comedy as an art form began to gain traction, it led to people doing satire, making observations on society, questioning power structures. It was no longer limited to elites in a comedy club. It was picking up a mass audience and creating conversations online, which is why comedy started getting a lot of attention. Is there something wrong with our laws? There seem to be so many that empower offence-takers. Arti Raghavan:Yes, the offended members of society are spoilt for choice when it comes to legal provisions they can invoke in an attempt to criminalise creative expression. Under the IPC, there are provisions relating to offending religious sentiments, the criminal defamation law, the obscenity laws, and provisions for statements that amount to public mischief. If the objectionable content is available online, there are also implications under the Information Technology Act. The problem is that the law affords protection to the prickliest common denominator in society. What’s notable about these laws is that they don’t only prohibit speech that harms vulnerable communities, or speech that reinforces historical prejudices against them, such as homophobic speech. Our speech laws are class agnostic and group agnostic. So, they lend themselves to powerful classes and communities, which may be quick to take offence, to use these laws even if they’re not tangibly harmed and seek prosecution on that basis. How is offending someone’s ‘sentiments’ a crime when that person is not physically or otherwise materially harmed? AR:Offending someone’s sentiments is itself recognised as a harm under criminal law. This is unfortunate because the role of art and comedy is often to provoke and to offend. So, it’s unsurprising that content that pushes the envelope has been sought to be criminalised. How does such weaponisation of the law affect comedians? AJ:Lots of brands and companies do not want to be associated with an artist who has a political background. I won’t say any comedian has a political background as such, but if you have certain political leanings, or they assume that your jokes do, they immediately tag you as a ‘controversial artist’. Do you mean any kind of political leaning? What about a pro-government comedian? AJ:There’s no such thing as a pro-government comedian because the very essence of comedy is to be audacious, to make fun of the people in power. If you are making pro-government jokes, I don’t know how anyone would find them funny. Is Section 295A applicable only for official religions? Can I say that Sachin Tendulkar is my god and sue someone who has made fun of him, on the grounds that my religious sentiments have been hurt? AR:There is no restrictive reading in the law as to what qualifies as a religion. It’s not been defined under the IPC. The consequence is that it can be applied to, for instance, a self-proclaimed godman or a cult. While Tendulkar, I hope, is still a stretch, it could apply to situations where it was never meant to really apply, as there is no tight definition as to what could amount to religious feelings, which is what makes this provision so prone to misuse. AJ:So, can I just declare Fawad Khan as my religion and file an FIR against whoever makes insulting remarks about him? AR:I’m sure there would be a police officer who may privately agree with you that Fawad is a more godly figure than a lot of other establishment figures or gods. But this hasn’t been tested in a court of law yet. AJ:I can use the FIR as an intimidation tactic. If somebody makes a meme on Fawad Khan and I don’t like it, I can take a screenshot of that FIR and go like, ‘Buddy, I’ve done this for you. Now delete your tweet.’ AR:I wouldn’t advise it. Under what provision of law can a comedian be penalised for making ‘anti-national’ jokes? AR:It’s irresponsible and wrong for a government to be going after ‘anti-national’ content, which is not a legal concept. Often, criticism of the government is elevated to the status of sedition. And that’s what is used to prosecute individuals who criticise the government. Though the ‘anti-national’ label has no legal status, the labeling feeds into the prejudice that’s created against these individuals through the media. This prejudice is eventually leveraged when there is an intention to prosecute them, so that some antipathy is created against these individuals. There was a time when, say, only rape jokes were taboo. Has the list of subjects one can’t joke about grown over time? AJ:Are you really saying rape jokes are taboo? Please go through the so-called YouTube comedians and look at the kind of content they make. India is very okay with rape jokes, misogynistic jokes, casteist jokes, jokes that make fun of marginalised people. The limits to the topics that people can joke about have always been there. But they are only there to protect the already powerful. Tomorrow, they’ll say you can’t make jokes on Adani-Ambani also. If something occurs to me as really funny, I will joke about it – it’s as simple as that. If I was a Delhi guy with an ex that I obsessed about, and I wanted to write jokes only about her, I would do that, because that was something I would think about all the time. But that’s not what I think about all the time. When I wake up, I see the news a lot. What I see seems ridiculous to me, and I write about it. It’s not that you sit with an agenda that I must make a joke on the establishment. Is not having a sense of humour one of the eligibility criteria to become a lawyer or judge? AR:As a lawyer, I should perhaps attempt a defence here, but I have to agree that the legal community in India takes itself too seriously. I don’t know if you’ve had the misfortune of actually being in a courtroom, because what passes off as courtroom banter will just bear out the point that you made: lawyers and judges lack a sense of humour. Indian society in general lacks a sense of humour. But why this is a uniquely problematic aspect of the legal community is that it is instrumental in shaping and giving effect to the laws that protect freedom of speech. So, its conservatism has a direct impact on how the law is applied. For instance, obscenity laws adopt a community standard test. The test is whether the material is offensive in the context of contemporary social mores and attitudes. In a country of over 1.3 billion people, determining this standard is impossible. So, what is applied is the social and cultural consciousness of judges and lawyers. Is our justice system inherently biased in favour of tradition, making for an intangible but real conservative bias? AR:The legal community clings to tradition. It has very rigid hierarchies, and an almost comical reverence for authority. There was this case where a young woman was jailed for reposting a meme about West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. When she was released on bail, the Supreme Court directed her – remember that this is the stage of bail, when she’s not even been tried or convicted – to issue an apology to the Chief Minister. So, the servility that is so common in this profession manifests itself in the outcomes in courtrooms. Also, when sitting judges of the Supreme Court heap praises on the Prime Minister, referring to him as a ‘versatile genius’ and ‘visionary’, this isn’t the kind of judiciary that’s going to be robust in protecting the acts of citizens who are thumbing their noses at authority. As Agrima said, comedy, at its finest, is audacious. And that’s not a sentiment that finds any currency in the legal community. AJ:If our freedom fighters had had this much reverence for authority, I don’t think we would have been able to get our freedom. If you have unquestionable reverence for authority, how are you going to fix systems that are broken? The problem with comedy is that because we are seeing things in such comical fashion, because it’s technically comedy, people assume it’s insulting rather than something that is supposed to make you think. So, people automatically assume the worst of us, they assume that we are just trying to offend people. I can write a 2,000-word essay to explain my point. But it won’t be funny, and nobody will listen to that in a comedy show. To convey my point, I have to say it in a funny way. If it is funny, it is going to be a little disrespectful. In India, many would consider it fair that if you’re going to be disrespectful of authority, there will be consequences. AR:You see this in contempt proceedings often. You have an institution that unfortunately suffers from a god complex — historically, judgments have had these self-serving, self-promoting notions of the majesty of justice coming from the courts of law, and how the Supreme Court is the temple of justice. A truly democratic institution will leave that to the people to judge and won’t be claiming such titles for itself. But that institutional circumspection and humility hasn’t happened yet. So is it fair to say India is criminalising comedy? AJ:Comedy has existed in India in other forms. Long before YouTube and stand-up, there used to be Haasya Kavi Sammelans, which are satirical poetry gatherings. I would encourage everybody who has a problem with stand-up comedy to check out the works of these Hindi poets. Surender Sharma, for example. They make allusions to gods and goddesses, to mythology. They use religion as an allegory to comment on inequalities. So I really want to know why we keep isolating stand-up comedy as something evil and immoral when this form of satire has existed for such a long time.  There’s no such thing as a pro-government comedian because the very essence of comedy is to make fun of the people in power. Agrima Joshua||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/is-india-criminalising-comedy-and-entertainment/article33875470.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,||The pressing need to adjudicate, not mediate||The recent judgment of the Supreme Court that refused to review its earlier verdict on the Shaheen Bagh protest is inseparable from its political context. The verdict of October 7, 2020 declared that there is no absolute right to protest, and it could be subjected to the orders of the authority regarding the place and time. Apart from thinking about the legal and constitutional issues, it can also lead to a discourse on the moral authority of the top court in dealing with such fundamental questions related to freedom. Protests, a political challenge Both the judgments came out at the time of ongoing street agitations. Protest “at anytime and anywhere” has not been as simple as conceived in the judgments. The agitations against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) and the farm laws also brought out the immense agony and hardship that the protesters had to face. In the anti-farm laws struggle, they experienced suffering over almost the entire winter for a cause which they believe as one that concerns the whole nation. They had to pay a heavy price for their convictions. Many were subjected to malicious prosecution by the state on serious charges of sedition and terrorist activities. Not only the protesters but also their supporters, including comedians and journalists, were not spared. All freedoms under Article 19 of the Constitution, from freedom of expression to that of peaceful association, were seriously impaired. Even today, many languish in jail for the offence of dissent and the more serious offence of ‘ andolan ’. Disha Ravi, a 22-year-old climate activist, was booked recently for ‘conspiracy against the government’. Such arrests continue because the protests are a political challenge to the existing regime, a theme which the Court did not even address with contextual details. A problematic ‘balancing’ There is a more significant question that a citizen could pose against the Court’s pronouncements on the Shaheen Bagh protest. The agitations on the street became an imperative because the issues were not subjected to a timely judicial examination. The subject matter of almost all the major protests which have happened recently in India, be it over ‘economic reservation’, the CAA or the farms laws, involved legal and constitutional issues requiring immediate and effective adjudication in terms of their constitutional validity. The top court could not exercise its constitutional role and ensure judicial scrutiny on an aggrandising executive and an equally imposing Parliament by exercising its counter-majoritarian function. Having failed to do so, the kind of ‘balancing’ which the Court now tries to attain by way of the Shaheen Bagh orders will pose more questions than it answers. In the original judgment on Shaheen Bagh, the Court attempted to “mediate” the issue and admitted in the judgment that it “did not produce any solution”. The Court’s duty during the testing times is to adjudicate, and not to mediate. A reconciliatory approach is not a substitute for juridical assertion. The review petition provided the Supreme Court an opportunity to revisit its earlier folly where it merely acted as a judicial extension of the executive. It could have taken empirical lessons from a political situation that was almost proximate to an internal Emergency. Constitutional morality is a philosophy that should primarily apply to the constitutional courts. Dr. B.R. Ambedkar used this idea in terms of institutions and not of individuals. Had there been a timely adjudication of the validity of the laws which was questioned by the process recognised by the law, the torment on the street could have been probably reduced. Think fair and effective A fair and effective adjudicative mechanism in constitutional matters can meaningfully sublimate the agitation on the street. Studies have shown that social movements could be less radical and less oppositional when the issues could be effectively sorted out by way of fair litigative means. Sociologist Luke Martell was of the opinion that the radical green movement in Britain has been at a slower pace when compared with other parts of western Europe, because the “public enquiry system” in the United Kingdom could “process ecological demands, integrate them into the political system and minimise radicalisation of the movement arising out of exclusion and marginalisation”. The principle can have application across the constitutional democracies. The textbook theory of “balancing” the right to protest and the right to move along the road does not need any reiteration in the constitutional climate of the present day. When fear is the new normal for the average Indian, the Court’s only role is to act as the guardian of the right to dissent. In the review petition, the petitioners rightly apprehended that the observations in the earlier judgment against the indefinite occupation of public space “may prove to be a license in the hands of the police to commit atrocities on legitimate voice of protest”. The Court, by its present rejection of the plea, has reinforced an illiberal state’s intimidating stand during another unjust political situation. Its affirmation of the earlier view is not merely insensitive or surreal. It illustrates an instance of “abusive judicial review”, as described by David Landau and Rosalind Dixon, where the Court not only refuses to act as the umpire of democracy but aids the executive in fulfilling its strategies. In the process, it legitimises very many illegitimate state actions.  State’s intrusion is a worry In the 2020 verdict,the Supreme Court has also failed to properly appreciate and contextualise the earlier Constitution Bench judgment in Himat Lal K. Shah vs Commissioner of Police (1972) even after referring to it. It is the state’s intrusion into the realm of rights that should worry the Court. In Himat Lal K. Shah , the Court said that the rule framed by the Ahmedabad Police Commissioner conferred arbitrary power on the police officers in the matter of public meetings and, therefore, was liable to be struck down. Justice Kuttyil Kurien Mathew, in Himat Lal K. Shah , explained that “freedom of assembly is an essential element of a democratic system” and that “the public streets are the ‘natural’ places for expression of opinion and dissemination of ideas”. In the review petition, it was not the cause alone that was tried. It was also the Court. Kaleeswaram Raj is a lawyer at the Supreme Court of India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-pressing-need-to-adjudicate-not-mediate/article33875459.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Effecting a social rise, starting a political experiment||In a rare exercise last week, the Government of India tabled the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order (Amendment) Bill 2021 that seeks to give effect to a long-standing political demand to group seven Scheduled Caste subsects in Tamil Nadu under the heritage name ‘Devendrakula Velalar’ (DKV). The subsects include Devendrakulathan, Kadaiyan (excluding the coastal areas of Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Ramanathapuram, Pudukottai, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam districts), Kalladi, Kudumban, Pallan, Pannadi and Vathiriyan. These subsects have a predominant presence in south Tamil Nadu, which is a communally sensitive region. The rationale Caste-based political parties and organisations, spearheading the demand, feel that shedding individual Dalit caste tags would help in the social advancement of the community. Their argument is that existing caste names were being used more in a derogatory sense to belittle the community. The DKVs, they insist, were prosperous wetland owners, and not oppressed sections, socially or economically. Besides, these seven Scheduled Caste subsects share similarities, culturally. The demand for such grouping has its genesis in latter day British India when these subsects were included under the Scheduled Castes on the basis of their economic conditions. However, the voices remained feeble for long, only gaining traction in the 1990s with the emergence of influential community leaders such as K. Krishnasamy (founder, Puthiya Tamilagam) and John Pandian (founder, Tamizhaga Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam). Caste clashes between the Mukkulathors, an Other Backward Classes (OBC) community, and the Pallars, in the latter half of 1990s over the naming of districts and transport corporations after community leaders, led to a community consolidation. By the turn of the millennium, the community leaders placed an unusual additional demand — to delist the seven subsects from the Scheduled Castes arguing that being in the Schedule, instead of being a facilitator, served as a detriment to social advancement. This was at a time when some OBC communities were vociferous in wanting to be socially devalued and included among the Most Backward Classes. A political risk Mr. Krishnasamy, as MLA, periodically raised the twin demands of grouping and exclusion from the Scheduled Castes list. Mainstream parties were cognisant of these demands but treaded cautiously given the sensitivity of the subject and the dissent among sections of the subsects over the ‘delisting’ proposal. Delisting and shuffling of castes from one reserved social class to another was fraught with political and administrative risks. It could not only disturb the internal sharing of the communal reservation quota pool by existing castes, but also invite objections from other communities or spur political demands for similar reclassification. In February 2011, Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi (Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam) responding to an appeal from senior Congress leader S. Peter Alphonse, constituted a one-man committee headed by Justice M.S. Janarthanam (retd.) to examine the grouping of the seven sub-castes. A change in regime in May 2011 halted progress. However, in 2015 the issue drew national attention when the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leadership, sensing a political opportunity to consolidate a vote bank in Tamil Nadu, a State where it has minimal presence, threw its weight behind the demand. As per Census 2011, the seven subsects constitute about 17.07% of the Scheduled Castes. In the southern districts, the concentration of their population in many constituencies would be far greater. Amit Shah, then BJP president, along with S. Gurumurthy, co-convener of the Swadeshi Jagran Manch, at a public meeting organised by M. Thangaraj of the Thevendrar Thannaarva Arakkattalai, endorsed the demand. Mr. Krishnasamy, suspicious of Mr. Shah’s intent then, has since veered toward the BJP. Mr. Shah took it forward by arranging a meeting between a delegation led by Mr. Thangaraj and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who instantly offered support if the State government submitted a report. Steps to a review But State Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) government was wary of being seen as hasty. It set up a committee headed by S. Sumathi, Professor of Anthropology, University of Madras, to study the issue. Her report, “Devendrakula Velalar – Cultural and Social Patterns of Seven Sub-Communities”, was not made public, but it favoured a grouping of the subsects. To win over the Puthiya Tamilagam ahead of the last parliamentary elections, Mr. Palaniswami constituted a committee headed by Hans Raj Verma, IAS, to make recommendations on the demand. Significantly, the government had eliminated the Vathiriyan caste from the purview of the panel as there was opposition from the community to being classified under DKV. With pressure from Mr. Krishnasamy mounting and the AIADMK fearing an erosion of its traditional support base of Mukkulathors due to the sidelining of the close aide of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, V.K. Sasikala, who belongs to the community, Mr. Palaniswami decided to act. In the midst of electioneering in December 2020, he announced that he would write to the Centre to classify the seven subsects (including Vathiriyan) as DKV following the Verma panel recommendation. Picking up the gauntlet The Centre lost no time and tabled the Bill in Parliament just a day before Mr. Modi visited Chennai on February 14, where he sought to personally connect with the community by saying, “Devendra rhymes with my own name Narendra.” While community leaders see the Bill as a ‘crescent’, they still insist on the fulfilment of the second demand of exclusion from the Scheduled Castes for a ‘full moon’ to rise. However, there has been opposition from within. A section of Pallars and other castes is apprehensive of losing the benefit of Scheduled Castes reservation, which is essential for access to higher education and government job opportunities. While electorally, the AIADMK-BJP alliance could now aim to consolidate the DKV vote bank, like any caste issue, it has its share of trouble. Apart from the resistance from the Vathiriyans, who even moved court challenging the demand for grouping, there is an undercurrent of resentment from within the Vellalar community, an influential OBC segment, to the assignment of the DKV title. The traditional Vellalars are spread across Tamil Nadu under sub-groups such as Kongu Vellalar, Thuluva Vellalar, Saiva Vellalar, Choliya Vellalar, Chera Vellalar and Pandya Vellalar. Claiming entitlement for the exclusive use of the ‘Vellalar’ title, they see the demand for use of the same title by the Dalit subsects as “identity theft” and “cultural misappropriation”. They claim that the use of the ‘Vellalar’ title by the subsects was a modern day inclusion by community leaders and not a historic practice. They have no objection to the social advancement of the seven subsects including their demand to be delisted from the Scheduled Castes. The Vellalars suggest that the subsects could be grouped under the title ‘Devendrakulathars’ or ‘Devendrakulars’, but not ‘Vellalar’; an electoral fallout cannot be ruled out. In fact, some Vellalar representatives have argued that in the parliamentary elections, the AIADMK-BJP alliance was hurt in Vellalar-dominated western region, its traditional stronghold, due to their backing of the DKV classification demand. They claim that Mr. Palaniswami, a Kongu Vellala Gounder, was unable to consolidate the community’s support. However, considering the anti-Modi sentiments prevalent then and in the absence of psephological evidence, it would be hard to judge if the community voted against the ruling alliance over the issue of using the Vellalar title. Dalit concerns Among the Dalits too, opinion is divided on the grouping of subsects under a common title. There are apprehensions that over time, this could trigger arguments as to which of the larger groups is numerically stronger, thereby clouding the larger Dalit cause. This section argues that Dalits as such cannot be treated as a homogeneous group considering the differences within in terms of social status and geographical identity. Whatever the outcome of the current move, it is indeed unique for a community to have placed social advancement as priority to be delisted from the Scheduled Castes forgoing the concessions it offers. Also, this would be a precedent for using anthropological study for social grouping in Tamil Nadu. Politically, though, this would remain a trapeze walk. sureshkumar.d@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/effecting-a-social-rise-starting-a-political-experiment/article33875461.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Make peace with nature now||As COVID-19 upends our lives, a more persistent crisis demands urgent action on a global scale. Three environmental crises — climate change; nature loss; and the pollution of air, soil and water — add up to a planetary emergency that will cause far more pain than COVID-19 in the long-term. For years, scientists have detailed how humanity is degrading nature. Yet the actions governments, financial institutions, businesses and individuals are taking fall short of what is needed to protect current and future generations from a hothouse Earth, beset by mass species extinctions and poisonous air and water. In 2020, the UN Environment Programme (UNEP) announced that, despite a dip in greenhouse gas emissions caused by the pandemic, the world is still headed for global warming of more than 3°C this century. This month, the Dasgupta Review reminded us of what UNEP has long warned: the per capita stock of natural capital (the resources and services nature provides to humanity) has fallen by 40% in just over two decades. We already know that a staggering nine out of 10 people worldwide breathe polluted air. Towards a sustainable future Finding answers to such daunting problems is complex. But experts have developed solutions. To guide decision-makers towards the action required, the UN has released the Making Peace with Nature report. The report pulls together all the evidence of environmental decline from major global scientific assessments, with the most advanced ideas on how to reverse it. The result is a blueprint for a sustainable future that can secure human well-being on a healthy planet. Our environmental, social and economic challenges are interlinked. They must be tackled together. For example, we cannot achieve the Sustainable Development Goals by 2030 if climate change and ecosystem collapse are undermining food and water supplies in the world’s poorest countries. We have no choice but to transform our economies and societies by valuing nature and putting its health at the heart of all our decisions. If we did this, banks and investors would stop financing fossil fuels. Governments would shift trillions of dollars in subsidies to nature-positive farming and clean energy and water. People would prioritise health and well-being over consumption and shrink their environmental footprint. What must be done? There are signs of progress, but the problems are escalating faster than our responses. The number of countries promising to work towards net-zero emissions stands at 126. The ask is for all countries to deliver stretched nationally determined contributions ahead of the climate Conference of the Parties (COP) and immediately kickstart the transitions to net-zero. At the climate COP, governments must also finally agree on the rules for a global carbon trading market. The $100 billion that developed countries promised to provide every year to help developing nations cope with the impacts of climate change must finally flow. The ask is for us is to feed the world without destroying nature, felling forests and emptying our oceans. We can create an amazing economy by moving to circular economic systems that reuse resources, reduce emissions and weed out the chemicals and toxins that are causing millions of premature deaths – all while creating jobs. Addressing our planetary emergency is a whole-of-society effort. But governments must take the lead, starting with a smart and sustainable recovery from the pandemic that invests in the right places. They must create opportunities for future industries that generate prosperity. They must ensure that transitions are fair and equitable, creating jobs for those who lose out. They must give citizens a voice in these far-reaching decisions. This year, we must make peace with nature and, in every subsequent year, we must make sure that this peace lasts. Inger Andersen is Executive Director of the UN Environment Programme||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/make-peace-with-nature-now/article33875465.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Dizzying climb||The latest retail inflation readings should, on the face of it, offer monetary authorities a fair amount of comfort given that the Consumer Price Index (CPI) rose by 4.06% in January, marking a deceleration for a second straight month to a 16-month low. Inflation appears to have cooled after having stayed stubbornly stuck above the Reserve Bank of India’s upper tolerance threshold of 6% for six months through November, helped by an appreciable softening in food prices. Specifically, the Consumer Food Price Index reflected a gain of a mere 1.89% last month as vegetable prices saw a disinflation of 15.8% and cereal prices eased considerably for a second month in the wake of kharif crop arrivals. The RBI in its monetary policy statement this month, cited “the bumper kharif crop, rising prospects of a good rabi harvest, larger winter arrivals of key vegetables and softer egg and poultry demand on avian flu fears” as factors that augured well for the months ahead. But the central bank was mindful of the risks too, especially with regard to food costs where the latest data had brought to the fore concerns over the prices of pulses and edible oils. While inflation in pulses and products was at 13.4%, that for oils and fats stood at 19.7%. Eggs and meat and fish — two other key sources of protein — both posted double-digit rates of 12.9% and 12.5%, respectively, with price gains in the former barely registering any telling impact from the avian flu outbreak. Now, with the favourable base effect beginning to wane — inflation moderated by more than 100 basis points in February 2020 to 6.58% before slowing to 5.84% in March — the outlook is far from reassuring. Of particular worry is the trend in input costs for multiple sectors in the real economy, including manufacturing. From automobile manufacturers to builders, rising raw material costs are beginning to force them to pass on the impact to the end consumers, and this at a time when demand is still to gain a firm footing. The latest IHS Markit India Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) points to the sharpest increase in purchasing costs for more than two years as ‘a lingering supply-side squeeze’ fanned inflationary pressures and manufacturers raised their product prices at the fastest pace in over a year. Add to the mix the unrelenting and dizzying climb in transportation fuel prices to newer and newer record highs in recent days and the outlook for inflation becomes distinctly darker. Diesel, the main fuel for freight carriage, has now exceeded Rs. 80 per litre and is bound to feed into prices of almost everything being transported across distances — from fresh produce to intermediate and finished industrial goods. With banks still flush with liquidity, policymakers need to maintain a strict vigil to keep inflation from resurging and posing a threat to macro-economic stability.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/dizzying-climb/article33875453.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,||End of an innings||The removal of Kiran Bedi as Puducherry’s Lieutenant Governor has provided a sense of relief to the elected government, led by the Congress, in the Union Territory. Her acrimonious relationship with Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy over the last four and a half years, eventually led the Centre to being forced to act against its own nominee to enable smooth administration at a time when the announcement of the Assembly elections is just round the corner. Despite her laying emphasis on sanitation, rejuvenation of waterbodies, and transparency and accountability in the administration, Ms. Bedi ended up, in the eyes of the public, being someone who was disrupting administration. Her many differences with the CM were well known. Be it the suspension of an official over obscenity on social media, the helmet rule for two-wheeler riders, the free rice scheme, the appointment of the State Election Commissioner, the quota for government students in medical admission, or even the manner of release of money from the CM’s Fund, she was caught up in a war of words with the CM instead of being more discreet. She should have shown more restraint as a constitutional functionary and adopted a consensual approach on matters affecting the people directly, even though the Lt. Governor in a Union Territory, as the President’s nominee, enjoys powers superior to those of the CM and the Council of Ministers. Though it was an amusing sight of the CM holding “dharnas”, not once but twice in the last couple of years, the fault was not entirely his own. All along, he regarded the Lt. Governor as a political adversary, with his political activity centred around her. His demand for her ouster grew louder in recent months. It is likely that the Bharatiya Janata Party, which aims to build a base in Puducherry, concluded that her continuation in office in the backdrop of the Assembly elections could prove a political liability. Her exit comes at a time when Puducherry is in the midst of political instability. The strength of the Congress-led coalition (including the Speaker) is now on a par with that of the Opposition, after four party MLAs, including two Ministers, quit the Assembly since January. On assuming charge as the officiating Lt. Governor on Thursday, Tamilisai Soundararajan, the Telangana Governor, ordered a floor test to be held on February 22. Dr. Soundararajan, who is perceived to be cordial towards political leaders of all hues, is expected to restore some measure of cohesion between Raj Nivas and the rest of the official machinery, irrespective of the outcome of the floor test. Ms. Bedi’s innings in Puducherry should serve as a lesson to those in constitutional positions that however well meaning one’s actions may be, one should not go beyond the mandated role.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/end-of-an-innings/article33875454.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Talking the language of divide||Towards the end of the Left Front regime in West Bengal, a CPI(M) leader, Subhas Chakraborty, created a flutter in political circles by publicly participating in a Kali puja. He was asked by the party to distance himself from his statement that he was a “Hindu first and a Communist later”. The Left not only discouraged its leaders and cadres from participating in public religious events, but also referred to communal tensions as “violence between two communities”. I remember the communal tensions in Murshidabad district in July 2009 that resulted in four deaths. The District Magistrate warned me against visiting the riot-affected areas and threatened to slap cases against me if I did so. That was the first time I saw how the harmonious relationship between Hindus and Muslims in rural Bengal ran deep. Muslims in the riot-affected villages took me to an isolated Hindu household. They stood there guarding the women as the men in the family had all fled. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) regime also tried to hush up communal flare-ups by referring to them as “minor incidents” till the violence that broke out during the Ram Navami processions in 2018 made it impossible to do so. There had been riots earlier too, triggered by local issues, but after 2018, communal divisions became visible. Riots began to take place at industrial centres where communities had lived together in harmony for centuries. For journalists covering the TMC, it became evident that the party’s policies such as giving an honorarium to Imams had caused resentment. Years later, the State government announced an honorarium for priests too, to neutralise the negative impact, but the damage had already been done. Similarly, giving money to clubs for organising Durga Puja and allowing COVID-19 relaxations for certain festivals seem to have precipitated the situation. Today, communal polarisation in West Bengal has become normal in the political discourse. It is not only evident in aggressive sloganeering of ‘Jai Shri Ram’, but also in political campaigning. For instance, when West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee announced her decision to contest from Nandigram in January 2021, BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari said she was relying on 62,000 votes while his party had the support of 2.13 lakh voters. He said at a public meeting that the lotus would bloom by Ram Navami. BJP leaders speak in hushed tones that they will make more political gains if their Rath Yatras (Parivartan Yatras) in all the 294 Assembly constituencies are stopped at any place by the administration or people from any other party. But amidst the divide, there are also stories of hope. During the Basirhat riots of 2017, 65-year Kartik Ghosh was stabbed. His son, Prabhasish Ghosh, while rushing his father to a hospital in Kolkata, also took Fazlul Islam, another victim, in the same ambulance. While Ghosh died, Islam survived. Similarly, in the Asansol riots of 2018, Maulana Imdadullah Rashidi urged people from his community to exercise restraint even after the Imam’s 16-year-son was killed in the riots. “I will leave the city if members of the community target the other community,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/talking-the-language-of-divide/article33875464.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Ayurveda: Dr. Koman’s Report||Dr. Koman’s report on the indigenous system of medicine has just been published. Dr. Koman is of opinion that all the important medicinal plants have already been investigated by previous workers in the field from the days of Ainslie, that the theory of three humours, on which Ayurveda depends, is out-of-date, that “in vain have I attempted to find any drug or medicine whose reputed marvellous properties are shrouded in mystery or are not already known,” and that no surgical work worth mentioning is done in any of the Ayurvedic dispensaries. He states further that the popular opinion that Ayurvedic methods are cheaper has no foundation on fact, it being his view that “the cost of important compound drugs prepared by vaidyans and hakims, is, in several instances, prohibitive.” Dr. Koman also believes that the practitioners of indigenous medicine confine themselves almost solely to medical cases, practically leaving out of account surgical and obstetrical diseases and diseases of the ear, throat, nose, etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/ayurveda-dr-komans-report/article33875462.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Nixon warns Hanoi||President Nixon yesterday [February 17, Washington] held out the threat of unlimited bombing of North Vietnam to protect the dwindling United States military presence in the South from a major Hanoi offensive. Mr. Nixon reaffirmed his readiness to blast communist military with the full might of U.S. air power if necessary to crush any North Vietnamese attempt to pour troops across the demilitarised zone. “I am not going to place any limitation on the use of air power, except of course, to rule out... the use of tactical nuclear weapons,” he told a White House press conference. Mr. Nixon warned that time was running out for Hanoi to negotiate a settlement. But he declined to speculate about the possibility of a South Vietnamese invasion of the North as a follow up to the U.S. backed thrust into Laos. He told reporters in his first press conference since December 10: “I won’t speculate on what South Vietnam may decide to do with regard to a possible incursion into North Vietnam in order to defend their national security.” He emphasised that if South Vietnam’s decision hinged on American co-operation “then of course it could not be undertaken without our approval.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/nixon-warns-hanoi/article33875463.ece
19 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||IT industry can double in size in 4-5 years: Vijayakumar||The Indian IT industry has the potential to double in size over the next 4-5 years by capturing about 20% of the projected trillion-dollar incremental spending on technology during this time, according to C. Vijayakumar, president & CEO, HCL Technologies. “If you look at all the projections, there is at least a trillion dollars of incremental spend in the next 4-5 years,” the CEO said at a Nasscom event. “I think, as an industry, we should get at least a 20% share, which means $200 billion growth over the next five years,” he added. “It could potentially double the industry.” Infosys CEO Salil Parekh and Wipro CEO Thierry Delaporte, who were also part of the discussions, expressed similar views. “The potential is there. Doubling in several years seems to be a reasonable assumption,”said Mr. Delaporte added. Mr. Parekh said localisation was a ‘critical element’ of globalisation as clients, especially large global enterprises, were looking for delivery capabilities across multiple geographies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/it-industry-can-double-in-size-in-4-5-years-vijayakumar/article33875438.ece
19 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Let industry help with vaccine roll-out: CII||Worried about India’s vaccine stockpile expiring if the COVID-19 vaccine roll-out is not ramped up quickly, industry association CII has urged the government to allow private sector health providers to administer vaccines and let businesses inoculate their employees’ and communities around their operations. This could help vaccinate 100 million people and allow the Centre to reach identified target priority groups quicker, that would be critical to get the workforce back to work and the economy back on track, the apex chamber said. ‘Finite longevity’ “As all vaccines have a finite period of longevity and the matter of possible expiry of many of these vaccines is of national concern, it is recommended that all stakeholders must contribute in a manner that all vaccines available are well utilised and well in time. “By opening the vaccination process to private sector, the large cohort of those willing to take the vaccines would enable full utilisation of the vaccines within the expiry period,” it stressed. “Industry can supplement and contribute to the government’s programme with appropriate checks and balances, throughout the envisaged three phases, so as to further reach... the vaccine to those sections of the population who can contribute to the economic revival of the country,” said T.V. Narendran, president designate, CII. COVID-19 task force Mr. Narendran heads a high-level taskforce set up by CII on COVID-19 vaccines to galvanise industry support for distribution and inoculation of employees of member firms. Stressing that the second phase of the vaccination programme to cover those over 50 years will be a particularly challenging task, CII has recommended that the government consider industry participation to speed up the roll-out. Permitting firms to vaccinate employees and immediate family members and help surrounding communities as part of their corporate social responsibility could help an additional 100 million get the vaccine. Private health providers must also be allowed to vaccinate people, with appropriate checks and balances, CII said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/let-industry-help-with-vaccine-roll-out-cii/article33875440.ece
19 February 2021||New Delhi,||Piramal group gets RBI nod for DHFL acquisition||Piramal Group said the Reserve Bank is understood to have approved the acquisition of debt-ridden DHFL by the group’s subsidiary as part of resolution process. The Committee of Creditors (CoC) had approved a resolution plan submitted by a Piramal Group company, Piramal Capital and Housing Finance Limited, last month. “We understand that the RBI has approved the DHFL resolution plan from Piramal Capital and Housing Finance, submitted by the CoC,” Piramal Group said. Piramal Group and the U.S.-based Oaktree Capital submitted their bids in the fifth and final round. Suitors submitted bids in the range of Rs. 35,000-Rs. 37,000 crore. DHFL posted a consolidated net loss of Rs. 13,095.4 crore for the third quarter ended December against a net profit of Rs. 934.3 crore in the year-ago quarter.   The financial creditors have claimed outstanding dues worth Rs. 87,031 crore from the company.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/piramal-group-gets-rbi-nod-for-dhfl-acquisition/article33875444.ece
19 February 2021||new delhi,||Telcos deposit Rs. 13,475 cr. for spectrum auction||Reliance Jio, Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea have submitted a total earnest money deposit (EMD) of Rs. 13,475 crore for the spectrum auction scheduled to start from March 1, according to information disclosed by the Department of Telecom on Thursday. The total EMD amount is close to one-fourth of the amount required to be eligible for buying all spectrum, worth a base price of Rs. 3.92 lakh crore, put on the block. The richest player Reliance Jio with net worth of Rs. 1.79 lakh crore has submitted an EMD of Rs. 10,000 crore, which indicates that the company will bid for spectrum in select spectrum bands. This is perhaps the highest EMD submitted by a telecom player for any spectrum auction held in the country till date.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/telcos-deposit-rs-13475-cr-for-spectrum-auction/article33875446.ece
19 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||NMDC restarts work at mine in Donimalai||Public sector mining major NMDC on Thursday said it has resumed operations at the Donimalai iron ore mine in Karnataka. This follows the Karnataka Government extending the lease on the mine for 20 years with effect from November 2018. “This is to inform that after obtaining the lease extension of Donimalai Iron Ore Mine for 20 years with effect from November 3, 2018 from the Government of Karnataka, the mine was restarted on February 18,” the firm said in a filing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nmdc-restarts-work-at-mine-in-donimalai/article33875433.ece
19 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Jan. local air traffic grows 5% over Dec.||Domestic air traffic grew 5% in January over the preceding month with carriers ferrying a total of 77.34 lakh passengers, according to DGCA’s monthly report. IndiGo increased its market share to 54.3% from 53.9% in the previous month. It was followed by SpiceJet with a share of 12.8% and Air India at 10.3%. SpiceJet continued to record the highest passenger load factor (average seat occupancy) at 76.6%, followed by Vistara (70%) and IndiGo (69.3%). In the pandemic-hit 2020, airlines ferried a total of 6.3 crore passengers, marking a decline of 56% from 2019’s 14.41 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/jan-local-air-traffic-grows-5-over-dec/article33875436.ece
19 February 2021||COIMBATORE,||25 lakh tonnes of sugar set for exports: ISMA||About 25 lakh tonnes of sugar have been contracted for exports so far during the 2020-2021 sugar season, according to the Indian Sugar Mills Association (ISMA). In a statement, the association, quoting market reports, said about seven lakh tonnes had been physically exported between October 1, 2020 and January 31, 2021. This included exports against the 2019-2020 sugar season’s Maximum Admissible Export Quotawhich was extended till the end of December.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/25-lakh-tonnes-of-sugar-set-for-exports-isma/article33875441.ece
19 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Oil India, EIL to bid for BPCL stake in Numaligarh Refinery||Oil India (OIL) and Engineers India (EIL) will bid as a consortium for the 61.65% stake of Bharat Petroleum Corporation (BPCL) in Numaligarh Refinery (NRL). The exact percentage of the stake of OIL and ElL will depend on the extent of right of first offer to be exercised by the Assam Government, that already holds a 12.35% stake in NRL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/oil-india-eil-to-bid-for-bpcl-stake-in-numaligarh-refinery/article33875435.ece
19 February 2021||New Delhi,||IndusInd Bank gets Rs 2,021 cr capital boost from promoters||IndusInd Bank has received Rs. 2,021 crore equity from promoters after conversion of preferential warrants into equity shares. “The promoter entities had paid Rs. 673 crore at the time of subscription to the warrants and the balance amount of Rs. 2,021 crore was paid today,” IndusInd Bank said in a BSE filing.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indusind-bank-gets-rs-2021-cr-capital-boost-from-promoters/article33875442.ece
19 February 2021||Chennai,||Royals break the bank for Morris; PBKS, RCB spend big||An IPL auction without a record-breaking buy is much like a pizza without topping. This time it was South African Chris Morris’ turn to break the all-time mark in the IPL for the highest successful bid. Indeed, at the drama-filled IPL auction here on Thursday, where there were prolonged duels with franchises unwilling to let go of the player they had set their eyes on, Morris was bought by Rajasthan Royals for a record-setting Rs. 16.25 crore. Fierce battle After a fierce battle involving four franchises, Rajasthan Royals, Royal Challengers Bangalore, Mumbai Indians and Punjab Kings, the South African pace bowling all-rounder went to the Jaipur outfit. There were other big buys. Royal Challengers Bangalore shelled out Rs. 15 crore for the young New Zealand fast bowler Kyle Jamieson, and Rs. 14.25 crore for the brutal but inconsistent Glenn Maxwell. In fact, Royal Challengers and Chennai Super Kings were locked in an intense duel for Maxwell — CSK was seeking an off-spinner with batting credentials — but the Bengaluru side had the final say. CSK, eventually was successful in seeking the kind of player it wanted after it released Harbhajan Singh. The Chennai franchise withstood a spirited bid by Punjab Kings to land England off-spinning all-rounder Moeen Ali for Rs. 7 crore. And as an insurance, CSK also purchased domestic off-spinning all-rounder K. Gowtham for Rs. 9.25 crore, the highest amount ever for an Indian uncapped player. Keeping in mind CSK’s conservative ways in the past, these were big money buys. Among the happy news of the evening was old soldier Cheteshwar Pujara being bought by CSK for Rs. 50 lakh. For the first time since 2014, Pujara will be seen in an IPL. Punjab Kings was the franchise with most money to spend at the start of the auction — over Rs. 50 crore — and it did splurge Rs. 14 crore on Australian fast bowler Jhye Richardson. Punjab also spent Rs. 8 crore — the highest paid to an uncapped overseas player — for speedy Aussie paceman Riley Meredith, whose base price was just Rs. 40 lakh. Smart buy Punjab also had a smart buy in batsman David Malan, who was a ‘steal’ at Rs. 1.50 crore. Similarly, Delhi Capitals got a great deal when it got India fast bowler Umesh Yadav for just Rs. 1 crore. Among the domestic players, Tamil Nadu’s Shahrukh Khan — his base price was just Rs. 20 lakh — grabbed attention when he was snapped up by Punjab Kings for Rs. 5.25 crore. Another big-ticket domestic buy was Shivam Dube, who went to Rajasthan Royals for Rs. 4.40 crore. Surprise pick In a surprise pick for someone who was in his late 30s, Daniel Christian was pencilled in by Royal Challengers for Rs. 4.80 crore. Contrast this with giant Steve Smith, secured by Delhi Capitals for Rs. 2.20 crore. England all-rounder Tom Curran went to Delhi Capitals for Rs. 5.25 crore, while another pace-bowling all-rounder, Aussie Moises Henriques, went to Punjab Kings for Rs. 4.20 crore. Paceman Arjun Tendulkar was signed by Mumbai Indians for his base price of Rs. 20 lakh. Among the players who went unsold were big-hitters Alex Hales, Jason Roy, Evin Lewis, Aaron Finch and Alex Carey.  Pujara was bought by CSK for Rs. 50 lakh and he will be seen in the IPL for the first time since 2014||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/royals-break-the-bank-for-morris-pbks-rcb-spend-big/article33875543.ece
19 February 2021||LIVERPOOL,||City pulls further ahead||Manchester City moved 10 points clear in the Premier League as second-half goals from Riyad Mahrez and Bernardo Silva powered Pep Guardiola’s team to a 3-1 win at Everton on Wednesday. A 17th straight win in all competitions — including 12 in a row in the league — wasn’t looking so clear-cut after Richarlison cancelled out Phil Foden’s opener for City before halftime. It was only the second time in the last nine league games City has failed to keep a clean sheet. However, Mahrez regained the lead for City in the 63rd minute as he cut in from the right and bent the ball in off the far post. Silva scored with a similar strike in the 77th  With City becoming the first English top-flight side to start a calendar year with 10 consecutive league wins, it is getting harder to see who might deny Guardiola a third Premier League title. Atletico Madrid failed to move eight points clear at the top of La Liga on Wednesday as it was held to a 1-1 draw at Levante in a game which saw a dreadful miss from Angel Correa. Diego Simeone’s men sit six points clear of second-placed Real Madrid and have a game in hand, but have seen their control of the title race slip slightly after two draws in three matches.   The results: Premier League: Burnley 1 (Barnes 52) drew with Fulham 1 (Aina 49); Everton 1 (Richarlison 37) lost to Manchester City 3 (Foden 32, Mahrez 63, Silva 77).   LaLiga: Levante 1 (Bardhi 17) drew with Atletico Madrid 1 (Llorente 37).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/city-pulls-further-ahead/article33875588.ece
19 February 2021||Chennai,||‘I just froze and my mind went blank’||At the fag end of the day, Chennai Super Kings increased the local presence in its squad by signing opener C. Hari Nishaanth. The left-hander had a good run in the recent Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy finishing as the second-highest scorer for champion Tamil Nadu behind another CSK player N. Jagadeesan. After being unsold in the first round, the opener was bought at his base price of Rs. 20 lakh in the accelerated phase of the auction. Speaking to The Hindu from Indore where is with the TN squad for the Vijay Hazare Trophy, Hari said, “I was a bit upset when I went unsold. I just came back to the room and tried to take my mind off, considering we start playing from Saturday.” “I had just gone for dinner when my dad told me my name came again. Then within minutes, when I got a call from our fielding coach (Avinash Khandelwal) I realised I had been picked. But when he said it was CSK, I just froze and my mind went blank,” he added. Great day “I was someone who used to draw Suresh Raina’s T-shirt when I was young so this is a great day for me. It might just sink in when I sleep tonight.” Meanwhile, left-arm spinner M. Siddharth was picked for his base price of Rs. 20 lakh by Delhi Capitals after he was released by Kolkata Knight Riders earlier this year. Things were uncertain for the youngster last month and in this year’s Mushtaq Ali Trophy, he did not feature in a game till the final. However, on that day in Ahmedabad, he delivered when it mattered with a spell of four for 20 to help set up an easy seven-wicket for TN and clinch the title. Nervous during auction Siddharth, also in Indore, said, “I was really nervous during the auction. After I was released I was disappointed but it feels good to get another chance.” The 22-year-old is excited with the prospect of working with fellow TN player and India’s leading spinner R. Ashwin at Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-just-froze-and-my-mind-went-blank/article33876058.ece
19 February 2021||KOZHIKODE,||Dream come true for Azharuddeen||Mohammed Azharuddeen watched the IPL auction live on television from his hotel room in Bengaluru on Thursday. The city would also be his base for the upcoming IPL, as he was bought by Royal Challengers Bangalore. “I was hopeful of getting picked by one of the franchises as I had a decent Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 tournament,” Azharuddeen told The Hindu over phone. “To play at the IPL has been a dream for me. And I am delighted that I would be playing for RCB, as the team’s captain Virat Kohli is the cricketer I admire most.” The wicketkeeper-batsman, who had attracted attention after his 54-ball 137 not out against Mumbai at the Mushtaq Ali tournament last month, said he also had great regard for another RCB superstar, A.B. de Villiers. “And I am glad that my Kerala teammate Sachin Baby has also been bought by RCB,” the 26-year-old said. “At the moment I am focused on the Vijay Hazare Trophy one-day tournament, which begins in a couple of days.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dream-come-true-for-azharuddeen/article33876166.ece
19 February 2021||Melbourne,||Osaka leaves Serena in tears; Djokovic takes his spot||Japan's Naomi Osaka brutally halted Serena Williams' latest bid for a record-equalling 24th Grand Slam title on Thursday, while Novak Djokovic wrote the final chapter of qualifier Aslan Karatsev's fairytale run. Fans returned after a five-day coronavirus lockdown in time to see an emotional exit from Williams, Jennifer Brady's win over Karolina Muchova and top-ranked Djokovic preserving his perfect semifinal record at Karatsev's expense.  Triple Major-winner Osaka, 23, again proved Williams' nemesis with a one-sided 6-3, 6-4 win which heightened questions about whether the American, 39, will ever match Margaret Court's all-time record for Slam singles titles. Williams put her hand on her heart as she acknowledged a standing ovation on Rod Laver Arena, and later walked out of her post-match press conference in tears, saying: "I'm done." After going 0-2 down in the first set, Osaka reeled off five straight games to take charge against a despairing Williams and canter into the final. Williams lamented a "big error day" and refused to discuss whether she had made her last appearance at a tournament she has won seven times, an Open-era record. The returning spectators also witnessed the end of 114th-ranked Karatsev's astonishing campaign, when he became the first man in the Open era to reach a Grand Slam semifinal on debut. Karatsev knocked out three seeds to reach the last four but he was no match for Djokovic, the record eight-time Melbourne champion who has never lost a semi or final on his favourite court. "This is the best I've felt in the entire tournament," said the Serb, who has been carrying an abdomen injury since the third round, after his 6-3, 6-4, 6-2 win. Indicating the gulf between them, Vladikavkaz native Karatsev, 27, has won 18 Grand Slam sets in his career, while Djokovic, 33, is going for his 18th Major title. Brady versus Muchova was a far more competitive affair as the American needed five match-points before subduing the Czech 25th seed. Brady eventually won 6-4, 3-6, 6-4 to reach her debut Major final.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/osaka-leaves-serena-in-tears-djokovic-takes-his-spot/article33875544.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Mega bucks at the mini-auction||A look at the players who made waves at the auction on Thursday:  Chris Morris (RR, Rs. 16.25 crore): The South African all-rounder, representing RCB in IPL 2020, missed a large part of the tournament due to a stomach muscle injury. This led to Morris being released by RCB, but the heavy bidding in Thursday's auction showed that he was still in high demand.  Kyle Jamieson (RCB, Rs. 15 crore): A tall speedster, Jamieson can bowl at good pace and extract awkward bounce off the surface. The Kiwi can also make useful lower middle-order contributions with the bat.  Glenn Maxwell (RCB, Rs. 14.25 crore): It came as no surprise that RCB and CSK bid heavily for Maxwell, given that both teams were in desperate need of a middle-order finisher. Maxwell will hope to erase his sub-par run of form in IPL 2020 with a big show this time around.  Jhye Richardson (Punjab Kings, Rs. 14 crore): The Australian pacer finished as the highest wicket-taker in the recent Big Bash T20 League (BBL), which no doubt boosted his IPL auction stock. Richardson is also capable of hitting a few lusty blows with the bat in the death overs.  K. Gowtham (CSK, Rs. 9.25 crore): The Karnataka all-rounder may have played only two matches for KXIP last season, but there was no doubting his match-winning T20 abilities. Gowtham can keep it tight with his flat off-spinners, or come to the party with devastating sixes as a middle-order finisher.  Riley Meredith (Punjab Kings, Rs. 8 crore): The 24-year-old fast bowler was bought for a surprisingly high price, given that he has no international experience. Meredith did have a good BBL campaign, finishing with 16 wickets.  Compiled by Ashwin Achal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/making-a-big-splash/article33875554.ece
19 February 2021||HYDERABAD:,||Ranjith Kumar’s century in vain||Ranjith Kumar’s 114 went in vain as Mahmood Cricket Club lost to Secunderabad Nawabs by 315 runs in the A1-Division (three-day) league cricket championship on Thursday.  The scores: A1-Div. (three-day): Ensconse 193 in 52.4 overs & 193 in 52.4 overs (Owais Abdul Wahed 42, Ilyaan Sathani 3/35, Rahul Buddhi 3/31) lost to Evergreen 610 in 88.2 overs.   Sec’bad Nawabs 360/9 decl. in 87.3 overs & 289/5 in 40 overs bt Mahmood 118 in 39.1 overs & 216/5 in 40 overs (A. Ranjit Kumar 114, Md. Shabaaz 55).   Balaaji 205 in 52 overs & 254 in 39.2 overs (B. Rajashekar 35, Vishwa Mitra 4/46) bt Rohit XI 280 in 90 overs & 159 in 36.4 overs (Shahnawaz Khan 60, G. Vidhath 5/34).   A2-Div. (two-day): Deccan Wanderers 259 in 72.5 overs (Awaiz Ahmed 92, J. Aditya 82, Nadeem Khan 7 /44) vs New Blues 15/0 in 3 overs.   Balaji Colts 102 in 32.5 overs (Charanjeet Singh 43, M. Siddu Nayak 3/23, B. Jeevan 6 /47) lost to Classic 105/2 in 16.1 overs (S. Harshit 55 n.o.).   HBCC 162 in 48.2 overs (Md. Nawaz Khan 60, J. Rohit 5/29) bt Nizamabad Dist. 135 in 33.5 overs (C. Pranav Teja 37, J. Rohit 35, Vishesh Anand 3/39, Arpit Tiwari 5/26).   CCOB 284/10 in 71.2 overs (Syed Aziz Sufiyan 84, Md. Basheeruddin 73, Abdul Khaled Khan 58, Yash Kumar 3/73) vs Mega City 15/2 in 9.3 overs.   Ours 294 in 79.5 overs (Md. Aamer 109, V. Goutham 33, Sai Vamshi 54 n.o., N. Shashank Yadav 4/62) vs PKMCC 10/0 in five overs; National 94 in 32.5 overs (Sarvagya Gupta 32, S. Sai Praneeth 6/28) lost to Team Speed 95/2 in 20.1 overs.   Venus Cybertech 320 in 85.5 overs (Rishit Reddy 97, Shrunoth Rao 76, Md. Shoaib 3/50, M.A. Raheem 3/40) vs Elegant.   WMCC 348 in 85.1 overs (N. Anish Reddy 91, Aditya Varma 88, Asmit Singh 44, Sana Karthik 33, D. Harsha Vardhan 5/43) vs Rakesh XI 86/4 in 18 overs.   Adilabad Dist. 199 in 52 overs (Yashwanth 73, Karthik Kumar 3/35, Rohit Yadav 4/22, Vikranth 3/24) vs HUCC 47/7 in 26.5 overs (Pranay Mathews 3/16); Shalimar 220 in 73 overs (Rohit 57, Fardeen 58) vs Cheerful Chums 56/0 in 16 overs.   Acrylic 282 in 59.3 overs (M. Sai Prateek 162, Ravi 44, Hemanth 3/28) vs Hyd. Panthers 53/3 in 17 overs (Rohan 3/29).   Vijaypuri Willowmen 588 in 88.2 overs (Ashlesh Vaman 153, Karan Yadav 63, Ayaan Md. Ahmed 44, Anudeep 52, Md. Nayeemuddin 125, Saketh Reddy 71, Shaik Rahat Ali 3/37) vs Adams XI.   Bharat 316 in 82.4 overs (Bhargav 41, Sai Revanth Rahul 131, Lakshan Shivakeerth 31, T. Ravi Teja 3/53) vs Karimnagar Dist. 53/1 in eight overs.   Shanti XI 339 in 79.2 overs (Venkat Chandra 51, Abdul Khader 160, Abhilash 31, Sachit Naidu 5/49) vs Abhinav Colts 59/2 in 14 overs.   Noble 282 in 50.2 overs (Vamshi Ramavath 130, Krishna Kant Tiwari 63, Sk. Zaheer Abbas 5/54) vs Hyd. Cricket Academy 210/1 in 41 overs (K. Pranav 54, Aryan Parakh 103 batting, Anvith 47 batting).   Manikumar w/o Mayura.   Vijayanand 434/8 in 90 overs (Ravi Teja 92, M. Sai Durya Naveen 86 n.o., S. Sai Abhinay 86, Arya Mohit 70) vs SK Blues 15/2 in 5.4 overs.   Saint Saint 128 in 44.4 overs (S. Anuj 6/30) lost to Sec’bad Gymkhana 130/1 in 29.3 overs (D. Aditya 67 n.o.).   Warangal Dist. 314 in 62.1 overs (M.A. Meraj 31, B. Kumar 57, A. Ganesh 59, P. Isaac Joy 41, B. Suresh 57, Yash Prajwal Rao 5/66) bt XI Masters 96 in 30 overs (Kalyan Mani 31, N. Pavan Reddy 7/18).   Sunshine 261 in 58 overs bt New Star 195 in 64.2 overs (Sai Krishna 90 n.o., Yash 45, Zohair 30, Syed Ali 6/26, Jawed Ali 4/39).   Swastik Union 306/5 in 90 overs bt Time 186 in 81.2 overs (G. Vivek Gagan 62, K. Visvesh 74, S. Karthik 5/33); Tirumala 333 in 81 overs bt Superstar 190 in 83.1 overs (Vasu Dev Sahoo 103).   Victoria 244 in 56.5 overs (Prabhat Gupta 103, Sai Charan 58, Md. Abdul Rasheed 4/43, Md. Rehan 5/60) bt Anu 53 in 23.2 overs (J. Bunny 5/13).   Greenlands 213 in 58.1 overs (G. Prudhvi 87, Shanmukh Srinivas 42, Sohail Ali Khan 3/81) bt Lords 185 in 39.1 overs (Md. Azhar 55, J. Jitender 41, Shanmukh Srinivas 3/1).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ranjith-kumars-century-in-vain/article33876113.ece
19 February 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Manika eludes Reeth’s grasp, regains title||A mix of plenty of pluck and loads of luck saw Manika Batra regain the National table tennis title she won in 2015. A firm favourite, Manika appeared vulnerable against her Indian Oil-colleague and first-time finalist Reeth Rishya after losing the first two games. But what followed was Manika’s dramatic resurrection that saw her almost sprint on the home-stretch of a 8-11, 10-12, 11-1, 11-9, 11-5, 11-6 triumph in 44 minutes, at nearby Panchkula. As the scoreline indicates, Manika’s comeback began with a one-sided third game but how she pulled off the key fourth game dictated the course of the final.  Down 3-9 and just two points away from trailing 1-3 in the match, Manika reeled off eight points on the trot to leave Reeth shell-shocked. During Manika’s eight-point streak, Reeth took a ‘time-out’ but it did not break the former’s rhythm. The rest of the match followed a predictable course. Manika simply kept the ball in play, mainly with her consistent backhand blocks and pushes. Reeth, clearly battling a serious bout of confidence-deficit, just could not get her act right in the fifth and sixth games. On several occasions, the ball struck the net-chord and fell favourably for Manika. This added to the exasperation of Reeth who seemed to have given up much before the final point. Reeth, robbed of her self-belief following the loss of the fourth game, managed to win only 11 points in the remaining two games. Manika was duly rewarded for her consistent returns that let Reeth slip to her doom. Besides the winner’s trophy, Manika received Rs. 1.65 lakh. Reeth collected Rs. 82,500. Interestingly, Manika’s previous domestic title also came at the expense of Reeth in the 2019 Inter-Institutional championship where she bounced back from 1-3 to emerge the winner.  The results (prefix denotes seeding): Women singles (final): 1-Manika Batra (Pet) bt 15-Reeth Rishya (Pet) 8-11, 10-12, 11-1, 11-9, 11-5, 11-6.   Semifinals: Manika bt 4-Sreeja Akula (RBI) 11-4, 10-12, 16-14, 11-8, 11-5; Reeth bt Takeme Sarkar (Rlys) 11-8, 4-11, 11-6, 11-6, 11-3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manika-eludes-reeths-grasp-regains-title/article33875448.ece
19 February 2021||TENHIPALAM,||Hanan, Treesa rewrite records||Malappuram’s Muhammed Hanan and Alphonsa Treesa Terin of Kottayam set meet records in the under-18 boys’ 110m hurdles and under-14 girls’ triathlon respectively on the final day of the State athletics championship here on Thursday. Kottayam, with 206 points, emerged the champion in the senior section, finishing ahead of Ernakulam (174) and Palakkad (103). In the junior section, Palakkad (482) was followed by Kozhikode (441) and Ernakulam (375.5).  The winners:   Men: 200m: M. Maneesh (Pkd) 22.19s; 800m: T. Saifudheen (Mlp) 1:53.78s; 400m hurdles: Thomas Mathew (Pta) 55.03s; 20km walk: A. Aneesh (Pkd) 1:44:14.79.   Women: 200m: K. Sneha (Ekm) 26.27s; 5,000m: Anumol Thampi (Ktm) 19:21.66; 400m hurdles: Helen Saji (Ktm) 1:09.50s; 20km walk: A. Divya (Pkd) 2:06:36.00s; Triple jump: Athira Surendran (Ktm) 12.44m; Discus: Thoufeera (Pkd) 35.34m; Heptathlon: Mariya Thomas (Ktm) 3722 pts.   Under-20: Boys: 200m: C.R. Abdul Razak (Pkd) 21.98s; 800m: T.S. Manu (Wyd) 1:56.41s; 110m hurdles: T.M. Aswin (Alp) 15.25s.; 400m hurdles: A. Rohith (Pkd) 55.56s.   Girls: 200m: P.D. Anjali (Tsr) 24.35s; 3000m: Swathy Manoj (Ktm) 12:06.85s; 400m hurdles: R. Arathi (Tsr) 1:07.07; Triple jump: Sandra Babu (Tsr) 12.51m; Discus: Niya Rose Raju (Kkd) 36.39m; Heptathlon: Aparna Roy (Kkd) 4712 pts.   Under-18: Boys: 200m: K. Abijith (Pkd) 22.26s; 800m: Abhinav Sajeevan (Kkd) 2:01.88; 110m hurdles: Muhammed Hanan (Mlp) 13.97s (NMR, Old: 13.98s, Maymon Poulose (Tsr), 2014); 400m hurdles: Madhav G. Pattathil (Pkd) 56.41s; Triple jump: V.S. Sebastian (Tsr) 14.48m; Discus: T.V. Anandha Krishnan (Pkd) 42.53m; Medley relay: Palakkad 2:01.88s.   Girls: 200m: Saniya Treesa Tomy (Kkd) 25.95s; 800m: Stephy Sara Koshy (Pkd) 2:19.78s; 100m hurdles: R. Adithya (Knr) 16.66s; 400m hurdles: K.V. Lakshmi Priya (Kkd) 1:08.42; 5km walk: Aleena George (Ekm) 29:49.80s; 80m hurdles: A.B. Vimal (Wyd) 11.30s; Triple jump: P.S. Adithya (Ekm) 11.70m; Heptathlon: K.V. Lakshmi Priya (Kkd) 3487 pts.   Under-16: Boys: 800m: S. Indranathan (Tvm) 2:01.62s; 5km walk: Muhammed Misbah Muneer (Knr) 28:42.43; High jump: Gokul Krishnan (Mlp) 1.82m; Medley relay: Kozhikode 2:07.84s.   Girls: 800m: Mayukha Vinod (Kkd) 2:24.94s; Medley relay: Kottayam 2:27.94s; Hexathlon: Ann Terins Joseph (Kkd) 2539 pts.   Under-14: Boys: High jump: B. Binoy (Pkd) 1.53m; Triathlon: P. Amal (Kkd) 1339 pts; Ball throw: P.K. Vishnu (Wyd) 66.65m.   Girls: High jump: Minsara Prasad (Kkd) 1.30m; Triathlon: Alphonsa Treesa Terin (Ktm) 1715 pts. (NMR, Old: 1545 pts., Janice Treesa Regi (Tsr), 2019); Ball throw: S. Aswini (Tvm) 38.85m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hanan-treesa-rewrite-records/article33875691.ece
19 February 2021||Chennai,||Meet the new Shahrukh Khan||Perhaps it is in the name. Shahrukh Khan was meant to be a celebrity. The heavy-hitter was back in the team bus after completing the Tamil Nadu practice session in Indore ahead of the Vijay Hazare one-day tournament when he followed the IPL auction on his mobile. And his teammates too were catching the action on their mobiles. And when the 25-year-old Shahrukh’s name came up, there was hectic bidding at the end of which Punjab Kings secured him for a whopping Rs. 5.25 crore; his base price was just Rs. 20 lakh. Shahrukh said to The Hindu , “No, I was not nervous when my name came on. Finally when I went for over Rs. 5 crore, it was a nice feeling. My teammates in the bus were overjoyed,” he said. Shahrukh added, “And skipper Dinesh Karthik was jumping around. So happy was he at my price.” Also in the bus was leg-spinner M. Ashwin who too plays for Punjab Kings. “He was very pleased. Finally, he had a teammate from Tamil Nadu in the franchise.” Then his family from back home in Chennai called and Shahrukh said, “They were all very happy.” Difficult phase Shahrukh overcame a difficult phase last year when he was ignored at the IPL auction. Then he underwent a surgery on his finger but came back strongly in the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 tournament where he came up with a match-winning knock against Himachal Pradesh. And now he is among the big buys in the IPL. This Shahrukh is meant for stardom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shahrukh-a-big-hit/article33875547.ece
19 February 2021||London,||Porto waylays a lacklustre Juventus||Goals from Mehdi Taremi and Moussa Marega propelled Porto to its first ever victory over Juventus in the Champions League after it secured a 2-1 win over the Italian champion in the first leg of their last 16 tie on Wednesday. On a night when very little went Juventus’s way, Federico Chiesa’s late strike at least handed it a lifeline going into the return leg in Turin on March 9. Sloppy back pass Taremi pounced on a sloppy back pass after 63 seconds to fire in the opener that left Juventus rattled as it failed to create any meaningful chances before halftime. Things got worse for Andrea Pirlo’s side when Marega blasted in Porto’s second 19 seconds into the second half.  Juventus eventually mustered a response when Chiesa fired home a precious away goal with eight minutes remaining, but it was not enough to stop the 2004 champion from celebrating its first victory over the Italian club at the sixth attempt. Chiesa’s strike ended Porto’s run of five consecutive clean sheets in the competition and leaves the tie wide open ahead of the return leg. The goal made Chiesa the first Juventus player other than Cristiano Ronaldo to score a knockout stage goal in Champions League since Blaise Matuidi in April 2018.  Borussia Dortmund’s Erling Haaland continued his prolific run in the Champions League by scoring twice as his side came from behind to earn a 3-2 win at Sevilla in a last-16 first leg on Wednesday.   The results: FC Porto 2 (Taremi 2, Marega 46) bt Juventus 1 (Chiesa 82); Sevilla 2 (Fernandez Saez 7, De Jong 84) lost to Borussia Dortmund 3 (Dahoud 19, Haaland 27, 43).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/porto-waylays-a-lacklustre-juventus/article33875452.ece
19 February 2021||Patiala,||Good start for Poovamma||M.R. Poovamma won the women’s 400m comfortably but there were some big surprises in the Indian Grand Prix-1 on Thursday. The 30-year-old defeated Kiran Pahal, who surprised many when she clocked an impressive 52.73s in the 2019 National Open in Ranchi. Poovamma clocked 53.45s, a good time to start the season. Muhammed Anas, who made his 100m debut, shocked Indian record holder Amiya Kumar Mallick while finishing second to Krishnakumar Rane in 10.70s. Dutee Chand was the fastest woman. K.M. Chanda improved her personal best by nearly five seconds while winning the 800m in 2:04.91s. Arokia Rajiv won the men’s 200m in 21.40s.  The winners: Men: 100m: Krishnakumar Rane (Mah) 10.68s. 200m: Arokia Rajiv (TN) 21.40s. 400m: Naganathan Pandi (TN) 47.32s. 800m: Ankesh Chaudhary (HP) 1:52.82s. 5000m: Kishan Narsi Tadvi (Mah) 14:52.70s. 400m hurdles: A. Dharun (TN) 51.33s. Long jump: Yugant Singh (UP) 7.62m. Triple jump: Eldhose Paul (Ker) 16.56m. Shot put: Sahib Singh (Del) 17.67m. Women: 100m: Dutee Chand (Odi) 11.51s. 200m: Anjali Devi (Har) 23.57s. 400m: M.R. Poovamma (Kar) 53.45s. 800m: Chanda (Del) 2:04.91s. Long jump: Mareena George (Ker) 6.11m. Shot put: Kachnar Chaudhary (Raj) 14.38m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/good-start-for-poovamma/article33875576.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,||NEUFC holds Chennaiyin||A stoppage-time penalty helped NorthEast United FC (NEUFC) pull off a 3-3 draw against Chennaiyin FC (CFC) in an Indian Super League contest in Bambolim on Thursday.  CFC’s keeper Vishal Kaith committed the cardinal mistake of fouling Idrissa Sylla in the box and Luis Machado converted the penalty. The result kept NEUFC’s play-off chances alive as it has 27 points from 18 matches, the same as Hyderabad FC and FC Goa. Retaining the same XI that started against Goa the other day, CFC was at its attacking best in the first session. NEUFC, too, wasn’t far behind. Lalrinzuala Chhangte opened the account for CFC before Imran Khan and Machado found the back of the net for NEUFC. After Manuel Lanzarote converted to even the scores and Chhangte completed a brace, CFC did well to keep NEUFC at bay. Even as Vishal pulled off a couple of brilliant saves in the second session, his error at the death proved costly.  The result: Chennaiyin 3 (L. Chhangte 8, 52, Manuel Lanzarote 50-pen) drew with NEUFC 3 (Imran Khan 14, Deshorn Brown 43, Luis Machado 90-pen).   Friday’s match: ATK Mohun Bagan v SC East Bengal, 7.30 p.m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/neufc-holds-chennaiyin/article33875579.ece
19 February 2021||San Francisco,||Curry turns on the heat||Stephen Curry sealed a stunning late fightback to help Golden State Warriors to a 120-112 overtime victory over Miami Heat on Wednesday. Curry scored eight of the final 11 points to finish with a 25-point haul.  The results:   Wizards 130 bt Nuggets 128; Bulls 105 bt Pistons 102; Pelicans 124 lost to Trail Blazers 126; Grizzlies 122 bt Thunder 113; Warriors 120 bt Heat 112 (OT); Clippers 96 lost to Jazz 114.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/curry-turns-on-the-heat/article33875584.ece
19 February 2021||CHENNAI:,||Soaring High wins||Soaring High (P. Sai Kumar up) won the M.CT. M. Chidambaram Chettiar Memorial Cup, the feature event of the races on Thursday (Feb. 18).The winner is owned by United Racing & Bloodstock Breeders and trained by R. Ramanathan. Jockey T.S. Jodha scored a treble on the day.  1. NORA PLATE (Div. II) , (1,400m), rated 00 to 25: VELOCITY (T.S. Jodha) 1, Orange Pekoe (H. Rahul) 2, Chanakya (S. Hussain) 3 and Arazinger (Arshad Alam) 4. 2, 3-3/4 and 3-1/2. 1m, 30.84s. Owner: Mrs. Elsy Antony. Trainer: Uthaiah.  2. EL TROPICO PLATE (1,200m), 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45: RHIANNON (Arshad Alam) 1, Fun Lover (B. Nikhil) 2, Big Treasure (P. Sai Kumar) 3 and Striking Distance (T.S. Jodha) 4. 1-3/4, lnk and 1-1/2. 1m, 14.51s. Owners: Mr. Pavan Rangaraj, Estate of Late Mr. Ramesh Jagtiani, Mr. Kishore Reddy & Mr. Anjan Kumar Rangaraj. Trainer: P. Krishna.  3. ICEBREAKER PLATE (1,600m), rated 20 to 45: DIVINA (T.S. Jodha) 1, Salvo (P. Sai Kumar) 2, Majestic Wind (Brisson) 3 and Otus (B. Nikhil) 4. Not run: City Of Sails and Kasi Masi. Lnk, 6-1/2 and nose. 1m, 42.61s. Owners: Mr. Saif Hoosein Nensey, Mrs. Nissa Hoosein Nensey & Mr. Husain Sultan Ali Nensey. Trainer: Sebastian.  4. MADRAS RACE CLUB CUP (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms): MR KOOL (T.S. Jodha) 1, Skylight (P. Sai Kumar) 2, My Triumph (S. Shareef) 3 and Pink Pearl (Shahar Babu) 4. Not run: Wind Symbol and Abilitare. Lnk, 5 and 1. 1m, 15.65s. Owner: Mr. S. Pathy. Trainer: Sebastian.  5. M. CT. M. CHIDAMBARAM CHETTIAR MEMORIAL CUP (1,200m), rated 60 to 85: SOARING HIGH (P. Sai Kumar) 1, Mzilikazi (Zervan) 2, Oscars Thunder. (A.M. Alam) 3 and Night Hunt (M. Bhaskar) 4. Not run: Fast Car. 1-1/4, 3/4 and 3-1/4. 1m, 12.46s. Owner: M/s. United Racing & Bloodstock Breeders. Trainer: R. Ramanathan.  6. NORA PLATE (Div. I) , (1,400m), rated 00 to 25: WELCOME CHAKRAM (Azfar Syeed) 1, Lady Blazer (Arshad Alam) 2, Majestic Charmer (Antony Raj) 3 and Perfect Support (A. Ayaz Khan) 4. Not run: Sabihaa. 1-1/4, 1-3/4 and 3-3/4. 1m 30.48s. Owners: Mr. K.S. Mandanna & Mr. P. Packiasamy. Trainer: Mandanna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/soaring-high-wins/article33875585.ece
19 February 2021||MUMBAI,||Final ODI may be moved to Mumbai||The concluding game of England’s tour of India — the third ODI on March 28 — is likely to be shifted from Pune to Mumbai in order to ensure a safe passage back home for the visiting contingent. By the time England reaches Pune for the ODI series, it would have spent almost two months in India. The side is scheduled to depart from Mumbai early on March 29. It is learnt that the BCCI is considering acceding to a “soft request” by the ECB in this regard. The Maharashtra Cricket Association (MCA), the host for the ODI series, confirmed the development on Thursday. Meanwhile, the India and England teams landed in Ahmedabad on Thursday for the final two Tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/final-odi-may-be-moved-to-mumbai/article33875577.ece
19 February 2021||BENGALURU,||BDFA match abandoned||The BDFA Super Division match between Bangalore Eagles and Bangalore Independents was abandoned on Thursday after a ruckus broke out over a contested penalty decision. With Eagles leading 2-1 in the second half, the referee turned down a penalty appeal by Independents. Immediately after, Eagles scored at the other end but the goal was disallowed for offside. At this point, to Eagles’ shock, Independents were awarded a penalty for the previous incident after the fourth official informed the referee that the linesman had indeed flagged for handball and that the referee had missed the signal. This incensed Eagles and it led a prolonged protest which ultimately forced the abandonment of the match. “We are waiting for referee’s report and an official protest if Eagles file it,” BDFA chairman S.L. Anthony said. “After we get that, the BDFA disciplinary committee will make a decision about who was wrong and who was right.” Anthony also said that at this point there was no clarity regarding the points breakdown for the match.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bdfa-match-abandoned/article33876035.ece
19 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Gowtham sets a new high in IPL||K. Gowtham became the most expensive uncapped player in IPL history when he was signed by Chennai Super Kings (CSK) for Rs. 9.25 crore at the auction on Thursday. Gowtham was picked up after a bidding war between Kolkata Knight Riders (KKR), Sunrisers Hyderabad (SRH) and CSK. KKR and SRH initially pushed the bids up to Rs. 7.5 crore, before CSK entered the mix and beat out SRH to secure the deal. Gowtham is thrilled to get the chance to play under CSK superstar and skipper M.S. Dhoni. “I’m very happy to play for CSK. It is a dream come true for me — to play under ‘Thala’ (Dhoni) and with (Suresh) Raina bhai.  “I’m very excited; I’m still nervous and shivering. I’m very pleased that CSK has so much faith in me. I will try to win as many games as possible,” Gowtham said in a video posted on CSK’s twitter handle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gowtham-sets-a-new-high-in-ipl/article33875542.ece
19 February 2021||Pune,||Up to 600 persons can attend races||The Government of Maharashtra has granted permission to the Royal Western India Turf Club (RWITC) to allow up to 600 spectators/persons to attend the races at the Mumbai race course by following the standard operating procedure (SOP). RWITC is all set to kick-start the remainder of the Mumbai winter racing season at the Mahalaxmi race course from February 28 (Sunday), after concluding the programme here on February 21 (Sunday). The movement of horses from Pune to Mumbai has already begun and so far about 200 horses have reached the Mahalaxmi stables. Mr. Zavaray Poonawalla, chairman RWITC, told The Hindu “we are pleased to announce that the government has allowed a relaxation in the number of people attending the races. “Health and safety remain our primary concerns. All provisions of social distancing guidelines and COVID-19 restrictions will be strictly followed and no entry will be allowed to racegoers without masks. Sanitiser stands will be placed at several locations within the premises and alternate seating arrangements are being done in the stands” said Mr. Poonawalla.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/up-to-600-persons-can-attend-races/article33876194.ece
19 February 2021||KOLKATA,||Churchill downs CCFC||Luka Majcen produced a goal in the last minute of the added time to help Churchill Brothers down Chennai City FC (CCFC) 2-1 in the I-League on Thursday. The Slovenian forward scored both the goals for Churchill while Serbian Elvedin Skrijelj netted CCFC’s only goal.  The results:   Aizawl 3 (Malsawmtluanga 16, Lalremsanga 64, Lalliansanga 67) bt Mohammedan SC 0.   Real Kashmir 1 (Dicka 72) drew with RoundGlass Punjab 1 (Beitia 67-pen).   CCFC 1 (Skrijelj 64-pen) lost to Churchill 2 ( Majcen 49, 90+4).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/churchill-downs-ccfc/article33875578.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Chirag stars in Dharwad Zone's win||Chirag R. Nayak's century (103) was instrumental in Dharwad Zone's five-wicket win over Shimoga Zone in the KSCA inter-mofussil under-19 tournament. For Shimoga, Shreyank Sagar's 120 went in vain.  The scores: Mysore 130 in 41 overs (M.K. Yashwanth 30, T. Chiranjeevi 4/23) lost to Tumkur 131/2 in 30.2 overs (N.R. Darshan 28, T.P. Prapul 37, N. Vibhushan 36 n.o.).   Raichur 144 in 41.3 overs (Niranjan 41, Thippa Reddy 27, Bheem Rao 27, Y.D. Prabhav 4/35, Nathan D'Mello 3/13) lost to Mangalore 145/9 in 42.1 overs (Thota Mohammed Azaan 27, Vinayak Holla 45, Bheem Rao 3/27).   Shimoga 233 in 49.3 overs (Shreyank Sagar 120, Mohammed Hamzah 36, Fardin Khan 29, Sayaam Appannavar 3/41, Rohan M. Yareshmi 3/17) lost to Dharwad 235/5 in 40.2 overs (Safal Shetty 42, Chirag R. Nayak 103, Dhruv Naik 31 n.o.).    Ruthy Lalrinmali scored a 90th minute winner as Misaka United FC edged Parikrma 4-3 in the Karnataka women's league for super division teams on Thursday.  The results: Misaka United FC 4 (Anagha Janakki Raman 54, Lalnunslam 68, 74, Ruthy Lalrinmaii 90) bt Parikrama 3 (Shobana Selvam 18, 52, 66) .      Rethin Pranav ousted top seed Mandeep Reddy 6-0, 6-2 to enter the final of the AITA under-16 tournament at the Amogha Sports Tennis Academy on Thursday. In the summit clash, Pranav will meet Shivaraj Chandan, who overcame second seed Vivaan Gupta 6-1, 7-5.  The results (semifinals): Boys: Rethin Pranav bt Mandeep Reddy 6-0, 6-2; Shivaraj Chandan bt Vivaan Gupta 6-1, 7-5; Girls: Vanya Srivastav bt Gagana Mohankumar 6-4, 6-0; Amodini Vijay Nayak bt Sushmitha Ravi 6-1, 6-2 .    Karnataka's B.R. Nikshep defeated Haryana's Vaibhav Kundu 6-2, 6-3 to enter the last four of the AITA National Ranking Rs. 1 lakh tennis tournament in Sonipat, Haryana, on Thursday. In the semifinal, Nikshep will meet Ajay Malik, also of Haryana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chirag-stars-in-dharwad-zones-win/article33876036.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy for Youth XI||Delhi under-19 batsman Sanat Sangwan top-scored with 62 and Ankit Partap Singh picked up two wickets for just six runs as Youth XI beat Ravi Brothers by 38 runs in the Bhopal Singh Balyan tournament.  The scores: Youth XI 192 in 39 overs (Sanat Sangwan 62, Shivam 38, Ajay Choudhary 4/53, Rocky 4/21) bt Ravi Brothers 154 in 35.3 overs (Sanyem Arora 51, Abhishek Gupta 38) .      Leg-spinner Ravi Yadav (4/40) and Raman Rana (65) starred in Sporting Club’s 27-run win over M-10 Academy in the Niz Sports under-19 tournament.  The scores: Sporting Club 206/7 in 40 overs (Raman Rana 65, Archit Malik 44) bt M-10 Academy 179 in 37.2 overs (Dhruv Kumar 56, Ravi Yadav 4/40) .    Mridul Surroch’s 112 and all-round performance by Ashutosh Aggarwal saw Crescent Academy defeat York Club by eight runs in the SH Sports u-19 tourney.  The scores: Crescent Academy 255/7 in 40 overs (Mridul Surroch 112, Asutosh Aggarwal 46, Harshil Jain 37) bt York Club 247 in 39.5 overs (Vansh Mehra 67, Hitesh Kumar 49, Ashutosh Aggarwal 3/29, Amanpreet Singh 3/44) .    Badal Viswal picked up four wickets and Sampoorn Tripathi took three as LB Shastri Club beat Rohtak Road Gymkhana by two wickets in the Kiran Chopra memorial ur-18 tournament.  The scores: RRG 118 in 33.4 overs (Pratham Gosain 40, Badal Vishwal 4/21, Sampoorn Tripathi 3/27) lost to LBSC 120/8 in 22.4 overs (Aaditya Kumar 46, Abhishek Kumar 3/15) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/easy-for-youth-xi/article33876111.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Lekhaz scored unbeaten ton||M. Lekhaz Reddy scored unbeaten 117 to help Prakasam score a three-wicket win over Krishna in the ACA inter-district under-19 one-day cricket championship at Mulapadu on Thursday.  The scores: West Godavari 200 in 58.1 overs (K.S.N. Raju 68, Samanvith 5/32, P. Akshay 4/56) bt Guntur 167 in 29.1 overs (Mahima Kumar 52, Samanvith 30, K. Sri Akshay 3/49).   Krishna 266/7 in 50 overs (M. Chirudeep. 80, G. Chanti 51 n.o., Sk. Kaja Moinuddin 39, V. Vishal 31, P. Naveen 3/42) lost to Prakasam 270/7 in 40.5 overs (M. Lekhaz Reddy 117 n.o., Gutta Rohith 84, M. Susanth Naidu 3/38).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lekhaz-scored-unbeaten-ton/article33876199.ece
19 February 2021||KOLKATA,||Stand named after Akhtar Ali||A stand at the Jaidip Mukerjea Tennis Academy here was named after legendary player and coach Akhtar Ali on Thursday. Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation chairperson Krishna Chakraborty inaugurated the stand in the presence of Air Marshal (retd.) Arup Raha, Olympic medallist Dr. Vace Paes and Mukerjea. It coincided with the beginning of the fifth Premjit Lall invitational tournament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/stand-named-after-akhtar-ali/article33875817.ece
19 February 2021||Kodakara:,||Unbeaten century by Jitheesh||PDCA President’s XI rode on Jitheesh Kumar's unbeaten century (101 not out) to crush Devamatha by 148 runs in the Youngsters Trophy all-Kerala cricket tournament.   The scores: PDCA President’s XI 266/2 in 27 overs (Jitheesh Kumar 101 n.o., David 79, Edhen 33) bt Devamatha 118/9 in 27 overs (Ananthakrishnan 60, Karthik 3/29) .    Rohan Nair’s century went in vain as KCA-D lost to KCA-A by one wicket in the KCA-HPC cricket tournament on Thursday. Chasing 236 for a win, KCA-A managed to squeeze out a win with one ball to spare and one wicket remaining.  The scores: KCA-D 235/4 in 50 overs (Rohan Nair 103, Shoun Roger 69, Abhishek Krishna 30) lost to KCA-A 236/9 in 49.5 overs (V. Abhiram 73, Adhithya Prakash 46, Adithya Vinod 34) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/unbeaten-century-by-jitheesh/article33875692.ece
19 February 2021||MELBOURNE,||Ankita & Rakhimova in final||Chirag R. Nayak's century (103) was instrumental in Dharwad Zone's five-wicket win over Shimoga Zone in the KSCA inter-mofussil under-19 tournament. For Shimoga, Shreyank Sagar's 120 went in vain.  The scores: Mysore 130 in 41 overs (M.K. Yashwanth 30, T. Chiranjeevi 4/23) lost to Tumkur 131/2 in 30.2 overs (N.R. Darshan 28, T.P. Prapul 37, N. Vibhushan 36 n.o.).   Raichur 144 in 41.3 overs (Niranjan 41, Thippa Reddy 27, Bheem Rao 27, Y.D. Prabhav 4/35, Nathan D'Mello 3/13) lost to Mangalore 145/9 in 42.1 overs (Thota Mohammed Azaan 27, Vinayak Holla 45, Bheem Rao 3/27).   Shimoga 233 in 49.3 overs (Shreyank Sagar 120, Mohammed Hamzah 36, Fardin Khan 29, Sayaam Appannavar 3/41, Rohan M. Yareshmi 3/17) lost to Dharwad 235/5 in 40.2 overs (Safal Shetty 42, Chirag R. Nayak 103, Dhruv Naik 31 n.o.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ankita-rakhimova-in-final/article33875583.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 07:41 IST,||Sudoku — February 19, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-february-19-2021/article33876423.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,||The return of||For Meena, returning to the sets of Drishyam 2 was a homecoming. Reprising Rani George, a role she says is close to her heart, was not difficult. “It was easy to go back because the character and the movie are both special to me,” the actor says. Meena had also reprised this role in the Telugu remake, Drushyam . Excited as she is about the sequel’s release on Amazon Prime Video today, she confesses to having had reservations, initially. “Like the last time, Anthony [Perumbavoor], who is the film’s producer, had to convince me to do the role,” Meena laughs. On the first occasion, she was hesitant about leaving her young daughter behind for the shoot; this time, it was COVID-19. “ Drishyam 2 was the first film to start shooting once restrictions were lifted. Though I was excited about the sequel and the shooting, I was worried. I was concerned if it was safe [to go shoot] despite all the precautions,” she adds. However, Anthony Perumbavoor put her concerns to rest. “Even the smallest detail was taken care of from the first day to the end of the schedule. Everything, and everybody, irrespective of what they were doing on set, was taken care of per COVID-19 protocols,” the actor says. Effortless work On reprising her character, Meena says the process, though “effortless”, did require work since Rani George no longer has the “bubbliness” of the original. “[Rani] knows what has happened: the murder and the cover-up. So she is a toned down version of herself and she is under stress because of it,” she says, adding, “I wanted to repeat the dialogue [from Drishyam] ‘ Naadodumbol naduve odanam ’ here too, but couldn’t.” While Drishyam was about a crime executed in self-defence, which Rani’s family then covers up, the sequel shows how the past returns to haunt them. Although the cast had not spoken to or met each other in the seven-odd years separating the two films, Meena says she did not feel like that there ever was a gap; the same applies for her co-star Mohanlal as well, with whom she has worked the most number of films in Malayalam cinema. Meena’s last project with Mohanlal was the 2017 film Munthirivallikal Thallirkumbol . “It has always been easy to act with him. I have known him for ages, since the ‘90s. We don’t meet, but it was good catching up,” she says. Although she has not done as many films in Malayalam as she has in Tamil or Telugu, she holds the former close to her heart. “Being a part of Malayalam films changed the way I performed. It taught me a natural style of acting, besides constantly giving me good characters.” Meena notes that she is happy with a change she is noticing in the regional film industries, where older female actors are offered stronger roles. “All change is good,” says the actor who will be next seen in Tamil in the Rajinikanth-starrer Annaatthe . However, she says she has become picky. “Some films you just cannot refuse. It could be because of friendships, but I generally look at the character and how it is portrayed. It should be different not only for me but also for my audience,” Meena says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-return-of/article33875720.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Art between the lines of prayer||Bee Bee Laisa, a final year engineering student in Bengaluru, has a dream. The 24-year-old wants to transcribe a copy of the Koran in Arabic. “I have always been interested in art and drawing, but it was only when I started learning English calligraphy that I was introduced to the art form in Arabic, which would help me transcribe the holy book,” says Laisa. And so began her journey in 2016, as a student of the Institute of Indo-Islamic Art and Culture (IIAC) at Richmond Street, Bengaluru, to learn Arabic calligraphy. Also known askhat,this centuries-old art form is held in high regard by Muslims because of its association with the dissemination of the Koran before the era of printing presses. In the past five years, Laisa has mastered the decorative scriptthuluth,considered one of the most difficult fonts, and naskh (used to write the Koran ). Her talent has been recognised on several international and local platforms: her calligraphic artworks of Koranic verses and Islamic phrases have been exhibited in Japan, UAE, and Jaipur since 2017. It is a huge leap forward for Laisa, whose father works as a banana delivery vehicle driver in Bengaluru. Laisa says calligraphy has helped improve her concentration and also use her drawing skills in her civil engineering classes. “Calligraphers can’t have any dot or line out of place; this has helped me present spotless drawings for my coursework as well,” she says. The school uses traditional materials to teach the art, including wooden or reed pens ( qalam ) and inks from plant-based resins. As per tradition, strands of raw silk are placed inside the inkpot ( likka ), to help regulate the amount of ink on the qalam tip, and also to prevent spills onto the paper. “We use a paper called muqahar for the final version. Though it is commercially available, calligraphers also learn how to prepare their own muqahar sheets,” says Muqtar Ahmed, the principal and tutor at of the IIAC. Devoted to the art Ahmed is the man guiding Laisa in her mission. He has the distinction of being the only Indian to have earned his Ijazah (Master’s diploma) in Arabic calligraphy from the Turkey-based Research Center for Islamic History, Art and Culture (IRCICA), under the auspices of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC). He has trained over 500 students through the school’s weekly courses, and has started online classes during lockdown. “Calligraphy takes a long time to learn, and one only gets better with continuous practice,” says Ahmed. His own encounter with the art form is a tribute to his tenacity. As an intermediate school graduate in a small village in Telengana, he started learning Urdu and Arabic calligraphy and decided to make his career as a scribe for an Urdu publication in Bengaluru, in 1990. “I used to write entire pages of articles in the column style, before the computers came in,” he says. Most of the commercial calligraphy that was done for Urdu and Arabic journals before automated printing lacked the aesthetic values of the original art form, he says. “I’d like to revive Arabic calligraphy among young people and show them how this can not only be an art but also a way to remember the divine in our life,” Ahmed says. When he lost his job in 1994, Ahmed decided to research how other calligraphers, especially those outside India, were sustaining their craft. He set up a small commercial press to keep his home fires burning, and kept looking out for masters in calligraphy. “I realised that it is not a language transforming tool, but an art that has a different respect globally,” he adds. Among the people who helped him were Washington-based Syrian font designer and calligrapher Maamoun Sakkal, and Mohamed Zakariya, the first Westerner to earn calligraphy diplomas from IRCICA in Turkey. In what sounds like an incredible process today, Zakariya, who is based in Virginia and does not use electronic communication, tutored Ahmed over postal correspondence for three-and-a-half years. “I used to send my completed exercises from Bengaluru, and he would reply with his comments and corrections by post. Mr Zakariya didn’t charge me any fees for the tuition, and I feel very fortunate to have been his student,” says Ahmed. Zakariya also introduced Ahmed to his own master Hasan Chalabi from IRCICA, who invited him to Turkey in 2008. After several visits to Istanbul to learn the art, Ahmed earned his Master’s degree in 2013. Paying it forward “My professors advised me to start teaching calligraphy in India after I graduated, so that I could rekindle the old majesty of the art. When Syed Mohamed Beary [a local real estate developer] heard of this, he sponsored the establishment of the institute in Bengaluru, and put me in charge of it. I’m glad to see that though it is a very difficult field to excel in, at least 15 of our students are being recognised for their calligraphy,” says Ahmed. Ameerul Islam and Abdul Sattar, two of his students, have set up a branch of the institute in Hyderabad. IIAC’s curriculum covers the Arabic scriptsriqa(for newcomers),naskhandthuluthandnastaliqin Urdu. “Learning any two scripts thoroughly is ideal for a calligrapher,” says Ahmed. Bee Bee Laisa’s aim of transcribing the Koran is shared by her teacher. “In fact it is the ultimate goal of every Arabic calligrapher,” says Ahmed. “But it is a huge project, because there are at least 600 pages to be transcribed. If we do something with our hands, it is priceless,” he says.  Built to be timeless The process of making m uqahar was perfected in the 17th Century by Turkish calligraphers, and Arabic calligraphy students still learn it today. Paper is stained with natural dyes (like tea or floral decoctions) and then coated with a tempering mixture of alum crystals dissolved in egg whites. It is then burnished to get a glossy finish. “ Muqahar paper, if made correctly, can last up to 700 years,” says Ahmed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/art-between-the-lines-of-prayer/article33875715.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Sea major||When National award-winning music directors Aravind Murali and Jaishankar Iyer got together immediately after the lockdown, the one thing they wanted to do was write a song about their experience in those troubled times. Aravind suggested they write about being under ‘house arrest’, while Jaishankar wanted to do a song about the plight of immigrant workers and sections of society that bore the brunt of lockdown. They could not agree on a common theme till they decided to turn the topic on its head — what the lockdown was not about, the simple things that people longed for. Jaishankar says, “Both Aravind and I realised, what we missed most were the wide open spaces that Chennai has. We missed the Marina, Elliotts Beach, Mahabs and all the empty beaches on the ECR stretch...” That is how Me, the Ocean and the Sea was born. Jaishankar, “It’s a feel-good song about the emotional connection with these places and freedom — things we took for granted, but missed during lockdown.” Adds Aravind, “Making music is our profession. So writing a song without an agenda and without an incentive to make money off it, was in itself a step out of the ‘stuck between four walls’ attitude of making music for a living. It helped us step out into the wide open space of creative self-expression.” Aravind, who has been a scuba diver for over a decade now, connected hugely with the theme. “During lockdown, I used to dream about the sea and the ocean. I wanted to have the freedom of looking to the end of the horizon and not being obstructed by a wall or a building,” he says. The duo has composed over a thousand jingles, and also worked on films like Silent Screen , Oorukku Nooru Per , and on Telugu and Tamil hits. They are also the musicians behind the ‘Whistle Podu’ anthem for IPL team Chennai Super Kings. Aravind and Jaishankar shared the scratch version with a number of musician friends. Two of them, well-known playback singer Malgudi Subha and emerging star Amrit Ramnath, offered to sing. “I was very excited about it as the feel was right up my alley. It was a cute, funky song with sing-along lyrics,” says Subha, who has blockbuster hits in multiple languages. Chips in Amrit, “I loved the upbeat and buoyant tempo. The song segues from jazz to pop and every genre in between. If I had to invent a genre to fit the song into, I would call it ‘acoustic beach pop’.”  ‘Me, The Ocean And the Sea’ will release on February 19 on all major music platforms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/sea-major/article33875712.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Trapped!||A camera is set inside a rugged waterproof box, which is fixed to a tree or post. This is called a camera trap because, when it senses motion, it records — or “traps” — videos and photos. Most camera traps use infra-red light to see in the dark. Usually, this goes on till the battery lasts or the memory card becomes full; another hazard is a curious animal. What it catches A camera trap is extremely useful for documenting wildlife, like taking a tiger count. First, a tiger’s active trail is identified after fieldwork and camera traps are place on both sides so that the animal’s right and left flanks can be captured. As a bonus, other kinds of wildlife, people, even a fluttering moth or a leaf falling to the ground can trigger the camera. Once the photos are recovered, they are shortlisted on the basis of whether both flank patterns are clearly visible. Tiger stripe patterns are unique to each individual, just like human fingerprints! While recognising individual tigers cannot be done manually, computer and pattern recognition software are a big help. Once the shortlisted patterns are entered into a database, the images are checked against what already exists. If the pattern doesn’t match, then it’s a new tiger. There’s other information one can get as well. Take this example. Tourists photographed an adult tiger in Bandhavgarh but local guides felt this was a new tiger. Where did it come from? When officials at the Panna Tiger Reserve, 200km away, saw the images, they checked their database and identified it as Chote Pannalal from their reserve. By crossing the fields, villages, roads and mine areas between the two reserve areas, this tiger had established that the corridor between Bandhavgarh and Panna still existed. Images from camera traps have also helped identify the origins of tigers killed by poachers by matching the confiscated skins with patterns in the database. These techniques are also used to protect other species like leopards, hyenas and other animals with patterns on their skins.  Fun facts          For the tiger census results announced in 2018, camera traps were placed in over 26,000 locations, covering an area of over 380,000 sq.km. Images were collected over 1.5 years.  Of the staggering of 3.5 crore photographs obtained, only 76,651 were of tigers.   After processing these, it was concluded that there were around 3,000 tigers in the country.  Other kinds of wildlife, people, even a fluttering moth can trigger the camera...||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/trapped/article33876383.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Songsters of the sea||Millions of years, some land mammals wandered off into the ocean, decided they liked it there, and eventually evolved into marine mammals, including the humpback whale. The whale is actually the closest living relative of the Hippo Humpback whales travel 10,000 kilometres every year between their feeding and birthing grounds Female humpbacks are pregnant for up to one year, and a newborn can swim immediately4Female humpbacks are pregnant for up to one year, and a newborn can swim immediately  Whales breathe air through a pair of lungs, are warm blooded, and give birth to live young who drink milk. A baby whale drinks up to 550 litres a day Male humpbacks are singers as they sing complex songs in waters that can last up to 20 minutes and are heard miles away Humpback whales in the southern hemisphere live off their fat reserves for 5.5-7.5 months each year, as they migrate from their tropical breeding grounds to the Antarctic, to feed on krill. They hunt using a technique known as bubble net fishing — they swim around their prey in a circle and blow bubbles around their prey in order to herd the fish into a tight ball. Humpbacks are super heavy, heavier than a bull elephant and three times heavier than a school bus||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/songsters-of-the-sea/article33876386.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Dream début||Mohammed Siraj made his Test début for India on December 26, 2020, against Australia. In January 2021, during the fourth Test of the Border-Gavaskar series, Siraj took his first five-wicket haul. Excerpts from a chat with the cricketer: The bio-bubble It was really depressing and a different kind of mental challenge. But, yes, it also taught us some lessons like having a strong mindset. But, once on the cricket field, the focus was completely on the game, like someone doing his job and nothing else. Challenge I never thought I would get a chance to play a Test. But, once I did, I decided to look at it like one of those India-A games and not invite any pressure. Every team-mate said, ‘You have in it you to make it big. Just stay focused and give your best’. Leading the attack Frankly, the thought that I was the most experienced bowler (with three Tests) in the bowling attack didn’t occur to me. We were all determined to give our best and glad to have contributed to the team’s win eventually. Supportive captains Both Ajinkya Rahane and Virat Kohli were very good and had the same objective — to see India win. All the youngsters were encouraged a lot and made to believe in themselves. Even when we were not good on the field sometimes, Ajinkya always trusted the youngsters. Never had a harsh word. Kept on encouraging us. Looking ahead I am determined not to feel complacent after the performances in Australia. I should look at them as a benchmark and try to keep improving. I am still a boy learning the art of bowling. I will play my heart out whenever I get a chance to represent India, which was my father’s dream too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/dream-dbut/article33876351.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Summer’s End At Odds ‘n’ Ends||The story so far: It was decided that all the spookiness in the house was because of the woman in the picture. The picture had to go back.  The drizzle had resumed, and it was cold, dark and gloomy. The mood in the car was heavy and sombre. Finally, Moti uncle pulled up outside the second-hand store. The sign was old and the paint, peeling. The faded black letters announced “Odds ‘n’ Ends”. The wooden floorboards creaked as they entered. In a far corner, Mr. Michael, the manager, sat hunched up over ledgers. The windows were grimy and a naked low-watt bulb hung suicidally in the centre. A heavy wind picked up outside, and the bulb on the single wire swung madly. Mr. Michael looked up from his books. Even in the dim light, they could discern his expression of fear and apprehension. “We want to return this picture,” said Moti uncle. “Sorry sir, but we do not take returns…” he said. “I just want to give it back. I don’t even want my money…” Mr. Michael blanched. “Why?” “Why? You are asking me why?” A secret unravels Mr. Michael was quiet. Dhruv unwrapped the picture and placed it on the table. The shop seemed to become darker and a wild wind picked up outside. The woman in the photograph stared calmly out at the rising sun. “Take back the picture and we will be on our way,” said Moti uncle. “Oh my god, she’s moving!” screamed Keya. They watched, as she sat there looking at them. Her eyes sparkled with anger. Quickly, Mr. Michael grabbed the picture and covered it with the paper and rested it face down on the table. “What’s the story behind this picture?” asked Dhruv. Mr. Michael hesitated, and wiped his forehead with his handkerchief. After much prompting, he said, “In the early 1900s, there used to be a photographer called Molony. He was good at his job so everyone hired him, and he made money. But he was a wastrel, and never had any money for his family — wife, a son and a daughter. They lived in a small cottage in a village near Kotagiri. That house...” he said, turning the picture over. “It was called Summer.” He continued. “Then, his wife fell ill and with no money for proper medical help, she died. Molony was in debt. His house was seized, and he was thrown into prison.”  To be continued...   “Oh my god, she’s moving!” screamed Keya. They watched as she sat there looking at them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/summers-end-at-odds-n-ends/article33876344.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Daadu knows best||“Yash, your daadu is coming this Sunday,” said Yash’s mother. “That’s awesome, ma!” Yash jumped excitedly. Yash loved his daadu , who was 60, 50, 15, 5 — daadu ’s age was 60, he looked 50, talked like he was 15 and acted like a five-year-old. **** One evening, as daadu and Yash were going for an evening walk, they saw a young man slapping a 10-year-old boy. “What are you doing?” daadu shouted. “Just get lost or else...” The young man came forward threateningly but daadu stood his ground. After a few seconds, the man turned back and slunk away. “Why was that scoundrel beating you up, son?” “That man is my uncle, Ranjit. I collect scrap every day and sell it. Whatever money I make, he takes. This morning I was suffering from fever and couldn’t go to work. So, he got angry and started beating me.” “What about your parents?” “I am an orphan.”  Daadu thought for a minute and then said, “Come with me; I think I can help you.” He turned towards Yash and added, “You go home, dude.” **** A few hours later, daadu returned home. “I got the boy, Hari, admitted to Gharonda, a home for children. I know the lady who runs it.” “Why did you confront Ranjit, daadu ? He could have hurt you,” asked Yash/ “Dude, my father taught me one value that I can never forget: ‘Neither do injustice nor tolerate it.’” **** Yash was returning from his tuition when he saw something that enraged him. Two youngsters had tied a tin can to a puppy’s tail. As it ran around frightened, the can made a loud noise scaring the little dog even more and making him run faster. Yash dashed towards the puppy and untied the can from his tail. By the time the two pranksters could react, Yash rushed home with the puppy. Once there, he narrated what had happened, adding, “ Daadu , I was only following your example: ‘Neither do injustice nor tolerate it.’” “I am proud of you, dude! Now tell me what are you planning to do with your guest? You know your mother is terrified of dogs.” “Like you arranged for Hari to go to a home, I’ll make a similar arrangement for this puppy, with your help,” Yash declared.  For the next three days, Yash’s house resembled a mini-battlefield with his parents on one side and daadu and he on the other. Finally, the issue was solved by the puppy himself. On the third evening, while the discussions were still raging, Buddy appeared with a mouse in his mouth and placed it lovingly at Yash’s mother’s feet. She jumped on the sofa and screamed. “See, ma! Buddy knows you are scared of mice; that is why he decided to go after them. With him here, our house will be mice-free,” Yash said. “Well, in that case, I…” Ma was not allowed to complete her sentence. Yash jumped on to her lap while Buddy started yelping his thanks. While this tender scene of love, relief and joy was being played out, daadu quietly picked up the ‘mouse’ made of rubber. He placed it inside his kurta pocket and directed a conspiratorial wink at Buddy.  Dude, my father taught me one value which I can never forget — ‘Neither do injustice nor tolerate it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/daadu-knows-best/article33876375.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Spaced Out!||Across  1 A stellar explosion (9) 6 A giant glowing ball of gas in space (4) 7 Solar ____: Gaseous emissions from the sun's surface (5) 9 ___ fall: Falling under the influence of gravity (4) 10 Hot ball of ice and rock hurtling through space (5) 12 A moon of Jupiter (2) 14 Cloud of gas and dust in outer space (6) 17 ____ Major: A constellation (4) 18 To spin (6) 19 Planets revolve around this (3) Down 1 The planet with rings (6) 2 Unit of distance in space (6) 3 One of the phases of the moon (3) 4 The second planet from the sun (5) 5 A person who travels to space (9) 8 A type of electro-magnetic radiation (5) 11 A constellation of the zodiac (6) 13 ____stellar: The space between the stars (5) 15 The three bright stars in Orion (4) 16 3,2,1,0... ___ off! (4)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/spaced-out/article33876359.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Let the world know how curious you are||How does an eraser remove pencil marks?  An eraser rubs out pencil marks by using a force called friction. The black point of the pencil is actually a mineral called graphite. When you write, graphite particles stick to the paper. Now, the eraser is made up of rubber, softeners like oil, and abrasives like pumice or quartzite. When you rub out what you have written, the action produces friction and generates heat. This helps the abrasives loosen the graphite particles from the paper. The sticky rubber holds on to these particles and the softener prevents the paper from tearing. And you’ve managed to erase your work.  Why is humanblood red?  Our blood is red because it contains a protein called haemoglobin. Within haemoglobin is a compund called heme that is red in colour. What the heme does is to take oxygen to all the cells in your body. How does it do that? The heme contains atoms of iron, which latches on to the oxygen inhaled when you breathe. When the blood flows around your body, the heme moves along carrying along with it the oxygen bound to its iron atoms. Now for the colour. When bound to oxygen, haemoglobin absorbs blue-green light and reflects the red-orange one. So blood appears red to our eyes. Here’s an interesting titbit: did you know the blood of octopuses and horseshoe crabs are blue?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/let-the-world-know-how-curious-you-are/article33876339.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,||She emerged from stormy billows||In a film industry that casually doles out adjectives like never before, it is not easy to imagine that much before Aruna Raje, Farha Khan and Kangana Ranaut arrived on the scene, there was a Devika Rani. Known as ‘the first lady of the Indian screen’, Devika left an indelible mark on multiple aspects of filmmaking. In the new millennium, she often figures in the trivia question as the leading lady who smooched her actor-husband for the longest time on screen but her ‘audacity’ was much more profound and lasting. As the face of Bombay Talkies and arguably the first international star to come out of India, she along with Himansu Rai, aligned the nuts and bolts of creativity in an emerging film industry and groomed the stars of the future. The duo strived to bring sophistication and professionalism to what was called a lowly art till then. With films like Achchut Kanya and Jeevan Naiyya , they brought issues of untouchability and infertility in public domain. Compelling and informative Now, noted writer Kishwar Desai has painstakingly brought together the life and times of Devika in a book that is compelling and informative at the same time Kishwar brings together her flair for fiction and devotion to facts to throw light on the dark corners of what seems a glamorous life from outside. She looks at the intimate details of Devika’s life, her romantic dalliances, her pursuit for perfection, her ability to handle big teams and massive egos, with sensitivity and care. What we get is wholesome picture of a woman who gradually got over insecurities and vulnerabilities and remained unfazed in the face of trenchant patriarchy in an industry that can’t do without women. Published by Westland, The Longest Kiss unspools like a novel before taking the shape of a biography as Kishwar traces the trajectory of Devika’s life through the letters she wrote to Russian artist Svetoslav Roerich, whom she married after Himansu passed away. It lends the book a credible voice. Much like the trolls of today, Devika received anonymous fan mails that chastised her for marrying a Russian painter after the demise of her husband, but Devika stood firm and refused to be faded by patriarchal pressures. Reading the book, one gets a sense that Devika shared a passionate, yet spiritual relationship, with Roerich though Kishwar doesn’t delve much into it. However, the letters help lift the veil of secrecy that shrouded the early years of her enigmatic life. The domestic abuse that she faced at the hands of Himansu, her uncredited contribution to screenwriting in Karma , the film that put the duo on the map of world cinema, or for that matter the way she had to pawn her jewellery so that Himansu could put grandeur on celluloid, it is all knitted into the narrative. The great-grand niece of Rabindranath Tagore did things that were not considered right for an Indian woman. She married a man who was 16 years older than her. She stood up when her marriage turned abusive. She eloped with her co-actor when she was in marriage and without seeking divorce, she confidently returned to Bombay Talkies. After Himansu’s demise, she came out of his shadow effortlessly and fought the factions in the studio led by Shashadhar Mukherjee and his brother-in-law Ashok Kumar whom she groomed. She introduced Dilip Kumar to the world with Jwar Bhata, not to forget the likes of Hansa Wadekar and Leela Chitnis . She took charge of the studio and effectively controlled all departments of filmmaking. Her training in the UK and Germany in set design, makeup and costume design stood her in good stead. Capturing Devika’s intrepid ways, Desai’s book gives us precious insights into the early days of the Bombay film industry. Despite the male domination of the industry, Devika could not be denied the first Dadasaheb Phalke Award, when it was instituted in 1969.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/she-emerged-from-stormy-billows/article33875982.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,||A journey with the violin||For Dr. N. Rajam, who just added the Pt. Bhimsen Joshi Lifetime Achievement Award to her long list of honours (including the Padma Bhushan, the Sangeet Natak Akademi Fellowship, and the Padma Shri), the many challenges she faced in the world of music are no different from how one negotiates the difficulties of life. “For sure, it was not a bed of roses — there was opposition. But you deal with it rather than dwell on it,” the 82-year-old says, looking back on a lifetime with the violin. Until Rajam, the violin in Hindustani music was a non-entity with few solo exponents. Accompanying instruments were the sarangi, esraj, dilruba and the harmonium. Most instrumentalists then, Dr. Rajam says, followed the gatkari or tantrakari style — specific to instruments and distinct from the gayaki (vocal) style. “Right from the beginning, I wanted to follow the gayaki style on the violin for Hindustani music.” The magnitude of her pioneering efforts is compounded by the fact that she arrived as an anomalous South Indian (‘ Madrasi ’) woman in the 1950s in a North Indian male-dominated art form. Since the violin allows for continuity of notes, the gayaki style could be aped perfectly. “My style is 150 per cent vocal,” she says. Never having heard an instrument sound that way though, her playing was a revelation. Many new things, however good they might be, are initially met with opposition and she did face skepticism. “At first, people were taken aback. Some said I was playing like Carnatic music. But I knew I was on the right path and I persevered. Soon, everybody accepted. So much so that many aspire to play the way I do.” Training under stalwarts Dr. Rajam came to Hindustani music after 15 years of training in Carnatic violin. Her father, A. Narayana Iyer had taught her (and her brother, the celebrated Carnatic violinist T.N. Krishnan) the instrument rigorously. She trained under the titan Musiri Subramania Iyer as well and, at age 13, had accompanied M.S. Subbulakshmi. “I could play anything anyone could sing.” Her foray into Hindustani, interestingly, occurred because she was underage (14) to appear for the local intermediate school leaving examinations (having received a double promotion early on). Learning that the Banaras Hindu University (BHU) had the option of appearing as a private candidate without the age requirement, her father registered her for it. One of the required papers was Hindustani music. To prepare for it, she took lessons from L.R. Kelkar, a Chennai-based Hindustani musician. Simultaneously, a fellow Musiri student shared some 78 RPM records of Pt. Omkarnath Thakur. Dr. Rajam found his music captivating and decided that if she pursued Hindustani music, it would be under him. “When I went to BHU to write the intermediate exam, I took a letter to Omkarnath- ji, who was the Founder-Principal of the Faculty of Performing Arts, from Parur Sundaram Iyer (father of violinist M.S. Gopalakrishnan) whom our family knew well. They were guru bhais , both having learned from Vishnu Digambar Paluskar. Omkarnath- ji asked me to play — I reproduced what I had heard on those LP records. He was surprised to hear his style replicated so faithfully and agreed to take me on as his student.” On the difficulties in switching from Carnatic to Hindustani, where the tala is not overt, she is candid. “Guru Kelkar, having lived in Madras, would put taal by hand. I kept taal with my foot, so while I did not err, I wondered how Hindustani musicians did it. The tabla player I practiced with would say, ‘ kaali is coming’ (the start of the second half of the taal, typically played distinctly), which I did not understand. I just needed to be told that it was based on the sound of the tabla — but since it was so obvious for them, they didn’t. I soon figured this out myself.” Kelkar was a student of Omkarnath Thakur’s disciple and thus, unknowingly Rajam had been soaking in the Gwalior gharana style. With all styles just a click away, the relevance of gharanas now may be questionable, but Rajam points out how between teachers preventing students from listening to others’ music and travel being cumbersome, styles stayed within narrow confines. “While it is still possible to maintain the main characteristics of one’s gharana, I have always been open to taking good aspects from other gharanas and have no objection to my students doing so either.” Omkarnath Thakur was known to be rather difficult. “His standards were high and if he heard bad music, he would unhesitatingly call it out even on stage. But behind that tough exterior was an extremely good-hearted guru.” To facilitate her learning, the family moved to Bombay. She had her lessons when Omkarnath visited the city every couple of months for several days. Similar yet distinct styles Though Krishnan and she learned from their father and there were similarities in playing , there were clear distinctions as well, particularly in the left hand (non-bowing hand) technique. “Hindustani has some aspects not there in Carnatic — like the vilambit (slow) and the ati vilambit (extra slow) tempos and the fast taans (sequence of notes sung in akaaram ). My father helped me to work on these. These brought some changes in my playing.” About learning from her brother, she says, “ Anna was 10 years older than me and left to do gurukulavaasam at Semmangudi Srinivasa Iyer’s when he was about 12. So, as a child, I saw him only occasionally. Later, of course, we performed together on many occasions. He was very proud of me as I was of him.” Dr. Rajam considers herself more a student than an artiste. In the past few years, she has been working on understanding what produces roughness ( pisharu ) in bowing. “We pay more attention to our left hand — finger placement and the sound — and teachers are hypervigilant too. Similarly, I am focusing on how the entire bow comes into contact with the instrument and playing it very consciously. Codifying it comes next. Bowing technique is much more advanced in Western music where it has been extensively explored but in India, because of the integral gamakams which are difficult to reproduce, bowing technique has taken a back seat.” A feature of Narayana Iyer’s training was the use of the entire bow. “My father would insist on it. The bow had to be used fully even if it sounded imperfect initially. Sophistication comes later. Of course, I also know to use very small parts of the bow if needed!” She spent nearly 40 years at the Faculty of Performing Arts at BHU, voluntarily retiring as Dean. On how she began, her experience, challenges and learning there, she says, “After I passed my BA in 1957 (incidentally, she topped the university jointly with the award-winning astrophysicist Dr. Jayant Narlikar), Omkarnath- ji asked me to apply as a lecturer there. For reasons, including concern that a young woman might ‘corrupt’ the young men in the university, I got the position only two years later, in 1959. Learning about institutional politics was the biggest lesson. I followed my father’s advice of speaking minimally and only when necessary.” However, she says, she never hesitated to take necessary action as expected from a person of authority. While at BHU, she also completed an MA in Sanskrit, guided by Pt. Subramania Shastri and a Ph.D in Comparative Study of Hindustani and Carnatic Music under Dr. Premlatha Sharma. Her daughter, Dr. Sangeeta Shankar and her granddaughters, Ragini and Nandini, continue her legacy. “Our family tradition is to hand a violin to every child, boy or girl, at age three. That is what I did.”  The author writes on classical music and musicians.   Our family tradition is to hand a violin to every child, boy or girl, at age three. That is what I did.   Dr. Rajam found Pt. Omkarnath Thakur’s music captivating and decided that if she pursued Hindustani music, it would be under him||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/a-journey-with-the-violin/article33876005.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,||The sacred and the sublime||How does one describe the sublime? It is the coming together of the aesthetic and ethical, it is the judicious combination of sensibility and representation, a feeling that releases the perceiver from the constraints of human condition — to list a few. The 40th edition of Surashree Kesarbai Kerkar Sangeet Samaroh, an annual festival of music hosted by Kala Academy, Goa, had many lofty moments that took the listener beyond form, beauty, feeling and rhetoric. Music rose above the ‘visible’ taking the listener to a noble and profound state of rasanubhava. It was subliminal. How do you pay homage to a musician of Kesarbai Kerkar’s stature? Susheela Mishra writes in her essay on Kesarbai Kerkar: “All her life she strove for perfection in her art, and such was her devotion to the musical traditions of her Gharana (the Jaipur-Atrauli or Alladiya Khan gharana) that she never cared to lower her lofty standards, not even to attract a large audience.” An appropriate offering to Kesarbai cannot be imitation, cannot be virtuosity — it cannot be anything less than the sacred. The Sangeet Samaroh had ample evidence of this: most musicians at the festival put out their honest selves shorn of dazzlement. In a three-day festival with so many concerts, it would amount to a mere listing if one dared to write about each one of them. Some musicians cast a spell, and what’s here is a trickling effort to document it. Saskia Rao took raag Puriya Dhanashri to new depths with her scintillating rendition on the Indian cello in a jugalbandi with Pt. Shubhendra Rao, her spouse and renowned sitarist. A pious and sincere musician, Pt. Shubhendra’s music is richly evocative. Despite training under a legendary guru, Pt. Ravi Shankar, Pt. Shubhendra is an original thinker. His narrative was reflective and absorbed However, it was clearly Saskia’s day — the richness she brought to the rendition created an atmosphere of a symphony of cellos. Endowed with an insightful vision, Saskia yoked the mood of the raag with the soundscapes produced by her wonderful instrument. With a Dhrupad aesthetic, typical of the Maihar gharana — the rhythmic variations in the jod section, the brilliant interpretations and the silence they could infuse even when they picked speed, caused deep inner stirrings. Saskia’s profound musical self built an overarching mood of contemplation, exploring microtonal intervals in different melodic configurations. It was not merely a rich portrayal of a raga, but of conviction, courage and imagination. Custodians  Poornima Bhat Kulkarni and Shalmalee Joshi were equally stunning. Music, in these artistes, was a natural outpouring of their sadhana . As they sang, they plunged into depths, and dared to scale new heights. Poornima – with her robust and well-toned voice — rendered Shivmat Bhairav, made immortal by Pt. Mallikarjun Mansur. The raag is a combination of Bhairav, Bhairavi and Todi and more or less creates the atmosphere of Bhairav, barring a few deviations. In a style that is strongly Kirana, with influences of Gwalior and Jaipur, Poornima’s approach was methodical and neat. Her rendition of the bandish, ‘Tero hi dhyaan’ was layered, with great control over rhythm. Her boltaans, layakari and taans were flawless, as she traversed the three octaves effortlessly. Her rendition was reminiscent of the doyenne Gangubai Hangal for whom music was presenting the knowledge imbibed from her gurus and less as personal achievement. Quiet practitioners like Poornima are custodians of great musical traditions. Shalmalee Joshi’s Yamani Bilaval bandish, ‘Prem galiyan mein’ took a while to warm up, but the later stages were pure delight. With a fluid and open-throated voice, her rendition was charged with beautiful layakari, immaculate taans. In her singing that stressed the emotional, Shalmalee seemed like she was on a melodic quest — it gave her whole presentation a spiritual dimension. With the joy of a seeker in her singing, she kept the audience enraptured. Not all great gurus are fortunate to have worthy disciples, but Pt. Ajoy Chakrabarty certainly is, and so are Pt. Rajan and Sajan Mishra. In fact, speaking of Anol Chatterjee, Pt. Ajoy Chakrabarty says, “Whenever I listen to Anol, who is like my son, I feel raga music is in safe hands.” A competent scholar and practitioner, Anol Chatterjee is a fine blend of intellect and emotion, skill and soul. In a detailed exposition of Miya Ki Todi, he unravelled note by note to create a tapestry of longing. He dressed up every detail, interpreting it luxuriantly. With superb voice control, he peaked and mellowed notes to create different emotional effects. He improvised on the shadja (sa), caressing the contours of other notes, at once expanding the meaning of the stationary nature of shadja itself. Anol Chatterjee’s imagination is complex, rendition effortless. He is easily among the best musicians of our times. For those who heard Diwakar and Prabhakar Kashyap for the first time – Kashyap Bandhus — it was mesmerising. Torchbearers of the legacy of khyal virtuosos Pt. Rajan and Sajan Mishra, their elucidation of raag Patdeep was like fine filigree. In no hurry to reveal the hidden depths of the melody, they created a sound narrative of long pauses, silences, a sudden surge and a fade out. The dhrut bandish changed the momentum with beautiful taans and layakari. The articulate Diwakar, even demonstrated typical Banarasi taans to great appreciation. There was no sense of competition between the brothers. They participated in the musical journey like true collaborators, inspiring and understanding each other’s music. Of tall order Musicians like Pt. Ram Deshpande are great assets to the musical tradition of India. Trained in Gwalior, Jaipur and Agra gharanas by maestros, he presented a Dhanashri, predominantly Agra in style. Accompanied by his son Gandhar Deshpande, robust imagination and vitality were the hallmarks of the concert. There was not a single moment when the energy dipped, in fact, it steadily progressed to a crescendo. Laya came alive in his melodic treatment Marwa was poignant as well as a structural beauty. The majestic movements of their meditative music spoke of the legendary status of Pt. Rajan and Sajan Mishra. The tehraav, murkhis, sapaat and vakra taans were as captivating as their body language indicative of their deep involvement in their art. They came from a position of deep submission marvelling at every musical grace that came their way that evening. This was true of Pt. Venkatesh Kumar as well — his rendition of Chayanat was a rich structure of ideas. Sans frills, his music upheld laya and lalithya. He rendered the immortal bandish, ‘Jhanan jhanan jhanan baje’ reminiscent of Nisar Hussain Khan saab and Malavika Kanan. A special mention must be made of Prachi Jathar, the young vocalist from Goa, who gave a fine start to the festival. Bestowed with a good voice and temperament, she sang a moving Yaman. Milan Gandhar was a beautiful, bandish-centred presentation. What she needs to build is stamina, and she will soar. The festival saw some of the finest tabla and harmonium maestros. Most memorable were the veteran Vishwanath Kanhere, Sudanshu Kulkarni, Dattaraj Surlekar, Dayanidesh Kosambe and the renowned Arvindkumar Azad. As always, Ojas Adhiya was a stunner. The festival was successful in presenting the best of Hindustani music — vocalists, instrumentalists and accompanists. For the listener, it was once again a reminder that an experience so transcendental is more than human effort. A samyoga ?  Musicians made honest presentations shorn of dazzlement. A true homage to Kesarbai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-sacred-and-the-sublime/article33876013.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Out of the shadows||For the Tholpavakoothu (shadow puppetry) exponent K.K. Ramachandra Pulavar, this season of plays had an auspicious start — he has been awarded the Padma Shri. He is the first folk artiste from Kerala to be selected for this honour . Ramachandra, son of the late guru Krishnankutty Pulavar, belongs to the 13th generation in a family of puppeteers. The Tholpavakoothu artistes live in village Koonathara, along the Shoranur-Ottappalam Road. In fact a major attraction of this village is the ‘Krishnankutty Pulavar Memorial Tholpavakoothu & Puppet Centre.’ . Annual fare Performed in the Bhadrakali temples, from January to June every year, the art form is believed to be more than 350 years old. The performance is staged in specially built koothumadams ( play house ) facing the temple. Artistically made puppets cast their shadows on the cloth screen ( Ayapudava ) in the koothumadam. Behind the screen, de-husked coconuts broken into two halves are placed in a row on a long plank, vilakkumadam . They contain coconut oil and the cotton wicks kept in them shed light on the screen. The puppets are held upright with a thin bamboo rod fixed vertically on their back. As the puppeteer moves them against the light, shadows are cast on the screen. The play staged is Kamba Ramayanam, the verses ( adal pattu ) of which are rendered by the leader of the troupe (pulavar) in peculiar cadences. The rest of the team responds with ‘Aa’ in chorus. Around 200 puppets are needed for the entire 21-day play — from Sri Rama Avataram (birth) to Sri Rama Pattabishekam (coronation). According to the scene, each puppet is prepared for different movement or posture: sitting, walking and fighting. Interestingly, special puppets such as of animals, trees, birds, lakes and mountains are created to represent nature. Dexterity of the puppeteers make these performances realistic. The credit for bringing the art out of the temple precincts goes to Krishnankutty Pulavar. He took them to cultural organisations, educational institutions and even puppet festivals across the world. Ramachandra was initiated into the art form at age six by his father . He learnt the nuances by participating in the shows staged by his father. These opportunities gave him the much-needed exposure and also the wherewithal to preserve and popularise the art form. An all-women team Ramachandra established an institution in his father’s name that trains artistes in puppet making. “Tradition for me also means innovation,” says Ramachandra, who admits female students too. A trained female artiste was first included in his team. Recently, he put together an all-women team for a performance. He feels gender discrimination in arts is reprehensible. The institution has a museum that displays 40 puppets, including a 250-year-old, collected from across the world. Ramachandra has also been presenting new plays such as ‘Duryodhana Vadham’ (Mahabharata), ‘Panchatantra,’ ‘Mahatma Gandhi,’ ‘Jesus Christ’ and ‘Ayyappa Charitam’ to popularise Tholpavakoothu. They have been well received by audiences around the world. The National Shadow Theatre Festival organised by Sangeet Natak Akademi, Bengaluru, in 1978 gave Tholpavakoothu recognition at the national level. Thereafter, it was selected for the International Festival of Puppet Theatres of Asian Countries in Soviet Union in 1979. G. Venu, who contributed immensely for the revival of the art form, led the team in 1987 to Indian Manifestation in Sweden. The team was later invited to International Puppet Festival held under the leadership of renowned artiste, Michael Meschke, in Hydra, Greece. Ramachandra was invited by CCRT, Delhi, to train teachers since the art form is an effective tool in education. He was honoured by the Kerala Folklore Akademi in 2012, Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Akademi in 2013 and Sangeet Natak Akademi in 2015. A regular participant in the International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK), Ramachandra collaborated with well-known filmmaker G. Aravindan to create the festival logo, which is a Tholpavakoothu puppet.  The writer and culture critic is a trained musician.   The credit for bringing the art out of the temple precincts goes to Krishnankutty Pulavar. He took them to cultural organisations, educational institutions and even puppet festivals across the world||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/out-of-the-shadows/article33876024.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,||The best of old and new||A massive, three-day musical festival was held in Pune recently to commemorate the 100th birth anniversary of Pt. Bhimsen Joshi. Titled ‘Khayal Yadnya’, 38 vocalists representing various khayal forms performed from 7 a.m. onwards; thus one heard several morning and afternoon raags. Streamed live as well, the festival was organised by the Pune-based Sangeetacharya Pt. D.V. Kanebua Pratishthan, brainchild of vocalist Manjusha Patil. The festival opened with the sole dhrupad presentation by Uday Bhawalkar, whose sombre raag Bhairav and devotional composition, ‘Narayan tum Hari’ set the tone for the festival. Hearing so many vocalists, of different ages and stature, one after the other continuously for three days was a unique experience. With an allotted time slot of around 45 minutes, it was interesting to observe that most singers chose to present one raag in entirety rather than two or more concise offerings; without doubt the ability to prolong a raag is seen as a virtue these days. About four decades ago, the ability of a performer to extract the essence of a raag ( nichod ) in a short time was hailed as much as the competence to linger and expand. One also noted with regret that most new generation singers do not quite bother to do riyaaz in the kharaj saptak (lower octave), leaving their voice span much reduced. The grandeur and majesty of singing the lower notes are lost. The rigid adherence to rendering raags according to the time of the day was abandoned on occasion; perhaps Hindustani music is slowly going the Carnatic way, which gave up the time theory years ago. Special moments There were some special moments — Vijay Koparkar’s Basant Mukhari, Ram Deshpande’s Todi, Devaki Pandit’s Hindol with a profusion of authentic Jaipur taans of different gaits, Omkar Dadarkar’s Puriya had power and drama and Manjusha Patil’s Bageshwari was both emotionally appealing in the vilambit and thrilling in the dhrut. The piece de resistance of the festival was presented by Ustad Rashid Khan. Accompanied by three disciples, he was at his mellow best in Puriya. His voice is indeed unparalleled. A careful selection of raags ensured that one was able to hear some rare ones — Ashwini Bhide Deshpande sang raag Jogiya with a meticulous thoroughness in her wonderfully steady voice. Arati Ankalikar Tikekar’s raag Sarag Valari was thought provoking. Over the years, she has chosen to invariably present unusual raags. Nishad Bakre’s Kukubh Bilawal included some nice taan patterns, Kalapani Komkali skilfully expanded Beehad Bhairav, which she described as ‘dhun ugam’ (based on a dhun) and Raghunandan Panshikar rendered Savani Kalyan with élan. After the concert he said, “for me, the bandish has a devotional feel which is important.” Impressive choice of raags Many singers of the younger generation also impressed with their raag choice such as Arati Thakur Kundalkar’s (Kirana gharana) raag Bhupal Todi, Saurabh Kadgaonkar’s (Jaipur Attrauli gharana) Lalita Gauri, Nagesh Adgaonkar’s (Rampur Sahaswan gharana) Puriya Dhanashri and Sham Kalyan, Saurabh Naik’s (Gwalior gharana) raag Vrindavani Sarang, Anuja Zokarkar’s (Gwalior gharana) Gaoti, and Basant. It was surprising to not hear more Basant renditions during Basant Panchami (February 16). Young vocalists like Dhananjay Hegde also held their own. Bhuvanesh Komkali seems to be getting better and better, while Sawani Shendesings her own compositions with pleasure and polish. Rahul Deshpande’s Nat Bhairav was noteworthy. Mature interpretations of raags by seniors including Pt. Venkatesh Kumar ( Asavari), Madhup Mudgal (Chayanat, Suha Sugrai and Jog), and Shaunaq Abhisheki ( Marwa and Bhoop Nat) ensured a balanced presentation. It was heartening to see many musicians in the audience. Their presence, and that of erudite listeners during a live performance held in the memory of a legend brought out the best in the singers. All announcements were in Marathi, which was surprising, given the global reach of the online platform. The festival featured some of the best accompanying artistes such as Arvind Azad, Vijay Ghate, Ramdas Palsule and Bharat Kamat on the tabla, and Aravind Thatte, Suyog Kundalkar, Milind Kulkarni and Tanmay Deochake on the harmonium. The festival, which was memorable in many ways, ended with Pt. Rajan-Sajan Mishra’s heartwarming rendition of Bhairavi.  The Delhi-based author writes on Hindustani music and musicians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-best-of-old-and-new/article33876021.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Title for artistes||On the occasion of the Tyagaraja Aradhana, Sastra Satsangh honoured the following artistes with the ‘Sangita Vachaspati’ title — Subbu Arumugam (villupaatu), A. Soundararaja Bhagavatar (namasankirtanam) and N. Vijay Siva (vocal). The award was given in recognition of their contribution to the field of art and culture. The award carries a purse of Rs. one lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/title-for-artistes/article33876007.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Tribute to Rukmini Devi||Kalakshetra will host a five-day festival, ‘Remembering Rukmini Devi’. The festival will be held from February 25 to March 1, 6 p.m. at Bharata Kalakshetra Auditorium. Dr. Justice Anita Sumanth, Judge, Madras High Court, will inaugurate. The festival will feature three dance-dramas — ‘Meenakshi Vijayam (Feb. 25),’ ‘Rukmini Kalyanam’ (Feb. 27) and ‘Paduka Pattabishekam’ (March 1), from Kalakshetra repertory. The line-up also includes the vocal concert of Trichur Brothers (Feb. 26) and violin duet by Akkarai Sisters (Feb. 28). For tickets register at tikkl.com/kalakshetra. Log on to www.kalakshetra.in for more details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/tribute-to-rukmini-devi/article33876015.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Tala talk||Madhuradhwani presents ‘Tala Sandhya’ tomorrow, 6.15 p.m., at Arkay convention Center, Mylapore. Well-known musicians will highlight the beauty of different talas and how they enhance a composition. Spread over different segments, each session will have the artistes share a brief note on the tala before their performance. Conceived by Ghatam Suresh, the programme will begin with the Mallari and thavil duet by Thiruvallikeni Sekar and Thiruvallikeni Sunilkumar. Ghatam Suresh’s ‘Layathudhi,’ a Tamil poem on laya written by him, for which Lalgudi Vijayalakshmi has scored the music and ‘11 in Eleven’ featuring Suresh’s solo performance will follow. ‘Samvaada’ by Kallidaikurichi Sivakumar and Prasanna Hariharan and RTP in Simhananda tala by vocalist Akshay Padmanabhan with H. Vishwas on the mandolin, Kallidaikurichi Sivakumar on the mridangam and Thiruvallikeni Sunilkumar on the kanjira will draw the event to a close. The programmes can be watched live on the YouTube channel and Facebook page of Arkay Convention Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/tala-talk/article33876016.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,||19fr_Calendar||As part of the ‘Samarpanam’ series, presented by Sangeeta Siksha Peetam, a three-day event has been organised in memory of senior vocalist Bombay S. Ramachandran. Beginning from today, the series will have the senior disciples of the musician — Geeta Raja, Aruna Prabha Ranganathan and Nanditha Ravi — teaching one composition each from his patantaram on February 19, 20 and 21 respectively. The concerts at 6 p.m. can be viewed on the Facebook page of Sangeeta Siksha Peetam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/19frcalendar/article33875989.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Remembering PBS||Bharat Kalachar, in association with Abbas Cultural and Roshini Fine Arts, will present a musical tribute to the legendary playback singer, P.B. Sreenivos, on February 21, 6.30 p.m. at Sri YGP Auditorium, T. Nagar. Theatre veteran Y.Gee. Mahendra along with Murali’s Mouna Ragam Orchestra will present some of his songs that were composed by G. Ramanathan, Viswanathan-Ramamurthy, K.V. Mahadevan, Sudarsanam and Adinarayana Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/remembering-pbs/article33875994.ece
19 February 2021||GURUGRAM,||Farmers block tracks in Haryana||Agitating farmers supported by khaps laid blockade at 44 points across Haryana on Thursday as part of Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s “rail roko” programme, seeking the repeal of the three farm laws and legal guarantee for the Minimum Support Price. The women also participated in the protest in large numbers at Rohtak and Charkhi Dadri. Of the 16 police stations of the Government Railway Police, Hisar, Sirsa, Jind and Rohtak accounted for 24 points — which is more than half the total number of blockades. The railway tracks were blocked at nine points in Hisar, followed by seven in Sirsa, and four each in Rohtak and Jind. In Bahadurgarh, one of the sites of sit-in agitation for the past two months, the farmers blocked the railway traffic at five points. Sangeeta Kalia, Superintendent of Police, Haryana Railway Police, said the protests went off peacefully. Widespread support Several khaps along with social, farmers, traders and employees organisations came out in support of the “rail roko” programme in Bhiwani to lay blockades at Bamla (Bhiwani-Rohtak), Sui (Hisar-Bhiwani), Siwani (Hisar-Rajgarh) and Loharu (Hisar-Jaipur). The women protesters turned up at large numbers to block the railway tracks on Rewari-Hisar route at Patuwas Mehrana railway station in Charkhi Dadri and Ismaila railway station in Rohtak. Leading the agitation at Patuwas, farmer leader Raju Maan said the farmers had participated actively in all the protests programmes, including tractor parade and highway blockade, and were ready to make any sacrifice in support of their demands. All-India Democratic Women Association vice-president Jagmati Sangwan addressed the women protesters at Ismaila. All India Kisan Sabha state vice-president Inderjit Singh said the “rail roko” programme was not meant to cause public inconvenience but to sent across the message that the movement was not confined to Punjab and Haryana and had an all-India presence. The call evoked lukewarm response in districts along the Delhi-Ambala Highway with two blockades reported under the Chandigarh railway police station and one each in the jurisdictions of Ambala Cantonment and Jagadhari railway police stations. The tracks were blocked at Kurukshetra railway station and at two different points in Kaithal. Similarly, two blockades were reported in Panipat and one in Sonipat. Led by former Haryana MLA Karan Dalal, several hundred farmers under the aegis of 52 Paals (or khaps) blocked the Delhi-Mumbai route near Atoha village in Palwal. In Gurugram, the protesters blocked tracks at Patli railway station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/farmers-block-tracks-in-haryana/article33875730.ece
19 February 2021||New Delhi,||Capital records highest turnout for jab||A total of 24,417 beneficiaries — healthcare and front-line workers — got the COVID-19 vaccination in the city on Thursday, the highest so far. There were 13 minor Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI), said a Delhi government spokesperson. Of the total beneficiaries, 5,218 healthcare workers received the first dose and 3,537 their second dose. At least 15,662 front-line workers received the first dose of the vaccine. There were 302 vaccination sites on Thursday, of which 212 were using Covishield and 90 used Covaxin. Of the total 13 AEFI, nine were from the first dose of Covishield and four from the first dose of Covaxin. There were no AEFI from the second dose, according to government data. In another development, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal provided financial assistance of Rs. 1 crore each to the families of deceased corona warriors — Ompal Singh and Raj Kumar. “The pain these families have faced is irreplaceable, but I am hopeful that with this financial assistance these families will get some relief,” the Chief Minister said. 130 new cases The Capital witnessed 130 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 6,37,445, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Thursday. Two deaths were reported in the past 24 hours and the total number of deaths stood at 10,896. A total of 60,441 tests were done in a day. Of the total cases, 6,25,496 people have recovered and there are 1,053 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/capital-records-highest-turnout-for-jab/article33875743.ece
19 February 2021||Guwahati,||Himanta slams CAA critics||Assam Finance Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma slammed the opponents of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) for separating Assamese nationalism from Hindu or Indian nationalism. He backed the Centre’s decision to protect Hindu immigrants by implementing the CAA and said the BJP’s agenda for the upcoming Assembly elections would be to strike a fine balance between Assamese interests and Hindu interests. The CAA seeks to provide citizenship to non-Muslims who allegedly fled religious persecution in Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan and took refuge in India till December 31, 2014. “Those who think India started in 1947 and not as Bharat 6,000 years ago differentiate between Assamese and Hindus or Indians. We don’t differentiate and want to fight the upcoming elections on this agenda,” he said at the release of his fourth book titled “Eta Xopunor Pom Khedi” (Chasing a Dream) on Wednesday. Indicating some groups were going overboard against the CAA, Dr. Sarma said the rules of the law will ensure a “fine balance between Hindu interests and the interests of Assam” as India cannot turn away “those who are not a threat”. The focus of the BJP’s campaign would thus be on a mix of Hindu and Assamese nationalism, he said. “When we promised to protect jaati [race], maati [land], bheti [foundation] in the 2016, people misunderstood according to their community. We don’t have an iota of doubt this time. The credo of our manifesto will be staunch nationalism and positive regionalism,” Dr. Sarma said. ‘Legal reality’ The Finance Minister said the government cannot implement the recommendations of a panel on Clause 6 of the 1985 Assam because they are “far from legal reality”. The clause seeks to guarantee constitutional safeguards for the Assamese or indigenous people. “The committee’s recommendations are far from the legal reality of the land. They go against many Supreme Court judgements. How can we implement them?” Dr. Sarma said. The panel was set up by the Union Home Ministry in 2019. Headed by retired judge Biplab Kumar Sarma, it submitted its report to Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal on February 25. The report is yet to be forwarded to the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/himanta-slams-caa-critics/article33875732.ece
19 February 2021||New Delhi,||BJP sitting councillor, other leaders join AAP, says Pathak||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday said many BJP leaders, including district general-secretary Shravan Dixit and sitting councillor Rekha Dixit, joined the party. “Today is a very happy day for AAP. Political leaders of various parties of Delhi have understood that AAP is the only political party, which is working for the development of citizens. After getting influenced by the work and policies of the Kejriwal government today, Mr. Dixitis joining AAP,” said party leader Durgesh Pathak. “I am also very happy to announce that Ms. Dixit of Anarkali ward is also joining AAP. I want to welcome all these newly joined leaders,” he added. Mr. Dixit said now, the BJP is not how it was under the leadership of Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Lal Krishna Advani. ‘CM stood by farmers’ “Today, the BJP has become a political party of Adani and Ambani. Today, the farmers are protesting at the Delhi borders and Rekha ji also comes from a farmer family. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal stood beside the farmers and had also provided water, electricity and Wi-Fi,” he said. The by-election to five seats of the corporations is to be held on February 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-sitting-councillor-other-leaders-join-aap-says-pathak/article33875740.ece
19 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||IIT-Delhi inaugurates centre to strengthen bond with alumni||In an attempt to strengthen its bond with its alumni, IIT-Delhi on Thursday inaugurated an Endowment Centre and Management Foundation Office at its main administrative building. The centre provides a distinct showcase of how the contributions of alumni are supporting the advancement and realisation of the institute’s aspirations for the future. Addressing global alumni on the occasion via live streaming of the event, IIT-D director V. Ramgopal Rao said the office demonstrates the collaborative commitment between the institute and the alumni and hoped that it would further strengthen the institute’s bond with alumni. IIT-D chairman of Endowment Management Foundation, Arun Duggal, said: “Within this smart modern, collaborative facility, advancement team will leverage our academic, industry and community connections in innovative ways.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/iit-delhi-inaugurates-centre-to-strengthen-bond-with-alumni/article33875736.ece
19 February 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Oppn. walkout in Odisha House over Andhra polls||Protesting against the panchayat elections conducted by Andhra Pradesh in the disputed region of Odisha’s Koraput district, the Opposition BJP and the Congress staged a walkout from the budget session of the Odisha Assembly, which got underway on Thursday. This comes a day before Supreme Court is scheduled to hear a contempt petition filed by Odisha government in connection with the election held in Kotia Gram Panchayat of Koraput district. “The Naveen Patnaik Government is absolutely callous about protecting its own land. At a time when Andhra Pradesh conducted elections in our State, our government turned a mute spectator,” said Pradipta Naik, Leader of Opposition. Mr. Naik also came down heavily on the Biju Janata Dal government for its failure to clear bottlenecks in paddy procurement in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/oppn-walkout-in-odisha-house-over-andhra-polls/article33875733.ece
19 February 2021||Bhubaneswar,||‘Treat cow slaughter on par with killing a human’||Pratap Chandra Sarangi, Union Minister of State for Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries, on Thursday demanded that cow slaughter be treated as an offence on par with killing a human being and offenders be sentenced to rigorous imprisonment of minimum 15 years. Expressing deep concern over the death of 28 cattle when the truck in which they were being transported overturned following an accident in Balasore district, Mr. Sarangi said, “When I was in Kolkata this morning, I heard the news. I have spoken to top officers in Odisha. I can without any doubts say the cattle were being taken to be slaughtered in abattoirs of Kolkata and Bangladesh.” Mr. Sarangi was speaking to Odia media persons at his official residence in New Delhi on Thursday.  Letter to Odisha CM The Union Minister also wrote a letter to Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik urging him to amend the Orissa Prevention of Cow Slaughter Act 1960. “As per the Act, there is provision of two years of jail term for those who kill cow and abet killing them. Nobody knows how many have been punished under this provision.” He demanded that the provision of 15 years RI be made for cow slaughter as done by Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/treat-cow-slaughter-on-par-with-killing-a-human/article33876112.ece
19 February 2021||JAIPUR,||Madrasas seek aid to tide over pandemic impact||The seminaries affiliated to the Rajasthan Madrasa Board have sought a financial package from the State government to tide over the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Madrasas have also demanded their upgradation to higher classes following the enactment of the Rajasthan Madrasa Board Act, 2020. Madrasa teachers and management committee members said at a ‘talimi’ (educational) conference held here on Wednesday that their students were not getting the benefits of the government’s schemes, such as scholarships and distribution of free textbooks and workbooks. The madrasa para-teachers have also been waiting for their regularisation. All India Milli Council general secretary Abdul Qayoom Akhtar said the registered madrasas should be given a financial assistance of Rs. 5 lakh each in the upcoming State Budget, as they were finding it difficult to survive because of lack of funds and their students were dropping out. “Madrasas have stopped getting charities and are unable to pay salaries to their teachers,” he said. State Minority Affairs Minister Saleh Mohammed, who interacted with the representatives of seminaries in the conference, assured them of prompt steps for madrasa modernisation and promotion of education. He said some of the madrasas imparting high standard education would be developed as model seminaries.  10-point charter Congress MLAs Rafiq Khan and Ameen Khan, representing Jaipur’s Adarsh Nagar and Kishanpole constituencies, respectively, said they would support the demands raised for madrasas in the State Assembly. A 10-point charter of demands was submitted to the Minister on the occasion. The charter made a reference to the issues of the supply of teaching and learning materials to madrasas having stopped two years ago and slow progress of the Centre’s Scheme to Provide Quality Education in Madrasas, which could bring qualitative improvement in the seminaries with their students attaining the standards of national education system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/madrasas-seek-aid-to-tide-over-pandemic-impact/article33875728.ece
19 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Stress lower among yoga practitioners during lockdown’||A study by IIT-Delhi scientists has revealed that those who practised yoga during the pandemic-induced lockdown had lower stress, anxiety and depression, higher wellbeing and more peace of mind as compared to non-practitioners. The study was undertaken by National Resource Centre for Value Education in Engineering (NRCVEE), an academic centre at IIT-Delhi. Study on over 600 adults The institute said its researchers led by Pooja Sahni carried out the study on a total of 668 adults during lockdown between April 26 and June 8, 2020, and the participants were grouped as yoga practitioners, other spiritual practitioners, and non-practitioners based on their responses to daily practices that they follow. Yoga practitioners were further examined based on the duration of practice as long-term, mid-term, and beginners. “The long-term practitioners reported higher personal control and lower illness concern in contracting COVID-19 than the mid-term or beginner group. The long- term and mid-term practitioners also reported perceiving lower emotional impact of COVID-19 and lower risk in contracting the virus than the beginners,” the institute said. It added that general wellbeing was reported higher by the long-term and mid-term practitioners than the beginners group. Further, the long-term practitioners were found to have the highest peace of mind, lowest depression and anxiety with no significant difference in the mid-term and the beginner group. “While yoga has been recommended as one of the ways to manage stress during COVID-19, there was a lack of empirical evidence to support the claims. Our study has mapped the effect of yoga on the cognitive and emotional problems of COVID-19, besides showing beneficial effects of yoga on general wellbeing during adversity,” Dr. Sahni said. She added that evidence supports that yoga was found as an effective self-management strategy to cope with stress, anxiety and depression, besides helping to maintain wellbeing during COVID19 lockdown Kamlesh Singh, Associate Professor at Humanities and Social Sciences Department, IIT Delhi and one of the authors of the study feel that evidence from this research can be used by the health care practitioners to include yoga as an alternate therapy for self-management of stress-related problems during conditions like COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/stress-lower-among-yoga-practitioners-during-lockdown/article33875738.ece
19 February 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. grants Rs. 3.18 crore to workers||The Delhi government has disbursed Rs. 3.18 crore to 488 construction workers under various welfare schemes on Thursday. “The Labour Department has streamlined the way funds are disbursed. Disbursements and aid used to get stuck in pipelines. The Delhi government has expedited this entire process for the benefit of its people,” said Deputy CM Manish Sisodia. Meanwhile, Food and Supply Minister Imran Hussain laid the foundation stone of a office complex of the Legal Metrology Department which will be equipped with scientific labs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-grants-rs-318-crore-to-workers/article33875744.ece
19 February 2021||February 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Root of the matter||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/root-of-the-matter/article33875746.ece
19 February 2021||GUWAHATI,||Cong. invites architects for memorial||The Congress in poll-bound Assam has invited Assamese architects to design a memorial for the “martyrs” of the movement against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA). Five peersons, including a 17-year-old school student, were killed in police firing during the violent anti-CAA protests in Assam in December 2019. “We announced a grand memorial because we respect public sentiments. Taking a step further, we are inviting applications from architects in Assam to share their suggestions and designs for the memorial with us,” State Congress chief Ripun Bora said on Thursday. The party had a few days ago vowed to build the anti-CAA martyrs’ memorial if it comes to power in April-May. Mr. Bora said the party has appealed to all Assamese architects based anywhere in the world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cong-invites-architects-for-memorial/article33875727.ece
19 February 2021||New Delhi,||Contactless ticketing trials begin in all DTC buses||The Delhi Transport department has started trial of contactless ticketing system in all the DTC buses through the 'Chartr' app, said officials on Thursday. The trial of contactless ticketing was launched first in cluster buses and then in a few Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) buses, amid the COVID-19 pandemic last year. The decision to extend the trial to all the over 3,700 buses was taken in meetings of the Task Force constituted for the purpose by Delhi Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot, the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/contactless-ticketing-trials-begin-in-all-dtc-buses/article33875735.ece
