21 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ease path for businesses: Modi||States should work towards reducing compliance burden for citizens to ensure ease of living and promote ease of doing business, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday, stressing the importance of a better coordination between the Centre and the States for the development of the country. “There are thousands of compliance requirements within the government that we can remove for the common man... There is no need to ask people again and again when there is technology. States should come forward. I have also said this in the Government of India and our Cabinet Secretary is following this. The number of compliance requirements has to be reduced. This is also very important for ease of living,” he said, speaking at the sixth meeting of the NITI Aayog Governing Council. Twenty-six Chief Ministers, three Lieutenant-Governors and two administrators attended the meeting, besides Union Ministers, special invitees and NITI Aayog officials. The Chief Ministers of Punjab, Gujarat, West Bengal and Telangana did not attend the meeting. Speaking at a press conference, NITI Aayog Vice-Chairman Rajiv Kumar said the farm laws were not discussed during the day-long meeting. “I can assure you that no State brought up the farm laws for discussion. Agriculture was discussed... but no discussion on the farm laws and that they should be repealed,” Mr. Kumar said. NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant added that agriculture issues which were discussed included aligning cropping system to agro-climatic conditions at district level for optimal resource utilisation and promoting water conservation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ease-path-for-businesses-modi/article33892792.ece
21 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram/Kollam,||Govt. against foreign trawlers: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday said the government was staunchly opposed to allowing foreign or domestic fishing fleet owners or corporates to exploit the State’s marine wealth. At the same, the State required to replace its ageing fishing fleet with modern craft. The rider to the policy was that the government would only allow traditional fishers to operate or own the new boats. Only traditional fishers would receive boat permits, Mr. Vijayan said. At a press conference in Kollam, Fisheries Minister J.Mercykutty Amma said Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala was attempting to misinterpret the State fisheries policy and misguide the public. The State had a transparent fisheries policy which clearly stated that the government would pressurise the Centre not to permit foreign trawlers or vessels owned by local corporates. “It includes many provisions to regulate trawling and even has proposals such as the catch quota system. It also says that vessels engaged in multi-day fishing expeditions will be encouraged as part of shifting the pressure from the overexploited continental shelf area to continental slope. This means we will support our vessels in the mechanised sector that come back after several days, not foreign vessels. But Mr. Chennithala tried to manipulate that part into something else,” she said. Smokescreen of lies: CM Mr. Vijayan said Mr. Chennithala had intrigued with some factors in the administration to stoke disaffection in the fishing community with the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government. He had spread disinformation that the political executive had allowed a U.S. mega fishing fleet company to harvest the deep seas. He had relied on some proposals received by the Industries Department in February to build deep-sea trawlers to lay down the smokescreen of lies, the Chief Minister said. Mr. Chennithala had portrayed a potential foreign boat builder's exploratory talks with the government as an agreement to permit deep-sea trawling. The Congress had lost ground to the LDF in coastal constituencies in the local body polls. Mr. Chennithala had attempted to retrieve the lost political territory by trying to sow scepticism among fishers. The Chief Minister said the question remained how the proposals reached the Opposition leader. “There is some ambiguousness. An official who had worked with Mr. Chennithala when he was Home Minister is now in the Industries Department. I am not indulging in any speculation. There will be more clarity in the matter soon,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-against-foreign-trawlers-cm/article33893112.ece
21 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||KCR abstains from NITI Aayog meeting||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao stayed away from the sixth governing council meeting of NITI Aayog presided by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday. Another prominent absentee on the occasion was West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee who, however, did not take part in the earlier meetings also on the ground that it was a fruitless exercise as NITI Aayog did not have financial powers. The governing council comprises Chief Ministers of all States and Union Territories with legislatures and Lieutenant Governors of other Union Territories. After the meeting on Saturday, the highlights of the speeches made by the Chief Ministers and Lieutenant Governors were posted on the Twitter handle of NITI Aayog. But, Telangana was not represented. A senior official of CMO said they were unaware of the reasons for Mr. Rao’s absence. Incidentally, this was the first time that he kept himself away. Sources analysed that probably Mr. Rao might have taken cue from Ms. Banerjee that it was no use attending the meeting as repeated representations of the State government to Centre for release of funds to Mission Bhagiratha and Mission Kakatiya programmes on the basis of recommendations by NITI Aayog went in vain. The body had recommended Rs. 24,000 crore for the twin programmes over five years ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kcr-abstains-from-niti-aayog-meeting/article33893068.ece
21 February 2021||CHENNAI,||Petrol price hike is a vexatious issue, says Nirmala Sitharaman||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday said the steep rise in petrol prices is a very vexatious issue and referred to the various aspects involved in the pricing as a “ maha bayankara dharma sankatam (a huge moral dilemma)”. Discussion on budget “This is an issue in which no answer except reducing the price will convince anyone. I am treading on an area where whatever I may say will only sound like I am avoiding an answer or shifting the blame,” the Minister said, responding to a question after a discussion on the Union Budget at the Chennai Citizen’s Forum. Ms. Sitharaman said the Centre and the States need to work together and figure out a way to keep the retail prices at a reasonable level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/petrol-price-hike-is-a-vexatious-issue-says-nirmala-sitharaman/article33892793.ece
21 February 2021||Mumbai,||‘Not lockdown, we need double masking, micro-containment zones’||A senior member of Maharashtra government’s COVID-19 task force on Saturday said that lockdown is a draconian measure and has limited efficacy in countering the spread of the virus. According to task force member and endocrinologist Dr. Shashank Joshi, promotion of “double masking” (wearing two layers of face covering) and formation of micro-containment zones could be effective. Maharashtra is witnessing a worrying uptick in infection numbers this month. “Lockdown is a draconian measure. It seems easy (to enforce) but it is an unwarranted measure. There is also no point in enforcing night curfews,” he said at a panel discussion. Asked what should the government do in the current situation, Dr. Joshi said, “Double masking, maintaining physical distancing, extreme precaution of hygiene and formation of micro-containment zone are the right measures.” He also said that the distribution of coronavirus vaccine should be decentralised. “There are some issues with the CoWin app which is slowing down the vaccination procedure. If the State gets more powers, it will be helpful to cover more and more people,” he said. Dr. Subhash Salunkhe, technical advisor to the State on the COVID-19 outbreak, said the vaccine is safe as over one crore people in the country have been vaccinated and nobody has died or developed serious complications. “The Centre should expedite the vaccination drive and give more say to the State governments in vaccine distribution,” he said. Dr. Raman Gangakhedkar, former head scientist of epidemiology and communicable diseases at Indian Council of Medical Research called the outbreak situation “complicated”. ‘Mistaken belief’ “If anyone is under the illusion that the COVID-19 phase will end anytime soon, then they are mistaken. The coronavirus infection was there in 2020 and is likely to affect all of 2021,” he said. “It is a very complicated issue and we should handle every case very carefully. Cases are on the rise in several states, including Maharashtra. We need to take care to ensure the spread of the virus is contained,” Dr. Gangakhedkar said. On Saturday, 37,030 people were vaccinated across the State, taking the total tally of inoculations to 8,97,413, an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/not-lockdown-we-need-double-masking-micro-containment-zones/article33893246.ece
21 February 2021||Bengaluru,||CET on July 7 and 8||The Karnataka Common Entrance Test (CET), the competitive examination for professional courses, will be conducted on July 7 and 8. The test for biology and mathematics will be held on July 7, and for physics and chemistry the following day. The Kannada language test for Horanadu (other States) and Gadinadu (border areas of the State) Kannadiga candidates will be conducted on July 9. This was announced by Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cet-on-july-7-and-8/article33892830.ece
21 February 2021||kolkata,||Trinamool Congress plays ‘daughter’ card||To project Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee as West Bengal’s “own daughter” and the BJP as “outsiders”, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Saturday launched a new slogan ahead of elections. The slogan,‘Bangla Nijer Meyekei Chay(Bengal wants its own daughter)’, was officially announced at the party headquarters in the presence of senior leaders. “Every person of Bengal trusts her daughter. Under leadership of Mamata Banerjee, Bengal’s culture has been protected. She won’t allow any attack on the culture of Bengal,” party MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/trinamool-congress-plays-daughter-card/article33893162.ece
21 February 2021||mumbai,||BMC seals over 1,300 buildings in Mumbai||Over 1,300 buildings have been sealed in Mumbai as of Friday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said on Saturday. On Thursday, BMC commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal had directed the civic administration to strictly implement the health norms in the wake of the rising cases of COVID-19. The administration sent out directions to seal any societies with five or more coronavirus patients. Ward T (Mulund) has the highest number of 233 sealed societies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bmc-seals-over-1300-buildings-in-mumbai/article33893249.ece
21 February 2021||New Delhi,||Centre may rethink order on international seminars||The government would relook at the controversial order issued by the Ministry of Education in January that many scientists said curbs free scientific discussion at international fora, K. VijayRaghavan, Principal Scientific Adviser to the Government of India, said. “We’ve taken note of this a couple of weeks ago. There is no intent to curb academic and research interactions at all. Modifications that both clarify and make enabling changes will be coming out very soon,” he informed The Hindu in a text message. On January 15, the Ministry updated the guidelines governing online conferences, seminars and training programmes that required, among others, scientists at the highest grades of seniority to get a clearance from the Ministry of External Affairs. These covered conferences organised by publicly funded institutions and extended to a wide ambit of topics, such as “... security of the Indian state, border, North East States, J&K, or any other issues which are clearly/purely related to India’s internal matters”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-may-rethink-order-on-international-seminars/article33892789.ece
21 February 2021||CUDDALORE,||7,000 T.N. polling booths identified as vulnerable||About 7,000 polling booths in Tamil Nadu have been assessed to be vulnerable and critical, and the number may increase or decrease, Chief Electoral Officer Satyabrata Sahoo said on Saturday. Talking to reporters after reviewing the preparatory works for the Assembly election in Cuddalore district, he said the assessment of vulnerable and critical booths was under way. The list would be finalised after candidates were decided and inputs were handed over by observers. In Cuddalore district, 171 locations had been identified as vulnerable and critical. As many as 21 lakh voters had been added in the State, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/7000-polling-booths-identified-as-vulnerable/article33892887.ece
21 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Strict norms for arrivals from Maharashtra, Kerala||Imposing strict restrictions on travellers from Maharashtra and Kerala into Karnataka, the Health Department on Saturday made it compulsory for them to furnish a negative RT-PCR test certificate that is not older than 72 hours. “The negative RT-PCR report should be verified at the time of boarding by airline staff. For those travelling by bus, tickets should be issued on production of the report or it should be checked by the bus conductor while boarding for those who have booked tickets online. ln trains, the travelling ticket examiner should check the report,” stated a circular issued on Saturday. A random check of the testing reports from the persons arriving at the toll-gates /point of entry should be made for those coming by personal transport. Short-term travellers Even short-term travellers between Kerala/Maharashtra and Karnataka should produce a negative RT-PCR certificate. “This negative certificate will be valid for a period of seven days,” stated the circular. Those from these States should self-monitor their health for 14 days and in case of respiratory symptoms like fever, cough, cold, sore throat, breathing difficulty, etc, should seek immediate medical consultation and also undergo COVID -19 testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/strict-norms-for-travellers-from-maharashtra-kerala/article33892832.ece
21 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Plane hits pole at airport||A minor mishap occurred at the Vijayawada International Airport at Gannavaram when an Air India Express aircraft hit a light pole while taxiing. No passenger or crew member was hurt in the incident. The flight (IX1676) which flew in from Doha (Qatar) landed around 5.10 p.m. with about 63 passengers on board. When the aircraft left the runway and was moving to the parking bay, its wing hit a huge light pole on its right as an acute turn was made.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/plane-hits-pole-at-airport/article33892788.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Cracking down||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cracking-down/article33893248.ece
21 February 2021||UNNAO,||Kin of Unnao victims and accused demand CBI probe||A day after the police arrested a youth and detained a minor for allegedly poisoning three young girls of a family in Unnao — resulting in the death of two and leaving the third in critical condition in hospital — the families of the girls as well as the accused demanded a CBI inquiry into the incident. “I will believe it when my sister wakes up and I hear from her what happened. We still want a CBI inquiry,” the brother of the survivor said on Saturday. The sole survivor of the incident was “taken off ventilator support on Saturday and had spontaneous respiration”, a statement released by the Kanpur hospital treating her said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kin-of-unnao-victims-and-accused-demand-cbi-probe/article33892948.ece
21 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||CM reiterates demand for SCS in NITI Aayog meet||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has reiterated that the Central government is obliged to grant the Special Category Status (SCS) to Andhra Pradesh as per the commitment given in Parliament as a precondition to bifurcation. “Rapid industrialisation of the State is possible only if SCS is accorded,” he said in his speech during the virtual meeting of the governing council of NITI Aayog chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said in spite of his government’s commitment to providing a business-friendly environment, industrialisation in the State has not gained the required growth momentum due to several constraints which resulted from the unjust and inequitable bifurcation of the unified State of A.P. He said bifurcation deprived the State of tier-I cities, infrastructure, employment opportunities and financial resources. The SCS and certain other support measures would help the State in overcoming the crisis to a large extent, he observed. He expressed his resolve to make manufacturers in the State globally competitive by giving performance-linked incentives to new industries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-reiterates-demand-for-scs-in-niti-aayog-meet/article33892716.ece
21 February 2021||YADGIR,||Man dies as car catches fire||A 60-year-old man was burnt to death when his car caught fire on the Sirwar–Raichur main road near Kalmala village in Raichur district on Saturday. The deceased was identified as Sadanandagowda Malipatil, native of Mallat village in Raichur district. The police said that he was going from Mallat village to Raichur. A video by onlookers showing the car burning went viral. The police said that the car caught fire after hitting a roadside tree.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/man-charred-to-death/article33892838.ece
21 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Churches, temples now need to show land title||Two centuries-old churches in Bengaluru — St. Mary’s Basilica at Shivajinagar that dates back to 1803 and St. Patrick’s Church built in 1844 — are among the many religious structures that now have to provide proof of title of the land on which they were built. These are among the several religious structures in East Bengaluru that have been served notices toprovide documentary proof of land title by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike. High Court order This follows a Karnataka High Court order that asked for a list of religious places on unauthorised land, both private and public. All religious structures of all faiths are set to get similar notices, confirmed BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad. Those served notices say that while they have no issue with the exercise per say, they are worried about the non-existence of “title document” of very old structures that pre-date land laws. Some of them argued that it would be better if such a survey was taken up with a cut-off date, so that very old and historical monuments do not come under its purview.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/churches-temples-now-need-to-show-land-title/article33892831.ece
21 February 2021||mumbai,||6,281 new COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra||Maharashtra reported more than 6,000 new coronavirus cases for the second day in a row on Saturday, a health department official said. Of these, over 1,700, around 27%, were recorded in Mumbai and Amravati municipal corporation areas, he said. The State had recorded over 6,000 cases after a gap of three months on Friday. While the caseload increased to 20,93,913 on Saturday, the death toll increased to 51,753 with 40 new fatalities. Mumbai recorded the highest 897 new infections, followed by Amravati with 806 new cases. The country’s financial capital also reported three deaths, taking the fatalities to 11,440. The number of infected people in Mumbai stands at 3,18,207. Mumbai division, which includes Mumbai as well as neighbouring satellite towns, reported 1,582 new cases, taking the caseload of the region to 7,12,007. The death toll in the Mumbai division reached 19,747.  The number of cases in Pune division stood at 5,14,319 and the death toll at 11,698. Kolhapur division has reported 1,19,114 cases and 4,052 deaths till now, while Aurangabad division's case tally stood at 77,493 and death count at 2,022. Latur division has reported 84,412 cases until now and 2,497 fatalities. Nagpur division has so far recorded 2,17,632 infections and 4,762 fatalities. With 64,418 coronavirus tests conducted on Saturday, the total number of tests conducted reached 1,56,52,742.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/6281-new-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra/article33893245.ece
21 February 2021||Karkala (Udupi district),||HC working towards ‘no arrears courts’: Oka||The High Court of Karnataka is working towards having “no arrears” courts by the end of this year wherein courts will not have any case that is older than five years, said Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka here on Saturday. Speaking at inauguration of the newly constructed court complex, Mr. Oka said the HC has come out with the policy for clearing backlog of cases in courts. Priority is being given for old cases. Administrative judges are supervising implementation of this policy. “By the end of this year we would have no arrears courts. This means there would be no cases that are older than five years,” he said. Earlier Minister for Home, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Basavaraj Bommai said the State government will release on February 27 the litigation management policy for reducing litigations from the government. Me. Bommai said despite working long hours the judicial officers were finding in hard to clear backlog of cases. “We are serious on reducing inter-departmental litigation and litigation between the government and the people,” he said. Mr. Oka will release the policy on February 27, he added. Supreme Court judge S. Abdul Nazeer, who started his legal practice in Karkala, called upon advocates in Karkala to work towards getting speedy justice for their clients at affordable costs. “You should not seek a percentage in the relief amount or share in the property of your client,” he said. Justice Suraj Govindaraj, who is administrative judge for Udupi district, and Udupi Principal District and Sessions Judge J.N. Subramanya also spoke. The new court complex has been constructed at a cost of Rs. 15.9 crore. The construction has been completed within two years since its commencement Earlier, Mr. Nazeer and Mr. Oka laid the foundation stone for a three-floor Vakeelara Bhavan in Moodbidri of Dakshina Kannada district at an estimated cost of Rs. 2.95 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-working-towards-no-arrears-courts-oka/article33893218.ece
21 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||State gets Rs. 575 cr. for GST shortfall||Kerala has got Rs. 575 crore from the Rs. 5,000 crore released by the Ministry of Finance, Department of Expenditure, to 23 States and three Union Territories on Saturday to meet their Goods and Service Tax (GST) compensation shortfall. The money has reached the exchequer as the 17th instalment within a week after the State got Rs. 252 crore from the 16th instalment. As much as 91% of the estimated GST compensation shortfall has been released by the Centre. The amount released has been borrowed at an interest rate of 5.59%. So far, an amount of Rs. 1,00,000 crore has been borrowed by the Centre through the special borrowing window. The special borrowing window was set up in October 2020 to meet the estimated shortfall of Rs. 1.10 lakh crore in revenue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-gets-rs-575-cr-for-gst-shortfall/article33893110.ece
21 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||India, China hold another round of talks||India and China held the 10th round of Corps Commander talks on Saturday on the next phase of disengagement at the Line of Actual Control. Talks were still on at the time of going to print. The talks began at Moldo on the Chinese sideat 10 a.m., an official said. On Friday, the two sides completed disengagement and restoration of the ground on the north and south banks of Pangong Tso, as per the agreement reached at the ninth round of talks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-china-hold-another-round-of-talks/article33892790.ece
21 February 2021||kolkata,||Drug seizure turns into embarrassment for BJP||The arrest of Pamela Goswami, State secretary of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha, for allegedly possessing narcotics is turning out to be a major embarrassment for the party. Ms. Goswami on Saturday alleged that another BJP leader, Rakesh Singh, was behind the conspiracy leading to her arrest. “I want CID to probe the matter,” she told presspersons while being produced in court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/drug-seizure-turns-into-embarrassment-for-bjp/article33893161.ece
21 February 2021||Mumbai,||Security outside Bachchan’s bungalow increased||Two days after Congress leader Nana Patole targeted Amitabh Bachchan for not speaking out against the fuel price rise, police on Saturday increased the security outside the actor’s bungalow. “It is a temporary measure,” an official from the local police station said, without specifying what prompted them to deploy more personnel outside Jalsa , Mr. Bachchan’s bungalow in Juhu.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/security-outside-bachchans-bungalow-increased/article33893244.ece
21 February 2021||Mangaluru,||‘Biodiversity hotspot’ tag for Kandla forests||The Karnataka Biodiversity Board will soon pass a resolution to declare the expansive Kandla Forests in the Panchagangavali Estuary in Kundapur taluk, Udupi district as a biodiversity hotspot, said chairperson Anant Hegde Ashisara on Saturday. Speaking to reporters at Udupi, Mr. Ashisara said the Kandla forest at the estuary was spread over 100 acres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/biodiversity-hotspot-tag-for-kandla-forests/article33893219.ece
21 February 2021||New Delhi,||Court hearings by Delhi HC judges from March 15||The Delhi High Court on Saturday issued an order that all its judges would hold physical hearing of cases from March 15. The existing system of 11 Benches hearing matters via physical mode will continue till March 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/court-hearings-by-delhi-hc-judges-from-march-15/article33892947.ece
21 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Govt. to set up marketing intelligence cell||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Saturday informed the Centre that the State government intends to set up a scientific marketing intelligence cell in order to shift focus on income-based policy to increase farmers’ income. Mr. Yediyurappa took part in the sixth meeting of the Governing Council of NITI Aayog chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-to-set-up-marketing-intelligence-cell/article33893037.ece
21 February 2021||CHENNAI,||T.N. reports 438 fresh cases of COVID-19||Tamil Nadu reported 438 new cases of COVID-19 and six deaths on Saturday. Chennai reported 139 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-reports-438-fresh-cases-of-covid-19/article33892872.ece
21 February 2021||CHENNAI,||Govt. drops 308 cases filed during jallikattu stir||The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday issued an order for the withdrawal of 308 cases registered during the 2017 jallikattu protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-drops-308-cases-filed-during-jallikattu-stir/article33892874.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Rebels with a green cause||When Extinction Rebellion set out to literally block the path of the fossil fuel-powered economy in the U.K., in the autumn of 2018, the core of its philosophy was that stopping public activity with even small actions would change politics. It would shock a status quoist, cynically manipulative system, and turn public attention to the world’s biggest problems: climate change and biodiversity loss. The vision of its small group of founders led by Roger Hallam, an organic farmer-turned-researcher of civil disobedience at King’s College, London, and Gail Bradbrook, a molecular biology scholar from Yorkshire who had launched her activism in the Occupy movement after the 2008 financial crisis, draws heavily from the U.S. civil rights struggle and Gandhian civil disobedience. The two worked to create an environmental movement that would use disruptive, non-violent methods in the climate and biodiversity struggle. It immediately appeared to resonate with common citizens, hundreds of whom were ready to court arrest in street protests. “We refuse to bequeath a dying planet to future generations by failing to act now. We act in peace, with ferocious love of these lands in our hearts. We act on behalf of life,” says the Declaration of Rebellion document of the movement. When it formally made the declaration on October 31, 2018, XR, as it has come to be known, expected a couple of hundred people to gather at Westminster outside the British Parliament, but the event attracted a thousand. Since then, its logo of an hourglass within a circle has become familiar globally. The high visibility protests carried out by XR groups — three major ones so far — often involve dramatic scenes staged by brightly costumed activists to drive home the message of climate ruin. The movement has three primary demands: all governments ‘Tell the Truth’ about the climate crisis and the mass extinction of species, commit themselves to act on net zero carbon emissions by 2025, and create citizens’ assemblies that will advise them on a just transition. Yet, the group also does not look to the government to solve the world’s problems. It favours people collectively creating the structures to challenge power, eliminating the bias of the voice of the rich and the powerful. Among the core concerns it pursues are “decent healthcare, education, social care and housing, clean energy production, and protections in law to prevent ecocide.” Open source model Like any good open source project, the U.K. kernel produced by XR has been embraced by activists abroad, who get the freedom to build upon it. A strategy document released by XR last year titled “Power Together” says it is now present in 75 countries. Legal systems and political tolerance levels for protest differ around the world, inviting prosecutions and harsh crackdowns. Yet, XR has inspired groups of citizens, particularly the youth, and professionals in different fields to start local branches. The India website of XR lists 14 local groups, ranging from Bengaluru and Delhi to Rajasthan and Guwahati. The COVID-19 pandemic, however, hobbled the climate protests in many places around the world. Initially seen as nothing more than an outcrop of the environmental fringe made up of small groups of straggler activists, XR moved to the mainstream as it linked up with activists such as Greta Thunberg and the Fridays for Future campaign she inspired and acquired a wider base of supporters connected with the arts, sciences, law, and finance. Over the past two years, the movement has received support from many prominent people, including the former Archbishop of Canterbury Rowan Williams, the former Chief Scientific Adviser to the British government, David King, public intellectuals like Noam Chomsky, actors, doctors, health workers, scientists and blue collar workers. XR’s most prominent rebellions have thus far been carried out in the U.K. against projects that are carbon intensive (such as the costly HS2 high speed railway line). Protests have also been held in other countries, including India. XR launched its first major protest in April 2019, a two-week rolling wave of demonstrations, at which activists blocked important road intersections in London, one of them using a boat, hoisted themselves on to the roofs of city trains, chained themselves to fences, smashed windows at oil company Shell’s headquarters, and staged mass “die-ins” in public to shock people into confronting climate change. Greta Thunberg told one group of demonstrators in London during the protest that they were showing the world the path they had chosen to take and were waiting for others to follow. There were over 3,000 arrests. Yet, the path for XR itself has not been smooth, and the movement has been wracked by differences involving co-founder Roger Hallam. A major critique, to which the movement has responded, is on the role of minorities in protests and the impact that aggressive tactics have on them. Just over a year after the mass protests in London, in July 2020, it acknowledged that its disruptive approach centred around privileged white people and put people of colour at risk vis-a-vis the police. Youth, who wanted a separate identity, formed their own sub-group, XR Youth. Mass arrests Mr. Hallam, now 55, looked at mass arrests — within the bounds of a democratic system that tolerates dissent — as a tactic that would overwhelm the government. “We recognise now that our tactic of arrest has made it easier for people of privilege to participate and that our behaviours and attitudes fed into the system of white supremacy. We’re sorry this recognition comes so late,” a statement said. More recent interpretations among XR activists view the climate change, COVID-19 and human rights crises (including rights of people of African origin) as the ramifications of an economic and financial system run wild. Mr. Hallam was censured by the movement for making comments that described the Holocaust as “an almost normal event” in the long sweep of history. He apologised. Once a moving force at XR, he has taken part in protests against Heathrow airport expansion separately and describes himself also as a leader of another combative organisation, Burning Pink (BP), whose activists splash bright pink spray paint on property and court arrest in support of climate and equality objectives. Gail Bradbrook, 49, is the prominent face of XR today. “I am involved in both BP campaigns and also doing mobilisation training and development work with XR groups around the world, as well as videos and interviews,” Mr. Hallam said in an email to The Hindu . “Assuming COVID retreats, there will be a new impetus to mass civil disobedience given the situation is getting exponentially worse,” he said. Challenge policies With every new crisis — wildfires, failed agriculture, drought, flood, heatwaves and coldwaves — governments and corporations are apprehensive that XR’s idea of “collaborative rebellion” will challenge locked-in policies on fossil fuels. In the U.K., the movement is encouraging ‘money rebellion’ by small businesses. Participants will fund green goals, and work to deny funds to non-compliant governments to stop funding of fossil fuels interests. Disha Ravi, who organised Fridays for Future events in India, activists Nikita Jacob and Shantanu Muluk have provoked the government’s ire. The implications of growing environmental and climate crises merging with other struggles, such as the farmers’ agitation, add to the establishment's worries. XR is constantly tweaking its toolkit for non-violent direct action, attracting public attention and demanding responsible replies from governments.  In Focus The vision of XR's founders draws heavily from the U.S. civil rights struggle and Gandhian civil disobedience  We act in peace, with ferocious love of these lands in our hearts. We act on behalf of life, reads its Declaration, released on October 31, 2018  XR has three key demands: Governments should 'tell the truth’ about the climate crisis; commit themselves to act on net zero carbon emissions by 2025; and create citizens’ assemblies that will advise them on a just transition   Among the core concerns XR pursues are ‘decent healthcare, education, social care and housing, clean energy, and protections in law to prevent ecocide’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rebels-with-a-green-cause/article33892757.ece
21 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Provide more vaccines, Kerala urges Centre||Health Minister K. K. Shylaja has written to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan asking for additional vaccine stocks to vaccinate the third priority group (those above 50 years with chronic diseases) and seeking another opportunity for the vaccination of those health workers who missed the registration deadline. Though the majority of health workers in the State had registered their names for receiving the vaccine within the allocated timeline, some had missed the initial deadline for registration. They should be allowed a slot for registering themselves again, she said. Ms. Shylaja said that Kerala had the highest proportion of elderly in the country. She appealed to the Centre to expedite the registration of the third priority group for vaccination and to issue the necessary guidelines without delay. She also appealed to Dr. Vardhan to provide additional stocks for vaccinating those above 50 years. Though a total of 3,57,797 health workers had registered for the first phase in Kerala, this target had to be refixed after dropping pregnant women, those with serious health or allergy issues and those who refused to take the vaccine. Of this refixed target group of health workers, 94 % or 3,36,327 persons had received the vaccine. Also, 23,707 health workers had received their second shot of the vaccine. Among front-line workers, who are the second priority group, though 1,44,003 had been registered, only 38% or 57,678 persons had been administered the vaccine. Ms. Shylaja reminded the Union Health Minister that according to the Indian Council of Medical Research seroprevalence study, a chunk of the population in Kerala was still susceptible to the virus. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said Indian Council of Medical Research’s seroprevalence study had revealed that Kerala had been one of the States where the disease transmission had been the lowest, leaving a huge chunk of the population still susceptible to SARS-CoV-2. However, the ICMR’S study had not covered the entire State. The State-wide seroprevalence survey commissioned by the Health Department was progressing and the report was expected soon. This would give a more comprehensive picture of COVID-19 transmission in the State, he added. Mr. Vijayan said that vaccination was one of the primary tools to break disease transmission and people need not be apprehensive about receiving the vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/provide-more-vaccines-kerala-urges-centre/article33893131.ece
21 February 2021||Kolkata,||Trinamool plays ‘daughter’ card||In an attempt to project Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee as West Bengal’s “own daughter” and the BJP as “outsiders”, the Trinamool Congress on Saturday launched a new slogan ahead of the Assembly election in West Bengal. The slogan, Bangla Nijer Meyekei Chay (Bengal wants its own daughter), was officially announced at the party headquarters in the presence of senior party leaders. “Every person of Bengal trusts her daughter. Under the leadership of Mamata Banerjee, Bengal’s culture has been protected. She won’t allow misogynistic Borgis attack the culture of Bengal,” Trinamool Congress MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar said. Borgis or Bargis is a casual term used for troublesome outsider forces. The city is flooded with the posters of the CM with the slogan Bangla Nijer Meyekei Chay and the leader and supporters of Trinamool Congress promoted the slogan on social media. The party plans to take the message to every “nook and corner” of the State and a campaign will be organised at all district headquarters on February 21. “Bengal wants her own daughter is the slogan. This is not a tough fight, but this is an election that whole of India is looking at. This election will decide the fate of the constitution in the country,” State party president Subrata Bakshi said. According to party sources, the slogan, which is crucial to the party’s poll campaign, is aimed to appeal to the people on two levels — dubbing the BJP as an “outsider force” and appealing to the women of the State describing Ms. Banerjee as Bengal’s own daughter. The CM, in her public meetings, has been saying that “Bengal will be run by Bengalis not outsiders”. Trinamool Congress MP and Ms. Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee, who addressed a gathering in north Bengal, said, “One must not forget she (Mamata Banerjee) is the only woman Chief Minister in the country who is being targeted by the Prime Minister, the Union Home Minister, several Cabinet Ministers and Chief Ministers and Deputy Chief Ministers of several States. They are all saying that Ms. Banerjee must be removed.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trinamool-plays-daughter-card/article33892751.ece
21 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Bengaluru’s age-old places of worship must prove land title||The Someshwara temple in Halasuru belonging to the Chola period, and the Dharmaraya Swamy temple in Tigularapete from the Nadaprabhu Kempe Gowda period are among the oldest temples of Bengaluru. While these temples existed centuries before Bengaluru emerged as a city, temple authorities will now be asked to provide ‘proof of title’ of the land on which they stand today. The BBMP, which has been directed by the Karnataka High Court to provide a list of religious places on unauthorised land, is set to issue a notice seeking the title deed among other land-related documents. Historians put the construction of the Someshwara temple to around the 10th century, and was later expanded by the Vijayanagar rulers and Kempe Gowda. The Dharmaraya Swamy temple is said to be from the late 16th century. The BBMP, meanwhile, has issued notices to several heritage churches in east Bengaluru, including St. Mary’s Basillica in Shivajinagar that dates back to 1803, and St. Patrick’s Church built in 1844 for Irish soldiers. Though most of them have received notices to furnish the title deed and other land-related documents, some places have also been issued notice to bring down the structure within three days of receiving the notice since they are unauthorised, causing anxiety. Civic Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad confirmed that all religious structures in the city, both on public and private land, however old they are, were being served notices to furnish documents available with them to prove titles of the land on which the religious structures stand today. “All temples, gurudwaras, churches, mosques and other religious structures, irrespective of their historical and vintage value, are being served similar notices,” he said. This follows a recent directive of the High Court, which has been hearing a suo motu PIL on implementation of the 2009 apex court order on illegal religious structures on public land. When his attention was drawn to the non-existence of “title document” prior to land laws being framed in the country, he said that in such cases the earliest record of tenancy and cultivation (RTC) where the existence of such religious structures have been entered would be sufficient. “They can also submit a report on the historicity of such religious structures, if there are no recorded historical documents,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengalurus-age-old-places-of-worship-must-prove-land-title/article33892780.ece
21 February 2021||New Delhi,||Order on Disha plea on Tuesday||There is no evidence to show that the “toolkit” on the farmers’ protest is responsible for the violence on January 26, climate activist Disha Ravi’s counsel told a Delhi court which reserved for Tuesday its order on her bail plea. “If highlighting farmers’ protest globally is sedition, I’m better in jail,” Ms. Ravi said through her counsel on Saturday. Ms. Ravi’s counsel was submitting arguments after the Delhi Police opposed her bail plea, alleging she was preparing the toolkit with those advocating for Khalistan and was part of a global conspiracy to defame India and create unrest in the country in the garb of the farmers’ protest. “This was not just a toolkit. The real plan was to defame India and create unrest here,” the police said before Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana. The police alleged that Ms. Ravi deleted WhatsApp chats, emails and other evidence and had been aware of legal actions she could face. “She was part of the Indian chapter of the global conspiracy to defame India and create unrest in the garb of the farmers’ protest,” the police alleged, adding she was in touch and preparing and sharing the toolkit with those calling for Khalistan. “It shows there was a sinister design behind this toolkit,” the police told the court. However, Ms. Ravi’s lawyer rejected the allegations. “There is no evidence to link me with Sikhs For Justice, a banned organisation. And even if I meet someone, there is no symbol on him that he is a secessionist,” the defence counsel said, speaking for Ms. Ravi. “The Delhi police gave permission for the farmers’ march, which they’re claiming that I (Ms. Ravi) asked people to join, so how did I become seditious,” the lawyer said in court. There has been nobody arrested in connection with violence at Red Fort who says he joined in because of the toolkit, Ms. Ravi’s counsel said, adding that there was no evidence to show that the toolkit was responsible for the violence. Counsel also questioned the contents of the FIR and asserted that people could have different points of view on a subject. “There is an allegation in the FIR that ‘yoga’ and ‘chai’ are being targeted. Is it an offence?” Ms. Ravi’s lawyer asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/order-on-disha-plea-on-tuesday/article33892727.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Trump’s ‘political hack’||Mitch is a dour, sullen, and unsmiling political hack, and if Republican Senators are going to stay with him, they will not win again, former President Donald Trump said in a 600-word statement released on Tuesday attacking Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell. “He will never do what needs to be done, or what is right for our Country. Where necessary and appropriate, I will back primary rivals who espouse Making America Great Again and our policy of America First,” he said. Mr. McConnell has been in the news of late, having provoked the ire of both Democrats and Republicans. The Democrats criticised him for his apparent expediency and his inconsistent positions on the Trump impeachment trial and his view on Mr. Trump’s role in the Capitol attack of January 6. Mr. Trump attacked him for the same thing. Mr. McConnell, who had voted on February 13 to acquit the former President for inciting an insurrection, told the Senate that very same Saturday afternoon that there was “no question” that Mr. Trump was “practically and morally responsible” for provoking the Capitol attack. In a Sunday op-ed in the Wall Street Journal , he said the mob was incited by Mr. Trump’s “unhinged falsehoods”. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi criticised Mr. McConnell, saying he could have scheduled the trial after the House impeached Mr. Trump and before the former President had demitted office on January 20. She called him out for voting to acquit Mr. Trump and then saying he was to blame for the violence of January 6. Mr. McConnell, however, argued in his op-ed that he could not have scheduled a trial between January 14 and 20 as it would not have been “remotely fair or regular” — that even pre-trial briefing period ended up taking more than a week. He reiterated that it was unconstitutional to impeach someone not currently in office. In his Tuesday statement, Mr. Trump went all out — almost (he reportedly left out an unflattering reference to Mr. McConnell’s “chins” on being advised to do so). He nevertheless took credit for the party’s recent electoral gains in the House, while blaming Mr. McConnell for the GOP’s Senate losses — specifically for countering the Democrats’ and his preference for $2,000 coronavirus relief cheques with $600 cheques. (A section of the party had blamed Mr. Trump’s rhetoric for the GOP debacle in Georgia, where the former President attempted to delegitimise the elections and cried fraud, potentially demotivating voters from going to the polls). Passing shot Mr. Trump also took a passing shot at the McConnell family — alleging that their business holdings in China meant Mr. McConnell had no credibility on China policy. Mr. McConnell is married to Taiwanese American Elaine Chao, whose family owns a global shipping business, the Foremost Group. Ms. Chao was also Transport Secretary in the Trump administration. Her family’s connections to China have been scrutinised since at least 2001, when Ms. Chao was George W. Bush’s Labor Secretary. In 2017, Ms. Chao and the company (neither Elaine Chao nor Mr. McConnell have a stake in it) were again in the news for blurring the lines between official government work and the Chao family business. Things have not always been this bad between Mr. Trump and Mr. McConnell. In fact, the two have been allied for most of Mr. Trump’s time in the White House. Mr. McConnell, who led the Senate then, was instrumental in getting Trump-appointees — Neil Gorsuch, Brett Kavanaugh and Amy Coney Barrett — confirmed to the Supreme Court. He helped get the Trump tax cuts through the Senate and “made short work of the 2020 impeachment” as the New York Times put it. So the current rift has Republicans worried. “I’m more worried about 2022 than I’ve ever been. I don’t want to eat our own,” Senator Lindsey Graham, a Trump ally, told Fox News last week. However, with seven Senate election victories under his belt, Mr. McConnell may know a thing or two about political survival. For now, he is the most powerful Republican in Washington and is focused on Republicans reclaiming their Senate majority in 2022. “My goal is, in every way possible, to have nominees representing the Republican Party who can win in November,” Mr. McConnell told Politico last weekend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trumps-political-hack/article33892759.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Eye of the ‘toolkit’ storm||The Poetic Justice Foundation (PJF), a Canada-based non-profit, has been at the centre of a roving investigation launched by Delhi Police regarding a social media campaign around the ongoing farmers agitation. It was founded in March 2020 by Canada-based Mo Dhaliwal, a digital brand strategist, and Anita Lal, a community relations specialist at a charitable organisation in Canada that provides low-interest microloans to skilled immigrants and refugees for education and career goals. On her LinkedIn page, Ms. Lal writes that she is the “co-founder and Executive Director” of the PJF that promotes “anti-racist, anti-casteist and inclusive education, programming and dialogue”. The PJF created an open user guide or the ‘toolkit’, suggesting hashtags and Twitter storm to create global awareness about the farmers’ protest. The user guide shared by Swedish environmentalist Greta Thunberg on her Twitter page on February 3 — which she deleted later, replacing it with another guide — convinced the police about an “international conspiracy” to sully India’s image. On February 4, the cyber cell of Delhi Police registered an FIR under sections 153A (promoting enmity between different groups), 124 A (sedition), 120 B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code based on the content of the toolkit. Disha Ravi, a 22-year-old climate activist from Bengaluru who edited “two lines” in the online user guide, was arrested by police on February 14. Two others — Nikita Jacob, an advocate, and Shantanu Muluk, an engineer-turned-activist, are currently out on bail. The PJF’s website says that it challenges “structures of oppression and discrimination through inter sectional grassroots advocacy.” ‘Emotionally connected’ “Currently, we are most actively involved in the #FarmersProtest that has activated Indian diaspora worldwide,” the website says, referring to a page — AskIndiaWhy.com — that has been blocked in India. On February 6, the group issued a three-page statement denying that it coordinated with pop star “Rihanna, Greta Thunberg or any number of specific celebrities to tweet about the #FarmersProtest”. The PJF said that it connected with like-minded people who were equally moved and “emotionally connected to the plight of our people in India” and saw that the diaspora struggled to “organise and galvanise support”. “The materials we produced were made freely available for all. In fact, these materials are still available online. We didn't take them down, because we believe in the work. There is no hate being propagated and we will never promote hate,” the PJF said. It said that the PJF “did not coordinate any protest activities occurring within India...Up to India’s Republic Day, January 26th, 2021, and beyond — whether at Red Fort in Delhi or elsewhere in the country — we were not involved in directing or fomenting any protest activity of any sort within India.” On January 9, Mr. Dhaliwal shared on his Facebook page that the PJF was developing campaign and media kits that are “simple, shareable and have a powerful messaging to arm our global sangat of organisers” as a network of youth organisers from around the world are signing on to organise a Global Day of Action — a protest and campaign triggered by the farmers protests to take place on January 26. Delhi Police has alleged that the PJF is a “pro-Khalistani” organisation and the roles of all its founders and co-founders are under scanner. The PJF is not on the government’s list of banned terrorist or unlawful organisations in India. Its website and Twitter accounts are not blocked either. The website’s registrant is Skyrocket Digital Inc, a digital branding platform in Canada of which Mr. Dhaliwal is a director. The Instagram page of Skyrocket says Jagmeet Singh, leader of the New Democratic Party (the first non-white to head a national political party in Canada) was elected in 2017 as its leader aided by the “Skyrocket-branded campaign slogan”, Love and Courage. Mr. Dhaliwal did not respond to an interview request by The Hindu, claiming that he needs a few days at least as he was “inundated right now”. His Facebook profile says he lives in Vancouver and studied at University of British Columbia. Ms. Lal did not respond to an interview request sent on her LinkedIn page.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/eye-of-the-toolkit-storm/article33892761.ece
21 February 2021||UNNAO,||For bereaved families, there is no closure yet||A day after the police arrested a youth and detained a minor for allegedly poisoning three young girls of a family in Unnao — resulting in the death of two and leaving the third in critical condition in hospital — the families of the girls said they were still in shock and no closer to finding out what happened. “I will believe it when my sister wakes up and I hear from her what happened. We still want a CBI inquiry,” the brother of the survivor said on Saturday. The sole survivor of the incident is in a hospital in Kanpur, where she was admitted in a critical condition on Wednesday night. Amid heavy deployment of police — both in uniform and plainclothes — the families of the dead girls are in shock. “Only the officers know what happened,” said the grandmother of one of the girls. The three girls, who belong to a Dalit family in Asoha block, are cousins, and had gone to their family’s fields on the outskirts of the village to gather fodder on Wednesday afternoon. When they did not return till late evening, their family members went looking and found them lying unconscious and with froth at their mouth. They were rushed to hospital where two of them were pronounced dead. Inspector-General (Lucknow range) Laxmi Singh said on Friday that Vinay, from a neighbouring village whose fields were adjacent to the girls’, poisoned the girls when one of them refused to give him her phone number. A minor, also from Vinay’s village, had helped him move the girls’ bodies, Mr. Singh said. Vinay has been arrested and his confession was being verified, she added. However, in the neighbouring village, Vinay’s sister Seema says she has never heard her brother speak about the girls. “If he had done this, he wouldn’t have been calmly sitting at home that evening; he would have run away. He is being framed,” Ms. Seema alleged. Vinay, the eldest of six siblings of a Dalit family, had lost his job in a bird feed making unit during the lockdown, his sister said. Since then, he had been tending to the family’s fields. The father of the 13-year-old who has also been detained, said his son, Vinay and two others from the village were taken away by the police on Wednesday night. The IG, however, said only two youth had been apprehended in the case. Echoing the demand of the family of the dead girls, the father said, “We want a CBI inquiry. We don’t know who has framed our children, but they will have to face god.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/for-bereaved-families-there-is-no-closure/article33892730.ece
21 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Phased withdrawal on LAC a cause of concern’||India’s decision to agree to a “phased” withdrawal of troops rather than a package deal for a complete disengagement across the Line of Actual Control could become a cause for concern in the future, said former National Security Advisory Board (NSAB) chairperson and former Foreign Secretary Shyam Saran. Mr. Saran pointed out that setting up a buffer zone or “no man’s land” in the Finger area of North Pangong Tso, even if temporarily, meant that the troops would not return to the “status quo ante” or positions prior to April 2020. He added that the future would depend on how “smoothly” the rest of the disengagement process, which began last week, would go. “We had earlier been given the impression that the Indian side was holding out for this engagement not sector by sector, but along the entire LAC, which would include the Hot Springs area as well as Depsang,” Mr. Saran told The Hindu in an interview. Restoring peace “I’m not very sure that this represents going back to status quo ante, which has been, in fact, a constant demand made by us. It would appear that we are more focusing on the restoration of peace and tranquillity at the border, rather than saying that we should go back to what the situation was around April last year,” he added. On Saturday, Indian and Chinese corps commanders sat down to discuss the next phase of disengagement for areas like Hot Springs and Gogra point, where Chinese troops had built sizeable infrastructure in the last year, although a partial disengagement took place in July 2020. According to Mr. Saran, who had in 2013 prepared a report of recommendations to the former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh about the need for infrastructure at the LAC, the decision for Indian troops to vacate the Kailash Range heights, including Rechin La and Rezang La, in the first phase of disengagement was valid if there was an “overall agreement” to vacate all other territory, that China will adhere to. However, he pointed out that after the Doklam stand-off in 2017 where Indian forces had stopped Chinese troops from building a road in Bhutanese territory, Chinese troops had subsequently returned to build roads and infrastructure in other areas of the same region. Not a clever move “If the vacation of the Kailash Ranges is part and parcel of a larger deal, where we go back to the status quo ante and we do at the end of this process, manage to get disengagement along the entire LAC, then yes, this is fine. But if we have vacated these heights, and later on, we find that our expectations of Chinese disengaging is not borne out by what happens on the ground, then yes, we would say that this was not such a clever move on our part,” he said. Asked why he thought China had agreed to the disengagement, despite occupying areas along the LAC for nearly a year, Mr. Saran said China may have “miscalculated” that its aggression would have been a “low cost or low risk” operation. But after the Galwan incident in which 20 Indian soldiers died, and China has announced it lost at least four soldiers, the Chinese “script” went awry, and in fact it would appear that China didn’t achieve much through the standoff, as Indian troops held their ground.  (Interview can be accessed at https://www.thehindu.com/podcast/ )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/phased-withdrawal-on-lac-a-cause-of-concern/article33892755.ece
21 February 2021||New Delhi,||‘Right to peaceful protest is a non-negotiable human right’||Swedish teen climate activist Greta Thunberg has extended her support to Disha Ravi, the 22-year-old environmental activist who has been charged with sedition for allegedly editing an advocacy toolkit on the farmers’ protest, and sharing it with Ms. Thunberg. “Freedom of speech and the right to peaceful protest and assembly are non-negotiable human rights. These must be a fundamental part of any democracy,” Ms. Thunberg tweeted on Friday, using the hashtag #StandWithDishaRavi. Her first public expression of support comes almost a week after Ms. Ravi’s arrest. The Swedish activist’s earlier tweets, first sharing and then deleting the toolkit, had brought the advocacy document to public attention. Fridays for Future On Friday, Ms. Thunberg’s statement of support was posted as part of a tweet thread by Fridays For Future (FFF) India, the environmental group that Ms. Ravi was aligned with. “We consist of a group of students who, with only a ray of hope, strive towards creating a future which is worth living in...Disha has been an integral part of this movement. Not only has she been voicing out environment concerns in India but strived for the equality and representation of the country's most affected and marginalized groups in the global climate movement's narrative,” said their tweet thread. FFF India emphasised that the organisation has always condemned violence of any sort. “If there is one thing [Ms. Ravi’s] activism has taught us, it is to raise our voices peacefully and respectfully for those at stake, to ensure justice for everyone,” the group stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/right-to-peaceful-protest-is-a-non-negotiable-human-right/article33892735.ece
21 February 2021||CHENNAI,||Railways impetus a major boost for RuPay cards||In a major thrust to RuPay’s increasing market share, the Ministry of Railways has advised its 12.54 lakh workforce to convert their Debit/ATM Cards to RuPay-powered cards. The largest employer in the country pays Rs. 1,54,214 crore a year as wages into the salary accounts of its staff. The move is seen as a boost to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Aatma Nirbhar Bharat’ and ‘Digital India’ initiatives. RuPay is a product of the National Payments Corporation of India, an umbrella organisation that facilitates retail payments and acclaimed to be India’s first-of-its-kind global card payment with wide acceptance across ATMs, e-commerce platforms and POS machines. In a recent order to all the General Managers and production units, the Railway Board said the Ministry had requested the SBI to convert the existing Imprest Card into SBI RuPay Card. The scheme was approved by the Controller General of Accounts, Department of Expenditure, Ministry of Finance, keeping in view the government’s impetus for proliferation of RuPay Card. “Taking this opportunity, it is advised that all officers/staff may be facilitated to get their Debit/ATM card attached to their salary account converted to RuPay based debit card,” Sanjeev Sharma, Director Finance Accounts, Railway Board, said. There are several imprest holders in the Railways wherein re-coupable imprest is regulated through the the SBI imprest card. “Consequent upon the government of India’s push to give impetus to RuPay Card, it is desired that the SBI Imprest Card be replaced by SBI RuPay Imprest Card at the earliest. The Railways is also being advised to be ready to switch over to this system. Please give top priority and also early feedback on action taken ...” the official said in a note to the SBI. Last year, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal launched the new co-branded contactless credit card offered on RuPay platform by the IRCTC and the SBI Cards together. According to a senior SBI official, Debit/ATM cards on RuPay Card platform is being given to all account holders with a Rs. 2 lakh insurance cover offered by the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/railways-impetus-a-major-boost-for-rupay-cards/article33892738.ece
21 February 2021||Srinagar,||Woman pilot is a Kashmir hero||Ayesha Aziz became the country’s youngest pilot when she acquired her student flying licence at the age of 16. At 25 now, she flies GoAir planes and is emerging as a role model for Kashmir women. Ms. Aziz was swarmed by dozens of enthusiastic girls at the Sher-i-Kashmir International Convention Centre here on January 2, when she attended the Lal Ded Khatoon-e-Kashmir Award 2021 function organised by Elfa International, an NGO, to honour Kashmir’s talented women achievers. Ms. Aziz’s mother is from Baramulla in north Kashmir and father a businessman from Maharashtra. “I received my first pilot licence at the age of 16, immediately after passing out of my Class 10 examination. I clocked 200 hours [of flying] to procure a commercial pilot’s licence. I was 22 when I got my commercial licence,” Ms. Aziz said. “Our family went through trials and tribulations because we don’t come from an aviation family. It was a challenge and a whirlwind, in which my father encouraged me a lot.” “My daughter used to do five-day schooling and weekend flying to achieve her goal,” Ms. Aziz’s father, Abul Aziz, told The Hindu . Mr. Aziz said his daughter’s determination could be gauged from the fact that she met both her role models, Sunita Williams and the Kalpana Chawla. “She also underwent an astronaut training program at the NASA-Huntsville Space Centre,” he added. Ms. Aziz was given the First Ladies’ Award by the President of India in 2018. Ms. Aziz’s friend Irtiqa Ayoub, a rugby coach in Srinagar, said she had managed to infuse courage and motivation in Kashmir’s younger generation. “Many local girls are in touch with her to become pilots. Even I took her advice on how to withstand online bullying,” Ms. Ayoub said. Mehran Khan, who heads Elfa International, said Ms. Aziz’s interaction with girls had renewed a desire among them to be pilots. “She is a living example of achieving goals with sheer determination and focus,” Mr. Khan said. Saiqa Rashid, a Class 12 student from Bandipora, said Ms. Aziz motivated her to pursue her dream profession of being a pilot. “I had a mental block about the profession. She just removed it,” the girl said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/woman-pilot-is-a-kashmir-hero/article33892749.ece
21 February 2021||GUWAHATI,||Sonowal govt. raises daily wage of tea workers by Rs. 50||Ahead of the Assembly polls, the Sarbananda Sonowal Cabinet in Assam has decided to increase the daily wage of tea plantation workers by Rs. 50. The decision by the Bharatiya Janata Party-led coalition government came a week after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi promised to increase the wage of tea workers from the current Rs. 167 to Rs. 365 a day, although Finance Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had earlier promised a sustainable hike. “Tea tribes” or Adivasis, originally from Central India, comprise about 20% of Assam’s 3.3 crore people and are a major voting force in 45 of 126 Assembly seats in the State. They are thus the flavour of every poll season in Assam, and the BJP government has provided a slew of sops including cash transfer and specific schemes for women plantation workers.  “The Cabinet has taken a decision to increase the wage of tea workers from Rs. 167 to Rs. 217. A decision has also been taken to form a committee headed by Principal Secretary J.B. Ekka for equal wage of small tea garden workers,” Transport Minister and government spokesperson Chandra Mohan Patowary said on Saturday. The wage structure largely applies to about 800 major tea estates in Assam. Cong. slams hike The Congress-affiliated Assam Chah Mazdoor Sangh slammed the “meagre” hike. “The BJP had in its 2016 vision document promised to increase the wage to Rs. 351. The amount is nowhere near this figure, let alone implement a plan for increased wages with retrospective effect from 2018,” said Rupesh Gowala, the organisation’s general secretary. “This is sheer betrayal of the tea workers by the BJP after five years in power. We will increase the wage to Rs. 365 within 30 days of coming to power,” Congress MP Gaurav Gogoi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sonowal-govt-raises-daily-wage-of-tea-workers-by-rs-50/article33892952.ece
21 February 2021||Bengaluru,||High-security number plates to be mandatory in Karnataka||Motorists who registered their vehicles more than two years ago will have to change the number plates as Karnataka is making the installation of High-Security Registration Plates (HSRP) mandatory for all vehicles. As per the Transport Department’s data, 2.10 crore vehicles were registered till March 2019, of which 80.49 lakh were registered in Bengaluru alone. The owners will have to pay to replace the number plates. The rule for installing HSRPs is already applicable for vehicles registered after April 1, 2019. The State government had initiated the implementation of HSRP in 2010-11. However, the tender process was embroiled in various controversies and the matter also reached the courts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/high-security-number-plates-to-be-mandatory-in-karnataka/article33892709.ece
21 February 2021||Mysuru,||Siddaramaiah to build Ram temple in his native village||The former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah on Saturday said he would get a Ram temple constructed in his village, Siddaramanahundi, near here. He told reporters in Mysuru that such temples are constructed everywhere and not just in Ayodhya. He refused to divulge the estimated cost of construction. Fund collection His comment earlier that he was for building a Ram temple anywhere except in Ayodhya has attracted the wrath of RSS and BJP leaders. He had also raised questions on accountability in fund collection drive. Asked if the BJP was trying to play on people’s religious sentiments, Mr. Siddaramaiah said people have bhaya-bhakti (fear and devotion) towards god and hence they were donating. However, Mr. Siddaramaiah reiterated that there needs to be accountability. When his attention was drawn to Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa’s statement questioning who Mr. Siddaramaiah was to seek an account, the former Chief Minister said he was doing so as a citizen of the country. He recalled that a similar drive was taken up a few years ago when both funds and bricks for the temple in Ayodhya were collected. Though he said he would not like to say that there was corruption in the exercise, Mr. Siddaramaiah said their refusal to make public the accounts would lead to suspicion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/siddaramaiah-to-build-ram-temple-in-his-native-village/article33892706.ece
21 February 2021||CHENNAI,||Painting contest for school students||Giving an opportunity for aspiring young artists to showcase their talent, the JSW Paints ‘Futurescapes’ painting competition 2021 organised in association with The Hindu Young World invites entries across three categories. This competition is open to students residing in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana only. The painting competition will have a preliminary round and a finale. Students in Classes III to V can submit entries for the Sub-junior category, and the topics for them are ‘Dream Home’, ‘Family Picnic’ or ‘My Favourite Animal’. Students in Classes VI to VIII under the Junior category can paint on ‘Favourite festival’, ‘Fun with family’, or ‘Wildlife Safari’. Students in Classes IX to XII, who are a part of the Senior category, can paint on ‘Colours of India’, ‘Family Vacation’, or ‘Clean and Green India’. Students are mandatorily required to register online and upload a clear scanned copy of their painting to generate their registration number. The physical copy of the drawing should also be sent to the nearest office of The Hindu as chosen during the online registration process before March 10. Students who qualify for the finale will be intimated of the date and details through their registered email ID. For detailed instructions regarding the registration process and the competition, participants can log on to www.ywc.thehindu.com/jswpaints In case of any queries or clarifications, students or parents can also call the toll free number 1800 102 1878 from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/painting-contest-for-school-students/article33892720.ece
21 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC judges ready for physical hearings||The Supreme Court judges have informally told Chief Justice Sharad A. Bobde that they are agreeable to hold physical court hearings of cases. The judges have left it to Chief Justice Bobde to take the final decision. The virtual system of hearings in thecourt was initiated during the end of March last year to provide access to justice even during the lockdown and pandemic restrictions. In what may be the first indications of the court leaning towards resuming physical hearings, a Virtual Bench of Justices Indu Malhotra and Ajay Rastogi agreed with a lawyer’s plea for physical hearing of his case, a civil appeal, in the first week of March. The Bench, in the appeal titled Sabir Hussain versus Syed Mohammad Hassan, noted in its February 18 order that “learned counsel for the appellant submits that they would like a physical hearing. Post the matter for physical hearing in the first week of March 2021”. On January 28, the Supreme Court issued a statement that though the infection was a major and unprecedented challenge, 1,998 Benches of the court had held 43,713 hearings through video conferencing till December 31 notwithstanding technological constraints, pandemic protocol and reduced workforce. The court had worked in spite of the lockdown and much beyond the usual minimum of 190 days of sittings in a calendar year.  Frequent interrruptions But the virtual court system has not been without its critics, that too, from within the Supreme Court judiciary. A Bench led by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul had recorded its “exasperation” about the frequent disconnections and interruptions. Lately, lawyers have pushed for the resumption of physical court hearings. Senior Bar leaders like Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, senior advocate Vikas Singh and office-bearers of the Bar Council of India (BCI) had met Chief Justice Bobde to discuss the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-judges-ready-for-physical-hearings/article33892733.ece
21 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Biology study must for MBBS admission’||The Supreme Court has held in a judgment that prior knowledge of senior secondary level biology or biological sciences along with practical knowledge of the English language is at “the heart of eligibility” for MBBS admission. A Bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhat declared the eligibility criterion based on an appeal filed by the Kaloji Narayana Rao University of Health Sciences challenging a decision of the Telangana High Court. The High Court had allowed a student’s contention that the institution illegally denied her admission to the MBBS course for the 2020-21 academic year on the ground that she did not produce records of her study in the required subjects. Setting aside the High Court order, the apex court upheld that “MBBS primarily if not predominantly, involves prior knowledge — both theoretical and practical, of senior secondary level in biology or biological sciences”. Justice Bhat, who wrote the recent judgment, referred to Regulation 4 of the Medical Council of India Regulations on Graduate Medical Education of 1997, which stipulates that the eligibility criteria for admission to MBBS course stipulated that a candidate should have “undergone study at the 10+2 stage, [or in the Intermediate course] in the subjects of physics, chemistry and biology/Bio-technology”. “The substance of the eligibility requirement indeed is that the candidate should have qualified an Intermediate level examination or first year of a graduate course, and studied the subjects of physics, chemistry and biology at this level, along with practical testing in these subject areas, and the English language. This subject matter requirement is at the heart of eligibility to be admitted into the medical course,” the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/biology-study-must-for-mbbs-admission/article33892740.ece
21 February 2021||Mumbai,||Over 1,300 buildings sealed as COVID-19 cases rise in Mumbai||Over 1,300 buildings have been sealed in Mumbai as of Friday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said on Saturday. On Thursday, BMC Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal directed the civic administration to implement the health norms strictly in the wake of the rising cases of COVID-19. The administration sent out directions to seal any societies with five or more coronavirus patients. On Saturday, Mumbai recorded 897 new cases of COVID-19, indicating the rising trend of patients. The total number of cases in the city stood at 3,18,207. It also recorded three deaths, taking the total death toll to 11,440. As per the data, ward T (Mulund) has the highest number of sealed societies at 233. The total number of positive cases here stand at 514. It is followed by ward N (Ghatkopar) and ward P-south (Goregaon), where 125 societies have been sealed. The BMC had also directed to double the number of marshals to keep vigilance and fine citizens not wearing masks at public places. As of Friday, the total fine collected stands at Rs. 27.18 lakh. Zone 2, which includes the Wadala and Dadar area, has collected highest amount in fines at Rs. 4.64 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bmc-seals-over-1300-buildings-as-mumbai-sees-rise-in-cases/article33892742.ece
21 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ministry of Culture says it will not silence any ideology||A Culture Ministry official said on Saturday that the Ministry represented aspirations of all sections of society and did not believe in silencing any ideology, a day after a tweet by the Ministry’s official handle paying tribute to Hindutva ideologue M.S. Golwalkar stirred up a controversy. The Ministry tweeted a photo of Golwalkar on his birth anniversary on Friday, accompanied by the text: “Remembering a great thinker, scholar, and remarkable leader #MSGolwalkar on his birth anniversary. His thoughts will remain a source of inspiration & continue to guide generations.” Opposition leaders, including Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, criticised the Ministry for the tweet. Nitin Tripathi, media adviser to Culture Minister Prahlad Singh Patel, said in a tweet on Saturday: “India is most culturally diverse nation in the world and an epitome of multiculturalism. Ministry of Culture represents the aspirations of every section of society and do not believe in silencing any ideologies or voices which is not the part of traditional narrative.” In a second tweet, Mr. Tripathi said, “Distinctive socio-cultural traits, customs, traditions and sets of values must be respected at all cost and this has been one of the essential elements of the democracy like India since ages.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ministry-of-culture-says-it-will-not-silence-any-ideology/article33892744.ece
21 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Cong. says photos prove graft charge||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Saturday released purported photos of Kerala Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma holding discussions with representatives of a U.S.-based firm here on a deep-sea fishing project, against the agreement of which he had levelled corruption charges. Besides the Minister, company representatives and Fisheries Department officials could also be seen in the photos released by Mr. Chennithala at a press meet here. Mr. Chennithala also released what he termed documentary evidence — a purported concept note submitted by the company to the Fisheries Department, and the letter sent by the Fisheries Principal Secretary to the president of EMCC International on the controversial project. The photos were made public a day after the Left Democratic Front government had rejected as baseless corruption charges in an agreement inked by the State-owned Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation (KSINC) with the U.S.-based company for the deep-sea fishing project. The Congress leader had alleged corruption involving Rs. 5,000 crore in the agreement with the firm. He had also said the agreement would affect the interest of the fishermen community in Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-says-photos-prove-graft-charge/article33892714.ece
21 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Initial talks on Kerala PSC strike positive||The initial round of discussions between the striking PSC rank holders’ associations and the Kerala government ended on an optimistic note on Saturday. On the 26th day of the strike, the association leaders said they would continue the agitation peacefully until the discussions with the government yielded tangible results. Principal Secretary, Home, T.K. Jose and Additional Director-General of Police Manoj Abraham represented the government. The police had served the strikers notice to attend the meeting in the morning. Separately, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan urged PSC rankers not to fall prey to disinformation or resort to desperate acts of violence. CPI(M) Polit Bureau member Kodiyeri Balakrishnan urged PSC rankers to walk back from the path of agitation and to trust the government. Congress legislators Shafi Parambil and K.S. Sabarinath continued their fast in front of the Secretariat to express their support to the striking PSC rankers. Officials said the Sports and Youth Affairs Department would hold separate talks with national medal winners eligible for government jobs. The government would accommodate them as vacancies arose. It would also confer with representatives of those on the PSC rank list for appointment to post of civil police officer. The administration would point out that the government had limited legal latitude in reviving obsolete rank lists. The Opposition continued to intensify their struggle against the government on “backdoor appointments and denial of jobs to PSC rankers”. Youth Congress workers staged a mock PSC test in front of the Secretariat. They recreated the scandal related to SFI leaders gaining top ranks by using digital devices to cheat in the PSC test for appointment to the civil police officer post. In Kollam, the police grappled with KSU workers who attempted to storm the District Collectorate. In Pathanamthitta, the police fought back Youth Congress workers who tried to storm their line.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-psc-strike-first-round-of-talks-end-on-an-optimistic-note/article33892712.ece
21 February 2021||JAIPUR,||Gehlot considering kin connection in bypolls||Faced with the difficult task of selecting candidates for the upcoming by-elections in four Assembly seats, the ruling Congress in Rajasthan is considering political factors which could influence the perceptions of voters. The party is under pressure to give tickets to the kin of the deceased MLAs in three constituencies. The bypolls are to be held in Sujangarh, Sahara, Vallabhnagar and Rajsamand, where the sitting MLAs died during the last four months. Three of these seats were with the Congress, while the Rajsamand constituency was represented by BJP leader Kiran Maheshwari. Focus on development While the dates for the by-elections are yet to be announced, the State government has launched development works in all the four constituencies. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot virtually inaugurated and laid the foundation stones for various schemes worth Rs. 158 crore on Friday. Mr. Gehlot said it was his responsibility after the death of the sitting MLAs to ensure that development is not stalled in the constituencies. “These works were sanctioned in the past. They have been inaugurated to give direct benefit to the people. About 55% of the promises made in our election manifesto have been fulfilled in the last two years,” he said. The family members of deceased Congress MLAs Bhanwarlal Meghwal in Sujangarh, Gajendra Singh Shaktawat in Vallabhnagar and Kailash Trivedi in Sahara have staked their claims for candidature. Among them, Shaktawat was a known loyalist of former Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot and was one of the MLAs who sided with him during last year’s political crisis. The frontrunner in Sujangarh in Meghwal’s son, while the Congress may field Shaktawat’s wife as its candidate in Vallabhnagar to get the benefit of public sympathy. The party has appointed Ministers, MLAs and office-bearers as in-charges in the four seats to ensure timely completion of public works. Son in the reckoning Mr. Gehlot’s son Vaibhav Gehlot is in the reckoning in the politically significant Rajsamand constituency, according to Congress sources. He has visited Rajsamand several times in the last month following the victory of the Congress in the local body polls and formation of its board in the municipal council after 25 years. BJP State president Satish Poonia claimed that the Congress was focusing on development works because of its “insecurity and fear of defeat” in the bypolls. Mr. Poonia said at a meeting of chiefs of front organisations here that the Congress had lost ground in the State because of its “internal rift”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gehlot-considering-kin-connection-in-bypolls/article33892950.ece
21 February 2021||ALAPPUZHA,||Kerala freedom fighter pens memoir at 100||It could take a while for some to find their calling in writing. For Gangadhara Panikkar, a freedom fighter-cum-teacher from Punnamoodu, near Mavelikara, it came at the age of 100. Rithubhedangalil , his debut book, which was released a few months ago, after he turned 100, is a recollection of his life through the change of seasons. “I am not a poet or a story-teller. I am an old teacher who loves literature,” he says. A voracious reader, he says the COVID-19-induced lockdown prompted him to pen the memoir. “I used to write for magazines, but never attempted a book. Late actor Narendra Prasad was my student and he often told me to write a book. But it never happened until the pandemic struck,” says Mr. Panikkar, a Gandhian who refused to accept pension benefits for freedom fighters. The 167-page book contains 43 notes or small chapters. Mr. Panicker has also created an audio version of Rithubhedangalil . He hopes to make it to the Guinness World Records as the oldest person to release a memoir in print, and as an audio version in his own voice. The book sheds light on his attachment to the landscape, flora and fauna of his place of birth. Once, he went to the United States to live with his eldest son but returned soon after, longing for the simple pleasures of his homeland. He had a brush with history 90 years ago. When Mahatma Gandhi came to Thattarambalam, near Mavelikara, Mr. Panikkar, then a 10-year-old, walked 4 km, without the consent of his parents, to catch a glimpse of him. On his return, he lost his way and a stranger brought him home. His anxious parents punished him and a scar on his thigh is a reminder of his adulation of Gandhi and his philosophy. As a high school teacher from 1950 to 1975, he worked in different parts of Kerala before retiring in Lakshadweep. He also served in various posts in the Congress party, Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana Yogam, and in cooperative societies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-freedom-fighter-pens-memoir-at-100/article33892705.ece
21 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Modi, Morrison discuss media Bill||Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison has discussed Canberra’s media policy with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The conversation was held against the backdrop of the Australian government’s negotiations with tech giants, which led to a temporary suspension of many Australian Facebook accounts on Thursday. “As comprehensive strategic partners, we can work together on common challenges, including COVID-19, the circular economy, oceans and an open, secure and prosperous Indo-Pacific. We also discussed the progress of our media platform Bill,” said Mr. Morrison on Friday after his conversation with Mr. Modi. Mr. Modi’s social media post on the conversation did not highlight the portion on the Australian Bill. Under the News Media and Digital Platforms Mandatory Bargaining Code Bill 2020, tech and social media giants such as Facebook and Google will have to pay local news outlets for using their content. The move is being studied worldwide as it will set a precedent in the use of Web-based news and content that may permanently impact the use of the Internet in Australia. It is in this context that the discussion on the domestic Australian rule between the two leaders is being viewed as unusual. It appears that following the enactment, the Bill is likely to influence other democratically elected governments struggling to contain online exchanges. The discussion is being viewed as significant as the Centre has looked at reining in major social media platforms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-morrison-discuss-media-bill/article33892747.ece
21 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Sharmila not in a hurry to invite leaders to join her proposed party||Y.S. Sharmila, daughter of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy and sister of AP CM Jaganmohan Reddy, is understood to have made it clear to her father’s admirers that she was not in a hurry to invite leaders of other parties to join her proposed party, whenever it is launched. Leaders who had been interacting with Ms. Sharmila maintained that she had pointed out that there was no need to reach out to leaders of other political parties to align with the new party in the offing. “Those who have worked with my father and other well wishers in other parties have to come on their own. We are not going to extend any invitation,” she is believed to have told these leaders. Ms. Sharmila on Saturday chaired a meeting of YSR admirers from Hyderabad and Ranga Reddy district at her Lotus Pond office, which close to 750 delegates attended. Sources said two former additional SPs and some retired government officials and employees, lawyers, students and a few women attended the meeting and aired their views. “Ms. Sharmila after making a brief speech noted down all the issues and suggestions put forth by close to 60 speakers,” sources said. Speakers at the meeting compared the Indiramma Housing implemented by the then YSR government and the 2 BHK scheme of the TRS government. One speaker pointed out that the 2-BHK complexes constructed by the present regime were on the city outskirts and not convenient. Another delegate from Vikarabad district bemoaned how small and marginal farmers were facing hardships due to the Rythu Bandhu scheme. A farmer said that while he got Rs. 5,000 twice for his one acre land, the investment for his agricultural operations came to nearly Rs. 30,000. Another woman from the Old City pointed out that some hospitals were not entertaining the Aarogyasri health cards. Also, some speakers compared the flood relief steps taken by the then YSR government with the TRS government’s. Some employees expressed concern at the pathetic condition of the TSRTC. Another meeting with leaders from Mahabubnagar district would be held on March 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sharmila-not-in-a-hurry-to-invite-leaders/article33893097.ece
21 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||CM, Ministers in graft plot, says Chennithala||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Saturday dismissed the government's claim that it had not conspired with any fishing corporate to allow foreign trawlers to harvest the State's unquantifiable deep-sea wealth. He reiterated his claim that Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma had actively promoted a U.S.-based mega fishing fleet owner's bid to dominate fishing operations off the coast of Kerala. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan were in the loop, Mr. Chennithala alleged. The Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation under Mr. Vijayan had inked the firm's memorandum of understanding to build, launch and operate a large fleet of deep-sea trawlers backed by motherships and modern harbours. Mr. Chennithala produced a photograph of the firm's officials at the office of Mr. Jayarajan. He also alleged that Ms. Mercykutty had conferred with the U.S. firm representatives in New York in 2018. The plot to deprive fishers of their livelihood by granting foreign corporates unfettered access to the State's marine wealth was in the making since the Left Democratic Front government came to power in 2016. The scheme had reached maturity only at the fag end of the government's tenure. The firm had approached the government for Cabinet clearance for their Rs. 5,000-crore project trusting the assurance given by the Fisheries Minister. Mr. Chennithala also released two documents about the firm's proposals, including the project's concept note. Mr. Chennithala said that in 2019, the government had modified the State's fisheries policy to accommodate foreign deep sea fishing firms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cm-ministers-in-graft-plot-says-chennithala/article33893129.ece
21 February 2021||Ghaziabad,||Priyanka keeps up attack on farm laws||Describing Prime Minister Narendra Modi as the “arrogant raja” of fables, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi-Vadra on Saturday said the contentious farm laws would lead to the closure of government mandis and the weakening of the MSP regime. The Congress leader was addressing a ‘kisan panchayat’ in Baghra town of Muzaffarnagar — her third such address to farmers in western Uttar Pradesh, after meetings in Saharanpur and Bijnor. Continuing with her attack on the Prime Minister, she said the way he is selling the country to his billionaire friends, “he would sell you, your land, and your income to them.” She said the Prime Minister reminded her of the arrogant king of fables who confined himself to his palace as his power grew and didn’t listen to the people who elected him. Ms. Vadra also raised the hike in prices of diesel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/priyanka-keeps-up-attack-on-farm-laws/article33892728.ece
21 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Video in slain lawyer case suspected to be morphed||Was the video clip in which slain lawyer Gattu Vaman Rao was heard taking the name of an ex-MLA of ruling TRS a morphed one? Investigators are not ready to say a complete yes but strongly suspect so. The video clip showing Rao slumped on the road with deep bleeding wounds and struggling to answer queries about his identity had gone viral. Vaman Rao took the name of Kunta Srinu stating that the latter had attacked him. He also revealed to the by-standers posing questions that he and Srinu hailed from the same village of Kunjapadugu, 15 km from Manthani. Towards the end of the video, Rao is heard mentioning the name of the former legislator. “In the first version of the video clip, that politician’s name was not heard. But a day after the murder, the same video got re-circulated in which Rao is heard taking the ex-MLA’s name,” a police officer associated with the investigation said. He and other investigating officials believe the second version of the video clip was morphed. However, they are not sure why anyone would morph the video and who could it be. At this stage of probe, the focus was on ensuring the real culprits were booked. “Nevertheless, those responsible for circulating the morphed video would also be held eventually. That is not our priority now,” they said. Their suspicion about the doctored video is not without basis. Earlier, in some sensational cases reported in this area, similar situations arose. They recalled the mysterious death of a Dalit Madhukar of Manthani nearly four years ago. A video suggesting that he was tortured to death by showing injuries on his private parts and eyes had gone viral then. Jolted by this, investigators had to pursue different angles only to realise that it was a morphed video clip. In the lawyer-couple murder case, however, the video clips assumed importance since the killers were seen indiscriminately attacking Rao with sickles during daytime on the road. Even the High Court, which suo moto issued notices to the State government, wanted the police to collect and preserve all such digital and electronic evidence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/video-in-slain-lawyer-case-suspected-to-be-morphed/article33892703.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||India, China hold another round of talks||The other major friction points are Gogra, Hot Springs, Depsang Plains and Demchok, of which the focus of this round of talks is expected to be on Gogra and Hot Springs, where partial disengagement had been already been done in June-July last year. For the disengagement at Pangong lake, both sides had worked out a step-by-step agreement which was signed by both sides. A second official said a similar agreement would be worked out for the subsequent rounds of disengagement and then complete de-escalation along the LAC. China had deployed around 50,000 troops and armaments along the LAC in Eastern Ladakh and also made ingress at several locations into the Indian side after the stand-off began last May which was matched by Indian Army. The Indian delegation is led by 14 Corps Commander Lt. Gen. P.G.K. Menon and includes Naveen Srivastava, Joint Secretary, East Asia division in the Ministry of External Affairs. In the first official acknowledgment, China had said on Friday that four of its Army personnel were killed in the violent clash in Galwan last June. China also released a video of the Galwan clash claiming that Indian troops trespassed into Chinese side of the LAC. Twenty Indian Army personnel were killed in the clash including Commanding Officer Col Santosh Babu but China had so far not revealed details of its casualties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-china-hold-another-round-of-talks/article33892718.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Ease path for businesses, says Modi||“I don’t honestly recall any specific request for fiscal assistance. Nobody mentioned that... Some States had requests. For example, Bihar, which is a landlocked State, wants a special port in Odisha to handle their cargo. This was backed by Jharkhand. Rajasthan, for example, wanted the Indira Gandhi Canal to be given the national status... so, much more development-oriented requests rather than any financial,” he said. NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant added that agriculture issues which were discussed included aligning cropping system to agro-climatic conditions at district level for optimal resource utilisation, and promoting water conservation. During his address, Mr. Modi asked the States to take advantage of Central schemes such as the production-linked incentive scheme to attract investments. He pointed out that States had a 40% share in the National Infrastructure Pipeline and therefore, it was imperative that the States and the Centre synergise their budgets, make plans, and set priorities. “Globally, for positioning of India, for India to gain opportunities, ease of doing business is important. For this, we have to improve our laws, systems and meet the expectations of the citizens... We will have to emphasise what is necessary for ease of living,” he said. “We are also seeing how the private sector of the country is enthusiastically coming forward to participate in the country’s development...As the government, we also have to honour this enthusiasm and give them as much opportunity in the Aatmanirbhar Bharat  campaign,” he said. The Prime Minister said agriculture offered immense opportunities and that reforms were very important for farmers to get necessary economic resources, better infrastructure and modern technology. He added that even though India was an agrarian economy, it imported edible oil worth Rs. 65,000-70,000 crore. “We can stop this. Money can go to our farmers’ account. Our farmers are entitled to this money. But we need to plan accordingly for this.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ease-path-for-businesses-modi/article33892721.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Petrol price hike a vexatious issue’||She also pointed out that the prices of Brent crude have been increasing since November and with the production cuts being forecast by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), there would be further pressure on oil prices towards the higher side. The Finance Minister said given this reality, it is for the oil marketing companies to decide whether they can cut the prices. “Technically, the oil prices have been freed and the government has no control over it,” she pointed out. “I just cannot be one Union Minister in the Centre to say, right we will bring it down by this much (referring to the excise duty). Will that guarantee that space is not going to be occupied by the States because everyone now needs money and revenue,” Ms. Sitharaman said. On whether petrol and diesel prices could be brought under the GST regime, she said that decision could be made only through discussion in the GST Council and with consultation among States. “Once they agree on a rate, then there can be a uniform rate of petrol across the country with just one tax that can be shared by both the Centre and States, rather than the States having their own tax rates and Centre having its own,” Ms. Sitharaman added. She also said there needs to be rationalisation of current GST rates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/petrol-price-hike-a-vexatious-issue/article33892725.ece
21 February 2021||Ghaziabad,||Don’t destroy your crops, says BKU leader||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said on Saturday that his appeal to farmers to be ready to sacrifice their standing crop should not be taken literally. The appeal came after a farmer in Bijnor destroyed almost half his wheat crop. Mr Tikait said the appeal was made for an extreme situation. “The movement hasn’t reached that stage yet. Farmers should not take any drastic step in a huff,” he urged. In a video that went viral, Rohit Kumar, a young farmer from Kulchana villge in Bijnor, could be heard saying that he had destroyed his standing wheat crop to register his protest against the farm laws. Speaking over phone, Mr. Kumar said that he had run his tractor over six bigha s of 13 bigha s that were covered by the crop after listening to Mr Tikait’s speech, made during a panchayat in Hisar on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dont-destroy-your-crops-says-bku-leader/article33892783.ece
21 February 2021||Gopeshwar (Uttarakhand),||Chamoli toll rises to 65||Three more bodies were recovered from the flood-ravaged Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project site on Saturday taking the toll in the February 7 glacial disaster in Uttarakhand to 65, officials said. The bodies were recovered from the desilting tank near the Tapovan project barrage on Saturday, NDRF Commandant P.K. Tiwari said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chamoli-toll-rises-to-65/article33892784.ece
21 February 2021||Kolkata,||Drug seizure turns into embarrassment for BJP||The arrest of Pamela Goswami, State secretary of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), for allegedly possessing narcotics is turning out to be a major embarrassment for the party. Ms. Goswami on Saturday alleged that another BJP leader, Rakesh Singh, was behind the conspiracy leading to her arrest. Colleague accused “I want CID to probe the matter. Rakesh Singh, who is close to Kailash Vijayvargiya, is behind all this,” she told presspersons while being produced in court. Ms. Goswami and her colleague Prabir Kumar Dey were caught by the police on Friday with around 100 gm of cocaine. The Trinamool Congress leadership used the opportunity to hit out at the BJP. Its spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said instead of blaming the ruling party, Ms. Goswami’s charge speaks volumes about the factionalism in the saffron party. Ms. Goswami was arrested from New Alipore area on Friday evening. According to reports, she was under the radar for some time now on suspicion of being involved in drug trafficking. On Friday, BJP spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya had tried to defend her saying it is yet to be ascertained whether the drugs were planted or not. “We do not know whether she has done it at all or whether the drugs were planted,” he said. There has been no reaction from the BJP after Ms. Gowami made the allegations. Mr. Singh, however, denied all allegations and said he had not been in touch with her in any manner for the past few years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/drug-seizure-turns-into-embarrassment-for-bjp/article33892753.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Centre may rethink order on international seminars||The guidelines also covered “sensitive” subjects that included “political, scientific, technical, commercial, personal [subjects] with provisions for sharing of data in any form; presentations”. Though such permissions were required for visits by foreign speakers, this was the first time they were sought to be applied to virtual meetings as well as mentioned terms such as “India’s internal matters”. Scientists have been protesting against the new guidelines. Partha Majumdar, president, Indian Academy of Sciences (IAS), wrote to Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal earlier this week requesting that the guidelines be withdrawn. “The Indian Academy of Sciences considers the provisions of the Office Memorandum (OM) to be overly restrictive, lacking in clarity, and detrimental to the progress of science in India, including capacity-building. We strongly urge upon you to withdraw the blanket restrictions and the requirement of permission on the organization of scientific discussion meetings and scientific training programs in India.” Mr. Majumdar had marked copies to Mr. VijayRaghavan as well as to the heads of another two prominent academies—the National Academy of Sciences, India, and the Indian National Science Academy (INSA). INSA president Chandrima Saha said she too wrote to the Ministry of Education “supporting” the IAS letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-may-rethink-order-on-international-seminars/article33892722.ece
21 February 2021||Ghaziabad,||Don’t take any drastic step, Tikait tells farmers||Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said on Saturday that his appeal to farmers to be ready to sacrifice their standing crops should not be taken literally. This clarification comes after a farmer in Bijnor destroyed almost half of his wheat crop on Saturday morning. Mr. Tikait said the appeal was made for an extreme situation. “The movement hasn’t reached that stage yet. Farmers should not take any drastic step in a huff,” he urged. In a video that went viral, Rohit Kumar, from Kulchana villge in Bijnor, could be heard saying that he destroyed his standing wheat crop to register his protest against the three new farm laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dont-take-any-drastic-step-tikait-tells-farmers/article33893163.ece
21 February 2021||KALPETTA,||Steps to curb illegal timber trade in Wayanad||The Forest and Wildlife Department will adopt stringent steps to curb illegal timber trade in Wayanad. The move follows the recent massive rosewood tree felling in the district. A recent meeting of senior forest officials decided not to issue blank Form 4 for transporting timber any more to curb its misuse, D.K. Vinod Kumar, Chief Conservator of Forest, Kannur, told The Hindu . Entering details of the wood should be mandatory while issuing it. Loading and unloading of timber would be allowed only in the presence of forest officials and their signature would be mandatory while transporting royal wood such as rosewood and teak. Forest check-posts on the district border would be strengthened and a new forest check-post would be set up at Boys Town on the Wayanad-Kannur border.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/steps-to-curb-illegal-timber-trade-in-wayanad/article33893172.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Landing scare||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/landing-scare/article33892724.ece
21 February 2021||UNNAO,||Unnao girl taken off ventilator||The teenager from an Unnao village, who was among three girls found unconscious in a field on Wednesday, was taken off ventilator support on Saturday, a statement from the Kanpur hospital treating her said. The girl was “off ventilator and has spontaneous respiration” three days after she was admitted to the hospital at 11 p.m. on Wednesday, a medical bulletin issued by Regency Hospital PRO Paramjeet Arora said. The girl was being treated in the paediatric intensive care unit and was “under constant monitoring”, the bulletin said. Meanwhile, the Unnao Police on Saturday registered an FIR against Congress leader Udit Raj over a tweet by him claiming that the victims’ family had alleged the girls were raped and that the last rites were performed without their consent. The FIR was filed under Section 153 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/unnao-girl-taken-off-ventilator/article33892731.ece
21 February 2021||Mumbai,||Former IPS officers slam Disha’s arrest||Former IPS officers have slammed the arrest of 22-year-old Disha Ravi, a climate change activist, by the Delhi Police on February 13. Being anti-government is mistaken to be anti-national and the arrest of the student shows that the Centre is panicking, the experts said. “They [the government] seem threatened by her,” said former DGP of Punjab and Padma Bhushan awardee Julio Ribeiro. Retired IPS officer Meeran Borwankar said, “Youth by definition is radical and revolutionary. That does not mean they are violent or anti-nationals.” She said that police should engage and partner with youth than alienate them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/former-ips-officers-slam-dishas-arrest/article33892736.ece
21 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Break the chain: Health Ministry||With Kerala, Maharashtra, Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh reporting a surge in COVID-19 cases, the Health Ministry said on Saturday that people should keep in mind the importance of COVID-19-appropriate behaviour. “This is essential for breaking the chain of transmission of the virus and containment of spread of the disease,” it said. Eighteen States and Union Territories did not report any COVID-19 deaths in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/break-the-chain-health-ministry/article33892743.ece
21 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||India backs the Maldives on UN role||India on Saturday reiterated its support for a greater role for the Maldives in multilateral affairs. Speaking at a joint media event in the Maldives’ capital Male, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar said Maldives’ Foreign Minister Abdulla Shahid is “best equipped” to be the President of the 76th session of the UN General Assembly. “I reiterate today India’s strong support to the candidature of Foreign Minister Abdullah Shahid for the President of the 76th session of the UN General Assembly next year. Foreign Minister Shahid with his vast diplomatic experience and his leadership qualities is in our view the best equipped to preside over the General Assembly of 193 nations of the world. We will work together to make this a reality. We would really like to work with you during our membership of the UN Security Council for 2021-22,” said Dr. Jaishankar in his remarks. The senior Indian Minister said multilateral engagement was “very important” in the contemporary globalised system and maintained that India had always been “supportive” of the “larger participation of the Maldives”, and added, “By joining the Indian Ocean Regional Association, rejoining the Commonwealth and by playing a greater role in the United Nations, Maldives has demonstrated its value in the comity of nations.” The Maldives rejoined the Commonwealth in February 2020, three years after it quit the organisation. Mr. Jaishankar handed over 100,000 additional doses of COVID-19 vaccines to his counterpart Mr. Shahid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-backs-maldives-on-un-role/article33892745.ece
21 February 2021||GUWAHATI,||Daily wage of tea workers hiked by Rs. 50||Ahead of Assembly polls, the Sarbananda Sonowal Cabinet in Assam has decided to increase the daily wage of tea plantation workers by Rs. 50. The decision by the BJP-led coalition government came a week after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi promised to increase the wage of tea workers from the current Rs. 167 to Rs. 365 a day, although Assam Finance Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had promised a sustainable hike. “Tea tribes” or Adivasis comprise about 20% of Assam’s 3.3 crore people and are a major voting force in 45 of the 126 Assembly seats. They are thus the flavour of every poll season in Assam. The Congress-affiliated Assam Chah Mazdoor Sangh slammed the “meagre” hike.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/daily-wage-of-tea-workers-hiked-by-rs-50/article33892746.ece
21 February 2021||New Delhi,||Promote Indian languages: Venkaiah||Ahead of International Mother Language Day on Sunday, Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu wrote to all members of the Upper House urging them to promote and preserve Indian languages. He lamented that regional languages were being given short shrift. Writing to each member in his or her own language, Mr. Naidu said India was home to 19,500 languages and dialects, of which 200 were facing the threat of immediate extinction. “For us in India, International Mother Language Day has special significance. Cultural and linguistic diversity form the bedrock of Indian civilisation. Our values and vision, aspirations and ideals, life and literature find expression in our mother tongue,” he wrote in the three-page letter. Languages were being driven to extinction, he said, because of the mindset of looking down upon regional languages and “wearing the linguistic badge of competence in English as a false sign of superiority”. Extolling the virtues of the mother tongue, Mr. Naidu urged members to be facilitators in promoting native languages. “Given your standing among the people you represent, your effort could give a fillip to the promotion of Indian languages,” he wrote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/promote-indian-languages-venkaiah/article33892752.ece
21 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Karnataka CET on July 7 and 8||Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan, who is also Minister of Higher Education, on Saturday, announced the dates for the Karnataka Common Entrance Test (CET). The competitive examination for professional courses will be conducted on July 7 and 8. The CET for biology and mathematics will be held on July 7, and physics and chemistry examinations will be held the following day. The dates were finalised keeping in mind the schedule of CET conducted by other States, the timetable of the second year pre-university examinations and the CBSE examination schedule, said the Minister in a press release. The Kannada language test for Horanadu (other States) and Gadinadu (border regions of the State) Kannadiga candidates will be conducted on July 9, the release stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cet-to-be-held-on-july-7-and-8/article33893060.ece
21 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Four more cases detected in Karimnagar cluster||Four more COVID-19 cases got added to the cluster detected in Karimanagar after district health teams tested 42 people on Saturday. Officials came across the cluster when a man from Chegurthi village in the district who lost sense of smell approached a government hospital for COVID testing and was detected with coronavirus on Wednesday. They got to know that last rites of the patient’s father had been conducted on February 10. Thereafter, the officials started contact-tracing performed tests. Only the man’s relatives had attended the funeral. Till Friday evening, 160 were examined and 33 tested positive. The mobile teams continued to examine the people who attended the funeral and found four more cases. The 37 patients are from the same village and none of them is serious. Anyone who came in contact with the positive patients were asked to get examined regardless of the symptoms. District Medical and Health Officer G. Sujatha said early contact tracing and tests help them in containing the infection. The health teams have also begun a fever survey in Chegurthi village to find out if anyone else has symptoms of the infectious disease. Awareness sessions on precautions to be maintained such as wearing mask, social distancing and others, are being conducted. People are also informed about the COVID surge in other States to impress upon them the importance of taking precautions. Interestingly, between February 17 and 19, the 33 cases were detected from the cluster. However, when the number of cases in Karimnagar mentioned in the daily media bulletin issued by the State Health department are considered, it adds up to just 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/four-more-cases-detected-in-karimnagar-cluster/article33892836.ece
21 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||71.7% health staff skip second COVID jab||Around 71.7% of healthcare workers (HCWs) targeted for the second dose of COVID-19 vaccine on Saturday gave it a miss. While the Health department planned to administer the second dose to 3,892 HCWs on Saturday, only 1,108 or 28.3% took it. The COVID-19 vaccine is given in two doses with a gap of 28 days. When the daily percentage of HCWs who missed the second dose from February 13 to 20 is considered, it was the highest on Saturday at 71.7%. Senior officials from the Health department earlier listed three reasons for not taking the second dose — illness on the day they were scheduled to take the second dose; personal engagement; and developed Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI) such as fever, giddiness earlier and were hesitant to take the second dose. Health department staff will resume administering the second dose on Monday. A mop-up session for frontline workers (FLWs) who missed taking the vaccine will also be conducted on Monday. Of the 2,57,239 FLWs targeted to be administered the first dose, only 87,693 or 34% took the jab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/717-health-staff-skip-second-covid-jab/article33892837.ece
21 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||308 cases filed during jallikattu stir withdrawn||The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday issued an order for the withdrawal of 308 cases registered during the 2017 jallikattu protest. The order follows Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s announcement in the Assembly while speaking on the motion to thank Governor Banwarilal Purohit for his address. In the order, Home Secretary S.K. Prabakhar said the Director-General of Police (DGP) had submitted the details of the cases to be considered for withdrawal. The public prosecutor had also opined that further proceedings might be dropped. The order said that in the cases wherein further investigation was pending, further action might be dropped. “In the cases pending trial, the assistant public prosecutor in charge thereof may be directed to move an application under Section 321 of the Code of Criminal Procedure for withdrawal of prosecution and follow the procedure therein,” Mr. Prabkarar said. As for the cases involving the Railways Act, further permission from the Centre may be obtained and produced before the trial courts and the assistant public prosecutor in charge of these cases may be directed to move an application under Section 321 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. No permission from the Centre is required for withdrawal of the cases filed under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act (Entry 17 of the Concurrent List of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution). The order said that in the cases wherein further investigation was pending, further action might be dropped. “In the cases pending trial, the assistant public prosecutor in charge thereof may be directed to move an application under Section 321 of the Code of Criminal Procedure for withdrawal of prosecution and follow the procedure therein,” Mr. Prabkarar said. As for the cases involving the Railways Act, further permission from the Centre may be obtained and produced before the trial courts and the assistant public prosecutor in charge of these cases may be directed to move an application under Section 321 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. No permission from the Centre is required for withdrawal of the cases filed under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act (Entry 17 of the Concurrent List of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/308-cases-filed-during-jallikattu-stir-withdrawn/article33892912.ece
21 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. hospitals set to resume transplants||With a long waitlist for organ transplants, government hospitals are taking steps to put transplant services back on track after they came to a halt during the pandemic. A number of hospitals are planning to resume transplant activities in March. Amid the pandemic, almost all services, except emergencies, came to a standstill, as government hospitals (GHs) were at the centre of COVID-19 management in the State. In the last few months, regular activities, including elective surgeries and outpatient services, have resumed at the institutions, with the exception being organ transplants — both living and deceased donor transplantations. Now work to resume transplants have taken off in a number of government medical college hospitals. Official sources said among the government medical college hospitals, the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital had started living donor renal transplants and was gearing up for the deceased donor transplant programme. “It is important that GHs re-start transplant programmes as the number of patients on the waiting lists is huge. For instance, nearly 3,000 patients are on the kidney waitlist in GHs in the State, of which around 1,800 are waiting for a transplant at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH). Many are managing with dialysis, but want to get the surgery at the earliest. Patients have started making calls, inquiring whether hospitals are starting transplants as the COVID-19 cases have declined,” an official said. While government institutions have been slow-paced in resuming transplant programmes, private hospitals have been performing both living donor and deceased donor organ transplants in the past year. As per data, a total of 80 organ transplants were performed from April 2020 to date. All transplants were performed at private hospitals — 26 kidney, 17 liver, 18 heart transplants, one heart and lung combined transplant and 18 dual lung transplants. In fact, from April 2020 to January 2021, a total of 297 living donor renal transplants and 190 liver transplants were performed. RGGGH dean E. Theranirajan said transplants were likely to be resumed by the first week of March. P. Balaji, dean of the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital, said living donor renal transplants were set to resume on February 24. P. Vasanthamani, dean of the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital, said they were planning to start living donor kidney transplants at the Government Royapettah Hospital, one of its affiliated institutions, by the second week of March. However, challenges are aplenty — a government transplant surgeon said the pandemic had disrupted organ transplants. As hospitals restart the live programme, both donors and recipients will be tested for COVID-19, 48 hours prior to surgery, he said, adding, “Our transplant operation area and post-transplant ward have to be located far away from COVID-19 patients, whose numbers are less now. Our staff, operation theatre personnel or anaesthesiologists with fever or cough will be screened before they are involved in transplant-related activities, while deceased donors will be screened for COVID-19 before donation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-hospitals-set-to-resume-transplants/article33893008.ece
21 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Industrialists meet Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday held an informal meeting with industrialists in Chennai and heard their views and suggestions on the Union Budget 2021. The meeting saw participation from businessmen from various sectors, including Venu Srinivasan, chairman, TVS Motor Company; Gopal Srinivasan, chairman, TVS Capital; R. Dinesh, MD, TVS Supply Chain Solutions; Hari Thiagarajan, executive director, Thiagarajar Mills Private Limited; Arun Alagappan, executive vice-chairman, Coromandel International; Rahul Mammen, managing director, MRF; and Sanjay Jayavarthanavelu, chairman and managing director, Lakshmi Machine Works, among others. Sources at the meeting said the industrialists spoke about their sectors, and some also raised issues related to import duty. N. Srinivasan, vice-chairman and managing director of India Cements, who also attended the meeting, said, “The budget will spur growth. I told her that during this calendar year itself (2021), all the industries, including manufacturing industries, will be running towards full capacity.” R.G. Chandramogan, chairman, Hatsun Agro Products, said he highlighted certain issues in the agriculture sector. “I also suggested how universities and industry (especially private players) can work together. Research done by universities should not just stay on paper, they must be asked to provide tangible results in the field.” Rahul Mammen, managing director, MRF, appreciated the way the government handled the COVID-19 pandemic and also put the economy back on track. A few others said the Finance Minister had said she would look into the issues that were pointed out in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industrialists-meet-union-finance-minister-nirmala-sitharaman/article33892924.ece
21 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Questions raised over efficacy of crop loan scheme in State||The State government’s scheme for waiver of crop loans extended by cooperative societies has triggered a debate on the efficacy of such credit. This assumes relevance as the Reserve Bank of India, in a study during 2019, hinted that Tamil Nadu was among those States where the possibility of diversion of credit for non-agricultural purposes existed. The bank made the assessment, using the data for 2015-2017 which revealed that in Tamil Nadu, the ratio of total agricultural credit outstanding in relation to its agricultural gross domestic product (GDP) was about 170% -180% . Again, using the data for 2014-16, the bank concluded that Tamil Nadu got the credit four times the value of input cost requirement. Another finding was that contrary to the trend of Kisan Credit Cards (KCC) emerging as a preferred credit instrument all over the country, 88% of crop loans was disbursed in the State outside the scheme, which meant that not all the loans were lent against the production of land documents. The general practice has been to issue the loans against the pledge of gold jewellery. Normally, the cooperative institutions account for 10% of the total amount of crop loans given to agriculturists every year. Considering the disbursal of around Rs. 9,700 crore through primary agricultural credit cooperative societies (PACCS) this financial year, it is estimated that about Rs. 1 lakh crore would have been issued to the farmers, mostly through commercial banks. Personal loan If repaid within the stipulated period, usually a year, the loans carry nil interest rate in respect of the cooperative societies and 4% in the case of banks.  Officials, who are observing the pattern of farm credit over the years, acknowledge that a substantial portion of the crop loans given by all kinds of financial institutions is being used as “consumption or personal loans”. An unintended positive effect of this practice is that this keeps the rural economy going. However, as the purpose behind giving the loans is not getting served, it would be better to provide financial assistance directly to all farmers, regardless of the size of landholding. In other words, there can be an improved version of the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN), an income support scheme. P. R. Pandian, a farmer-leader based in Mannargudi, concedes that the existing credit arrangement benefits more “non-farmers,” who own farmlands but are not dependent upon the farm sector for livelihood, than small and marginal farmers. It is due to the “exclusion of small and marginal farmers” that the agri GDP is far below the loan outstanding. Arupathy P. Kalyanam, national organiser of the Self-Sufficient Green Village Movement, suggests that funds allocated under the PM-KISAN scheme and those provided by the Centre and States for the crop insurance scheme be merged with one another. An enhanced amount of support, which will be the minimum assistance in the case of insured farmers, can be given to the farmers. Notwithstanding the criticism about the working of the cooperative sector, Seeniappan, a farmer of Dharmapuri district and M. Duraisamy of Namakkal, say that these days, the societies give the loans after ensuring that loanees have the KCCs. Both have taken crop loans from their respective PACCS and have been covered under the State government’s waiver scheme. They also assert that the incidence of “under-serving but well-connected” persons getting the loans through the societies in general is negligible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/questions-raised-over-efficacy-of-crop-loan-scheme-in-state/article33893010.ece
21 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. reports 438 fresh cases, 6 deaths||Tamil Nadu reported 438 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Saturday. Of the 37 districts, Karur, Perambalur and Villupuram reported no fresh case, while six districts reported only one case each. So far, a total of 8,47,823 persons have tested positive for the infection. Of them, 8,31,246 have been discharged after treatment, including 459 persons on Saturday. Another six persons succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 12,457. Three of the six fatalities were recorded in Chennai, while Chengalpattu, Thanjavur and Villupuram reported one death each. Among them were a 29-year-old woman from Chengalpattu. She had cerebellar astrocytoma and right pneumothorax, and was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on February 3. She died on February 18 owing to COVID-19 pneumonia and respiratory failure. Chennai reported 139 fresh cases, taking its overall tally to 2,34,191. Coimbatore followed with 47 cases and Chengalpattu with 41 cases. A total of 31 persons tested positive in Tiruvallur and 22 in Kancheepuram. A total of 24 districts reported fewer than 10 cases each. The number of active cases stood at 4,120 — 1,594 persons in Chennai, 408 in Coimbatore and 388 in Chengalpattu.  Samples tested In the last 24 hours, 51,046 samples were tested. So far, 1,70,70,597 samples have been tested. One government laboratory — Military Hospital, Wellington, the Nilgiris — was approved for COVID-19 testing. Now, there are 69 laboratories in the government sector and 188 in the private sector. Another 20,563 persons — 13,664 healthcare workers, 3,630 frontline workers and 3,269 police personnel — were vaccinated on Saturday. So far, 3,70,612 persons have been administered the COVID-19 vaccines in Tamil Nadu. While 15,149 persons received the first dose, 5,414 persons got the second. Of them, 13,214 healthcare workers, 3,627 frontline workers, and 3,216 police personnel received Covishield, while 450 healthcare workers, three frontline workers and 53 police personnel received Covaxin. So far, 2,96,155 healthcare workers, 43,876 frontline workers and 30,581 police personnel have been inoculated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-reports-438-fresh-cases-6-deaths/article33892914.ece
21 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tributes paid to Dr. Shanta||People from different walks of life paid tribute to V. Shanta, chairperson of the Cancer Institute (WIA), Adyar, who passed away on January 19, during a virtual memorial service organised on Saturday. Vice-President (V-P) M. Venkaiah Naidu said Dr. Shanta was “truly a legend in her lifetime”. “The country has lost an outstanding medical practitioner and a visionary institution builder,” Mr. Naidu said. She had become synonymous with affordable cancer care in India, he added. “Hailing from a family of scientists, Dr. Shanta decided to dedicate herself to the cause of affordable cancer care in India,” the Vice-President said. Acknowledging that Dr. Shanta created the concept of paediatric oncology in the 1960s, he wished that the institute would continue her “exemplary effort” and become better by combining excellence and empathy. Stating that she has dedicated over 60 years of her life to cancer care, Governor Banwarilal Purohit recalled that she always emphasised on compassion and sympathy while treating patients and was an inspiring role model for women everywhere. “We will preserve her legacy at the government level. She was a pioneer in ensuring that the HPV vaccination programme and the field-level outreach of non-communicable disease care began,” Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said. It was important to rededicate to her commitment to fight against tobacco and take forward cancer prevention, he added. N. Ram, Director, The Hindu Publishing Group, noted that Dr. Shanta was a pioneer in the field of cancer diagnosis and treatment in the country. “She was a person who was absolutely committed to the finest values of the healing profession... She was active till the end. We need to celebrate the life and magnificent contributions of Dr. Shanta,” he said. Dr. Shanta was deeply concerned about the impact that messages, prejudices, superstitions and wrong signals had on patients as well as their families, he said. She was agonised to know that the treatment of persons with major ailments, including cancer, suffered due to a lack of access during the lockdown, he added. Dr. Prathap C. Reddy, chairman of the Apollo Hospitals Group, said Dr. Shanta worked steadfastly to provide the best evidence-based care and treatment. M. Saravanan of AVM Studios recalled how she had asked him not to show characters dying of cancer as it would affect the confidence of patients. “Hence, we started to avoid depicting characters suffering with cancer and completely stopped showing smoking in our Tamil films and serials,” he said. N. Chandrasekaran, chairman of Tata Sons, said she had incredible curiosity when it came to technology as she wanted to put it to use for better patient care. E. Hemanth Raj, executive vice chairman of the Cancer Institute (WIA), said, “Our goal for the future is to take the institute to greater heights as it will be the best tribute that we can give her.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tributes-paid-to-dr-shanta/article33892916.ece
21 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Book on schemes for policemen released||Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal on Saturday released a guidebook on various welfare schemes available to police personnel. Over 20,000 personnel worked in Chennai. A slew of measures were implemented by the government for the welfare of police personnel and their families. The book contains information on pension benefits, medical assistance, subsidised groceries, consumer durables, fair price markets, speciality hospitals, police guest houses, educational assistance to the wards of police, cooperative and thrift society and housing loan scheme. Meeting held Mr. Kumar Aggarwal held a co-ordination meeting with judicial officers in the city and police officers. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate N. Kothandaraj and other officers were present. The meeting discussed long-pending cases, pendency of non-bailable warrants and expediting trials of criminal cases so that the accused got conviction and punishment without any delay, said sources who attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/book-for-policemen-released/article33892885.ece
21 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai to get 2 more automatic rain gauges||In its effort to expand and upgrade its weather observation network in Chennai, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) will inaugurate two more automatic rain gauges (ARGs) next week. The department is approaching establishments, particularly educational institutions, that would provide space for adequate exposure to the sensors in the equipment. The new ARGs have been installed at YMCA College of Physical Education, Nandanam, and Goodwill Primary School, Villivakkam, and would be put to use in a couple of days. An ARG, with sensors to measure rainfall and temperature levels, was recently added at Sri Sairam Institute of Technology, West Tambaram, and the department has identified a site at an educational institution at Chromepet for setting up the equipment. “We are in the process of identifying such spaces across the city, and ARGs at educational institutions would create awareness on meteorology,” said S. Balachandran, Deputy Director-General of Meteorology, Regional Meteorological Centre, Chennai. At present, there are 40 automatic weather stations and 74 ARGs across the State. There are plans to upgrade the network in other cities and install more automatic weather stations across the State. Work is nearing completion on the installation of the city’s second radar on the premises of the National Institute of Ocean Technology in Pallikaranai. The Doppler weather radar on Rajaji Salai would be upgraded, besides the existing network of AWS and ARGs being maintained, Mr. Balachandran added. Rain to continue The IMD officials said thunderstorm with light to moderate rain would continue in isolated places over the State and Puducherry till Monday owing to the presence of westerly trough. Dry weather would return on Tuesday. During the 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. Saturday, Kothagiri and Coonoor in the Nilgiris received 9 cm and 7 cm rain respectively. Among the other places that recorded a significant amount of rain were Tamaraipakkam and Gummidipoondi with 2 cm each and Ambattur 1 cm. Meenambakkam recorded a trace of rainfall till 5.30 p.m. on Saturday. According to the forecast, there was a possibility of light rain in some areas of Chennai till Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-to-get-two-more-rain-gauges-as-met-dept-upgrades-network/article33892884.ece
21 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two more Child Welfare Committees formed in city||For speedy completion of cases pertaining to children in need of care and protection, the government has issued an order for the establishment of two more Child Welfare Committees (CWCs) in addition to the existing one. The chairpersons and members of the CWCs have been assigned. While experts welcome the decision, they point out that the government should ensure that there are adequate supportive services. According to the order, the existing CWC will be reassigned to the Chennai Central zone and the two new ones will look after Chennai North and Chennai South. About Rs. 21.25 lakh had been assigned for the two CWCs. Each CWC would have jurisdiction over three police districts. The North CWC would handle cases from Pulianthope, Washermenpet and Flower Bazaar and the Central CWC will attend to cases from Kilpauk, Triplicane and Anna Nagar. The T. Nagar, Adyar and Mylapore police districts will be under the South CWC. High case load “In Chennai, the case load pertaining to children in need of care and protection is high. Hence the need for additional CWCs was felt two years ago. Now it has been constituted. We hope the load will be equally distributed,” said Andrew Sesuraj M., professor, Loyola Knowledge Hub for Excellence in Child Protection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-more-child-welfare-committees-formed-in-city/article33892880.ece
21 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Support to DMK in Periyakulam a local adjustment: Dhinakaran||The Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran on Friday described the support provided by his party’s councillor of Periyakulam panchayat union to the DMK’s candidate during the election to the post of chairman of the union as “local adjustment”. “Such voting happens all the time. It transcends party politics. It takes place in tune with requirements of the people in the area. However, my district secretary had advised our councillor not to support [the DMK],” Mr. Dhinakaran told reporters, replying to questions on the issue of Periyakulam panchayat union chairman’s election. He argued that the Periyakulam episode should not be used to portray his party as ‘B team’ of the DMK. “Did not the DMDK [an ally of the AIADMK] too support the DMK. Would you call it also ‘B team’ of the DMK?” he asked. He expressed surprise over the government’s permission to the DMK for installing a statue of former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi in Madurai. Mr. Dhinakaran said a coalition, led by his party, would be formed to face the Assembly election for defeating the ruling party and the DMK. “Even though artificially an opinion is sought to be created about the DMK’s victory but there is, organically, a feeling among people against that party returning to power.” He replied in the affirmative to a question whether he would welcome Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam if the latter took a stand in support of his aunt, V.K. Sasikala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/support-to-dmk-in-periyakulam-a-local-adjustment-dhinakaran/article33892910.ece
21 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lack of flyash, soil holding up road projects in State||Works to widen portions of the national highways, including Chennai-Bengaluru and Chennai-Tiruchi, are taking time to complete owing to the lack of supply of flyash and soil that are used as filling material. Of the 23 projects being carried out at a total cost of Rs. 23,000 crore by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) in Tamil Nadu, 12 projects have been delayed for various reasons. Land acquisition and lack of quarry permission for blue metal, too, are causing the projects to slow down, said sources in the NHAI. Contractors said that getting flyash from thermal power plants was a struggle since they had to compete with units making flyash bricks. “We have to wait for our turn for the flyash and we have to pay for the transport as well. However, if we submit the transport bills to the NHAI, it does not make the payment since, according to Ministry of Environment rules, the cost of transporting the material up to a distance of 100 km to the construction site is supposed to be borne by the thermal power plant. For a distance of up to 300 km, the power plant should bear 50% of the cost. However, this is not happening now,” said a contractor. As for as the soil removed from a particular borrow area is concerned, contractors said it took three months just to get permission. “We need that soil to fill up layers inside roads. The permission being granted is also only for a period of three months, which means we have to continuously ask for permissions for soil,” said another contractor. Union Minister for Highways Nitin Gadkari, who recently visited the city and reviewed the projects being implemented by the NHAI, said he had urged the State government to provide permissions to lift soil for the entire term of the projects and not just for three months. Likewise, he said he would urge the State government to direct Tangedco to provide flyash according to the guidelines of the Ministry of Environment and Forests.  Contractors said getting flyash from thermal power plants was a struggle since they had to compete with units making flyash bricks||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lack-of-flyash-soil-holding-up-road-projects-in-state/article33892918.ece
21 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for sexual assault and murder||The Tiruvottiyur police on Friday arrested a 33-year-old man who escaped after sexually assaulting a 68-year-old woman on the premises of a hospital, and brutally attacking her, when she struggled. She died at a hospital two days later. On the morning of February 11, the police received information about an elderly woman bleeding from her head. She was battling for life on the premises of the Tiruvottiyur Government Hospital. Her identity was not immediately known. The police rushed her to the Government Stanley Hospital where she was given treatment. The woman died on February 13. The police conducted investigations and traced the family members of the victim to Kaladipettai in Tiruvottiyur. CCTV grabs help On the scrutiny of CCTV footage, the police found a man escorting her into the hospital on the day of the crime. A special team scrutinised all footage from several CCTV cameras to trace the suspect. The police zeroed in on the accused, who was identified as Jayakumar, 33, of Sathiyavanimuthu Nagar, Ennore. He was nabbed on Thursday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-sexual-assault-and-murder/article33893300.ece
21 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||16 volunteers felicitated for COVID-19 relief work||The RCC DIVA Foundation on Saturday felicitated volunteers who helped common people during the COVID-19 pandemic in Chennai. Sixteen persons from various walks of life were honoured by Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam. The foundation organised ‘Hair to Hope,’ a hair donation drive for the benefit of cancer patients. Several children aged below 10 donated their hair. Mr. Panneerselvam lauded Jain women who donated their hair for making wigs for cancer patients. He highlighted women-centric schemes that were introduced by the AIADMK regime and pointed out that it was former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa who first introduced the cradle baby scheme. He felicitated RCC Diva president and chairperson Manisha Pramod Chordia for her work during the pandemic and announced her nomination as Member of State Women’s Commission. She is the first woman of Rajasthani origin to be nominated to the Commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/16-volunteers-felicitated-for-covid-19-relief-efforts/article33892906.ece
21 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai Metro cuts maximum fare to Rs. 50||Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. has brought down the maximum fare from Rs. 70 to Rs. 50 on Saturday while the minimum fare continues to remain at Rs. 10. The State government announced that the new fares would be implemented from February 22. Early this month, The Hindu had reported that CMRL had been planning to reduce the fares to attract more commuters. In an added advantage, there will be a 20% discount to those buying QR code tickets or smartcards and hence the maximum fare comes further below down to Rs. 40 and the minimum to Rs. 8 respectively. The ridership for Metro stood at nearly 1.2 lakh a day and owing to the lockdown, it slumped to 10,000 a day last year after train services began. Now, it has spiked to nearly 75,000 after the reopening of the new phase I extension stretch from Washermenpet to Wimco Nagar. According to the CMRL officials, this will significantly help improve the number of persons who will take the Metro. “In the newly-opened stretch, about 10,000 passengers are travelling. We expect it to get better in the coming weeks. “Also, we have introduced last mile connectivity like share autos too this week which also will encourage more to travel through Chennai Metro Rail trains,” an official said. For years, commuters had been expressing the view that the fares were high. This apart, if a commuter buys a Rs. 100 ticket, the person can take unlimited number of rides in Chennai Metro in a day. Similarly, a Rs. 2,500 ticket would allow commuters to take unlimited number of rides throughout the month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-metro-slashes-maximum-fare-by-rs-20/article33892871.ece
21 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PMK calls for applications from Feb. 23||PMK president G.K. Mani on Saturday asked candidates aspiring to contest the Assembly election on the party ticket to submit their applications from February 23. In a statement, Mr. Mani said the candidates can submit their applications at the party’s office in T. Nagar in Chennai between 10.30 a.m. and 5 p.m. “Those who wish to contest in general constituencies should pay Rs. 10,000 and candidates who wish to contest in Reserved Constituencies and women should pay Rs. 5,000,” he said. Meeting tomorrow He also said the office-bearers should organise general body meetings in each district on February 22 to discuss the preparations for the election and booth-level management.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pmk-calls-for-applications-from-feb-23/article33893009.ece
21 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Edappadi seeks funds for rejuvenation of Cauvery||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to declare the linking of the Godavari and the Cauvery a national project for the benefit of lakhs of people in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. Addressing the sixth Governing Council Meeting of the NITI Aayog, he made a strong case for rejuvenating the Cauvery and its tributaries on the lines of ‘Namami Gange’, an integrated Ganga conservation mission. “The Government of India is requested to accord sanction and extend financial assistance to Tamil Nadu at the earliest,” he said. He said Tamil Nadu won the National Water Award in 2019 for the best performing State, and the implementation of the farmer-centric ‘Kudimaramathu’ scheme led to the execution of 6,211 works at an estimated cost of Rs. 41,418 crore. “Tamil Nadu stands first in coverage under micro irrigation in 2019-2020 and 2020-2021.” Mr. Palaniswami said lakhs of farmers had successfully been enrolled under the Prime Minister Crop Insurance Scheme (Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana) and Rs. 9,365 crore in compensation had been disbursed in the last four years to 54.12 lakh beneficiaries. He said the contribution of the livestock sector to agriculture and allied activities had increased from 30% during 2011-2012 to 53% in real terms during 2019-2020. Diversification of trawl fishing to deep-sea fishing, development of fishing harbours and creation of marketing facilities were being taken up on a large scale, he said. Tamil Nadu, he said, was committed to the vision of Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/palaniswami-seeks-funds-for-cauvery-rejuvenation/article33892908.ece
21 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Erode medical college fee reduced||The Health Department has issued a government order to reduce the fee structure for the medical and nursing courses at the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital, Perundurai, and the School of Nursing attached to it, bringing it on a par with other government medical colleges. Under the revised structure, MBBS students will pay Rs. 13,610 a year. The order came after students demanded that the fee structure of the college — formerly IRT-Perundurai Medical College and Hospital run by the Institute of Road Transport and later handed over to the Health and Family Welfare Department — be brought on a par with other government medical colleges. Earlier, MBBS students had to pay Rs. 3.85 lakh a year. Thirty medical seats were allotted to children of transport employees. The Health Department had earlier reduced the fee structure of Rajah Muthiah Medical College and Hospital, now Government Medical College Hospital, Cuddalore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-medical-college-fee-reduced/article33892982.ece
21 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MMC PG student died of COVID-19, says panel||The Directorate of Medical Education (DME), which formed a special committee to look into the cause of the death of 24-year-old N. Lokesh Kumar, a postgraduate medical student of Madras Medical College/Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH), has concluded that his death was due to COVID-19. The Directorate has initiated the process of granting financial assistance to the doctor’s family. Dr. Kumar, a first-year PG student of RGGGH, was found dead in a hotel room where he was under quarantine following COVID-19 duty on October 26, 2020. The Hindu had reported on February 17that his family, which had received no information on what caused his death for more than three months, had accessed autopsy reports that indicated the cause of death as “complications of pneumonia”. They obtained the post-mortem, histopathological and viscera analysis reports. Consolidated report E. Theranirajan, dean of RGGGH, had sought the opinion of the Directors of Pathology, Forensic Medicine and Radiology on the autopsy reports, and submitted a final consolidated opinion to the DME. R. Narayana Babu, Director of Medical Education, said he received the report from the dean following which a special committee comprising the head of the departments of radiology, pathology and forensic medicine of the hospital was formed on February 18. “We included experts in the committee. Head of the Department of Forensic Medicine of Government Kilpauk Medical College and the head of the Department of Medicine, RGGGH were part of the committee. We held a discussion on the same day,” he said. “As per the autopsy reports, there were no external and internal injuries. He had bilateral pneumonia with right lower lobe consolidation. The clinical features are suggestive of COVID-19. So, we have concluded that his death may be associated with COVID-19. We have sent a letter to the Directorate of Medical and Rural Health Services, which is the claim authority, for grant of financial assistance for COVID-19 warriors. The report has been submitted to the Health Secretary,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pg-medical-student-of-mmc-died-of-covid-19-dme-panel/article33892876.ece
21 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Public meetings to mark Jaya’s birth anniversary||The AIADMK has announced that public meetings will be held on February 24 and 28 and March 1 to mark the 73rd birth anniversary of its late leader and former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa.  Other States too A party release said these meetings would be held in all the Assembly constituencies within the State and also in Puducherry, Karnataka and other States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/public-meetings-to-mark-jayas-birthday/article33893007.ece
21 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Motorcycle thief nabbed||A serial offender who had allegedly stolen motorbikes from CMBT, Koyambedu market and Nerkundram in the Koyambedu police station limits was arrested in Vellore. The police recovered 25 stolen motorcycles from the accused, identified as Yuvaraj, 37, of Vellore. Over the last couple of months, there had been an increase in the number of bike thefts in these areas, and on a series of complaints, a special team was constituted. The team scrutinised CCTV footage and found that the same man had been involved in the thefts. After surveillance, it traced the accused to a house in Vellore. He had stolen the bikes parked on roadsides and sold them at a low price in other districts, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/motorcycle-thief-nabbed/article33892878.ece
21 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stanley cath lab does 1,602 procedures||The Cardiac Catheterisation Laboratory of the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital performed 1,602 angiography and angioplasty procedures during the COVID-19 pandemic. The lab functioned uninterrupted during the pandemic, and all patients were screened for COVID-19 before the procedure. A total of 5,043 cardiac intervention procedures have so far been performed at the lab, which was started in 2018. The 5,000th procedure was performed on February 16, hospital dean P. Balaji said in a press release. The hospital was one of the hubs in the Tamil Nadu Accident and Emergency Care Initiative-Heart Attack Management Programme. It had performed 1,602 procedures from February 1, 2020 to February 1, 2021.  The Department of Cardiology, headed by K. Kannan, treated patients from north Chennai and surrounding areas during the pandemic. Uninterrupted services were provided to non-COVID-19 patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stanley-cath-lab-does-1602-procedures/article33892898.ece
21 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cases booked against 700 govt. workers||The police have booked employees who were protesting on a charter of demands in front of the Secretariat on Friday and attempting to barge inside St. George Fort. The government employees and teachers’ associations have been conducting a series of protests across the State in support of their charter of demands, including pending 21-month arrears as per the seventh pay panel report, reverting to the old pension scheme, elimination of wage anomalies, regular pay for all those under consolidated and special time scale pay, and revoking a government order setting up a staff rationalisation committee. On Friday, government employees and teachers assembled under the banner of the Tamil Nadu Government Employees Association (TNGEA) in front of the State Guest House and held a demonstration. A few protesters broke the barricades put up by the police. Cases have been registered against 700 employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cases-booked-against-700-govt-workers/article33892905.ece
21 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK extends date for filing application||DMK general secretary Duraimurugan on Saturday announced extension of date for submitting application by aspirants who wished to contest the Assembly election. He said applications could be submitted till February 28. Earlier, the last date to submit the application was February 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-extends-date-for-filing-application/article33893004.ece
21 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kamal Haasan calls on Rajini||A day before Makkal Needhi Maiam’s founding day, its founder Kamal Haasan met actor Rajinikanth at the latter’s residence on Saturday. Sources in the party said Mr. Haasan enquired about Mr. Rajinikanth’s health and his film projects. They also spoke about the Assembly election. Mr. Haasan did not seek Mr. Rajinikanth’s support for his political party, sources added. They reportedly discussed who Mr. Haasan should align with in the election. MNM party office-bearer said that Mr. Haasan felt it was not right to seek Mr. Rajinikanth’s support when he had opted out owing to health reasons. The meeting has come in the wake of speculations that MNM has been holding talks with the DMK and the Congress for an electoral alliance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kamal-haasan-calls-on-rajini/article33892896.ece
21 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kalaimamani awards presented||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday presented the Kalaimamani awards to 128 artistes for 2019 and 2020 and the special Kalaimamani award, instituted in memory of late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, to six others. The award includes a five sovereign gold medal and a citation. At a function held at the Secretariat, Mr. Palaniswami also presented all India awards named after Bharathi, M.S. Subbulakshmi and T. Balasaraswathi to six artistes. The awards include Rs. 1 lakh in cash and a citation each. Moreover, nine artistes who had already received the Kalaimamani awards were given Rs. 50,000. Shields were presented to two organisations and a rolling shield to a theatre group. Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, Tamil Development and Official Language Minister K. Pandiarajan, Information Minister Kadambur Raju and Chief Secretary Rajiv Ranjan were among those who were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-gives-away-kalaimamani-awards-to-128-artistes/article33892893.ece
21 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||DMK will waive SHG loans: Stalin||When the DMK returns to power, it will waive the loans the self-help groups (SHGs) have taken from primary agricultural cooperative credit societies, party president M.K. Stalin said near Pollachi on Saturday. A DMK government would also launch special schemes to revive the SHGs, and for the welfare of women and children, he said at ‘Ungal Thoguthiyil Stalin’ (Stalin in your constituency). The loan waiver announcement was in continuation of the waiver of jewel loans that the party had announced some time ago. Mr. Stalin said the AIADMK government had neglected the SHGs. He quipped that he would not be surprised if the government made a similar announcement, as it was in the habit of doing all that he had promised. The DMK leader said the government of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had caused women tears and difficulty. “What has this government given to women? Only tears and difficulty. But this government is claiming otherwise. I doubt if Mr. Palaniswami is venting on women his anger against former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa and her aide Sasikala.” Be it the Pollachi sexual assault case or the assault on women or the marginalisation of SHGs, the government had not protected women, he said. It only tried to mislead them and engaged in false propaganda through full-page advertisements. The government could no longer fool people, and their anger would reflect in the outcome of the election, he said. Detailing the turn of events in the Pollachi sexual assault case, Mr. Stalin said that from day one, the ruling party was keen on protecting the accused than on ensuring justice to the affected women. It was the DMK, by staging protests and issuing statements, which had forced the government to act by arresting the accused, a few of whom belonged to the ruling party. If the AIADMK tried to scuttle the CBI investigation or attempted to delay justice, the DMK, on returning to power, would ensure justice to the affected women. “I’ll ensure that the accused do not escape either from the rule of law or Stalin’s hands,” he said. On the day the CBI arrested K. Arulanantham, Haron Paul and Babu, the AIADMK government issued advertisements claiming that the State was in a victorious march. Had the Chief Minister had some sense of shame, he should have resigned, he said.  What has this government given to women? Only tears and difficulty. But it is claiming otherwise. M.K. Stalin DMK president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/will-waive-shg-loans/article33892902.ece
21 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for selling duplicate cables||The Intellectual Property Right Enforcement Cell police arrested a shopowner from Kattoor on Friday on charges of selling counterfeit electrical cables in his shop. A release said Anoop Singh (35) was possessing counterfeit products in his shop, which is an illegal imitation of a popular brand, that was worth around Rs. 14.5 lakh. The police seized the products and remanded the accused in judicial custody. FSSAI seizes eggs Officials from the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) seized around 4,200 damaged eggs recently and booked a man on charges of selling these eggs. FSSAI Designated Officer (Tiruppur) B. Vijayalalithambigai said the damaged eggs were found during a vehicle check on Tiruppur-Avinashi Road on Thursday. Investigations revealed that Chandrasekaran was procuring broken eggs from Namakkal and was supplying at low prices to roadside eateries and bakeries, she said. FSSAI officials destroyed the seized eggs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/held-for-selling-duplicate-cables/article33892937.ece
21 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Accord prominence to Tamil in various depts.’||Members of the Coimbatore Tamil Sangamam staged a demonstration here on Saturday demanding the State government to accord prominence to Tamil in various departments. Marudhachalar Adigalar, Perur Adheenam and Kumaragurubara Swamigal, Siravai Adheenam participated in the demonstration, which was held near the Indian Red Cross Society on Huzur Road. President of Coimbatore Tamil Sangamam S. Doraiswamy and Tamil Language Conservation Coalition president K.S. Appavu led the demonstration, a press release said. The Sangamam also urged the State government to make Tamil the official language in all departments, conducting rituals only in Tamil at all the temples, reserving 80% of the government jobs for those who completed their formal education in Tamil medium and steps to ensure that the Tamil children residing in other States learn their mother tongue. Mr. Doraiswamy said that various Tamil organisations from across the country will organise a conference in Coimbatore in June to emphasise these demands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/accord-prominence-to-tamil-in-various-depts/article33892943.ece
21 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||DMK to stage protest against fuel price hike||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam will stage a protest against fuel price hike on February 22. A release from the party said all the district units in the party here would stage the protest at 10 a.m. in front of the Coimbatore South Taluk office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-to-stage-protest-against-fuel-price-hike/article33892928.ece
21 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Fourth edition of jallikattu today||Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani will inaugurate the fourth edition of jallikattu at the ground near the L&T Bypass Road at Chettipalayam on Sunday. The event, organised by the Coimbatore district administration and Kovai Jallikattu Sangam, will commence at 8 a.m. and go on till 5 p.m. Bulls and tamers from across the State would participate in the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fourth-edition-of-jallikattu-today/article33892929.ece
21 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Taxi driver returns bag containing jewellery to police||A taxi driver returned a bag containing around 40 sovereigns of gold jewellery, which was left behind by a customer in his vehicle, to the police here on Saturday. The police said that the driver Bobby dropped a 75-year-old woman from Goldwins to a private hospital on Government Arts College Road on Friday at around 8.30 p.m., which is within the jurisdiction of Race Course police station. The senior citizen’s husband had been admitted in the hospital, hence she deboarded the taxi in a hurry and forgot the bag containing the jewellery in the boot of the taxi. Upon noticing the bag, Mr. Bobby contacted the police and volunteered to hand it over in person. Inspector of Race Course police station P.S. Sujatha received the bag on Saturday afternoon, according to the police. “We checked the CCTV footages and verified that the incident was true,” Ms. Sujatha said. The bag with the jewellery was handed over to the senior citizen on Saturday and no case was registered, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/taxi-driver-returns-bag-containing-jewellery-to-police/article33892935.ece
21 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Panchayat secretary placed under suspension||District Collector K. Rajamani recently placed the secretary of Kariyampalayam village panchayat in Annur panchayat union under suspension on charges of possessing disproportionate assets. The panchayat secretary, M. Karthikeyan, had allegedly amassed assets to the tune of Rs. 89,18,645 between 2013 and 2019, according to the suspension order issued by Mr. Rajamani on February 12. Mr. Karthikeyan is placed under suspension until further orders and shall not leave the limits of Annur panchayat union without obtaining prior permission, the order said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panchayat-secretary-placed-under-suspension/article33892936.ece
21 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Indian Bank launches CBS platform||Indian Bank has launched its consolidated Core Banking Solution (CBS) platform following the merger of Allahabad Bank with it. This is a ‘Big Bang’ merger by the CBS provider, TCS where the data of over 3,000 branches and all channels of erstwhile Allahabad Bank were migrated to the Indian Bank database. The customer account numbers of both the banks remain unchanged and the login credentials of internet banking and mobile banking were also retained.   As part of empowering and lighting up tribal villages, Coimbatore City Round Table 31, Coimbatore City Ladies Circle 16 and CREDAI have joined together to inaugurate a tribal village electrification project at Dhumanur and Shembukarai. The project aims at providing electricity connection to 53 houses in both areas.     Casagrand has launched Casagrand Solitaire, a Spanish Mediterranean style premium community with smart home features. The project at Viswanathapuram, is spread over 2.4 acres and houses 27 premium Spanish Mediterranean villas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/indian-bank-launches-cbs-platform/article33892932.ece
21 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||CII office-bearers elected||Arjun Prakash, Whole Time Director of Effica Automation, a division of Coimbatore Pioneer Fertilizers, has been elected chairman of Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Coimbatore Zone, for 2021-22. A press release from the CII said that Prashanth Subramanian, Co-Founder and Director of Quadraystems.net (I) Pvt Ltd, has been elected vice chairman of CII.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cii-office-bearers-elected/article33892933.ece
21 February 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Awareness programme on biodiversity conservation||The GTN Arts College (Autonomous), Dindigul Environment Club and Eco Club jointly organised an awareness programme on ‘Biodiversity Conservation’ here recently. Around 150 students participated in the event. The Professor of Biology in Gandhigram Rural University, Ramasubbu, addressed the gathering on conservation of biodiversity. He focused on the significance and the need for protecting ecology and a sustainable environment. He elaborated on the efficacy of shola forests. College Director Durai Rethinam, Principal P. Balagurusamy and Environment Club Coordinator P. Ravichandran participated. Coordinator of Eco Club A.Jeevalatha proposed a vote of thanks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/awareness-programme-on-biodiversity-conservation/article33893017.ece
21 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Works to desilt Semmandampalayam Lake completed at over Rs. 21 lakh||Works carried out to desilt the 22-acre Semmandampalayam Lake in Olalakovil Panchayat in Nambiyur Panchayat Union at Rs. 21.62 lakh have been completed by Olirum Erodu Foundation, thus enhancing the water storage capacity from 10.45 crore litres to 13.76 crore litres. Under the ‘Orrukku Oru Kulam’ scheme, the Foundation is desilting, deepening, creating new water bodies and constructing check dams in the district to enhance the storage capacities of the water bodies. As part of the scheme, desilting and deepening works at the Lake commenced on November 6, 2020, and were completed on February 18. The Lake, also called as Karukkampalayam Lake, is spread across 22 acre and School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan inspected the lake in the presence of Collector C. Kathiravan, Foundation president M. Chinnasamy, secretary S. Ganesan and Water Management Committee chairman D. Shanmugasundaram. Mr. Chinnasamy said the Foundation had so far restored and created 48 water bodies in the district spread across 185.20 acre at Rs. 5.32 crore. The works resulted in improving the storage in the water bodies from 54.26 crore litres to 259.60 crore litres. “It has helped ensure availability of water for farmers and people and also recharge the groundwater,” he added. The Lake was selected by the State government under the Athikadavu – Avinashi Ground Water Recharge and Drinking Water Supply Scheme and would receive 13.76 crore litres of water through pipelines. Also, the Lake would receive rainwater from the nearby villages, generating surplus water of 3.31 crore litres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/works-to-desilt-semmandampalayam-lake-completed-at-over-rs-21-lakh/article33893026.ece
21 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘Rise in fuel price in prevalence with normal inflation rate’||Prices of petrol and diesel have risen only in prevalence with the normal inflation rate, said senior BJP leader H. Raja here on Saturday. Addressing the media after a consultative meeting with party functionaries over the visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Coimbatore on February 25, he said the price of all products had come down significantly during the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) rule. Only fuel prices had gone up, that too in prevalence with normal inflation rate, he said. It was a very normal inflationary trend, he added. Mr. Raja said the price of LPG cylinder was less by Rs. 200 when compared to the Congress rule. “Inflation during Congress rule was 3.9% per annum whereas it is 2.6 per annum now,” he added. Mr. Raja said farmers in the State and other States were receiving financial assistance under the PM-KISAN scheme, while 85 lakh farmers in West Bengal were denied the assistance by the Mamata Banerjee-led government. “Only if a cordial relationship exists between the Centre and the State, can benefits reach the poor people in the States,” he added and blamed DMK president M.K. Stalin for opposing schemes implemented by the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rise-in-fuel-price-in-prevalence-with-normal-inflation-rate/article33893036.ece
21 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Woman arrested for murdering husband||A 20-year-old woman was arrested for murdering her husband in Anthiyur here. The police said Nandakumar (35) of Anthiyur Colony was working at a private flour mill and was married to Mythili of Periya Molapalayam for seven months. Hospitalised On January 31, Nandakumar fell ill and was admitted to a private hospital in Anthiyur where doctors said that he had consumed food laced with poison. Later, he was shifted to a private hospital in Erode where his condition deteriorated. In his dying declaration to the magistrate, he said he consumed food at home and later developed vomiting and uneasiness and suspected his wife’s role in poisoning the food. On February 15, he died. The police picked up Mythili who confessed to have committed the crime as she could not tolerate his sexual harassment. She was produced in the court and lodged at Coimbatore Central Prison for Women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-arrested-for-murdering-husband/article33893030.ece
21 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Villagers oppose opening of Tasmac outlet||Stating that a primary school, church and a primary health centre were located in the area where the management has proposed to open a Tasmac outlet, people of Vaalipalayam village in Vinnappalli Panchayat in Sathyamangalam staged a road roko on Saturday. News spread among villagers that the outlet was to be opened on Saturday and over 50 women along with children gathered near the shop. They said a ration shop, the school, the church and the health centre were functioning in the area and opening of the outlet would affect school students and visitors to the church. They opposed the opening of the outlet. Punjai Puliyampatti police tried to pacify the protesters. But, they raised slogans against the State government and wanted the shop not to be opened. Later, the police announced that the shop would not be opened for the day after the protesters dispersed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/villagers-oppose-opening-of-tasmac-outlet/article33893029.ece
21 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Stalin to campaign in Erode on Feb. 21, 22||DMK president M.K. Stalin will take part in ‘Ungal Thoguthiyil Stalin (Stalin in your constituency) poll outreach programme in the district on February 21 and 22. Party sources said Mr. Stalin would participate in the programme at Kadappamadai in Perundurai at 1 p.m. on Sunday, receive petitions from participants and address the gathering. At 4 p.m., he would address members of various farmers associations at Sri Mahal Marriage Hall at Perundurai. On February 22, at 9 a.m., Mr. Stalin would take part in the programme at Bungalow Pudur in T.N. Palayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-to-campaign-in-erode-on-feb-21-22/article33893028.ece
21 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Due to maintenance work at Nadupalayam sub-station , power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. on February 22 at Nadupalayam, Thamaraipalayam, Pasur, A.M. Pudur, Malayampalayam, Kombanai Pudur, P.K. Mangalam, Injampalli, Kolanalli, Karumandampalayam, Solangapalayam, Arampalayam, P.K. Palayam, Unjalur, Vengambur Railway Gate, Kasipalayam, Kalipalayam, Kolathupalayam, Semmandampalayam, Kuttapalayam, Vellottamparappu, Kilampadi and Vattakalvalasu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article33893027.ece
21 February 2021||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||MP Jothimani, 60 others detained for staging stir||The police on Saturday detained Karur MP S. Jothimani along with 60 others for staging a protest against the decision to replace a 70-year old bust-sized statue of Mahatma Gandhi with a new bronze one at the lighthouse roundabout here. The Congress MP was released later in the evening along with the others. ‘No standard procedure’ Alleging that the authorities had been carrying out the construction of the pedestal without following the standard procedure, Ms. Jothimani staged a dharna in front of the roundabout. She said she would not allow the construction to take place. The police tried to negotiate with her, but she refused to stop the demonstration. Following this, the police detained Ms. Jothimani and 60 others. Ms. Jothimani alleged that the police had acted in a high-handed manner while arresting her. She had every right to question the improper construction as an elected representative, she added. There was no need to remove the Gandhi statue, Ms. Jothimani said. If the government was genuine in its motive, it should have followed all the mandatory procedures before starting the construction. But it had attempted to install the new statue in just a day or two, she added.  TNCC condemns arrest Meanwhile, Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) president K.S. Alagiri strongly condemned the manner in which Ms. Jothimani was arrested. The scenes of her arrest would make one think that there was an authoritarian government ruling the State, he said in a statement. This was against the principles of democracy, he added. Mr. Alagiri urged the State government to ensure that the Mahatma Gandhi statue being constructed was of fine quality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mp-jothimani-60-others-detained-for-staging-stir/article33892904.ece
21 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Panel chief meets kin of deceased worker||The Chairperson of the National Commission for Safai Karamcharis M. Venkatesan on Saturday visited the family of the deceased temporary conservancy worker, who was recently found hanging on the terrace of Madurai Collectorate. Velmurugan, the deceased conservancy worker from Vandiyur here, was a temporary conservancy worker of the district administration who was working under an outsourcing agent. Speaking to The Hindu , the Chairperson said that investigations were still under way to find out if the conservancy worker had hanged himself. "The family has suspicions regarding his death. The police personnel say that the exact cause of death would be clarified only based on the postmortem report," he said. Mr. Venkatesan said that the contractor who had employed the deceased conservancy worker had failed to pay his salary for the past seven months. "The contractor has still not responded to any of the calls made by the family," he added. The Chairperson also held a meeting with Collector T. Anbalagan to discuss the issue. "If it was confirmed that Velmurugan had hanged himself, then the contractor must pay the full compensation. The Collector had also agreed to take action regarding the issue," he said. Mr. Venkatesan also conducted a meeting with conservative workers to redress their grievances. All their complaints were submitted to the Collector, who assured that necessary action will be taken to address the issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panel-chief-meets-kin-of-deceased-worker/article33893209.ece
21 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Female infanticide: issues in govt. interventions need to be addressed||The recent arrest of a grandmother in connection with the murder of a seven-day-old female infant- the third girl child of a couple- at K. Parapatti village in Usilampatti block, has brought to focus the shortcomings in the government interventions in addressing female infanticide. While the district police have arrested the grandmother, the parents are currently being interrogated. Their eldest daughter, who is aged seven is affected by polio, and the second daughter is aged two. This incident has occurred in Usilampatti which was once notorious for female infanticide. Tamil Nadu government introduced the ‘Cradle Baby Scheme’ in 1992 as a measure to eradicate female infanticide. Under the scheme, cradles are present at government hospitals, primary health centres, and child care institutions to receive children who are unwanted by their parents so that they can be put through the legal adoption process. A senior official from the Social Welfare Department said that two children were received through the cradle baby scheme in the district in 2020 and were handed over to the special adoption agencies. Although the scheme has been in place for many years, there is a lack of awareness among the public to give up their children for adoption through the scheme, says Child Welfare Committee (CWC) Chairperson V. M. Vijayasaravanan. “There are still many cases where female infants are left abandoned near temples, buses and other public places. So, the government must have additional cradles at temples and have more banners to sensitise the public about the scheme,” he says. CWC member B. Pandiaraja says that a total of 27 infants were surrendered to the CWC last year. “Every time a child is surrendered to the CWC, a deed is signed with the parents, whereby the parents can take back the child within 60 days. If the parents surrender their child to CWC, anonymity will be maintained throughout the entire process,” he adds. There is a need to review the functioning of block and village-level child protection committees, which are supposed to monitor and report issues of child protection, says a senior official from the district administration. “It must be ensured that they sensitise the public against female infanticide in a full fledged manner, and not just for name sake,” adds the official. Mr. Vijayasaravanan says that while officials create awareness among the block-level authorities, the message often does not reach the public, which needs to be addressed. The main way to tackle the issue of female infanticide is to address the root cause of the problem - the patriarchal mindset, says Jim Jesudoss, Director, Childline Madurai. “The government often focuses on addressing the issue of female infanticide without focusing on trying to change the patriarchal mindset. Right from the school curriculum to government schemes, the government must sensitise the public about gender equity. People must be sensitised to create a change in the attitude that girls are not a burden,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/infanticide-shortcomings-in-govt-interventions-need-to-be-addressed/article33893012.ece
21 February 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||People have decided to elect AIADMK again: Minister||The DMK president M.K. Stalin, who has been telling people to drop grievance petitions in a box placed in his meeting venues, will remain only in the boxes forever as the people have decided to elect the AIADMK again, according to Revenue Minister R.B. Udaykumar. Speaking to reporters in Thirumangalam near here on Saturday after giving away government welfare assistance to 2,868 beneficiaries valued Rs. 15.57 crore in the presence of Collector T. Anbalagan and others, he said that many cities in Tamil Nadu, especially Tier-2, were witnessing development works. Be it on Smart City or construction of bridges or widening pathways, the projects were under way at different stages. The government had earmarked funds for these works keeping in mind the likely growth in population among others for the next 20 to 30 years in these cities. He listed out the projects in many cities (Tier-2) and in semi-urban locations. When such was the scenario, the DMK president had been falsely giving statements that there was no work or development happening in Tamil Nadu. The critics have been silenced after their predictions went wrong. When Edappadi K Palaniswami took over the reins as Chief Minister, the opponents claimed that it would fall in four days. But, the government has successfully been there for four years. “We are going to be here for the next five years as well,” Mr. Udaykumar said. Stating that Mr. Stalin will not have the luck to emerge victorious and hence the petitions collected in his "Ungal Thoguthiyil Stalin'' will be under lock and key only. However, the people need not have any apprehensions as Mr. Palaniswami had launched the novel "1100" service for the people, who can register their grievances round-the-clock. This is apart from the CM's Special Grievance Cell, which had redressed 5.30 lakh petitions in the last four-and-a-half-years. Asked about the delay in getting funds for the AIIMS as charged by the Opposition parties, the Minister clarified that the Central funds were coming in for the AIIMS in Madurai. Admitting that there were some delays, he however, said, it was wrong on the part of the opponents to mislead and misinform the public. "The people matter to us more than the DMK or others...They (voters) know that the project is on," he asserted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-have-decided-to-elect-aiadmk-again/article33893019.ece
21 February 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Price of petrol and diesel has been unusually increased’||The Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry president N Jegadeesan has said that the price of petrol and diesel has been unusually increased for the 12th consecutive day. In a press release here on Saturday, he said that 35 paisa had been increased on petrol per litre and sold at Rs. 93.14 and 36 paisa hiked on diesel per litre and sold at Rs. 86.55 today. The rise has led to a significant increase in the prices of essential commodities and other consumable products. The trade and industry and general public are facing a huge impact on their daily lives, due to price hike. When the union budget was tabled on February 1, petrol was sold at Rs. 89.37 and diesel at Rs. 82.29 per litre. In the budget an Agriculture Infrastructure and Development Cess (AIDC) of Rs. 2.50 has been imposed on petrol and Rs. 4 on diesel and it was informed that other duties and cess as revised, consequent to imposition of AIDC and overall there would be no additional burden on the consumers. But while on releasing the comments on Union Budget on that day, Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry has stated that the price on petrol and diesel could be increased due to AIDC overtime. Similarly, within 20 days, petrol price was increased by Rs. 4 and diesel by Rs. 4.30 per litre. The basic price of petrol and diesel per litre is at Rs. 31.82. The Centre has levied excise duty at Rs. 32.98 on petrol and Rs. 31.83 on diesel/litre and the State government levied Value Added Tax on petrol at Rs. 19.48 (34%) and on diesel at Rs. 15.33 (25%). Apart from this, road infrastructure and development cess has also been levied at a maximum of 69% against taxes alone which is highest in the world. Due to continuous hike in petrol and diesel prices, the public transport and lorry operators have now announced 25% increase in their freight charges. Due to this, the prices of all essential commodities will go up, and vegetables, fruits brought by farmers by vehicles to the market will go up. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the trade and industry and general public have already been severally affected over the past year which have only recovered slightly. At this juncture, the increase in petrol and diesel prices have now weakened the trade and industry and caused severe financial crisis in their business. The Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry urges the Centre and state governments to immediately roll back the increase in price of petrol and diesel and take tangible steps to reduce the excise and VAT levied which would save the economy, Mr. Jegatheesan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/price-of-petrol-and-diesel-has-been-unusually-increased/article33893206.ece
21 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Officials have to walk extra mile to serve citizens: HC||No governmental authority can refuse to render services to citizens citing difficulties, observed the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court while disposing of a petition filed by an agriculturalist from Virudhunagar district. He had sought a direction to the authorities to provide an electricity connection for his agricultural land. The court was hearing the petition filed by A. Mayirulan who initially wanted the provision of electricity supply under the free scheme. But he was informed by the authorities that he could apply under Tariff 3A1. The petitioner accepted the suggestion and applied on that basis. Though he was ready to comply with all the formalities, the authorities did not provide him with the connection. When the petitioner wanted to know the reason, he was told that that since the work of providing electricity supply would be tough, they were not in a position to take up the petitioner’s application for consideration. Justice G.R. Swaminathan observed that no governmental authority can refuse to render services to citizens citing difficulties. ‘Reap benefits’ “In fact, we are expected to walk the extra mile, so that the citizens will be able to reap the benefits of the scheme announced by the government,” the judge said. The court was informed by the State that the present Executive Engineer was ready to do the needful. The court directed the authorities to complete the exercise in 10 weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-have-to-walk-extra-mile-to-serve-citizens-high-court/article33893006.ece
21 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC allows conduct of awareness campaign||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court on Friday allowed a petition that sought permission to conduct an awareness programme to collect funds for Ayodhya Ram temple. A campaign van was to go around Madurai. In his petition, district convenor of Sri Rama Jenma Boomi Theertha Kshethra Trust N. Selva Kumar said that the permission was denied citing COVID-19 pandemic and law and order problem. Therefore, the petition was filed seeking permission to conduct the event. Justice R. Hemalatha observed that people were allowed inside movie halls, malls and other public places stipulating basic safety measures like wearing mask and hands sanitizers. Also relaxations were being made every week in a month. Therefore, it was intriguing that such permissions were denied citing COVID-19 pandemic. It is also not stated in the order passed by the police as to how there would be a law and order problem, if the petitioner was permitted to take his van in and around Madurai, the judge said. The authorities should not have restrained the movement of the petitioner's vehicle. This action appears to be high handed. On the other hand, they should have allowed the procession after imposing certain restrictions, the judge said. The court directed the Commissioner of Police to pass appropriate orders on the representation submitted by the petitioner, with reasonable restrictions for the free movement of the vehicle in and around Madurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-allows-conduct-of-awareness-campaign/article33893215.ece
21 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Rath yatra stopped in Madurai||Madurai city police late on Saturday evening stopped a rath yatra here after the organisers failed to respond to its notice seeking certain clarifications. The yatra organised by Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra that started from Kochadai was intercepted at Arapalayam Cross Road by the police. Deputy Commissioner of Police R. Shiva Prasad said that based on the High Court directions that allowed city police to impose reasonable restrictions to permit the yatra, the city police had sought certain clarifications on the procession. However, the organisers did not reply and started the procession even before the order on permitting the yatra was issued by the police. Those who were in the procession, led by its district convener, N. Selvakumar, staged a road blockade following which the police arrested them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rath-yatra-stopped-in-madurai/article33893216.ece
21 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Book by ex-IPS officer released||“An important book for the present times” was how the former Chief Secretary and present advisor to the State government K. Shanmugam termed ‘Kadavulai Kannom-Theduvom’, the book penned by retired IPS Officer Prof K. Kasim, at the book launch function held in Hotel Tamil Nadu, here on Saturday. Mr. Shanmugam briefed the gathering on the contents of the book and showered encomium on the author Mr. Kasim for the in-depth work carried out and details in the book.  He released the first copy which was received by Madurai Kamaraj University Vice-Chancellor M. Krishnan. Mr. Kasim said that the book was an analysis of all religious views of the world, particularly of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/book-by-ex-ips-officer-released/article33893214.ece
21 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Roundabouts inaugurated||Cooperation Minister Sellur K. Raju inaugurated the roundabouts at Sellur where sculptures of kabaddi players were erected and at Tirupparankundram which has the statue of a peacock. While the roundabout was constructed at Sellur at a cost of Rs. 19 lakh, the one inaugurated at Tirupparankundram was constructed at a cost of Rs. 10 lakh. Speaking to the mediapersons, the Minister said that borewells were erected at the Sellur roundabout to water the plants at the roundabout. A few roundabouts in the city were given a facelift as part of Swachh Iconic Places Initiative of Madurai Corporation. Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan was also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/roundabouts-inaugurated/article33893211.ece
21 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Sensitisation programme organised||The Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA), along with the Export Promotion Centre, Madurai, organised a sensitisation programme for exporters, with an aim to increase export of agricultural and processed food products from the region. A press release from Export Promotion Centre Chairman K. Thirupathi Rajan said that the region has a good potential for exports of agricultural and processed food products. This programme aimed to give capacity building to FPOs, entrepreneurs, exporters and all those who are in supply chain management. The Assistant General Manager of APEDA, Chennai, Thangam Ramachandran, organised the programme along with the Export Promotion Centre. Tarun Bajaj, Director, APEDA, Delhi, spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sensitisation-programme/article33893014.ece
21 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||SI suspended for assaulting youth||Sub-Inspector of Police Selvakumar was placed under suspension on Friday after a preliminary enquiry found him to have assaulted Tirupathi (33) on February 8. Commissioner of Police Prem Anand Sinha ordered his suspension after Tirupathi complained that he had suffered a minor fracture on his cheek on being assaulted by Jaihindpuram Sub-Inspector of Police. The SI who was transferred to Armed Reserve after the allegation was placed under suspension after preliminary enquiry conducted by an Assistant Commissioner of Police. According to the police, two persons were picked up by the police after a gang was found consuming liquor in Jaihindpuram. While the other fled, the police brought Tirupathi who had thrown up over the uniform of the SI following which the police beat him up. The man who fell down sustained injury on his cheek. Meanwhile, Commissioner of Police recommended an investigation by Crime Branch – Criminal Investigation Department into the suicide of K. Kannan (43) of Tirupparankundram, who had ended his life at his home on February 12. His family members complained that the deceased was harassed by the police during an investigation into a 56-sovereign theft case and it had led him to take the extreme step. Mr. Sinha said he had written to the Director General of Police to transfer the probe to CB-CID after the family members raised allegation against the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/si-suspended-for-assaulting-youth/article33893205.ece
21 February 2021||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||CPCL refinery to be built with state-of-the-art technology||The new grass root refinery of the Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited (CPCL) in Nagapattinam district will produce petrol and diesel of Bharat Stage-VI specifications and polypropylene as a value-added product. Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation for the project through video conferencing on Wednesday. According to a press release, the project is to be implemented at a cost of Rs. 31,580 crore. In addition to it, investment of Rs. 4,000 crore would flow from other stakeholders on Build Own and Operate (BOO) basis. The 9 million metric tonnes per annum (MMTPA) capacity refinery will be set up in an area of about 1,300 acres, out of which 618 acres are already owned by CPCL. The process was on to acquire the remaining land. The release further said the refinery will be built using state-of- the-art technology with modern equipment conforming to the latest standards. The refinery would have a crude processing unit and other secondary processing units to produce petroleum products. It would also have a polypropylene unit as a part of petrochemical integration with the potential to increase petrochemicals units in the future. The power and steam requirement for the refinery will be met by a captive power generation unit with environment-friendly re-gasified liquid natural gas (RLNG) as fuel.  Desalination plant The water requirement of the refinery will be met by a desalination plant. The effluents from the refinery will be treated to meet the environmental standards. As part of refinery facilities, Single Point Mooring (SPM) will be installed in deep-sea approximately 19 km from the coast for handling the crude oil through Very Large Crude Carriers (VLCC). During the construction phase of the refinery complex, it was expected that 100 contractors would be engaged, thereby providing employment to 25,000 in the peak period. During the operation phase, it is expected to provide direct and indirect employment to over 7,600 persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpcl-refinery-to-be-built-with-state-of-the-art-technology/article33892978.ece
21 February 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Woman killed in LPG cylinder explosion||A 70-year-old woman was killed after a LPG cylinder exploded here on Friday. Police said the refill in the house of Arumugam Ammal of Thalavai Street in Kottar in Nagercoil exploded due to suspected electric short circuit. The woman, living alone, was charred to death as the flames engulfed the house within a few seconds. Fire and Rescue Services personnel struggled to reach the spot to extinguish the fire as the house was located deep inside a dense residential area. Kottar police, who have registered a case, sent the body to the Government Medical College Hospital in Asaripallam for autopsy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-killed-in-cylinder-explosion/article33893013.ece
21 February 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Go to Karungal police station to read books||The Karungal police have created a library on the police station premises for the benefit of the public, particularly youth preparing for competitive examinations. After a new building was built for the Karungal police station, the old building was in disuse and it started crumbling due to lack of maintenance. To make use of the building, Inspector K. Thangaraj, hit upon the idea to create a library there. When his subordinates welcomed it, the idea took shape. More than 500 books on various topics were received from schools, colleges and the public. The police personnel of the station also sponsored a good number of books. Superintendent of Police V. Badrinarayanan inaugurated the library on Saturday. Mr. Thangaraj, who has since been transferred to Kovilpatti East Police Station ahead of the Assembly polls, said the library will get a final shape within a couple of days with the arrival of more books. “We get calls from the public, schools and the colleges. We also receive overseas calls from natives working abroad, expressing their willingness to sponsor books,” Mr. Thangaraj said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/library-set-up-at-police-station/article33892991.ece
21 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Narayanasamy govt. to face crucial floor test tomorrow||The ruling Congress is set to face a crucial floor test to prove its majority in the Assembly on Monday. The Assembly Secretariat, as per the directions of Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, has issued a communication to reconvene the house. “The fourth session of the 14th Puducherry Legislative Assembly will reassemble for a special session at 10 a.m. on Monday,” R. Mounissamy, Assembly Secretary, said in his communication on Saturday. The resignations of two Ministers, two legislators and the disqualification of another MLA has brought down the strength of the Congress-DMK combine to 14, including the Speaker. The numbers are on a par with Opposition parties as of now. According to a political source, the Assembly Secretariat in a communication to the legislators on Monday’s session had put the ruling combine’s strength as 13 as the Speaker can cast his vote only in the case of a tie. The numbers are against the government, a ruling party member said but admitted that they are also in touch with certain disgruntled AINRC legislators who fear losing their sitting seat to the BJP due to the hard bargain the saffron party was driving in the AINRC-AIADMK-BJP alliance. The party also heaved a sigh of relief with the participation of DMK legislators and leaders at a meeting of the Secular Democratic Progressive Alliance held on Friday night. The DMK had been maintaining its distance with the Congress over the last few months. United front “We still have our differences with the Congress. We have already apprised party president M.K. Stalin of our desire to play a larger role in the alliance as the DMK has run governments in Puducherry before. But those issues will not crop up during the floor test as we do not want the BJP to get any upper hand in the Union Territory. We will extend full support to the government during the floor test,” a DMK leader told The Hindu.  Some leaders in the Congress were of the opinion that the party should face the floor test with the numbers. “We don’t need to do any political manoeuvring to save the government. If the government falls, we can expose the designs of the BJP in destabilising a government even just days before the announcement of elections,” a Congress leader said. Those who are in favour of saving the government were of the opinion that failing the floor test will lead to President’s rule in the Union Territory. “There are disadvantages in facing the elections under the President’s rule. The survival in the floor test means we will be facing the elections under a caretaker government. We will work out a clear strategy at Sunday’s meeting of legislators,” he said. The Opposition camp was confident of the fall of the government as they feel more legislators are set to desert the Congress. Nominated legislator and president of BJP V. Saminathan said at least three sitting Congress MLA are in touch with his party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/narayanasamy-govt-to-face-crucial-floor-test-tomorrow/article33893308.ece
21 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||We will form the govt. in U.T. in May, says BJP leader||The Bharatiya Janata Party will certainly form its government after the elections, party Rajya Sabha member Rajeev Chandrasekhar said here on Saturday. “We will certainly form the government in May,” he said while answering questions at a press conference along with Union Minister of State Arjun Ram Meghwal. Mr. Chandrasekhar was responding to a question as to whether the party and its alliance partners would stake claim for government formation in case the ruling Congress failed to prove its majority during Monday’s floor test. When asked what makes the party so confident as they do not have any elected representatives now, Mr. Chandrasekhar said “People want to change as the present government failed to work towards the development of the Union Territory. Do not ever ignore the power of the people. The present government was only interested in fighting with the Centre during the last four and a half years.” Mr. Meghwal said a BJP government would work towards establishing industrial parks, developing textile industries and the port. Development and job creation would be the top agenda of its government, he added. PM Modi’s visit Prime Minister Narendra Modi will reach Puducherry by around 11.30 a.m. on February 25. He will lay the foundation for several development work projects, including the construction of roads, capital dredging at the port and inaugurate completed projects. He would also address a public meeting at the AFT ground around 12.30 p.m, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/we-will-form-the-govt-in-ut-in-may-says-bjp-leader/article33893303.ece
21 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. sees 29 new cases of COVID-19||The Union Territory on Saturday registered 29 new COVID-19 cases from 1,590 tests. Data released by the Health Department said of the total new cases, 14 were in Mahe, 12 in Puducherry and three in Karaikal. The overall tally is 662 deaths, 188 active cases, a total of 39,569 cases and 38,719 recoveries. So far, 8,051 healthcare workers and 407 front line workers have been vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-sees-29-new-cases-of-covid-19/article33893305.ece
21 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Former MP retires from politics||Former member of Parliament (Lok Sabha) R. Radhakrishnan on Saturday said he had decided to quit politics. In a statement, Mr. Radhakrishnan said he was grateful to all those who had supported him in his political career. The statement did not specify the reason for his decision. Congress to AINRC Mr. Radhakrishnan was a Congress legislator before joining the All India N.R. Congress. He was the Speaker from 2006 to 2011. He joined the AINRC before the Lok Sabha polls in 2014 and won the seat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-mp-retires-from-politics/article33893306.ece
21 February 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Salem District Police publish details of night patrol officers||The Salem District Police have started publishing details of night patrol officers in rural limits as part of crime prevention efforts and help the public contact respective officers directly. The district police have started publishing the details on its social media handles in twitter and Facebook. There are six sub-divisions under the Salem Rural Police - Salem rural, Sankari, Attur, Mettur, Omalur and Vazhapadi - and details of in-charge of patrol officers and their mobile phone numbers are published. According to the police, the measure has been started to facilitate the public to directly contact the respective patrol officers after crimes were reported. Superintendent of Police S. Deepa Ganiger said, “the public can contact the police by dialing 100 or make use of this facility. They can get details of respective patrol officers and contact them directly and the personnel will respond immediately.” Beats increased Ms. Ganiger said that following robbery incidents by unidentified masked gangs here, they had increased beats in those areas and strict vigil was maintained. On Friday night alone, 65 beats were increased as part of crime prevention efforts. Investigation was progressing regarding the robbery by masked gang in neighbouring houses at Gengavelli recently and the accused would be nabbed soon, Ms. Ganiger said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-district-police-publish-details-of-night-patrol-officers/article33893032.ece
21 February 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Stray dogs sterilised||The Salem Corporation launched a drive to sterilise stray dogs here on Friday. Following complaints of increase in stray dogs population, the Corporation started the drive. Sterilised dogs were administered with anti-rabbis vaccine and antibiotics and were released into the same neighbour hood. The civic body set up an animal birth control centre and about 300 dogs could be treated at the centre a month. The surgeries were conducted by Care Trust, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stray-dogs-sterilised/article33893033.ece
21 February 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||DMK organises cycle rally||Members of Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam conducted a cycle rally here on Saturday as part of the party’s campaign for the Assembly elections. DMK MLA R. Rajendran led the campaign with over 300 cadre from Shevapet. The rally passed through Shevapet, District Collectorate, First Agraharam, Vincent, Hasthampatti and Kannankuruchi. A similar cycle campaign was also held from Ammapet. The rally passed through Ammapet main road, Kadai Veedhi, Gugai and concluded at Kondalampatti.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-organises-cycle-rally/article33893034.ece
21 February 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Retired principal dies by suicide||A retired school principal  died by suicide here on Saturday. The police, the deceased was identified as R.Muthuswamy (78) of Murugampatti here. Muthuswamy had three siblings and often they picked a quarrel regarding partition of family assets. Depressed over the issue, Muthuswamy died by suicide. On information from neighbours, the Steel Plant Police recovered the body.  Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044- 24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/retired-principal-dies-by-suicide/article33893035.ece
21 February 2021||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||TN govt. is active at ‘fag end’ of term, says Chidambaram||After remaining in a ‘silent mode’ for the last four years or so, the Tamil Nadu government had suddenly ‘woken up’ and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has been going round places to lay foundation stones, said senior Congress leader and MP P. Chidambaram here on Saturday. Speaking at a party booth-committee workers meeting, he said that the two Dravidian parties - DMK and the AIADMK - had been coming to power in turns. Only last term, the AIADMK under the leadership of Jayalalithaa, retained power for a second consecutive term. After her demise, Mr Palaniswamy suddenly emerged from nowhere. “I had heard about Panneerselvam, Sengottaiyan and even C.Ve. Shanmugam in the Cabinet, but not Mr. Palaniswamy,” he said. The government, he said, had suddenly become active and the CM has been going around laying foundation stones. “The Cauvery-Vaigai-Gundar scheme, for instance, will take eight years. At least, if the AIADMK government had completed it and dedicated the scheme now, it would have been lauded”, Mr Chidambaram added. The former Union Home Minister said that the TN government had booked cases against a million people for COVID-19 violations. And now, the CM says, the government would withdraw them and he has claimed it as an achievement. “This is nothing but a comedy. For having done such an act, his name may be recommended to the Guinness Book of World Records,” he said. “The AIADMK has brought in the BJP to Tamil Nadu. This (BJP) is dangerous to the democratic fabric. The BJP should not be given space here in the State, which is considered as a peace park. Many States governed by the BJP are facing problems. The farmers are being ill-treated. The economy has gone for a steep fall due to their lackadaisical attitude. It is all because of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. If it were a Manmohan Singh or Sonia Gandhi, such things wouldn't have happened in the country”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-govt-is-active-at-fag-end-of-term-says-chidambaram/article33893011.ece
21 February 2021||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Woman, 18-month-old girl murdered||Police retrieved on Saturday the highly decomposed bodies of a 55-year-old woman and her 18-month-old granddaughter, who were apparently murdered 39 days ago after the woman pestered a man to repay with interest the loan he had availed from her husband. Police said Uchimakaali - Gomathi couple of Keezhapuliyoor near Tenkasi had married off their daughter Subbulakshmi to Murugan from nearby Kadapothi. Since Murugan is serving in the Indian Army, Subbulakshmi and her 18-month-old daughter Uthra alias Sakshi were living with her parents at Keezhapuliyoor. When Gomathi and Uthra went missing on January 12 last, Uchchimaakaali filed a complaint with the Tenkasi police after his attempts to locate them failed. The police did not get any breakthrough in the investigation. After the family of Gomathi suspected a person from Vettaikkarankulam near Tenkasi, who had borrowed money from Uchchimaakaali, of having kidnapped Gomathi with the baby, a police special team picked him up for interrogation on Friday. When he was grilled, he reportedly told the police that he, with the help of a few others, abducted Gomathi and Uthra and murdered them as the women had been pestering him to repay the loan with interest he had borrowed from her husband. They had packed the bodies in gunny bags and dumped them in a forest area near Muthumalaipuram close to Mathalamparai off the Western Ghats. The bodies were retrieved on Saturday and sent for post-mortem. Since the bodies were retrieved from the area under the jurisdiction of Courtallam police station, they are also investigating. The police have picked up three more persons for interrogation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-18-month-old-girl-murdered/article33893341.ece
21 February 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||NTSE today||Corporation Commissioner Sharanya Ari handed over hall tickets for National Talent Search Examination scheduled for Sunday to 40 Corporation school students here on Saturday. As students of Class 7 and 8, who crack the NTSE, will get scholarship for four years, they were trained in mathematics, science and social science even during COVID-19 lockdown by a team of teachers hand picked for the purpose. These students, took a series of tests and their attitude and aptitude were tested. Ms. Sharanya said the students should take the exam confidently and equip themselves with additional qualifications in the areas of their interest to realise their dreams. Chief Educational Officer Gowri and programme coordinator Sumathi were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ntse-today/article33893333.ece
21 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Cauvery-Gundar river link project set to take off||Tamil Nadu is all set to launch its ambitious intra-State river linking project by building a canal from the Cauvery to the Vaigai and the Gundar. The massive project seeks to divert surplus flows from the Cauvery to the water scarce southern parts of the State. Chief Minister Edappadi K.Palaniswami will lay the foundation stone for the first phase of the project at a function to be held at Kunnathur in Viralimalai taluk in Pudukottai district on Sunday. The first significant step towards the linking of the Cauvery and Gundar rivers was made with the commissioning of the barrage across Cauvery at Mayanur in Karur district in 2014. The barrage will form the head of the new link canal which will run a distance of 262.19 km to carry the surplus waters from the Cauvery to the South Vellar, the Vaigai river and finally the Gundar. The canal will traverse Karur, Tiruchi, Pudukottai, Sivaganga, Virudhunagar and Ramanathapuram and have a capacity to carry about 6,000 cusecs of water. The government had given an in-principal approval for executing the first phase of the project from the Cauvery to the South Vellar, a distance of about 118.45 km, at an estimated cost of Rs. 6,941 crore. The Public Works Department has decided to seek financial assistance from the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) for the project, sources in the department said. In the first phase, the canal will run through Karur (47.23 km), Tiruchi (18.89 km) and Pudukottai district (52.32 km). “The land acquisition process for the first phase is underway in all three districts and is in advanced stages in Karur and Tiruchi districts,” a senior PWD officer told The Hindu . To start with, the PWD has awarded tenders for digging a canal for a length of about 4.10 km from the Mayanur barrage at an estimate of Rs. 171 crore and another 5.35 km stretch in Tiruchi and Pudukottai districts at an estimate of Rs. 160 crore. The first phase of the canal will irrigate 42,170 acres and feed 342 irrigation tanks in Karur, Tiruchi and Pudukottai districts. The second phase of the project will involve linking the South Vellar and Vaigai rivers, a distance of about 110 km, and the third final phase will link the Vaigai with the Gundar (34.04 km). The project forms part of the peninsular rivers’ development component of the National Perspective Plan envisaging diversion of surplus flows of the Mahanadi basin and the Godavari basin to the water-short Krishna, Pennar, Cauvery, Vaigai and Gundar basins in the South. The inauguration of the project marks the realisation of a century-old dream of the people of Pudukottai. “The demand has been aired since the days of the British rule. Even if the flood waters of Cauvery is diverted once in three to four years, the district will stand to benefit much,” observed G.S.Dhanapathy, 71, State general secretary, Farmers Forum of India, who had been serving as treasurer of a committee formed in Pudukottai to lobby for the cause for nearly 40 years now. “It marks a new dawn for us and the project will help Pudukottai shed the tag of being drought prone. Whichever government comes to power in future, should complete it,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cauvery-gundar-river-link-work-set-to-take-off/article33892895.ece
21 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Woolly-necked stork spotted||A woolly-necked stork, a vulnerable wading species, was spotted and recorded at the Karaivetti Bird Sanctuary in Ariyalur district. A. Kumaraguru, a conservation scientist from the Biodiversity Conservation Foundation, India, recorded and photographed the bird at Venganur, which is a part of the sanctuary, on the first day of the two-day annual synchronised bird census on Thursday. The large wading bird was found to be about four feet long, with a black head and a body with an iridescent sheen, and a white neck and underbelly. The bird had deep red eyes and the large bill was grey with a reddish tip. The legs and feet were also predominantly red in colour. Mr. Kumaraguru told The Hindu that the bird, which had been listed as “vulnerable” by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), had been sighted and photographed probably for the fist time in the region. The bird is known to inhabit wetlands, marshes, rivers and ponds. The diet of a woolly-necked stork includes fish, frogs, toads, snakes and lizards. Its presence had enabled the ornithologists to study it in detail, Mr. Kumaraguru added. A bar-headed goose, another vulnerable and rare species, was also spotted in the Karaivetti Bird Sanctuary, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woolly-necked-stork-spotted/article33892985.ece
21 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation begins relaying of roads dug up for sewer lines across city||The Tiruchi City Corporation has begun relaying of roads in the areas, where underground drainage works have been completed. It has been a long pending demand of the residents of various colonies to relay the roads, where the existing roads were dug up to lay UGD mains, pumping mains, pumping stations and chambers as part of the phase-II of the UGD project in the city. There were protests that the roads had not been relaid or brought back to motorable condition even after completion of UGD works for more than a year. Residents of Kattur, Ariyamangalam and Tiruverumbur complained that they could not drive smoothly on the roads that suffered extensive damage due to the works. To address their grievances, the Corporation sent a proposal seeking Rs. 30 crore from the State and it subsequently sanctioned the amount under the Special Road Project. After completing the tender formalities, the civic body has started relaying of roads. A senior official of the Corporation told The Hindu the project had been divided into eight packages for implementing it in all areas simultaneously. The relaying of roads had begun in many wards and men and machinery had been mobilised to complete the task as early as possible. All roads in ward number 61 to 65 would be covered. Many roads in more than 40 wards in the city had been included. He said that works had been started in Annamalai Nagar, Shanmuga Nagar, Sanjeevi Nagar, Kattur, Ariyamangalam, Cantonment, Woraiyur and Palpannai. Works would be started in other areas in a few days. As per the agreement, the contractors had to complete the project within three months from the date of the issuance of work order. However, it was expected that the works in most of the areas would be completed within March.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-begins-relaying-of-roads-dug-up-for-sewer-lines-across-city/article33893331.ece
21 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Sufficient doses of vaccine available in State: Minister||While other States in the country are experiencing a slight surge in COVID-19 cases, there is no fear of a second wave in Tamil Nadu, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said on Saturday. “We continue to process at least 50,000 RT-PCR samples in a day, and our doctors have become experts in treating COVID-19 patients, even those with co-morbidities,” he said. The Health Minister was addressing presspersons after taking the second dose of the COVID-19 vaccine at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. “We are in a unique position as cases are on a decline and the vaccination drive is picking up. Through vaccination, we can aim to report far lesser cases of COVID-19 soon,” he said. A total of 3,59,000 doses have been administered to frontline workers in the State so far, he said, adding that there was adequate stock of both Covishield and Covaxin. “We have 14,85,000 vials of Covishield vaccines and 1,89,000 vials of Covaxin,” he said. Mr. Vijayabaskar urged frontline workers and the general public to take the vaccine when their turn comes. “Doctors are recommending it as the only solution to our fight against COVID-19,” he said. Vaccines would be administered as per the guidelines of the Central government, the Health Minister said. “We have asked to include media persons and public representatives in the frontline workers category,” he added. Mr. Vijayabaskar had taken the first dose of Covaxin at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital in Chennai. “I took Covaxin as I wanted to instil confidence among people,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sufficient-doses-of-vaccine-available-in-state-minister/article33892900.ece
21 February 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||MSU identifies new element||Manonmaniam Sundaranar University, which recently signed a memorandum of understanding with Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital (TVCMH) to carry out multi-disciplinary research in medical sciences, has identified a new element while analysing clinical thyroid samples. “We are pursuing a detailed research in this direction,” said K. Pitchumani, Vice-Chancellor, who was previously CSIR Emeritus Scientist in the School of Chemistry, Madurai Kamaraj University. “We will tell you about the element after a key member of the research team will be back from his medical leave soon,” he said. The departments of Statistics, Chemistry, Biotechnology, Centre for Information Technology and Engineering and Sociology have inked a tripartite MoU with Indian Council of Medial Research (ICMR) and TVMCH to carry out research. When the thyroid sample was analysed, the new element was identified. It is now being subjected to a range of analysis using state-of-the-art equipment. With one-time grant of Rs. 20 crore from the State government, the MSU plans to buy 400 MHz NMR (solid and liquid) with accessories and other instruments. New facility “These sophisticated instruments will be housed in the 11,950 square feet Central Instrumentation Facility (CIF) under construction. The CIF will aid in the growth of research, incubation centres, facilitate technology transfer among universities, colleges and industries,” Mr. Pitchumani said, adding that a proposal for Rs. 50 crore had been submitted to Ministry of Human Resources Development under Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA). To strengthen the faculty members’ research capabilities and expose them to modern techniques, the MSU has tied up with IIT-Bombay. “Our teachers attended week-long online classes to fine-tune their skills,” he said. The MSU had to plan for inclusion of multi-disciplinary streams such as engineering and medical education as the New Education Policy (NEP) that advocates dismantling of University Grants Commission and All India Council for Technical Education and phasing out of educational institutions offering single streams stresses the need for introducing multidisciplinary programmes by 2040. “IIT-Delhi has established Department of Humanities, and IIT-Karagpur a School of Medical Science and Technology. We must move in that direction,” he said. The MSU would offer three-year Bachelor of Vocational Education in Food Processing, Analytical and Quality Control Techniques in semester mode and advanced diploma in Organic Farming and Mushroom Cultivation, for which UGC, under its National Skill Qualification Framework, has given consent. “The UGC has sanctioned Rs. 1.60 crore for these programmes,” Mr. Pitchumani said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/msu-identifies-new-element/article33892992.ece
21 February 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘BJP, L-G cannot be blamed if Narayanasamy loses majority’||The BJP or the Puducherry Lieutenant Governor cannot be held responsible if Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy fails to prove majority in the Assembly, said BJP’s senior leader L. Ganesan on Saturday. “If he [Mr. Narayanasamy] cannot prove the majority, or if his partymen decide to switch parties, we cannot do anything,” he told mediapersons. The last Congress government in southern India was on the verge of falling in Puducherry, he said. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s recent visit to Puducherry could have been the reason for the state of affairs, he added. Regarding the fuel price hike, Mr. Ganesan claimed that the Central government needs to repay the debts accumulated during the Congress government, which was to the tune of Rs. 24 lakh crores. “If the price is being increased even during the time of elections, the people must understand that it is inevitable and must extend cooperation,” he said. Regarding the BJP-AIADMK ties, he said Prime Minister Narendra Modi jointly lifting the hands of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam during his Chennai visit was a symbolic gesture to show that the alliance is strong. Mr. Ganesan chaired a meeting with other BJP leaders at a private hotel on Kangeyam Road regarding the arrangements for the visit of Mr. Modi to Coimbatore on February 25.  The last Congress government in southern India is on the verge of falling in Puducherry||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-l-g-cannot-be-blamed-if-narayanasamy-loses-majority/article33893304.ece
21 February 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘DMK inaugurated the project in 2008’||The Cauvery-Gundar river link project, for which Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami will lay the foundation stone on Sunday, was already inaugurated in 2008 during the DMK regime, claimed DMK president M.K. Stalin on Saturday. During his campaign at Dharapuram, he said former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi inaugurated the river link project in Tiruchi district in June 2008, for which the DMK government had allocated Rs. 165 crore. Accusing the AIADMK government of neglecting the project for more than a decade, Mr. Stalin alleged that it is making last-minute efforts ahead of the Assembly election. “The only achievement of Mr. Palaniswami is increasing the debt of Tamil Nadu,” he alleged. The State’s debt was around Rs. 1 lakh crore in 2011 but has now increased to nearly Rs. 5 lakh crore, he claimed. The petitions received by the DMK during its campaign were proof that the Chief Minister “did not do anything for the people in the last four years”, he alleged. Promises jobs Mr. Stalin said the DMK would increase employment opportunities for the youth. Reiterating his announcement that loans of women self-help groups in cooperative societies would be waived, he said the party was committed to protecting the welfare of women. Former Minister M.P Saminathan and Madathukulam MLA R. Jayaramakrishnan, were present during the campaign.  AIADMK is making last-minute efforts ahead of the Assembly election||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/link-project-launched-by-dmk-in-2008/article33892897.ece
21 February 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘BJP, Lt. Governor not responsible if Narayanasamy govt. fails to prove majority’||The BJP or Puducherry Lieutenant Governor cannot be held responsible if Puducherry Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy fails to prove majority in the Assembly, said BJP senior leader L. Ganesan on Saturday. “If he (Mr. Narayanasamy) cannot prove the majority, or if his partymen decide to switch parties, we cannot do anything,” he told mediapersons. The last Congress government in south India is on the verge of collapse in Puducherry, he said. The recent visit of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to Puducherry might have been the reason for the state of affairs because of his ‘ raasi ’ (misfortune). Regarding the fuel price hike, Mr. Ganesan claimed that the Central government needs to repay the debts accumulated during the Congress regime, which was to the tune of Rs. 24 lakh crore. “If the price is being increased even during the time of elections, the people must understand that it is inevitable and must extend cooperation,” he said. Regarding the BJP-AIADMK ties, he said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi jointly lifting the hands of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam during his Chennai visit was a “symbolic gesture” to show that the alliance is strong. On the return of expelled AIADMK leader V.K. Sasikala to Chennai, Mr. Ganesan said that it is wrong to say that the people of Tamil Nadu welcomed her as only the AMMK cadre welcomed her. Mr. Ganesan chaired a meeting regarding the arrangements for Mr. Modi’s visit to Coimbatore on February 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-lt-governor-not-responsible-if-narayanasamy-govt-fails-to-prove-majority/article33892925.ece
21 February 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Microchips implanted in horses, ponies used for tourism purposes in the Nilgiris||Horses and ponies being used for horse riding in the Nilgiris are being implanted with microchips as part of another effort to regulate equestrian tourism in the district. For over a year, the district administration has been making efforts to regulate horse riding and to ensure the welfare of the animals. These efforts include prohibiting the horse owners to offer rides to tourists on the town’s roads, and also clamping down on owners who do not provide proper shelter to their animals. The Nilgiris Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (NSPCA), Department of Animal Husbandry and veterinarians from the Worldwide Veterinary Service (WVS-India), have began implanting microchips into the horses and ponies that are being used for tourism purposes in Udhagamandalam town. The microchips will have ownership details of the horses so that the owners of abandoned or uncared for animals can be tracked and action can be taken against them. The Tourism Department has assigned two spots around the Ooty lake where tourists can enjoy horse riding. This will also mean that prices for horse rides will be fixed and the tourists will not be exploited. Nigel Otter, chairman of WVS-India, said the move to restrict horse rides to designated areas would ensure that the animals were safe and had less chance of sustaining injuries, especially from traffic. Ilona Otter, WVS Director of International Veterinary Training, along with other vets, implanted the microchips into the animals. Nagina Reddy, nodal officer for NSPCA, said the move was a joint effort spearheaded by the Collector and involved the Udhagamandalam Municipality, the Department of Animal Husbandry and the NSPCA. She said it was aimed not only at promoting animal welfare, but at also ensuring the livelihoods of the horse owners. “The two designated spots are very scenic ones, and will definitely bring in more tourists,” said Ms. Reddy. The district administration had already banned the use of retired race horses for riding. Owners of the horses, who abandon them on the streets, could be fined and the animals could be confiscated, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/microchips-implanted-in-horses-ponies-used-for-tourism-purpose/article33892927.ece
21 February 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||New cases in Vellore district drop to five||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 20,922 with five new cases being reported on February 20. While a total of 20,517 have been discharged, the active cases in the district stands at 55. The district’s death toll is 350. In Ranipet, one fresh case was reported and the total stood at 16,202. In Tirupattur district, one case was reported on Saturday and the total number of stood at 7,624. In Tiruvannamalai, four new cases were reported, taking the total to 19,459. Out of this, 19,129 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 46.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-cases-in-vellore-district-drop-to-five/article33893309.ece
21 February 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 193.95 crore crop loan of farmers waived off||A total of 26,275 farmers will benefit to the tune of Rs. 193.95 crore following the announcement made by the State Government on waiver of crop loan got through cooperative societies. Similarly, the process of depositing compensation into the bank accounts of farmers who faced crop loss during Cyclones Nivar and Burevi was under way, said Collector R. Kannan, while speaking at the farmers’ grievances redressal meeting held here on Friday. Virudhunagar has got a compensation of Rs. 17.66 cr., he said. Officials said that 19 direct paddy purchasing centres have been sanctioned and paddy was being procured directly from farmers. However, Tamizhaga Vivasayigal Sangam leader N. A. Ramachandra Raja, complained that officials from regulated markets were intercepting vehicles carrying harvested crops and were insisting them to pay cess. “When farmers produce their land and cultivation related documents, the officials insist on the identity cards given for farmers. The Government has not issued any identity card to farmers,” he complained. The Collector promised to look into the issue. He also sought the Collector to issue orders for diversion of cane cultivated in the district to Theni as the private sugarmill in Tenkasi was yet to start crushing. “Under the Sugar Control Act, only if the Collector orders permission for diversion of sugarcane, the farmers can take them to other mills,” he said. The Collector said that Taluk-level committees comprising officials from the Departments of Revenue, Agriculture, Horticulture and Forest have been formed to make joint inspection of farms whenever wild animals damage agricultural and horticultural crops. Farmers may approach those committees seeking compensation for crops damaged by wild animals, he said. District Revenue Officer R. Mangalaramasubramanian, Joint Director, Agriculture, S. Uthandaraman, Personal Assistant (Agriculture), Sankar S. Narayanan, Joint Registrar (Cooperative Societies), Dilipkumar, Joint Director (Animal Husbandry) Arunachalakani, Deputy Director (horticulture), Radhakrishnan, were among those who were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-19395-crore-crop-loan-of-farmers-waived-off/article33893018.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Three artistes from Tiruchi bag Kalaimamani awards||Theatre artistes T. N. Mangalam and K. S. Krishnappa and Upanyasam exponent Tiruchi K. Kalyanaraman, hailing from Tiruchi, are among the Kalaimamani awardees announced by the State government on Friday. While Mr. Krishnappa receives the award for 2019, Ms. Mangalam and Mr. Kalyanaraman have been conferred the award for 2020. The artistes began their careers in Tiruchi and continue to be active in the scene even after 50 years of experience. T.N. Mangalam, of Mangalam Kalai Kuzhu in the city, began acting at the young age of 11 in Meensurutti, her hometown. She had eight older siblings and took to acting as her parents were unable to make ends meet, she said. “My first pay was Rs. 25. It helped the family and soon I gained interest and moved to Tiruchi when I was 16,” she recalls. In the city, she has lent her voice and has performed in over 7,000 several shows. She has also performed abroad with the support of fine arts colleges and acted in supporting roles in two Tamil films. She is also a lifetime member of the South Indian Artistes’ Association. Various awards and recognition have been conferred upon her including the Kalai Nanmani award. As a 72-year-old, she has now taken on a new role as a make-up artist for Bharatanatyam dancers. On the personal front, Ms. Mangalam is married to V. Natarajan, also a member of Mangalam Kalai Kuzhu, and has two sons. “We did everything we could to educate our boys. Due to financial constraints, we were unable to, but they have created a good life for themselves”" Mr. Natarajan said. K. S. Krishnappa, a 72-year-old artiste from Manapparai, Tiruchi, continues to act even at his age with K.S. Krishnappa Nadaga Kuzhu. “I will do so till I have strength in my body,” he told The Hindu . He began acting as an 18-year-old because of his father, who also took part in street plays. “My father allowed me to play minor roles in his plays. At 18, I decided to pursue it as a profession,” he said. The artiste has performed in over 10,000 shows including on streets and in large halls. “My family is fully involved in the arts. I married an actor, and my children are trained in theatre too,” he said. Mr. Krishnappa says that while COVID-19 almost ruined their profession, the faith in the arts keeps them afloat. “We have begun performing a few shows over the last month. We hope that with the support of the government, we will be able to take part in many more.” Both Ms. Mangalam and Mr. Krishnappa will receive the award from Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday. Born and raised in Srirangam, veteran Upanyasam exponent Mr. Kalyanaraman began giving discourses on various chapters of the Ramayana as a student of Srirangam Boys High School. “At 20, I decided to take it up as a mission. I believe that through discourses of the religious texts, I will be able to impart values into the lives of the youth of today. Teaching discipline, honesty and obedience through the texts is my goal,” he said Mr. Kalyanaraman undertook a year-long yagna of the Ramayana discourse in Madurai in 2013 and then in Tirunelveli in 2016. He now resides at Virugambakkam in Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-artistes-from-tiruchi-bag-kalaimamani-awards/article33892989.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore dist. reports 47 cases||Coimbatore district reported 47 new cases on Saturday, taking the tally to 55,415 cases. The Health Department did not report any deaths. The district’s death cases continue to remain at 679. The district saw 54,328 recoveries and 408 patients were active cases. A total of 46 patients were discharged from various treatment centres in Coimbatore district on Saturday. Tiruppur district reported 15 fresh cases, taking the tally to 18,231 cases. No deaths were reported in the district. As many as 17,889 patients have recovered and 119 were active cases. Tiruppur district reported 223 deaths overall. On Saturday, 10 patients from the district were discharged from various treatment centres. The Nilgiris district reported 10 new cases, which led to the overall tally to 8,318 cases. The district saw 8,209 recoveries and 61 patients were active cases. The death toll of the district was 48 as of Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-dist-reports-47-cases/article33892939.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||15 cases reported in Erode district||Erode district reported 15 new COVID-19 cases, taking the district’s tally to 14,705. While 12 persons were discharged, 132 persons continue to be under treatment. In Salem, 16 positive cases were reported on Saturday. Three cases were reported in Namakkal. One indigenous case was reported in Dharmapuri and four in Krishnagiri. Coimbatore district reported 47 new cases on Saturday, taking the tally to 55,415 cases. The Health Department did not report any deaths. The district’s death cases continue to remain at 679. The district saw 54,328 recoveries and 408 patients were active cases. A total of 46 patients were discharged from various treatment centres in Coimbatore district on Saturday. Tiruppur district reported 15 fresh cases, taking the tally to 18,231 cases. No deaths were reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/15-cases-reported-in-erode-district/article33893023.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Chennai Metro slashes maximum fare by Rs. 20||The ridership for Metro stood at nearly 1.2 lakh a day and owing to the pandemic-induced lockdown, it slumped to 10,000 a day last year after train services began. Now, it has spiked to nearly 75,000 after the reopening of the new phase I extension stretch from Washermenpet to Wimco Nagar. According to the CMRL officials, this will significantly help improve the number of persons who will take the Metro. “In the newly-opened stretch, about 10,000 passengers are travelling. We expect it to get better in the coming weeks. “Also, we have introduced last mile connectivity like share autos too this week which also will encourage more persons to use Chennai Metro Rail,” an official said. For years, commuters had been expressing the view that the fares were high. Unlimited rides This apart, if a commuter buys a Rs. 100 ticket, the person can take unlimited number of rides in Chennai Metro in a day. Similarly, a Rs. 2,500 ticket would allow commuters to take unlimited number of rides throughout the month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-metro-slashes-maximum-fare-by-rs-20/article33892882.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Bird census held at Point Calimere||The two-day annual synchronised bird census carried out at Point Calimere Bird and Wildlife Sanctuary in Nagapattinam district recorded 79 species of water birds and 39 of terrestrial variety within the sprawling premises. The water birds totalled 54, 647 and the land birds 2,153. The Forest Department compiled the census carried out at the sanctuary, a protected area spread over 21 sq. km. The synchronised census was simultaneously done at the bird sanctuaries in Point Calimere, Vaduvoor, Udhayamarthandapuram and Karaivetti. Barring Karaivatti sanctuary, which falls under Tiruchi Forest Circle, the remaining three come under Thanjavur Circle. The census was carried out by field-level Forest officials and bird lovers, experts in identification of bird species, ornithologists, students and volunteers engaged for the purpose. The exercise would not only provide insights into bothspecies but also their migratory pattern and nesting behaviour, said S. Ramasubramanian, Conservator of Forests, Thanjavur Circle. Prior to carrying out the detailed exercise, the participants were trained on the methodology to be adopted to carry out the census which was conducted in the morning and in the evening, Mr. Ramasubramanian said. Those conducting the census were split into teams and entrusted with designated areas within the sanctuary to ensure that there was no duplication in count. Water birds recorded included Little Stint, Black Headed Gul, Pied Kingfisher, White breasted Waterhen, Greater Flamingo, Lesser Flamingo, Black-bellied tern, Lesser Crested tern, Eurasian Curlew, Black headed Ibis, Slender Billed Gull, Purple Heron, Garganey, River Tern, Kentish Plover and Eurasian spoonbill. Land species included Brahminy Kite, Black drango, Indian blue robin, Black Kite, Grey Fracolin, Rosy Starling, Purple rumped sunbird, small bee eater, Eurasian-collared Dove, Ashy drongo and White-eyed buzzard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bird-census-held-at-point-calimere/article33892990.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Meet rues lack of support for women’s studies||The Indian Association for Women’s Studies (IAWS) organised a national convention on ‘Women’s Studies Centres (WSCs) - Current concerns, challenges and way forward’ to discuss impediments faced by them. Scholars from WSCs across the country took part in the convention — conducted online — to discuss the lack of support from educational institutions and hardships in continuing their functioning. IAWS President Ishita Mukhophadhayay drew attention to the importance of WSCs and their role in creating a country without discrimination against women. “We need to support research through internal collaborations and, through it, encourage growing knowledge,” she said. Roshan Ara of University of Kashmir drew attention to the lack of job opportunities and said it discouraged scholars from opting for women’s studies. “We need short-term courses, training programmes, especially on women entrepreneurship, and increase the number of seats in formal courses,” she said. Ms Ara also urged IAWS to understand ways to how to attract more students. N. Manimekalai, Director and Head, Department of Women’s Studies, said there existed a paradox, as a huge body of literature in the area had been created over the years but there was a need to take it to students. “A draft memo randum will be submitted toUGC putting forth our demands. Meanwhile, WSCs must seek new ways to reach students, and to have our demands heard,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-iaws-convention-rues-lack-of-support-for-womens-studies/article33892979.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||March for bifurcation of Thanjavur district taken out in Kumbakonam||Members of the Coordination Committee for Bifurcation of Thanjavur District on Saturday took out a rally in Kumbakonam defying police ban on such events. The committee had called for public support to the demonstration scheduled for February 20 and more than a hundred people gathered near mottai gopuram of Aadhikumbeswarar temple to proceed in a procession up to the Old Fish Market area on the same road. A team of policemen headed by Additional Superintendent of Police Jeyachandran informed the committee office-bearers that they could not proceed with their agitation since permission was not granted to hold the event. However, the organisers entered into a heated argument with the police. Finally, the police agreed to allow the demonstrators to proceed up to Uchipillayar temple, located at a km away from the starting point where the coordination committee organised a demonstration urging the State government to bifurcate Thanjavur district with Kumbakonam as the new headquarters for the new district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/march-for-bifurcation-of-thanjavur-district-taken-out-in-kumbakonam/article33892994.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Protest by CPI, farmers disrupts traffic||Traffic on Mannargudi-Thiruthuraipoondi Road was disrupted for a few hours on Saturday following a road blockade by members of the Communist Party of India demanding the opening of a direct purchase centre at Karuvakulam village near Mannargudi. The farmers and the CPI were demanding that a DPC be opened at Karuvakulam hamlet coming under Moondramsethi Village Panchayat and had made representations to Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation (TNCSC). As their request failed to evoke a favourable response, the CPI cadre and farmers blocked vehicular movement on Mannargudi-Thiruthuraipoondi Road by placing paddy bags and harvested paddy on the carriageway. The protesters withdrew their agitation around noon after police, revenue and TNCSC officials assured them that their demand would be considered positively and a DPC would be opened soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protest-by-cpi-farmers-disrupts-traffic/article33892996.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||New SP takes charge||P. Rajan on Saturday assumed the office of the Superintendent of Police, Tiruchi. Mr. Rajan hitherto worked as Superintendent of Police, Railway, in Chennai. He replaces T. Jeyachandran, who was transferred and posted as Superintendent of Police, Prohibition Enforcement Wing, Madurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-sp-takes-charge/article33892998.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Woman gets new lease of life after cancer surgery||Doctors at Apollo Hospitals, Tiruchi, have successfully performed a renal cancer removal surgery on a 54-year-old woman. The cancer was in stage three and had gone unidentified, according to them. The patient, a resident of Tiruchi city, visited the hospital for routine health check-up when doctors identified a cancerous tumour. “The cancer had travelled through the Inferior Vena Cava [IVC], upwards towards the heart. However, PET scans were taken to check further spread of the cancer and we found that it had not spread elsewhere,” Alagappan Chockalingam, consultant urologist said. Within a couple of days, in the first week of January, she was operated upon to remove the tumour. “We approached the kidney directly despite the involvement of the heart and used a technology called TransEsophageal Echo, which, in simple terms, is like a CCTV camera for surveillance of the heart chambers through the food pipe,” Dr. Chockalingam said. The other option would have been to approach cancer via IVC, which would increase the risk manifold. After eight-hour-long surgery, the right kidney and the cancerous tumour was removed. The patient was discharged within five days and recovering well, the doctors said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-gets-new-lease-of-life-after-cancer-surgery/article33892999.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Dak Adalat on March 5||The Department of Posts will conduct a regional-level Dak Adalat at the Head Post Office here at 10.30 a.m. on March 5 when grievances of customers will be heard in person. Customers can send their complaints to A. Soranam, Assistant Director (I & PG), Office of Post Master General, Central Region, Tiruchi-620 001, on or before February 23. The complaint should contain full details such as date and time of posting, full address of the sender and addressee, registration receipt number with date and office of booking for MO/ VP/ registered or insured / speed post articles. If the complaint is about savings schemes or postal life insurance, it should contain the details of the recovery, account number, name and full address of the depositor/ insured, name of the post office and any reference of the Postal Department. Only those cases which have already been taken up with the divisions or units but have not been resolved to the satisfaction of the complainant will be taken up at the divisional level. No fresh case will be entertained. Complaints can be sent through ordinary post or registered/Speed post. Grievances sent through private couriers will not be accepted. The covers should be superscribed as ‘Dak Adalat – March 2021,’ A.Govindarajan, Postmaster General, Central Region, Tiruchi, has said in a release. Due to the pandemic, the Dak Adalat may be conducted through video conferencing or video calls. Hence, the current residential address, phone number and name of the nearest post office should be indicated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dak-adalat-on-march-5/article33893005.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Congress members protest fuel price hike||Congress members on Saturday staged a road roko here in protest against the hike in prices of petrol, diesel and liquified petroleum gas and the three new Central farm laws. V. Jawahar, president, District Congress Committee, Tiruchi urban, presided over the protest. As a symbolic gesture, the protestors carried an empty cylinder from Arunachalam Mandram, the party office. Raising slogans against the Central and State government for the steep hike in prices, they blocked traffic near the Main Guard Gate. They said the hike affected people from all walks of life. Poor and middle-class people were badly hit. The rise had a cascading effect on various items. The prices of almost all essential items, including rice and vegetables, had been increased. They demanded that the Centre roll back the hike in prices and the farm laws. Police arrested 60 persons for blocking the road traffic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-members-protest-fuel-price-hike/article33892997.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||When the skies opened||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/when-the-skies-opened/article33893016.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||SIs get bikes||Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar handed over 32 bikes to women Sub-Inspectors and head constables here on Saturday. As they visit girls’ schools and colleges for awareness programmes designed to protect them from crimes against women, especially sexual offences, they have been provided with the two-wheelers. The district has received 32 bikes worth about Rs. 34.56 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sis-get-bikes/article33893340.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||37 fresh cases, one death in central region||The central region on Saturday reported 37 fresh cases of COVID-19. One death was reported in Thanjavur, according to the bulletin issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. A 72-year-old man with a history of diabetes and hypertension succumbed to the viral infection at Thanjavur Medical College Hospital. Thanjavur district reported 14 fresh cases and it was nine in Tiruchi. Three patients who were undergoing treatment at Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital were discharged after recovering from the viral infection. Meanwhile, eight patients tested positive in Tiruvarur. Ariyalur, Pudukottai and Nagapattinam reported two fresh cases each. Karur and Perambalur reported no fresh case for the viral infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/37-fresh-cases-one-death-in-central-region/article33893003.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Safety pin removed from baby||Doctors at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) saved the life of a one-year-old boy who was brought to the hospital with a safety pin lodged in the oesophagus on Friday. A release said that the baby from Avinashi in Tiruppur district was admitted to the CMCH after he accidentally swallowed a safety pin. The doctors performed X-ray and CT scans to ascertain the pin’s location in the oesophagus and removed it non-surgically through upper gastrointestinal endoscopy, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/safety-pin-removed-from-baby/article33892941.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore today||Samskrita Bharati: Enrolment for Pravesha course, Suburban Academy of Arts, Ramnagar, 11 a.m.  JIH: Strong family strong society programme, Islamiya Matriculation School, 4 p.m.  KG College of Arts and Science: Parents- teachers meet, 4 p.m.  GEM Hospital: Awareness on cancer esophagus, hospital premises, 10 a.m.  Abhayam Publishers: Release of book “Athmabodham”, Masakalipalayam, 5 p.m.  Damarugam Learning Centre: Release of book “Michakadhaigal”, Kikani Higher Secondary School, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-today/article33892930.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Kuniamuthur sub-station (9 a.m. to 4 p.m.)- February 22: Kuniamuthur, Puttuvikki, Edayarpalayam, part of Sundarapuram, part of BK Pudur, Kovaipudur, NS Puram, Sundakkamuthur, Ramachettipalayam, Arumugagoudanur, Perur Chettipalayam, and Perur.  Saravanampatti sub-station (9 a.m. to 5 p.m.)- February 22: Saravanampatti, Ammankoil, Chinnavedampatti, Krishnapuram, Sivanandapuram, Vellakinar, Urumandampalayam, Gounder Mills, Subramaniapalayam, KNG Pudur, part of Maniakarapalayam, Lakshmi Nagar, Nachinmithu Nagar, Jayaprakash Nagar, Ganapathipudur, Udayampalayam, Vellakinar housing unit, and north part of Vinayagaouram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article33892931.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||21-02-2021-city-cinema||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA  AbbasCultural.com/Bharat Kalachar/Roshini TODAY 6.30 pm @ YGP Auditorium, PSBB School, T.Nagar, Y.Gee.Mahendra presents TRIBUTE TO PB.SREENIVAS, The Man with the Golden Voice. Evergreen immortal songs of the legendary playback singer PBS composed by Music Director’s G Ramanathan, Sudharsanam, K.V.Mahadevan & M.S. Viswanathan. To be performed by O. S. Arun, Ananthu, Sai Vignesh, Nagesh, Janaki, Ramya, Anusha & Pavithra in Murali’s Mouna Raagam Live Orchestra. Seating with social distancing. Limited Tickets@ Hall from 11am. bookmyshow.com. 9710633633. Supported by: ENCHANTING TAMILNADU, DEPT. OF TOURISM, GOVT. OF TAMILNADU, TOKYO TAMIL SANGAM, NALLI, INDUS IND BANK, SVE ENERGY, LEAP SPORTS, SIVAJI RAVI, SRUSAN TECHNOLOGY, KOVALAN MANDRAM. Kalakshetra Foundation presents Remembering Rukmini Devi Festival: 25th February -1st March 2021@ 6 pm. Tickets available at tikkl.com/kalakshetra 25 Feb: Meenakshi Vijayam dance drama by Kalakshetra; 26 Feb: Carnatic Vocal by Trichur Brothers; 27 Feb: Rukmini Kalyanam dance drama by Kalakshetra; 28 Feb: Violin concert by Akkarai Sisters; 1 Mar: Paduka Pattabishekam dance drama by Kalakshetra; Govt SOP and guidelines will be adhered. Phone: 044-24521844/0836/3418 (Mon- Fri: between 10 am - 5pm).  Music of Madras Junior Festival Online Concert Day 1 Samanvitha Sasidharan [Vocal], Madan Mohan [Violin], Guruprasadh [Mridangam]. 6-7.30 pm. Ticket Rs. 199 @ www.mdnd.in RASIKA RANJANI SABHA (Regd.) Mylapore, Chennai-600 004 Today 5.30 P.M. Tamil Isai Saaral-Lecture Demonstration-Kambharamayanam by Pulavar Ramamoorthy 6.45 P.M. Thoppur Sri Sairam and Party-Vocal.ALL ARE WELCOME.Website: rasikaranjanisabha.orgE.Mail: rasikaranjanisabha1929@ gmail.com. PHONE: 044-24641767 - Live Webcast:https://livewebcast.in/rrsabha. SHRI PURANDARADAASAR TRUST (Ph: 24845684) Today at Srinivasa Sastri Hall, Luz. 8th ANNIVERSARY CELE BRATIONS - 5.15 p.m. Vocal concert by VidwanKunnakudi M.Balamuralikrishna with Anayampatti G. Venkatasubramanian and N.C.Bharadwaj. 7.15 PM - Conferment of Awards on Sri R.Sundar - Dr.Prapancham S.Balachandran - Salem Dr.GayathriVenkatesan - Mullaivasal Dr.G.Chandramouli - Hanumanthapuram Sri R.J. Bhuvarahan - Sri B. Koushik Rajagopal - Kum.Sriranjani Santhanagopalan - Kum T.V.Sukanya. Kalaimamani Harikesanallur Sri. K. Venkataraman has consented to be the Chief Guest and confer the Awards. All Welcome.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/21-02-2021-city-cinema/article33892917.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||ERODE||RD National College of Arts and Science: Mother Language Day celebration, virtual meet, 10 a.m.  RD International School: Mother Language Day celebration, virtual meet, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode/article33893024.ece
21 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Panchamasalis’ demand on quota stirs up a hornet’s nest||The Panchamasali Lingayat community’s demand tobe included in category 2A (15%) of the other backward classes (OBC) reservation matrix has stirred up a hornet’s nest with many questions being raised on its implications for the 102 communities already in this bracket. The community, which is set to hold a mega convention in support of its demand in Bengaluru on Sunday, is currently included under 3B (5%). While categories 2A and 2B are categorised as ‘more backward’, 3A and 3B are categorised as ‘backward’. Essentially, Panchamasalis, a peasant community among Veerashaiva–Lingayats have argued that their community has been denied benefits of reservation under 3B as the “dominant” subcastes among the Veerashaiva–Lingayats have cornered most benefits. They argue that they are in reality “more backward”. Other issues  However, multiple past chairmen of the Karnataka State Commission for Backward Classes argue that inclusion of Panchamasalis under category 2A can potentially lead to other issues. “Category 2A has 102 communities, all of which are traditionally landless artisan communities. Categories 3A and 3B include landowning agricultural communities, including Panchamasalis,” pointed out the former chairman of the commission C.S. Dwarakanath. He argued that clubbing a land-owning community with the artisan communities could end up with the latter losing out their fair share.“Already Kurubas and Idigas have cornered much of the benefits in 2A, depriving several of the remaining 100 communities of fair chance,” he said. He contended that a solution could be internal reservation within the 3B category. “Social justice and reservation matrix cannot be held hostage to any community’s bargaining powers,” said another past chairman Ravivarma Kumar. He pointed out that Veerashaiva-Lingayats were given OBC reservation in 1986 contrary to the findings of Havanur Commission, Venkataswamy Commission, and Chinnappa Reddy Commission, all of which found the community to be “forward”. In fact, category 3B includes 23 landless, artisan subcastes among Veerashaiva–Lingayats, who are relatively more backward and deserve to be moved to 2A, he argued. Prof. Kumar said that Karnataka legislature passed a Bill increasing the reservation in the State to 73% in 1994, which has been stayed by the Supreme Court citing lack of empirical data for the quantum of reservation. “The Socio-Economic Survey conducted by the commission in 2015 presents the empirical basis for increasing reservation beyond the 50% cap. This is the need of the hour. Quantum of reservation for 3B can also be expanded if this happens, taking care of the Panchamasali community’s demand,” he said. The community should ask the State government to accept the Socio-Economic Survey, he added. K. Jayaprakash Hegde, chairman of the commission, tasked by the State government to submit a report on the feasibility of the Panchamasali demand, said the commission would hold a meeting with the community shortly, where they would be asked to make their case and submit documents. “We will then take up a study, criteria for which is yet to be decided,” he said. The commission would also hear objections from communities already included in category 2A.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/panchamasalis-demand-on-quota-stirs-up-a-hornets-nest/article33892852.ece
21 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two more working presidents of Congress to take charge today||The former Minister and seven-time MLA Ramalinga Reddy and the former MP R. Dhruvanarayan, who have been newly appointed as working presidents of the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC), will take charge on Sunday. Both of them will take charge at a function to be held at Chowdiah Memorial Hall in Bengaluru in the presence of KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, and city legislators of the party. Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha M. Mallikarjun Kharge and Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Council S.R. Patil are also expected to participate. Greater representation The party high command had appointed three working presidents — Satish Jarkiholi, Eshwar Khandre, and Saleem Ahmed — when it appointed the KPCC president in March last year. There was demand for greater representation to various communities. On Thursday, leaders of the Congress belonging to SC (Left) met AICC general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala and demanded the appointment of a working president belonging to their community. It was led by the former Minister H. Anjaneya, Rajya Sabha member L. Hanumanthaiah, and MLC R.B. Timmapur. Mr. Hanumanthaiah had demanded that someone from the Madiga community be made the party’s working president.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-more-working-presidents-of-congress-to-take-charge-today/article33892855.ece
21 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||14-day home quarantine must for those coming from abroad||In the wake of rising COVID-19 cases in other countries, the Karnataka government has further intensified its earlier restrictions and made 14-day home quarantine mandatory for all international returnees. While travellers will not be allowed to board without a negative RT-PCR certificate at the point of origin, they will be tested again on arrival at the airport in Bengaluru. While returnees from U.K., Brazil and South Africa and others who are transiting via Bengaluru cannot leave the airport until their RT-PCR test is negative, travellers from all other countries can give their samples for RT-PCR test and exit the airport. The Health Department issued two separate circulars in this regard on Saturday. All international travellers should compulsorily give their correct residential address and the test results will be conveyed to them. Apart from RT-PCR, an option of express RT-PCR test (Abbott) is also available at Bengaluru airport. The cost of the tests will have to be borne by the travellers, and those testing positive will have to comply with the State government’s protocol, the circulars stated.  Travellers, including airline crew, on short stay (less than 14 days) and who have tested negative and remain symptom free, should also undergo all the procedures stated above and will be permitted to leave Karnataka under proper intimation to their district/State health authorities, subject to fulfilling the requirement of the airlines and destination country, the circulars stated. To establish that one is on short stay, a short-term visit or a business visitor, the person should show a confirmed return flight ticket, which should not be more than 14 days later from the date of arrival. The person should show the documents pertaining to the purpose of visit, place of stay, return ticket, visa. They should provide address proof of the person in Karnataka they intend to meet. Besides, they should provide the negative report of RT-PCR test done within 72 hours before departure from the U.K., Brazil, and South Africa, as relevant. They should compulsorily undergo RT-PCR test at Bengaluru airport, and they will be exempted from quarantine if the report is negative. They should again undergo compulsory RT-PCR testing on the 7th day of arrival if they are staying for more than seven days. If they test positive for COVID-19, they should follow all guidelines for isolation and treatment apart from regular COVID-19 precautions. If the short stay travellers develop any COVID-19-like symptoms during their visit, they should compulsorily seek medical consultation and get tested. These travellers will be monitored for COVID-19 symptoms by district surveillance units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/14-day-home-quarantine-must-for-people-coming-from-abroad/article33892849.ece
21 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. to set up marketing intelligence cell||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Saturday informed the Centre that the State government intends to set up a scientific marketing intelligence cell in order to shift focus on income-based policy to increase farmers’ income. Mr. Yediyurappa took part in the sixth meeting of the Governing Council of NITI Aayog chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and said the government intends to create an online marketing platform for surplus fruits and vegetables supported by infrastructure facilities under the Atmanirbhar Bharat scheme. A task force to promote integrated farming system had been set up, he said, explaining various measures taken to help the sector. The Chief Minister requested the Prime Minister to declare Upper Bhadra Project and Upper Krishna Project as national projects. He also requested approval of six proposals worth Rs. 6,673 crore under modernisation of canals project and additional grants were sought for river diversion projects. The Prime Minister was requested to set up a mechanism to fast track disposal of litigation in courts as infrastructure projects were hampered owing to litigation and environmental protests. Financial support was also sought to take up initiatives under National Education Policy. The Union government was requested to provide Rs. 4,300 crore to create an optical fibre network to provide network connectivity to all government offices. Noting water security plan was being developed in 41 overexploited taluks under Atal Bhujal Yojna, Mr. Yediyurappa said the State government planned to follow NITI Aayog’s 49 aspirational indicators to monitor the progress of 114 backward taluks. A Corporate Social Responsibility Portal AKANKSHA has been created for the development of backward taluks and sectors, he said. Despite the pandemic all fiscal indicators had been contained within the limits of the Karnataka Fiscal Responsibility Act, 2002. Karnataka had been able to maintain one of the lowest unemployment rates in the country at 3.6%, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-to-set-up-marketing-intelligence-cell/article33892857.ece
21 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Periodic tests for food handlers||Following recommendations from the COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) and other experts, the Health Department has made it mandatory to conduct RT-PCR testing on all catering staff every fortnight. In a circular issued on Saturday, Health Commissioner K.V. Trilok Chandra said only those with a negative RT-PCR certificate should be permitted to provide catering services, and only asymptomatic staff and patrons should be allowed. “Given the current COVID-19 situation and with the opening up of all activities in Karnataka, there is an imminent danger of a second wave of COVID-19. It is important that the food handlers who are working in catering services for functions such as weddings, birthdays, and social, religious, and political gatherings, apart from in hotels, restaurants, resorts, and dhabas, take suitable measures to restrict any further transmission of the virus while providing their services,” stated the circular. While physical distancing of at least six feet should be followed as far as feasible, the use of face covers is mandatory. Frequent hand washing with soap (for at least 40-60 seconds) and the use of alcohol-based hand sanitizers (for at least 20 seconds) should be made available wherever feasible. Those who prepare food should wear disposable gloves at all times, even while serving the food items, the circular stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/periodic-tests-for-food-handlers/article33892845.ece
21 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Intensified Mission Indradhanush to cover 41,470 people||As many as 41,470 beneficiaries (children aged below two and pregnant women) who have missed their routine immunisation in 13 districts, including Bengaluru Urban (BBMP areas too), Kalaburagi, Belagavi, Bidar, and Davangere will be covered under the first phase of the Centre’s “Intensified Mission Indradhanush (IMI) 3.0” that will be launched on Monday at Kalaburagi. This will be a four-day campaign. Addressing presspersons here on Tuesday, Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said the programme aimed at covering children who had either missed vaccination or were partially vaccinated against 10 vaccine-preventable diseases, including diphtheria, whooping cough, tetanus, polio, childhood tuberculosis, measles, rubella, Japanese encephalitis, and hepatitis B. Expecting mothers would also be immunised for tetanus, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/intensified-mission-indradhanush-to-cover-41470-people/article33893056.ece
21 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Inspired by film, realtor turns thief||A realtor, who sustained huge losses, allegedly took inspiration from the film Drishyam on how to evade the police, and burgled his friend’s house with the help of an associate, who is also a businessman. The accused, Nazeem Sharieff, 41, from Lakkasandra, and his associate, Mohammed Shafiulla, 42, from Sudduguntepalya who runs a granite business, did not use cellphones. According to the police, Shafiulla changed autorickshaws six times to transport the stolen goods worth Rs. 70 lakh, said S.D. Sharanappa, DCP (East). The police teams examined footage from 270 CCTVs and local intelligence, as they were unable to identify all the autorickshaws from the footage. On January 13, he went to the house of his friend Jyoti Jwala in Pulakeshi Nagar and accompanied her to a hospital where her brother had been admitted. At the same time, Shafiulla broke into the house and ransacked it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/inspired-by-film-realtor-turns-thief/article33892843.ece
21 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Minister seeks Centre’s help||Health Minister K. Sudhakar called on Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in Bengaluru on Saturday and gave a representation seeking the Centre’s help in getting an All-India Institute of Medical Sciences established in Karnataka. The representation also urged the government to sanction a sub-centre of NIMHANS to Kalyana Karnataka region. He also briefed Ms. Sitharaman on the State’s plan to set up a ‘Health City’ with a cluster of super-speciality hospitals related to cancer, kidney, and other chronic ailments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-seeks-centres-help/article33892860.ece
21 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Vaccination: Two cases of AEFI reported||Two more serious adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) have been reported in the State on Saturday taking the total number of serious AEFIs to 20. According to the department’s media bulletin, a 40-year-old female pourakarmika in Dharwad, who was vaccinated on February 10, developed fever and chills on the same night. She was managed on OPD basis at SDM hospital. However, she developed cough and breathing difficulty again on February 18 and has been admitted to SDM hospital. A 38-year-old male pourakarmika in Ballari, who was vaccinated on February 19, developed high-grade fever, chills and an episode of convulsions two hours after vaccination. He has been shifted to district hospital in Ballari for further management. As many as 1,11,935 healthcare workers have taken the second dose in the State so far. While the highest is from Tumakuru (10,898) followed by Bengaluru Urban (10,777), the lowest is from Yadgir (1,094).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccination-two-cases-of-aefi-reported/article33893057.ece
21 February 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Festive mood in village||A festive mood enveloped Tadasanahalli village in Shikaripura on Saturday, as Deputy Commissioner K.B. Shivakumar and other senior officers visited the place as part of “Zilladhikari Nade: Halli Kade” programme. The villagers offered officers a grand welcome beating the drums and presenting folk dance performances. The people participated in the procession with enthusiasm. The Deputy Commissioner visited the government primary school in the village, where a health check-up camp was organised. A team of doctors did a general check-up of people. The residents were provided with health cards under the Arogya Karnataka scheme. Advice to teachers Mr. Shivakumar walked into the classrooms and interacted with students. He also made a couple of students read excerpts from their textbooks and also asked them to solve a few math problems. He felt that the teachers needed to give extra attention to teaching mathematics. Later, addressing the gathering, the Deputy Commissioner said the primary duty of the Revenue Department was to ensure social security to all individuals. “We have the responsibility of providing people social security and ensure government’s schemes reach the needy through various agencies and departments”, he said. Lok Sabha member B.Y. Raghavendra, who also took part in the programme, said officers should listen to people’s problems and resolve them within the stipulated time. “If all officers at the field level work with dedication, Deputy Commissioners need not visit the rural areas”, he opined. Malnad Development Board chairman Gurumurthy, and Shikaripur Tahsildar Kaviraj were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/festive-mood-in-village/article33893255.ece
21 February 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Teach Kannada to outsiders in State, says Doddarange Gowda||Stating that the number of non-Kannadigas was on the rise in Bengaluru city, poet Doddarange Gowda said Kannada Sahitya Parishat should take up a programme to teach Kannada to all such people. He spoke after inaugurating the two-day district-level Kannada Sahitya Sammelana in Hassan on Saturday. Kannada language has been facing many challenges in the changing times. People should understand the significance of the language and make their children speak and study it. Kannada Sahitya Parishat should start a three-month programme to teach Kannada to outsiders, who come to the State for jobs. It should be mandatory to work in the State, he opined. Metikere Hiriyanna, writer and retired principal, who chaired the 19th Kannada Sahitya Sammelana, stressed the need for scientific awareness among children. He criticised a section of media for giving importance to superstition and blind practices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/teach-kannada-to-outsiders-in-state-says-doddarange-gowda/article33893059.ece
21 February 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||DC sets timeline for reviewing applications||Hassan Deputy Commissioner R. Girish has said that the applications received during the officers’ village stay programme will be addressed within a time frame of 15 days. He spoke to villagers during his visit to Hettur in Sakleshpur taluk as part of the officers’ village stay programme on Saturday. The district administration received 224 applications with regard to various services offered by different departments. The Deputy Commissioner said a majority of the applications would be resolved on the spot. “A few applications would require further verification and process. I have instructed the officers to resolve them within 15 days”, he said. The state-wide programme to make officers stay put in the village was planned with an intention to provide services for the rural people at their place. “This programme strengthens the democratic system”, he said. The Deputy Commissioner and other officers reached the village by 10 a.m. He and Zilla Panchayat CEO B.A. Paramesh received applications from people and interacted with them about their problems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dc-sets-timeline-for-reviewing-applications/article33893253.ece
21 February 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Hill cleaning drive today||Chikkamagaluru district administration, in association with non-governmental organisations, has decided to clean the tourist spots along Chandradrona Hill Ranges on Sunday. Superintendent of Police Akshay M. Hakay held a meeting on the preparation for the drive. Hundreds of people visit the tourist spots every day and they litter the place. “The drive will start at 7 a.m. at Town Canteen Circle in the city. The administration has identified 11 places, including Bababudangiri, Mullayyanagiri, Manikyadhara, and Seetalayyanagiri, to clean”, he said. The police, officers of the Forest and Excise Departments, City Municipal Council, Social Welfare Department, Scouts and Guides, Round Table India, Rotary Club, and Wild Caps are participating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cleaning-drive/article33893052.ece
21 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Make use of scheme to redress grievances: DC||The ambitious plan of the State government to take the administration to the doorsteps of the public was launched in Dharwad district on Saturday with the Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad visiting and spending seven hours with the people at Kogilageri village in Alnavar taluk of the district. The village stay is part of the ‘Janara Baagilige Zillaadalita’ (district administration at people’s doorsteps) programme of the government which will be held every third Saturday. Speaking to the residents of Kogilageri after being given a warm welcome by children and elders alike, Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil called on them to make good use of the programme to get their grievances redressed. “It is an ambitious programme launched to provide all services and facilities related to Revenue Department to the residents at their doorsteps. District and taluk officials will be with the people for several hours and people should make good use of it,” he said. Mr. Patil said that he had received 27 memoranda in the first round of the interaction and they had been immediately sent for further action to respective departments. He said the Joint Director of Social Welfare Department had been asked to provide Rs. 20 lakh grants for SC colony development in the village and steps would be taken to construct drainage.   As part of the programme, Deputy Commissioner of Haveri S.B. Shettennavar spent seven hours at Hosaneeralagi village in Savanur taluk of the district, while Deputy Commissioner of Gadag M. Sundaresh Babu visited Churchihal village in Mundaragi taluk, and Deputy Commissioner of Uttara Kannada district Mullai Muhilan M.P. visited Haadavalli village of Bhatkal taluk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/make-use-of-scheme-to-redress-grievances-dc/article33893044.ece
21 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Convention of seers and devotees on Feb. 28||A convention of devotees and seers will be held in Hubballi on February 28 and over 250 seers from different mutts are expected to participate. Addressing presspersons here on Saturday, Sadashivanand Swami of Gadag said that the convention will be held at Sadashivanand English Medium School at Bhairidevarakoppa in Hubballi. The seer said that first a convention of devotees will be held at 10 a.m. and subsequently at 2.30 p.m. convention of seers of various mutts would be held. Kadasiddheshwar Swami of Kanheri Mutt, Kolhapur will chair both the conventions, he said. Shankararoodha Swami of Mudhol said that the convention was being held with the objective of protecting religious institutions like mutts, devotees, and the religion. A federation of seers had been formed for the purpose of conducting social activities. Apart from social activities the federation would also fight against social evils and fight against forceful conversion, love jihad and others, the swami said. The seers, however, declined to comment on the ongoing controversy surrounding the donation of Moorusavir Mutt land to KLE Society and the demand for reservation from various communities in the State and the agitations being held for the purpose. Shivashankara Shivacharya Swami of Hubballi, Dayanand Swami of Ibrahimpura, Vijayasiddheshwar Swami of Mannikeri were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/convention-of-seers-and-devotees-on-feb-28/article33893045.ece
21 February 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Residents pour out woes to DC||People of Konchavaram, a village at Chincholi taluk in Kalaburagi district that was once infamous for children trafficking, poured out their problems to Deputy Commissioner Vijaya Jyothsna, who came for a village stay programme, on Saturday. The problems ranged from those related to widows, old-age and disability pensions through difficulties in getting benefits of various welfare schemes to the bureaucratic insensitivity in addressing the problems pertaining to land records. The district administration had made arrangements like installing enough Internet-connected computers to resolve the issues on the spot. Ms. Jyotshna was found listening to the people and directing the officials to resolve the problems at the earliest possible. “I have intentionally chosen your village that had once been infamous for child trafficking for the village stay. No parent can willingly sell his or her child. I can understand the pathetic conditions that might have forced the parents to sell their children. I have come to your doorstep to listen to you. I will stay with you here. You can share your problems and feelings with me. I will honestly try my best to address them,” the Deputy Commissioner told the people. Ms. Jyothsna paid visits to the residential school, the hostel, the anganwadi, and other government institutions. She played with children at the anganwadi for some time. She also visited the houses of some pregnant and lactating mothers and inquired about their health and the availability of government schemes meant for them. Later, she paid a visit to the burial ground of the village as well. When she visited a hostel run by the Social Welfare Department, she got annoyed to find that the lunch was not yet prepared for children on time. She directed the officials concerned to issue show-cause notices to the responsible government servants. Avinash Jadhav, MLA for Chincholi under which Konchavaram village fell, was conspicuous by his absence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/residents-pour-out-woes-to-dc/article33893040.ece
21 February 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||‘RGUHS to introduce peripheral scanning to check malpractices’||The Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Science (RGUHS) will introduce peripheral scanning this year, said RGUHS Vice-Chancellor S. Sachidanand. Addressing presspersons at the newly established University Regional Centre on the outskirts of Kalaburagi city on Saturday, Dr. Sachidanand said the peripheral scanning system will help the varsity check malpractices and announce results earlier. The existing evaluation procedures delay the results by 2 to 3 months. With peripheral scanning, we can announce the results of various courses a few days after the practical examinations, he explained. In peripheral scanning, the answer sheets are scanned and uploaded to the university server from the respective examination centres immediately after the exam. The scanned answer sheets will be sent for digital evaluation. The entire process will take place before a surveillance camera to maintain transparency. Dr. Sachidanand said RGUHS is the first-ever university in Karnataka to introduce an insurance scheme for students in its affiliated colleges. “The scheme, which had been rolled out last year will assist students to complete the course if his/her parents die due to ill health, in an accident or tragedy, the university came up with insurance scheme after finding most of students discontinuing studies after such tragedies,” he added. Regional centre Minister for Health and Family Welfare K. Sudhakar will inaugurate the Kalaburagi regional centre of RGUHS here on Sunday. The centre has been constructed at an estimated cost of Rs. 7.75 crore on 1.25 acres. It will be one of the four regional centres of RGUHS in the State. The RGUHS regional centre was established in December 2002, and the colleges affiliated to the University situated in the Kalaburagi division were brought under this centre. The regional centre of RGUHS at Kalaburagi was functioning temporarily on the premises of MR Medical College. The RGUHS senate which was not happy with the powers and functions of RGUHS regional centres passed a resolution to strengthen the centre. The senate sub-committee under the chairmanship of G.R. Thammagonda submitted its report in 2004. There was delay in getting the own building for the regional centre due to the non-availability of land, Dr. Sachidanand said. The building comprises an auditorium, a digital evaluation room, Multipurpose hall for organising faculty training and CME programmes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rguhs-to-introduce-peripheral-scanning-to-check-malpractices/article33893051.ece
21 February 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Women protest seeking repeal of amendment||Demanding the repeal of the recently-amended APMC Act and opposing the reduction of funds to the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, hundreds of women, mostly agricultural labourers, took out a rally at Aland in Kalaburadi district on Saturday. Organised under the banner of the Akhil Bharatiya Janwadi Mahila Sanghatana, the protesters raised slogans against the Union and the State governments for their “insensitivity” towards the burning issues of the people. “The amendment to the APMC Act and the reduction of funds to the job scheme are its continuation. Questioning the State’s wrongdoing is our right and duty and we will do it. We will uncompromisingly fight for our rights, no matter how much repression the State unleashes on us,” Gauramma, a women’s leader, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/women-protest-seeking-repeal-of-amendment/article33893038.ece
21 February 2021||Karkala (Udupi district),KARNATAKA||Malicious statements are acts of sedition: Bommai||Acts prompting people to war, statements defaming gods, spread of rumour are all acts of sedition and police was talking effective steps against such perpetrators, said Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai here on Saturday. Inaugurating the newly-built 48 police quarters at Karkala town, Mr. Bommai said the police were effectively dealing with persons prompting communal clash, spreading rumour on social media, and all those trying to create unrest in the society. Stating about zero tolerance for such crimes, Mr. Bommai said, “If the police receive support of people then they can excel in acting against such perpetrators”. The Home Minister said the State police was continuing the drive against drugs and in the last 10 months the amount of drugs seized was equal to that seized in the last 10 years. Not just cannabis, the police have seized synthetic drugs, foreign drugs, and arms sold through the dark web. “Our police have succeeded in cracking the dark web and catch persons dealings with drugs and arms,” he said. A slew of changes to make police administration effective will be brought in following report by the committee headed by Director-General and Inspector-General of Police Praveen Sood that was expected to be placed before him by March 31. Apart from improving efficiency of working of police, the Government intends to make police people friendly. The 48 quarters in Karkala built at a cost of Rs. 9.5 crore, Mr. Bommai said, were among the 11,000 quarters that have been built under Police Gruha Scheme 2020. The Police Gruha 2025 scheme will start from April under which 10,400 houses will be built. This will meet 64% of the total need of police quarters As many as 16,000 police personnel will be recruited in the next three years and 25% reservation will be given to women and 2% reservation will be for sports.  ASI Rajesh and Woman Constable Rukmini formally received keys of their quarters from the Home Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/malicious-statements-are-acts-of-sedition-bommai/article33893226.ece
21 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Panchagangavali Kandla forests to get ‘biodiversity hotspot’ tag||The Karnataka Biodiversity Board will soon pass a resolution to declare the expansive Kandla Forests in the Panchagangavali Estuary in Kundapur taluk, Udupi district as a biodiversity hotspot, said its chairperson Anant Hegde Ashisara on Saturday. Speaking to reporters at Udupi, Mr. Ashisara said the Kandla forest at the estuary was spread over 100 acres and the Forest Department was making every effort to protect and preserve the same. The biodiversity hotspot tag would enhance protection and conservation efforts, he said. Mr. Ashisara said though there were many Kandla forests along the Karnataka coast, the one in Panchagangavali Tiver perhaps has been the largest. It has grown over the years inside the water and the marshy land, he said. Kundapur Deputy Conservator of Forests would submit a report to the Board in this regard shortly, after formal declaration would be made. To a question on destruction of Kandla forests in Kundapur taluk for raising shrimp farms, Mr. Ashisara said the department would have act against such destructions. The board in consultation with the department will recommend to the government to raise/declare a forest in Udupi district as ‘Smriti Vana’ in memory of Udupi Pejawar Mutt’s late seer Vishwesha Tirtha Swami. His contribution to environment protection had been immense and he had participated in several movements, Mr. Ashisara said. The board was yet to finalise the place, he added. Mr. Ashisara said he visited several places along the Karnataka coast, particularly those where sea turtles nest to lay eggs. One such place at Kodi beach in Kundapur taluk, which was being maintained well by local associations along with the department. But beaches in Karnataka still need much attention towards cleanliness. Local bodies should take more interest in ensuring cleanliness of beaches, he said. The board would propose to establish marine rescue centres to protect and treat marine fauna, including turtles and dolphins at vantage locations, Mr. Ashisara said. Speaking about monkey menace to farmers, Mr. Ashisara said though monkeys were wild animals, the department could not compensate farmers for crop loss on technical grounds. The board would urge the government to provide 100% compensation for crop loss to farmers due to monkey menace on the lines of other wild animals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/panchagangavali-kandla-forests-to-get-biodiversity-hotspot-tag/article33893223.ece
21 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Villagers pour out their woes to DCs||While Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha spent his evening visiting houses of class X students and other residents of Palimaru village, Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra spent the whole day at Shishila village of Belthangady taluk of district and tried to address problems related to pension and property records during the ‘grama vaatavya’ held on Saturday. The visit to Palimaru village for Mr. Jagadeesha was the second one as he visited Nalkur village on January 30. Mr. Jagadeesha was with Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who had come to participate in programmes related to three development works in Karkala taluk in the morning. In the absence of Mr. Jagadeesha, Additional Deputy Commissioner Sadashiva Prabhu and Kundapur Assistant Commissioner K. Raju inaugurated the programme at Palimaru village. The two officials then interacted with class X students at the Government PU College. Then the two joined other officials from the Revenue Department to dispose of petitions. Mr. Jagadeesha came to the village in the evening. He visited a few houses of class X students, including one where a student told Mr. Jagadeesha that he aspired to become a Deputy Commissioner. Mr. Jagadeesha met a retired postman, who was among the residents affected by ingress of salt water from the nearby vented dam. He also visited Koraga colony and spoke to few residents. Meanwhile, Dr. Rajendra launched the programme by planting saplings at Shishila village. Harish Poonja, Belthangady MLA, accompanied Dr. Rajendra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/villagers-pour-out-their-woes-to-dcs/article33893228.ece
21 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Beedi workers to take out protest march against COTPA amendments||Beedi workers affiliated to different unions in Dakshina Kannada will carry out a protest march on February 25 in Mangaluru against the proposed amendments to the Cigarette and Other Tobacco Products Act (COTPA). Talking to reporters, Vasanth Achari from the South Kanara Beedi Workers Federation (CITU), said the proposed amendments to COTPA will make it more stringent and drastically cut down beedi business, which, in turn , will affect livelihood of lakhs of people. Among the amendments proposed include barring smoking in public and increase age of cigarette smoker from 18 to 21. Beedi brands will be barred from putting the logo on the cover and only have health warning on the cover. Shops selling beedi/cigarette traders should have licence to sell beedi and other tobacco products. It was proposed to drastically increase in the fines. Mr. Achari said these amendments are proposed on the ground to prevent consumption of tobacco as it harms health. “We respect the concern for health. But you cannot allow these amendments that will stymie the lives of beedi workers,” he said. Beedi workers across the country are opposing the amendments and a signature campaign was presently on, he added. Sitharam Berinje from the S.K. Beedi Workers Federation (AITUC) said more than 2.5 lakh people, including several women, earn their living by rolling beedis in Dakshina Kannada. “Earning from beedis is the only source for these people,” Mr. Berinje said, and added that without providing alternate employment to these persons the Centre cannot bring in amendments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/beedi-workers-to-take-out-protest-march-against-cotpa-amendments/article33893234.ece
21 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Head constable gets jail term for accepting bribe||The third Additional District and Sessions Judge B.B. Jakati on Friday sentenced head constable Prakash S. to two years on finding him guilty of accepting a bribe of Rs. 1,000 in 2011. Prakash, then working at the Belthangady Police Station, was accused of accepting Rs. 1,000 for registering an FIR. The Lokayukta Police Inspector Dileep Kumar had filed the chargesheet.  The judge sentenced Prakash to undergo a simple imprisonment of two years and pay a fine of Rs. 5,000 for the offence under Section 13 (1)(d) read with Section 13 (2) of Prevention of Corruption Act. He was also sentenced to one year simple imprisonment and fined Rs. 5,000 for the offence under Section 7 of the P.C. Act. Both sentences will run concurrently. Out of the fine, the judge said, Rs. 5,000 should be paid after the appeal period to Ayisha, wife of Ahmmad Kunhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/head-constable-gets-jail-term-for-accepting-bribe/article33893220.ece
21 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Pinarayi govt. continuing appeasement politics’||Accusing the Pinarayi Vijayan government of continuing with acts appeasing a section of society, Udupi-Chikkamagaluru Member of Parliament Shobha Karandlaje on Saturday said an instance of such conduct was the government recently allowing Popular Front of India to take out a march in which RSS workers were shown in poor light. Talking to reporters at Kaup in Udupi district, she said the PFI activists were allowed to march holding weapons. Condemning the government lenience to PFI activists, Ms. Karandlaje said it has ignored criminal cases the PFI activists are involved in. Reiterating her demand for proscribing PFI, Ms. Karandlaje said the Centre will act on her demand by looking at the criminal cases of PFI activists. On the call by a PFI national functionary asking people not to donate for construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya, Ms. Karandlaje said: “We don’t want their money. They have no morality and or right to speak about Lord Ram.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pinarayi-govt-continuing-appeasement-politics/article33893237.ece
21 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||SCDCC Bank to felicitate Pejawar seer on Feb. 24||South Canara District Central Cooperative (SCDCC) Bank has planned a programme of guruvandana, offering donation to Sri Ram Temple, and felicitation of president M.N. Rajendra Kumar on February 24 in Mangaluru. Guruvandana committee chairman and bank director Deviprasad Shetty told reporters here on Saturday that the bank will felicitate Pejawar Mutt seer Vishwa Prasanna Tirtha Swami. The bank will donate over Rs. 1 crore for the temple even as Mr. Rajendra Kumar has announced donating Rs. 5 lakh personally and Rs. 5 lakh from Navodaya trust.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/scdcc-bank-to-felicitate-pejawar-seer-on-feb-24/article33893221.ece
21 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||33 new cases in Udupi, DK||With 17 new COVID-19 cases and 20 patients discharged, the number of active cases in Dakshina Kannada stood at 237 on Saturday. A fine of Rs. 34.39 lakh has so far been collected in 33, 274 cases of people not wearing masks. As many as 28,337 health workers and 4,023 frontline workers have so far received first dose of COVID-19 vaccine, while 3,921 health workers have received the second dose of the vaccine in Dakshina Kannada. In Udupi, 16 new COVID-19 cases were reported and 15 patients were discharged on Saturday. The number of active cases stood at 47. As many as 15,538 health workers and 2,927 frontline workers have received the first dose of vaccine so far, while 2,027 health workers have received the second dose of the vaccine in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/33-new-cases-in-udupi-dk/article33893230.ece
21 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Customs seizes 402 gm of gold||The Customs sleuths seized 402 grams of gold worth Rs. 19.01 lakh from a passenger at Mangaluru International Airport on Friday. In a release, the Customs said Shaik Haneefa, 26, of Kasaragod was checked soon after he landed at the airport by the Air India flight from Dubai. He had concealed gold in the wheels of the trolley bag and motor plates of a toy vacuum cleaner. The gold was in mercury coated E shaped plates and mercury coated rods. The team was led by Deputy Commissioner Kapil Gade and comprised of Superintendents Nagesh Kumar, Bhoomkar, and Virag Shukla.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/customs-seizes-402-gm-of-gold/article33893238.ece
21 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Madhwamatha association||Paryaya Udupi Admar Mutt senior seer Sri Vishwapriya Tirtha Swami will launch the Global Madhwamatha Welfare Association at Rajangana in Udupi Krishna Mutt premises at 3 p.m. on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/madhwamatha-association/article33893240.ece
21 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||DCs reach out, offer succour to villagers in four districts||The Deputy Commissioners of Mysuru, Mandya, Chamarajanagar and Kodagu headed straight to their chosen villages today as a part of the programme of taking the district administration to the doorsteps of villagers. The entire Revenue Department led by the DCs and comprising all senior officers including tahsildars will visit one village in the respective districts on the third Saturday of every month to hear the grievances of the community and address them. The entire team will remain in the chosen village for 24 hours. Mysuru Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri chose to visit Terikal village in Hunsur taluk and heard the grievances of the villagers besides visiting anganwadi centres and interacting with schoolchildren. The villagers drew her attention to road and drainage repairs, drinking water supply, housing, fencing of village burial ground, funds for the construction of community hall, restoration of village temples and other issues. At Rangaiyyana Koppal settlement in Terikal, the villagers told her that their ‘Pouthi Katha’ was not being done by the revenue staff. When the tahsildar intervened to say that the ‘Pouthi Katha’ was not happening because the applicants had not furnished the death certificates, the Deputy Commissioner told the tahsildar to hold a special camp in the settlement, providing death certificates and later ‘Pouthi Katha’. On the occasion, she visited the Kittur Rani Chennamma Residential School and planted a sapling. She later interacted with the children of Morarji Desai Residential School. ZP CEO A.M. Yogesh, Hunsur AC Veena, tahsildar Basavaraj, and others were present. Mandya During her stay in Sheelanere village in K.R. Pet taluk in Mandya, Deputy Commissioner S. Aswathi sanctioned pension to 44 eligible beneficiaries, and issued pension release letters. And the Labour Department gave away ID cards to the construction workers. Ms. Aswathi, who began her tour of the village on Friday, said all steps had been taken to address the problems faced by the villagers at her level itself. “I am very happy to receive the affection from the people of Sheelanere,” she said, before wrapping up her village stay. Earlier, she heard the grievances of the villagers on Friday at ‘Aralikatte’ and straightway addressed some of the issues. She had separate interactions with the village youth, students and women, on the problems faced by them and what the administration needs to do. Ms. Aswathi said widow pensions, old age pensions, health cards, RTCs and ‘Pouthi Katha’ had been given, and the benefits available under various schemes in various departments had been explained. She also gave away Bhagyalakshmi bond to eligible beneficiaries after releasing the calendar of the Labour Department. Drip irrigation implements, certificates for differently abled persons, Ayushman insurance cards, and ‘Pouthi Katha’ to 25 beneficiaries were distributed on the occasion. Pandavapura AC Shivananda Murthy and other officials were present. Chamarajanagar Deputy Commissioner M.R. Ravi visited Maalangi village in Kollegal taluk as part of the programme of taking the entire administration to the village. He heard the grievances and issued immediate orders for addressing the issues raised by the villagers. Additional Deputy Commissioner S. Kathyayini, AC Girish Dileep Badole and others were present. Kodagu Kodagu Deputy Commissioner Charulatha Somal went around Kurchi village and Srimangala in Ponnampet taluk and interacted with the villagers, going to their homes. She was accompanied by Revenue Department officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dcs-reach-out-offer-succour-to-villagers-in-four-districts/article33893260.ece
21 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Curbs on entry to Chamarajanagar dist.||In the wake of fresh COVID-19 scare in Kerala where cases are said to be mounting in the recent days, surveillance on the border in Chamarajanagar district has been stepped up with strict instructions from the district administration to permit travellers into the district through Gundlupet taluk only if they have negative report of RT-PCR test done in the last 72 hours. A new check-post has come up at Moolehole on the Chamarajanagar-Kerala border following the directions from the State government which has made RT-PCR test negative report mandatory to enter the State. All vehicles entering the district are subjected to checks and test details of the passengers are verified as directed by the State. Screening and verification of the test reports are mandatory for tourists, traders and other travellers, the Health Department has been told. Thermal screening Deputy Commissioner M.R, Ravi has ordered thermal screening of all travellers from Kerala entering the district in view of fresh cases reported in the neighbouring State. The Deputy Commissioner also reviewed the status of vaccination in the district as the first dose of vaccination for the staff of Revenue, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj, and Urban Development departments and other frontline workers was underway. Mr. Ravi told the health officials to complete the first dose for frontline workers as scheduled as the second dose for the health workers had commenced and also had to be completed in time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/curbs-on-entry-to-chamarajanagar-dist/article33893256.ece
21 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||MoU signed for cyber security, safe use of digital technology||JSS Science and Technology University (JSS STU), SJCE, Mysuru has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Global Cyber Security Response Team Private Limited (GCSRT), Bengaluru. The collaboration that was signed recently is expected to foster a culture of cybersecurity which promotes safe and appropriate use of cyberspace, financial transaction, e-business transactions and other online and mobile application on devices, according to the University. In an era of rapid digital transformation and exponential use of technology that has resulted in the ever-increasing generation of data, the need for cybersecurity is perennially on the rise for every organisation connected to the Internet. The complexity of cyber attacks has been on the rise, with more and more individuals and organisations falling victims to these attacks, a release from Registrar S.A. Dhanaraj said here. “In this connection, it is our responsibility to create awareness and educate upcoming citizens for better preparedness to safeguard themselves against the misuse of digital technology. The purpose of this MoU is to formulate strategies for safeguarding students and all in-house stakeholders of the university from cybercrime,” he added. Skill development in cyberspace technologies through workshops, trainings, seminars and FDPs will be conducted. The MoU also facilitates information technology faculty exchange in areas of mutual interest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mou-signed-for-cyber-security-safe-use-of-digital-technology/article33893252.ece
21 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Unseasonal rain in south-interior Karnataka provides temporary reprieve from forest fires||The unseasonal rain that lashed parts of south-interior Karnataka on Friday has brought temporary respite from the scourge of forest fires in national parks and wildlife sanctuaries in the region. Though the rain was scattered to moderate and not widespread, it helped introduce moisture to the barren landscape. This is expected to postpone the fire season by atleast a fortnight. In MM Hills Wildlife Sanctuary, there was moderate rain lasting almost 45 minutes to one hour on Friday in five of the seven ranges and the park authorities are confident this will help ensure adequate moisture till the first week of March. V. Yedukondalu, Deputy Conservator of Forests, MM Hills Wildlife Sanctuary, said MM Hills, Palar, Ramapura, PG Palya, and Cowdahalli ranges received moderate to heavy showers while light showers in Hanur and Hoogyam. “The forests of MM Hills were still green and Friday’s rain will help enhance the moisture content which will help diminish the threat of forest fire considerably till the first week of March,” he added. In the Nagarahole Tiger Reserve, the rains were confined to buffer zones in Veeranahosahalli and Metikuppe but the core forests as such did not receive much rains. However, more rains have been forecast in the next 24 to 38 hours and the park authorities are hopeful that it will bring temporary reprieve to tide over the threat of forest fires. The fringes of Bandipur too received rains but given the dry deciduous nature of the forests, it is no major reprieve from the forest fires. The forests and national parks in south-interior Karnataka region face the threat of fire from the first week of February and it lasts till the onset of the pre-monsoon showers in May. Hence the authorities intensify vigil and appoint additional fire watchers to help douse any fire before it spreads to become a major conflagration. The region has a history of forest fires that tend to devastate large swathe of jungles and hence any unseasonal rain is welcome as it provides a temporary reprieve by reducing the number of dry days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/unseasonal-rain-in-south-interior-karnataka-provides-temporary-respite-from-forest-fires/article33893236.ece
21 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mango growers to get training in safe ripening||Ahead of the start of mango season this year, the Department of Horticulture in Mysuru has started making preparations for the Mango Mela it is planning to hold in May for making available best variety fruits to the mango enthusiasts here. Though the year is described as on-year for the crop, the authorities are keeping their fingers crossed over the output despite early flowering noticed in most parts of the State. The department holds mango mela every year, bringing farmers not just from Mysuru district but also from places where the fruit was prominently grown. The reason why the mela gets a good response was that the fruits are naturally ripened and fruits that are artificially ripened are not allowed at the mela. Organic varieties are most sought after. This year, the department has proposed to train farmers on ripening methods ahead of the mela. As the arrangements are underway, the department has asked interested mango growers to register their names by visiting the taluk horticulture offices, giving their addresses and contact numbers. In a release here, the Deputy Director of Horticulture, Mysuru said interested growers can participate in the training on safe ripening methods.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mango-growers-to-get-training-in-safe-ripening/article33893261.ece
21 February 2021||Udupi,KARNATAKA||briefly||The district sand monitoring committee has decided to provide sand that was being extracted from the Mundli dam in Karkala taluk to the public through the Udupi E-Sand App. Sand could be obtained through the app by individuals for their works as well as for public development works, said an official release. Details may be had from the senior geologist’s office in the district office complex at Rajatadri, Manipal, phone 0820-2572333.     The Dakshina Kannada District Working Journalists Association has said the government has sanctioned Rs. 2 lakh solatium to the family of Dayananda Kudupu, who passed away in March last year. The association had brought the plight of his family to the notice of the Karnataka Union of Working Journalists. The government had also sanctioned Rs. 5 lakh solatium to the families of journalists Seethalakshmi Karkikodi, Mangaluru and Narayana Naika, Puttur, who passed away in November and August last, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article33893224.ece
21 February 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Village stay gets a good response||The State government’s ‘Janara Baagilige Zillaadalita’ received a good response in Raichur and Yadgir districts on Saturday. In the absence of Deputy Commissioner of Raichur, Durugesh, Additional Deputy Commissioner, led the officials’ team to Kalli-Lingasgur village in Lingsugur taluk in Raichur district and heard the grievance of the people of the surrounding villages. Most of the applications were related to issues of the Revenue, the Agriculture, and the Horticulture Departments. “As many as 168 application were submitted by the people with problems of drinking water, lack of a borewell, graveyard and of them 120 were solved and orders were issued to the person concerned,” Mr. Durugesh told presspersons.  The officials visited the temple, the school, and other government buildings. They also visited the localities where people from Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes were residing to hear the grievances.  In a similar programme, R. Ragapriya Deputy Commissioner of Yadgir, heard the grievances of the people of Khanapur ( SH) village in Surpur taluk of Yadgir district. MLA and Chairman of Urban Water Supply and Drainage Board, Narasimha Naik ( Rajugowda) appealed to the people to make use of the programme. Addressing the gathering, Dr. Ragapriya said that district administration with coordination of the government department will surely solve the problems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/village-stay-gets-a-good-response/article33893049.ece
21 February 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Call to curb illegal sale of liquor||Hundreds of women staged a protest against the illegal sale of liquor in Raichur on Saturday. They held pestles in their hand during the protest. The protesters alleged that the illegal sale of liquor in the rural areas as well as the city limits was becoming common. Despite several memoranda and reminders, officials of departments concerned had not taken any steps to prevent it and protect the lives of the common people in the district. ‘No action taken’ Expressing anguish against the “incapable administration”, they said, “we protested for a couple of days. However, there was no action. Thus, we held pestles today to show our anger against the illegal sale of liquor”. A protester said that it was a symbol of how women can shift from the ladle to the pestle to face their problems head-on. The protesters strongly urged the State government to take the issue seriously and find a solution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/call-to-curb-illegal-sale-of-liquor/article33893047.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||HC directs civic body to start work on restoring three lakes||The High Court of Karnataka has directed the BBMP to immediately initiate measures to restore three lakes, including Kamakshipalya lake, that has no water as half the area was used for other purposes and the remaining portion is an open field. In the case of Arehalli lake, the court directed BBMP to take steps for de-watering the lake before desilting, and removal of superficial sediment up to a depth of three metres. The works of removing unwanted silt up to a depth of two metres and deepening of Tavarekere lake will be undertaken as per the recommendations of National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI). A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum issued the directions based on the recommendations made by the CSIR-NEERI in its Phase 1 report after studying 210 lakes, for their protection, restoration and rejuvenation. The report was submitted on the directions of the court, which is monitoring the issues of lake and stormwater drain maintenance through PIL petitions. NEERI is expected to provide a master plan for each lake in its Phase 2 report. As BBMP has expressed some reservations about taking up the work of deepening of Kamakshipalya lake on the ground that the area is too small, the bench directed the civic body to seek the opinion of NEERI on immediately commencing the work. If NEERI advises to take up the work soon, the BBMP will have to comply, the bench said. As BBMP has agreed to take steps for restoration of Arehalli and Tavarekere lakes, the bench directed the civic body to put up a fence around the lakes, and involve, as recommended by NEERI, the residents of nearby areas in the work of removal of superficial sediment. Pointing out that lake restoration work cannot be done without the support of local residents, the bench directed the BBMP to create awareness among them. In case of Tavarekere lake, the bench said NEERI’s recommendation of putting a metal fence, planting perennial plants like crocuses, tulips, irises and delphiniums that last through bad weather not requiring to be renewed every year, should be implemented. The BBMP was also directed to implement the recommendation for introduction of fish/larvivorous fish species in the lake to control mosquito. The bench directed the BBMP to submit a report by April 15 to enable the court to monitor implementation of the NEERI report.   Pointing out that lake restoration cannot be done without the support of local residents, the bench directed the BBMP to create awareness among them.     The bench directed the BBMP to submit a report by April 15 to enable the court to monitor implementation of the NEERI report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-directs-civic-body-to-start-work-on-restoring-three-lakes/article33892840.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Cluster with over five cases to be declared containment zones||If there are clusters of five or more cases of COVID-19 in hostels, boarding facilities or educational institutions, such places should be declared containment zones by the local health authorities and special surveillance measures should be initiated, said a circular issued from the Health Department on Saturday. This apart, on the lines of restrictions earlier imposed on travellers from Kerala, the department has made it mandatory for those arriving from Maharashtra and checking into hotels, resorts, hostels, or homestays and dormitories to compulsorily produce a negative RT-PCR certificate that is not older than 72 hours. Owners of such places should ensure that the occupants produce a negative RT-PCR certificate, stated the circular. “All students returning from Maharashtra should compulsorily produce RT-PCR negative certificates, not older than 72 hours, each time they return from Maharashtra, until the situation improves. Those who have arrived from Maharashtra in the last two weeks (colleges, hospitals, nursing home, hostel, hotel, lodge etc in the State of Karnataka) should compulsorily be subjected to RT-PCR test,” the circular stated. It added that employees of MNCs put up at hotels, resorts and lodges or availing homestays should get the RT-PCR test done at their own cost. Implementing SoPs will be the responsibility of the heads of these institutions. In hostels and colleges, residents should not be allowed to have visitors/relatives without obtaining express permission from the COVID-19 nodal officers. A list of students travelling to and from Maharashtra from the hostel/college should be maintained by a competent authority. Any potential for super-spreading avenues (such as crowding in dining areas, waiting in halls, reading rooms, indoor playing areas, gymnasium etc.) should be prevented inside the hostel and colleges/schools. The meal timings should be staggered to ensure there is no crowding. Anyone who does not complywith this will be reported to the nodal person/authorities and made to strictly stay in the designated “quarantine room” in the facility till RT-PCR test report is negative. Students from Maharashtra who reside in the hostels should avoid frequently travelling to their native place unless it is strongly justified and should return with a negative certificate. The guidelines for ensuring prevention of COVID-19 outbreaks in colleges will apply to hotels, resorts, apartments, and all residential facilities in Bengaluru. Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said: “The State’s Technical Advisory Committee has said that the next one month (till March end) is crucial for Karnataka and there should be strict implementation of rules to avoid a second wave. As of now there is no proposal to impose any partial or complete lockdown in the State. But we may be forced to think about it if people do not cooperate.”  As of now there is no proposal to impose any partial or complete lockdown in the State. But we may be forced to think about it if people do not cooperate K. Sudhakar, Minister for Health and Family Welfare||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cluster-with-five-or-more-cases-to-be-declared-containment-zone/article33892848.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||HC working towards ‘no arrears courts’: Oka||Mr. Oka will release the policy on February 27, he added. Supreme Court judge S. Abdul Nazeer, who started his legal practice in Karkala, called upon advocates in Karkala to work towards getting speedy justice for their clients at affordable costs. “You should not seek a percentage in the relief amount or share in the property of your client,” he said. Justice Suraj Govindaraj, who is administrative judge for Udupi district, and Udupi Principal District and Sessions Judge J.N. Subramanya also spoke. The new court complex has been constructed at a cost of Rs. 15.9 crore. The construction has been completed within two years since its commencement Earlier, Mr. Nazeer and Mr. Oka laid the foundation stone for a three-floor Vakeelara Bhavan in Moodbidri of Dakshina Kannada district at an estimated cost of Rs. 2.95 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-working-towards-no-arrears-courts-oka/article33893232.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Gang from Delhi flew in to commit crimes in city||The North East division police have arrested six members of a gang of robbers from Delhi that operated in Bengaluru at regular intervals. According to the police, many of them would fly down to Bengaluru from Delhi, rent a villa and recce the city in an SUV. “They would map out escape routes before putting any plan into action, and fly back to Delhi soon after committing a spate of robberies and other crimes,” said a senior police official. The accused were allegedly involved in six chain-snatching incidents and the theft of a bike in a span of two days. A police team tracked them down and nabbed them on February 18, within 48 hours of a crime, before they could board a flight back to Delhi. They have been identified as Suresh Kumar, 32, Haseen Khan, 24, Irshad Akheel, 24, Saleem Mohsin, 22, and Afroz Raheed, 25, from Delhi. Another accused, Harris P.K., 37, from Wayanad in Kerala, provided logistics to the accused . The police recovered six gold chains, a stolen motorcycle and an SUV – totally worth Rs. 11 lakh – from them. C.K. Baba, DCP (North East), who headed the operation, said, “Each one of the accused is involved in at least 25 cases of chain-snatching, house break-in and armed robbery. Some of the cases were registered in other cities.” The kingpin of the gang, Suresh, would come to the city and stay in a villa arranged by Harris. The other gang members would follow a week later. “Investigations revealed that Harris, who runs a condiments business in the city, also provided alibis for the accused. At the time of their arrest, he tried to misguide the police claiming that they were in the business of making banana chips,” Mr. Baba added. The police, after examining CCTV footage, tracked the accused to a hotel in Sadahalli Gate where they had gone to have dinner before boarding the flight. Sensing trouble, they tried to escape, but could not escape from the police.  Harris, who runs a condiments business in the city, also provided alibis for the accused C.K. Baba, DCP (North East)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gang-from-delhi-flew-in-to-commit-crimes-in-city/article33892842.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Walking audit of Malleswaram||As part of the Sustainable Urban Mobility Accord (SuMA), the Malleswaram-Urban Living Lab has started a ‘Walking audit of Malleshwaram’ aimed at integrating footpaths and conservancy lanes to provide safe pedestrian movement, said residents. The audit involves assessing existing conditions of pavements, and identifying uneven pathways, encroachments, dumping of garbage, junctions ignoring pedestrian safety, among other problems. Sobia Rafiq of Malleswaram-Urban Living Lab said that 11-km of footpaths on main roads and connecting lanes between Sankey Tank and Mantri Mall will be audited. Based on the assessment and feedback, they will frame a plan to make the locality more pedestrian-friendly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/walking-audit-of-malleswaram/article33892844.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Renominated||President of All-India Jain Youth Federation’s Mahaveer Limb Centre Mahendra Singhi has been renominated to the Zonal Railway Users’ Consultative Committee (ZRUCC). According to an official communication of South Western Railway, Mr. Singhi will be a member of ZRUCC of SWR for a period of two years from Feb. 1, 2021 to January 31, 2023, as a representative of Mahaveer Limb Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/renominated/article33893042.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Post-Budget talks||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/post-budget-talks/article33892859.ece
21 February 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Assault on minor girl: lawyer arrested||The police on Saturday arrested a senior advocate on charges of sexually assaulting a minor girl. He is a member of the Alappuzha Bar Association. According to the police, the accused was taken into custody from a hideout at Oddanchatram in Tamil Nadu by a special team constituted by District Police Chief G. Jaidev. Anticipatory bail plea A few months ago, the Pulinkunnu police registered a case against him under various sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code. However, he went into hiding. While in hiding, he moved anticipatory bail applications in District Court, High Court and Supreme Court. The courts rejected his anticipatory plea. As per the complaint, the accused assaulted the girl, a relative of his, several times in the last five years. “The girl recently turned 18 and she opposed his advances. Following this he physically attacked her. Her plight came to light after she attempted suicide,” said an official. The accused was produced before the Judicial First-Class Magistrate Court, Ramankary, and remanded into judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/assault-on-minor-girl-lawyer-arrested/article33893174.ece
21 February 2021||Alappuzha,KERALA||Centre cheating youth, says MP||The Union government is cheating youths by not filling lakhs of vacant posts in the Indian Railways and public sector banks in the country, Communist Party of India leader Binoy Viswam has said. He was speaking to reporters in connection with the LDF’s Vikasana Munnetta Jatha here on Saturday. “The UDF is unleashing fake campaigns against the LDF. But they remain silent on the Centre cheating youngsters,” he said. On E. Sreedharan, Principal Advisor of Delhi Metro Railway Corporation, joining the BJP, Mr. Viswam said, “E. Sreedharan is an eminent person. But he has joined a corrupt party.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/centre-cheating-youth-says-mp/article33893173.ece
21 February 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Girl’s death: police intensify probe||The police have intensified probe into the death of a 17-year-old girl student at Pallivasal, near Munnar. The girl, identified as Reshma Rajesh, was found stabbed to death on Friday night. She was a Plus Two student at Bisonvalley government higher secondary school. According to the Vellathooval police, the father of the girl lodged a complaint with the police station that the girl had not returned home after school hours on Friday. The police began a search and autorickshaw drivers in the vicinity said that they had seen the girl going with a relative. The police later found the girl stabbed to death near a stream in a bamboo plantation at Pallivasal around 10 p.m. on Friday. The body was shifted to Kottayam Government Medical College Hospital for post-mortem examination. CCTV visuals showed the girl walking with Anu, alias Arun, around 4.45 p.m., said a police officer at Vellathooval police station. The police are on the look out for Anu. The girl was stabbed using a sharp weapon. The stab injuries were found on her neck and chest, said the officer. The girl tested positive for COVID-19 in an antigen test before the inquest. The father of the girl said there was no family issue and the reason for the murder was unknown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/girls-death-police-begin-search-for-relative/article33893175.ece
21 February 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Families willing to give up land to Forest dept.||Over 200 families in Kasaragod and Kannur districts have come forward to give away their land to the Forest Department in the wake of increasing human-wildlife conflicts in the region. The department has received applications for voluntary relocation from families that own land inside or adjoining the forest fringes under a package of the Rebuild Kerala Development Programme. Since the announcement, the department has received applications from 100 eligible families in Kasaragod and 131 applications from 166 eligible families in Kannur. Forest cover With both districts witnessing a spike in man-animal conflicts in recent years, the department is hopeful of reducing the casualties and crop damage caused by wild animals and increasing the forest cover. D.K. Vinod Kumar, Chief Conservator of Forest, Northern Circle, said the package offered Rs. 15 lakh per eligible family that possessed up to two hectares of land. Those who own more than two hectares would get double the compensation. Unlike previous packages, the compensation is attractive as anyone over 18 years, including son, daughter, sister, brother, physically or mentally challenged person, minor orphan, and widow would be treated as separate family. This means more compensation. 72 ha in Kannur Divisional Forest Officer P. Karthick said the applications were being approved and the department expected to add 72 hectares of land in Kannur through this acquisition. Though various steps had been taken to reduce the human-animal conflicts, the department had to pay a compensation of Rs. 1.2 crore this year for damage caused by wild animals. In areas near Ambayathode, Kottiyoor, Ambalakandy and Vattaparamba near Aralam raids by elephants caused massive crop damage. Instances of snakebite and wild pigs damaging crops and attacking people also have gone up, he added. 100 ha in Kasaragod K. Ashraf, Kanhangad Range Officer, said that in Kasaragod about 100 hectares of land would be added once the applications were processed. Areas in Bandadka and Karudadka section in the Kasaragod forest range and Ranipuram, Ottamala, Athiadakam colony in the Kanhangad forest range have been witnessing frequent human-animal conflicts, sources said. About Rs. 39 lakh was paid as compensation in Kasaragod district in 2019-20, he added.  200-odd families in Kasaragod, Kannur districts apply for the scheme under a package that offers Rs. 15 lakh per eligible family that possesses up to two hectares||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/families-willing-to-give-up-land-to-forest-dept/article33893187.ece
21 February 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Artist gets acclaim for Maradona caricature||Drawing caricature is nothing new for M.V. Jayaraj, a resident of Vellur in Kannur. But it turned out to be special when the Union of World Cartoonists (UWC) recognised his caricature of footballer Diego Armando Maradona and included it in an album released recently. The association, based in Istanbul in Turkey, had invited caricatures from cartoonists across the world to pay homage to the late football wizard in a unique way. The album titled Portrait Caricature Album - Diego Armando Maradona features over 50 multicoloured caricatures by cartoonists from 24 countries, including India. The caricature by Jayaraj is one among them. It is an honour to find a place in an album published by the UWC and also a fitting tribute to the greatest footballer. People in Kerala love football and like any other football fan, Maradona has always been close to my heart, he says. So, when the UWC invited caricatures for the album, I took this as the biggest opportunity to pay tributes to Maradona and immediately came up with the caricature, says Jayaraj. While drawing a caricature, it is important to capture the character and behaviour, he says, adding that there cannot be a better way of paying homage to Maradona. A freelance cartoonist who contributes to papers and weeklies, he retired as superintendent from the Kerala State Electricity Board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/artist-gets-acclaim-for-maradona-caricature/article33893128.ece
21 February 2021||Kasaragod,KERALA||Any post suitable for Sreedharan: BJP||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president K. Surendran on Saturday claimed that many had expressed their willingness to join the party after Metroman E. Sreedharan announced his decision to join the BJP. He added that two retired judges would soon join the party. He said Mr. Sreedharan was a person who deserved to be in any position. He was speaking ahead of the BJP’s Statewide ‘Vijaya Yatra’ which would kick-start under his leadership from Kasaragod on Sunday. He alleged that the State government was indulging in widespread corruption before the upcoming Assembly polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/any-post-suitable-for-sreedharan-bjp/article33893120.ece
21 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Fishing hartal on State’s coastline on Feb. 27||A fishing hartal will be observed on Kerala’s coastline on February 27 under the banner of the newly formed Matsya Mekhala Samrakshana Samiti, demanding cancellation of the ‘‘Memorandum of Understanding (MoU)’’ between the Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation (KSINC) and a U.S.-based company to build 400 trawlers to be deployed off the Indian coast for deep-sea fishing. The decision on the hartal was taken here on Saturday evening following a meeting of fishers’ unions (barring those affiliated to the CPI(M), CPI, and the BJP), boat owners’ associations, representatives of traditional fishermen, and people’s representatives led by Hibi Eden and T.N. Pratapan, MPs. KSINC office siege Prior to the hartal, fishers will lay siege to the KSINC head office here and take out a march to the residence of Minister for Fisheries J. Mercykutty Amma in Kollam on February 22. It will be followed by a regional convention of traditional fishers in Kochi and Kozhikode at 4 p.m. on February 25. “It is imperative that the State government cancel the MoU inked with the US firm to roll out 400 trawlers, since it will lead to massive depletion of marine resources, affecting the livelihood of lakhs of people. It was agreed on Saturday to adopt an apolitical approach in opposing the government’s plans that will derail the State’s fisheries sector,” Mr. Pratapan said. Fisheries stakeholders, including scientists and researchers, had recently demanded cancellation of the MoU, saying that the State government had not done proper homework on the issue. Meanwhile, Joseph Xavier Kalappurakkal was elected as chairman of the Matsya Mekhala Samrakshana Samiti and K.K. Radhakarishnan and Ummer Ootummal as its working chairmen. Charles George will be the convener, while the organisation will have three MPs — N.K. Premachandran, T.N. Pratapan, and Hibi Eden — as well as V. Dinakaran, former MLA, and Father Eugine Pereira as patrons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fishing-hartal-on-states-coastline-on-feb-27/article33893147.ece
21 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Corporation Budget puts focus on environment, water supply||Environment, climate resilience, and basic infrastructural proposals to strengthen water supply and sewerage network featured prominently in the Kochi Corporation’s Budget for the 2021-22 financial year. A sum of Rs. 60 crore has been set aside to augment water supply. New pipelines and pumping stations will be set up in areas relying on water tankers. Water quality will be monitored, and testing laboratories will be set up. Pipelines lying near drains and dysfunctional connections will be replaced, and construction of overhead tanks at Edakochi, Karuvelipady, Kaloor, Pachalam, and Kunnumpuram will be completed. Kochi is one of the 10 cities where the Union government’s Jal Jeevan Mission will be implemented, focusing on providing water and sewerage connections to all households. Additional funds will be made available to the Corporation for this scheme. The Budget proposes a decentralised sewage treatment system, besides modernising the existing treatment plant at Elamkulam, in collaboration with the Kerala Water Authority. Using Central and State government funds as well, a total of Rs. 65 crore is the proposed outlay for a well-connected sewerage system. Climate change With its proximity to the sea and being surrounded by waterbodies, Kochi is particularly vulnerable to climate change-related disasters, making the protection of waterbodies, mangrove patches, canals and groves important, the Budget notes. A detailed study will be done in each division to identify areas, homes, and institutions that are vulnerable to the detrimental effects of climate-related changes. A sum of Rs. 5 lakh has been set aside to update the incomplete biodiversity register for the Corporation. For preliminary work on a biodiveristy park near Mangalavanam, where the Kerala State Housing Board had proposed an exhibition centre, the budget proposes an amount of Rs. 25 lakh. To increase green cover, protect public spaces, and remove encroachments on them, Rs. 10 lakh was proposed. The Budget also proposes a “boom barrier” for the Fort Kochi beach. It is expected to prevent waste from washing up on the beach, but will collect it for recycling. A localised study is in the offing to assess the existing mechanisms to deal with natural disasters, identify communities that are vulnerable and weak, and the help they might need. This “resilience assessment” will take off in Tharebhagam, Manassery, Gandhinagar, and Island South. The outlay for solid waste management in the Budget is Rs. 20 crore, with focus on decentralised management and treatment at source, along with a scientific centralised system. Apartments, hotels, and hospitals will have to set up decentralised waste management units, and an organic compost plant will come up at Thevara. Waterlogging A total of Rs. 56 crore has been proposed for waterlogging alleviation measures, including a master plan and study to pinpoint problem areas, a plan to protect the Vembanad lake, and map and protect public land along the banks of the canals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corporation-budget-puts-focus-on-environment-water-supply/article33893136.ece
21 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Hopes up for film fete in Kochi||The enthusiasm for the Kochi leg of the International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK) seems to have triggered the possibility of an annual, regional film festival in the city. The organisation of an annual festival featuring a package of the best films drawn from the IFFK has been a long-standing demand of film societies in Kochi. The Kerala State Chalachitra Academy (KSCA) seems receptive to the idea with its chairman Kamal impressed by the response to the Kochi leg of the IFFK. “We had organised such regional fests in the past in places such as Kozhikode and Kottayam and the Academy will support a similar fest in Kochi, provided film societies, Kochi Corporation or such agencies take the initiative and facilitate its organisation,” said Mr. Kamal. Mayor M. Anilkumar said the Corporation would do everything in its capacity to facilitate the conduct of an annual festival. “The Kochi leg of IFFK will be just the starting point and more will follow,” he said. Foreign film fetes The Cochin Film Society (CFS), functioning close to four decades now, had raised the demand for such a regional festival with the KSCA a couple of years ago. “Kochi has the most active film societies even without a regular film fest. We have been organising multiple programmes every month and screenings of award-winning movies, world classics, and independent movies. Besides, foreign film fests, in association with embassies concerned and foreign culture centres, are also being organised like the German film fest that is being held without fail for the last five years,” said CFS secretary Anoop Varma. T.R. George, secretary of the Kochi-based Metro Film Society, said the city was best fit for a regional film festival of its own under the aegis of the KSCA. He said independent cinema and not commercial cinema should be the focus of such festivals. Jolly Pavelil, coordinator of the Chavara Film Society, said the Chavara Cultural Centre had expressed its willingness to make available all its facilities for the organisation of such festivals in the city. Spirit revived “Kochi on account of its cosmopolitan character, being home to different linguistic communities and the preferred destination of people associated with the film industry deserves a fest of its own,” said Mr. Pavelil, adding that the organisation of the IFFK had revived the spirit of film societies in the city that had been dormant since the outbreak of COVID-19. Kochi is hosting the IFFK for the first time since 1999. Though a festival was organised by the district administration in association with the KSCA in 2013, it was not a success.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hopes-up-for-regional-festival-in-kochi/article33893140.ece
21 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Rehash of ideas presented in last 10 years’||Opposition leader Antony Kureethara said the current Budget had only rehashed ideas presented in the past 10 years and placed them under different heads. “Several projects presented in the Budget are existing State and Union government projects. Projects that are under way under the Smart Cities Mission were also repeated,” he said. Speaking at a press meet after the Budget presentation, Mr. Kureethara said the allocation of Rs. 5 crore for the tourism sector was insufficient, and no detailed plan or vision was in place to promote tourism. “Only Rs. 1 crore has been set aside for the fisheries sector, leaving it with very few prospects for development. Sufficient funds have also not been allotted to the SC/ST communities. The absence of any project for Kokers Theatre was conspicuous. The land that the theatre occupies would be of great value, but it is now lying unused and covered with weeds,” he said. The Budget was presented without clarity, and there is no explanation on the means of increasing the Corporation’s revenue, said Mr. Kureethara. UDF councillor Deepthi Mary Varghese said the Budget made promises that looked pretty only on paper. “The Budget says that e-governance will be implemented in six months, which is not feasible considering the volume of data that needs to be transferred. The Budget makes it appear as if the previous councils had left the Corporation with large financial liabilities,” she said. Ensuring access to clean drinking water, active interventions to handle repercussions of climate change, and building a city that is friendly towards children, women, and differently abled persons are the Budget’s focus areas, said Mayor M. Anilkumar, before the Budget was presented by Deputy Mayor K.A. Ansiya. Surplus Budget The Budget anticipates an income of Rs. 912 crore and expenditure of Rs. 874 crore, with Rs. 37 crore as surplus. “The projects proposed in the Budget will be implemented by integrating funds from various sources, including State and Union government funds, and CSR contributions. We are anticipating more allocations from the Union government,” the Mayor said at the press meet later. Additionally, stringent management of finances will be necessary to reduce expenses, he said. The implementation of the Budget proposals will be assessed regularly by the finance standing committee, ensuring proper follow-up, the Mayor said. Some projects that had been part of the previous council’s proposals had been repeated, since they will be continued, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rehash-of-ideas-presented-in-last-10-years/article33893132.ece
21 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Slew of development measures proposed||In what Mayor M. Anilkumar says is an effort to address issues of the poor and the downtrodden, the Corporation Budget features a set of development and welfare measures. A plan is in the offing for the development of Mattancherry, Edakochi, Palluruthy, and Vaduthala — areas that the Budget document identifies as poorly developed. Access to basic facilities and living conditions will be improved. A socio-economic survey will be carried out first to assess the existing facilities. The areas will then be divided into zones depending on their needs, and development plans will be prepared for each zone. Habitable homes, water connections, and access to the Internet will be provided, besides encouraging aquaculture in those areas, setting up libraries and play areas. A detailed town planning scheme will be developed for Mattancherry, keeping in mind its historical and cultural significance. A technical committee will be formed to execute the project, for which an initial outlay of Rs. 30 crore has been proposed in the Budget. For the elderly, free facilities for physiotherapy and free medical tests will be arranged. The Budget also makes a mention of arranging safe and hygienic housing facilities for migrant workers. For people of backward castes, the Budget proposes an outlay of Rs. 7 crore for scholarships, career guidance, special coaching, laptops and study material for students. In addition to the eight Janakeeya hotels, set up as part of the State government’s policy to provide food at subsidised rates, the Corporation plans to expand the scheme to establish 10 more such hotels run by Kudumbashree units in the city. The Budget declares that the rehabilitation of people living on poramboke land near canals and homeless persons will be ensured. A total of 2,000 beneficiaries who own land will be given financial assistance under the PMAY-LIFE Mission scheme for house construction. With Central and State assistance, besides the Corporation’s own contribution through a loan, Rs. 93.5 crore will be made available for the housing scheme. The Budget sets aside a total of Rs. 10 crore for health-related schemes, including improvement of facilities at health centres under the Corporation’s supervision, expanding palliative care services and purchasing more ambulances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/slew-of-development-measures-proposed/article33893133.ece
21 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||More steps towards inclusivity||Anannyah Kumari Alex, Kerala’s first transwoman radio jockey and a professional anchor, was denied opportunities in the past because of her gender. However, at the 25th edition of the International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK) she is one of the 12 anchors selected through an audition. “This is indeed a show of inclusiveness for which I am grateful, but then I was chosen for my abilities and not for my gender... this acceptance at a marquee event like IFFK will hopefully open more doors,” said Ms. Alex. Five years after introducing a separate column for transgenders in the application for delegations, the IFFK has included four transgender persons in the organisational side of the event at its Kochi leg.  “I am happy and proud to be part of a prestigious event like the IFFK. For an aspiring artist, it offered me a platform to meet important people from all walks of life,” said Ayisha Dudle, actor-model transwoman. Sruthy Sithara, another transwoman volunteer, recollected how she faced harassment while attending the IFFK in 2016. “But the level of harassment is coming down and, this time, the official tag of volunteer has drawn respectful looks from people.” For Sheethal Shyam, member of the State Transgender Justice Board, there is the satisfaction of playing a role in bringing the community to the organisational side. She was the first transwoman to be issued a delegate pass at the IFFK in 2016. “It increases the visibility of the community and elevates us in the perception of the participating public,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-steps-towards-inclusivity/article33893143.ece
21 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Pastor held on charge of abusing minor||A pastor was arrested on Saturday on the charge of sexually abusing a minor girl. The arrested is Mathew, 74, of Idukki. The alleged incident took place in January and was revealed after the victim told her mother about the assault. The accused was arrested from Idukki following a petition filed by the victim’s mother. A team led by Perumbavoor DySP N.R. Jayaraj, Inspector C. Binukumar, Sub Inspector Aby George, Assistant Sub Inspector Venugopalan, Senior Civil Police Officers Abdul Manaf, Pramod A.O., and Priya K.R. made the arrest. The accused was presented in court and remanded. KAPA Act The Munambam police arrested a man who was accused of multiple crimes for violating orders issued under the Kerala Anti-social Activities (Prevention) Act on Saturday. Vishnu Raj, 24, of Pallippuram was nabbed on the charge of violating orders banning him from entering the Ernakulam rural limits. The accused had cases against him for crimes including attempted murder, trespassing, and unlawful assembly. Theft The Cheranalloor police arrested a youth on the charge of stealing money from his employer. Shubam Lama, 27, of West Bengal stands accused of stealing around Rs. 1.25 lakh. According to the police, he stole the money in the early hours of January 14 and fled to his home State. He was arrested from Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pastor-held-on-charge-of-abusing-minor/article33893137.ece
21 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||564 new cases in Ernakulam||There were 564 new infections of COVID-19 and 658 recoveries on Saturday. Three new patients were health workers. Kalamassery had 31 new cases, followed by Thripunithura (29), Kothamangalam (17), and Aluva and Thrikkakara (16 each). A total of 8,127 of 9,719 patients are recovering at home. As many as 8,129 fresh samples were sent for testing on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/564-new-cases-in-ernakulam/article33893141.ece
21 February 2021||Kollam,KERALA||444 cases in Kollam, 382 in Alappuzha||Kollam reported 444 new cases of COVID-19 and 780 recoveries on Saturday. While 438 patients contracted the infection through contact, others include two NRIs, three health workers and one case with no known source. The district has 18,728 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 8,21,499. While 1,299 persons completed home quarantine on Saturday, the Health Department has traced 1,78,381 primary and 15,003 secondary contacts of the positive cases. Alappuzha registered 382 COVID-19 cases and recorded two COVID-19-related deaths on Saturday. Among the fresh cases, 378 patients contracted the disease through local contact. The source of infection of one person remains unknown. Two persons who came from abroad and one from another State also tested positive. There were 361 recoveries, bringing the active COVID-19 caseload in the district to 4,655. As many as 317 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Saturday. Of the fresh cases, 310 persons contracted the virus through local contact and among these, the contact source of 19 cases was yet to be identified. Among the local bodies, Pramadam reported 29 cases, followed by Kunnanthanam with 15 cases. The disease claimed five more lives in the district and the victims were identified as an 82-year-old woman, a 67-year-old man, and a 78-year-old woman, all hailing from Adoor and two 75-year-old men from Pathanamthitta. With 311 recoveries during the day, the district has 5,702 active cases. 267 in Kottayam In Kottayam, 267 persons tested positive, of which all but two persons contracted the virus through local transmission. The fresh cases also included 49 children and another 49 persons aged above 60. With 25 cases, Kottayam municipality led the tally, followed by Athirampuzha with 21 cases. With 539 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 4,649 active cases.  (With inputs from Kottayam, Pathanamthitta, and Alappuzha bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/444-cases-in-kollam-382-in-alappuzha/article33893177.ece
21 February 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||No pact reached, no contract signed: Minister||Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma said at a press meet here on Saturday that her New York visit in 2018 had been to present the Edam housing project, her constituency development initiative in Kundara, at the United Nations headquarters which was aired live around 125 universities worldwide. Responding to the allegations raised by Mr. Chennithala on Friday, she said, “No discussion was held there with EMCC International Private Limited representatives.” ‘I met representatives’ While agreeing she had met the company’s representatives in Kerala, the Minister reiterated that no agreement was reached and no contract was signed. “Signing a memorandum of understanding means nothing as far as we have a very strong policy. The Left Democratic Front government will take no step against the policy and no foreign trawler will be allowed here.” Ms. Mercykutty Amma averred that if some official signed any projects against the policy, the government was not responsible and a good percentage of the memorandums of understanding signed did not materialise. Processing unit About the Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation allotting four acres at Pallipuram in connection with the project, she said “the government has been trying to promote industries and the land was given to start a processing unit. The place has a lot of units and there is no harm in encouraging entrepreneurs. But the Fisheries Department is the authority when it comes to allowing deep-sea trawlers and we will not permit any foreign vessel now or in future”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-pact-reached-no-contract-signed-minister/article33893148.ece
21 February 2021||KOLLAM/Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Fishers flag concerns over move, term it disastrous||Representatives of the All Kerala Fishing Boat Operators Association, who had approached both the State and the Centre for support to conduct deep-sea fishing, say the entry of foreign firms in the sector will be disastrous. “We already have more than enough trawlers and they are talking about launching a fleet of 400 extra vessels. The mechanised sector has been struggling due to the depletion in marine stock and the project is not at all viable. Last year, shipyard had built 40 vessels for the fishers from Thrissur with a Central subsidy of Rs. 1 crore. At present the vessels are operating at a loss,” says Joseph Xavier Kalappurakkal, general secretary. He said none of the Indian or foreign officials attached to EMCC International Private Limited had any connection with the field. “Suddenly they decide to invest Rs. 5,000 crore and the move is suspicious. Their real objective can be offshore oil and gas production, or they must be targeting minerals. This project can be an attempt to study the possibilities and we should investigate if some external forces like the CIA [Central Intelligence Agency] are involved,” he says. ‘Scrap the agreement’ Traditional fishers have urged the State government to scrap the agreement between EMCC International (India) Pvt Ltd and the Kerala State Inland Navigation Corporation (KSINC) calling it inimical to the interests of local fishers. “The State government has already announced loans for 100 deep-water fishing boats with modern facilities in the State Budget. So how does that announcement match with the KSINC deal,” asked Jackson Pollayil, president, Kerala State Swatantra Matsya Thozhilali Federation. The government has earmarked Rs. 25 crore in the 2021-22 Budget for the purpose of providing 25% subsidy in this regard. “Fisheries resources are already facing depletion and we are cooperating with the regulations put in place by the government. Inviting investors at this juncture is sheer cruelty,” he said. A public convention planned at Ernakulam on Sunday will give shape to protests against the agreement, he said. The federation has also sought an investigation into the deal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fishers-flag-concerns-over-move-term-it-disastrous/article33893149.ece
21 February 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam Budget lays stress on tourism||Farming, tourism, ecology and water conservation received major focus in the Kottayam district panchayat’s annual Budget for 2021-22 presented on Saturday. The Budget, presented by T.S. Sarath, vice-president of the local body, envisages a revenue of Rs. 94.68 crore, an expenditure of Rs. 86.97 crore, with a surplus of Rs. 7.7 crore. District panchayat president Nirmala Jimmi presided over the presentation. Among the key projects included in the Budget include ‘Destination Kottayam,’ which seeks to promote the rural tourism potential of the district. Further, 10 Take-a-Break centres will be opened across the region. In view of the recurring landslides in the high ranges, a water management programme by mapping the vulnerable locations in Meenachil and Kanjirappally taluks will be initiated. Taking note of the rise in lifestyle diseases among youngsters, open gymnasiums will be opened in all 22 divisions. LIFE Mission The district panchayat, which aims to provides shelter to all, has set aside Rs. 7.02 lakh for completion of the LIFE Mission project. Other major allocations include Rs. 15 lakh for purchase of seeds, Rs. 5 lakh for fish farming, Rs. 1 crore as poultry feed for the Manarcaud farm, Rs. 10 lakh for deepening of canals, Rs. 25 lakh for constituting a collective of rural market, Rs. 1.10 crore for construction of women-friendly toilets and sanitary napkin vending machines in schools. In the education sector, Rs. 12 lakh has been allotted for continuation of equivalency examinations for 10th standard and Plus Two programmes. A project to check drug abuse among students, along the lines of the Operation Gurukulam project, has been formulated. Taking a cue from the success of the community kitchen initiative during the lockdown period, Rs. 5 lakh has been set aside for running the community kitchen under the Hunger-free project. In the health sector, Rs. 20 lakh each has been set aside for opening a gynaecology operation theatre at the Kottayam general hospital and a mobile blood bank. On the lines of the Karunya scheme initiated by the late Kerala Congress (M) patriarch K.M. Mani, a project titled Karunya Kottayam has been included in the Budget. The project envisages providing medicine, services and equipment to the differently abled and bedridden patients with the help of the local body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kottayam-budget-lays-stress-on-tourism/article33893179.ece
21 February 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||NSS donates Rs. 7 lakh for Ram temple construction||Amidst speculation over the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) warming up to the Nair Service Society (NSS) ahead of the Assembly elections, reports have now emerged about the community organisation donating Rs. 7 lakh towards the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. According to sources, the amount was transferred to the bank account of the temple trust in Ayodhya on Saturday. In a letter addressed to trust authorities, the NSS leadership also wrote that “this humble contribution may kindly be considered as an expression of our deep faith in Lord Sree Ramachandra”. Sources privy to the NSS leadership dismissed any political agenda behind the move and held that the decision to donate the amount was part of the organisation’s attempts towards protecting and preserving the faith of the Hindu community. “The NSS’s stance on the Ayodhya temple construction issue is similar to its stance on the Sabarimala issue,” said one of the sources. Earlier last month, BJP State president K.Surendran had shared an editorial of the NSS mouthpiece Service that thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah for their wishes on the occasion of this year’s Mannam Jayanti celebrations. While the BJP leadership appeared keen on seizing this momentum and build on the rapport between the party and the community organisation ahead of the elections, the NSS leadership sought to reiterate the organisation’s commitment to the equidistance policy towards all political outfits.  The NSS’s stance on the Ayodhya temple construction issue is similar to its stance on the Sabarimala issue||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nss-donates-rs-7-lakh-for-ram-temple-construction/article33893188.ece
21 February 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||842 more polling booths in Kottayam||The authorities have decided to set up additional 842 polling stations for the Assembly election in Kottayam in view of restrictions imposed as part of the COVID-19 prevention initiative. With this, the total number of polling stations in the district for the Assembly elections will be increased to 2,406. According to officials, the maximum number of voters at a polling station has been fixed at 1,000. In this scenario, a total of 842 polling stations will be required in addition to the existing 1,564 polling stations in the district. Of the new polling stations, 59 will be set up on a temporary basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/842-more-polling-booths-in-kottayam/article33893180.ece
21 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Efforts on to revive freshwater lake||Two floods in successive years and then the pandemic have severely impacted the Rs. 150-crore freshwater lake project at Paroppady in Kozhikode. However, administrators are sanguine about the prospects of the project, as things are crawling back to normal. “Yes, floods hit first, then COVID. But, the project is back on track,” said Kozhikode North Legislator A. Pradeep Kumar, who has taken up the initiative with the State government. According to him, the Centre for Water Resources Development and Management (CWRDM), which had carried out a hydrology survey, had furnished a favourable report. The project aims at promoting tourism, sports and boating facilities in the unused waterlogged paddy field on the western side of the Paroppady-Kannadikkal road. The Kerala Tourism Infrastructure Limited, Mr. Pradeep Kumar said, would play the role of the Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) to collaborate in the public-private partnership (PPP) initiative. The project site is located in 60 acres in Chevayoor and Vengeri villages. “We have already held meetings in groups with 200 landowners. Now, a business model has been conceived under the green architecture technology for the purpose,” he added. Earlier, the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) had earmarked Rs. 20 crore for the project. The proposal is to develop the land connected to the Kannadikkal river through a man-made canal. Usually, the area gets flooded during monsoon owing to overflow from the river. Simultaneously, water flows back to the river in summer. Even then, some water remains in the land even in the driest season. K.V. Abdul Malik, project manager, Impact Kerala Limited, an SPV for KIIFB, who prepared the lake project, said flooding could have actually been prevented in the region had the project been fulfilled earlier. Long ago, the land had been under paddy cultivation, but it was not put to any economic use owing to waterlogging. However, some peripheral plots have been reclaimed for residential purposes. The project had been initially conceived in five acres of the periphery of the lake for recreational activities, while 20 acres were to be maintained as lake. “The purpose is to create a space for recreation as well as conservation of the vast waterbody as a reservoir,” Mr. Pradeep Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/efforts-on-to-revive-freshwater-lake/article33893116.ece
21 February 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Thiruvambady likely to be a bone of contention||The Thiruvambady and Perambra Assembly segments in Kozhikode district are likely to become a bone of contention between the Congress and its constituents, the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) and the P.J. Joseph faction of the Kerala Congress (M) in the coming Assembly polls. The State and district Congress leaderships have taken a conscious decision to field their nominees in these segments in which the IUML and the KC(M) nominees have been contesting for quite a long time. The last time the Congress contested the Thiruvambady seat was in 1987 when P.P. George won the segment. In the case of Perambra, the KC(M) had unsuccessfully fielded its candidates in 2001, 2006, 2011 and 2016 Assembly polls. The Congress leadership thinks that its nominees have better chances of winning from these segments in the coming polls. The decision comes in the wake of the leadership planning to contest more seats in the district after the Jose K. Mani faction of the Kerala Congress (M) and the Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) left the United Democratic Front (UDF). In the run-up to the Assembly polls in 2011 and 2016, the Congress had a difficult time conceding the Thiruvambady seat to the IUML. The settler farmers in the hill region as well as the Catholic Church had desired that the Congress contest the seat. Another reason is that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi represents the Wayanad parliamentary constituency in which Thiruvambady is a segment. Now, the Congress-Catholic relationship would become more pronounced after the Jose K. Mani faction joined the CPI(M)-led the Left Democratic Front (LDF) camp. The CPI(M) also has plans to offer the Thiruvambady seat to the Jose faction. Moreover, the IUML and Congress have a proposal to swap the Thiruvambady and Perambra seats just as they had done in the case of the Kunnamangalam and Balussery seats in 2016. In Perambra, the Congress leadership feels that the Joseph group is not a formidable party in Kozhikode district. Sources said that the Congress, which has had no legislators from the district in the past 20 years, has been benevolent in offering the winnable seats to its partners. That the Congress had a good support base in both these segments was reflected in the Lok Sabha polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thiruvambady-likely-to-be-a-bone-of-contention/article33893117.ece
21 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Work on Peruvannamoozhi power station launched||Civil works related to the construction of a power station and other electro-mechanical works for the Peruvannamoozhi mini hydroelectric project were launched on Saturday. Electricity Minister M.M. Mani opened the works. Addressing the inaugural event, Mr. Mani said it was time to give more priority for the generation of electricity from non-conventional energy sources to meet the increasing consumption demands. “We will definitely encourage the timely completion of all ongoing projects and the creation of more hydroelectric power projects in Kerala,” he said. Mr. Mani said the emerging need for the promotion of electric vehicles would be addressed. He said efforts were on to increase the number of battery charging stations in the State. KSEB officials said the Peruvannamoozhi project would be completed at a cost of Rs. 70 crore. It was the 10th such hydroelectric power generation project in Kozhikode district. Of the total fund, Rs. 49.85 crore was sanctioned as loan by the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development. The remaining amount was sanctioned by the Ministry of New and Renewable energy, they said. Officials also exuded confidence in completing the project in 18 months. They said the works would be executed by two separate contracting companies in the area. The total investment made for the project could be recovered within nine years of operation, they said. The second phase of the Chathankottunada 6MW project was also commissioned on Saturday by Mr. Mani. Minister for Excise and Labour T.P. Ramakrishnan chaired both the events. Senior KSEB officials, leaders of various political parties and local body heads were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/work-on-peruvannamoozhi-power-station-launched/article33893122.ece
21 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Rivulets, streams being nursed back to life in 50,000 km||The Haritha Keralam Mission plans to complete the revival of 50,000 kilometres of streams and rivulets in the State by March 31, 2021 through the Ini Njan Ozhukatte (Let me flow now) project. The project, launched in December 2019, has so far had two phases, under which around 42,000 km of waterbodies have been given a second life. More streams are being revived under the ongoing third phase. “Revival of rivulets has been an objective of the mission right from its inception in 2016. However, the floods in 2018 and 2019 had a major role in convincing the local bodies in low-lying areas to expedite clean-up of rivulets in their jurisdiction,” says R.V. Satheesh, Technical Officer (Water Resources), Haritha Keralam Mission. “They realised that waterlogging did not happen in areas where the streams and canals were flowing freely. Some local bodies, especially in Ernakulam, quickly cleaned all streams in the area,” he adds. The expense for the clean-up is borne by the local bodies. Most are cleaned with the participation of local clubs or residents’ associations. “Local people thus feel a sense of ownership and take it upon themselves to keep the waterbody clean,” Mr. Satheesh says. The mission members revisited the streams already cleaned to make sure that they are being maintained properly. In some places, they advised the local bodies in matters such as clearing of encroachments, construction of walls or laying of geotextile, made of coir fibre, to protect them. The mission coordinated with various departments for closing the polluting drains that opened into the streams and taking action against those who dumped waste. Further studies show that the project has helped improve water quality in waterbodies around these streams. On the flip side, many of the streams cleaned in the first two phases are yet to flow freely as their tributaries have not been cleaned. A major objective of the third phase is to complete the network so that all streams flow freely. In most local bodies, the third phase of Ini Njan Ozhukatte is linked with their pre-monsoon cleaning drive for which funds have been earmarked in their budgets. “We are proud to have been instrumental in bringing at least 50% of the rivulets in the State back to life within this short period,” Mr. Satheesh added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rivulets-streams-being-nursed-back-to-life-in-50000-km/article33893190.ece
21 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Hindutva converting citizens into subjects’||The ultimate aim of the Hindutva establishment seems to be “converting citizens into subjects without any right to equality,” Caravan magazine executive editor Vinod K. Jose has said. He was delivering a lecture here on Saturday in memory of the late journalist I.V. Babu. “It is well known that the Hindutva forces want to create a Hindu Rashtra here. Their ultimate aim, however, seems to be remaking citizens as just subjects. It is like going back to the times of monarchies, from where we had marched ahead to become a democratic nation,” Mr. Jose pointed out. He said that in a democracy, all citizens have equal rights as mandated by the Constitution. However, in a monarchy, there are only subjects, there is no talk about equality, and the people are always at someone’s mercy, Mr. Jose noted. “Another aspect of their politics is to entangle society in politics of hatred. Hatred against people who disagree with them, the religions they dislike, and the languages that are seemingly in contrast with their interests. In their view, Kerala and Malayalis occupy a low space, as ‘Madrasis’. Because, even with all its deficiencies, the Kerala society has been fighting this politics of hatred,” he said. Mr. Jose observed that the Hindutva forces also “celebrate injustice” and “fight against truth in an organised manner”. He said, “It looks like justice is something that should be denied…. In the World Press Freedom Index, India’s position has gone down from 96 during the United Progressive Alliance period to 142. Truth or correct information is being diluted so much that what reaches the people is untruth.” Mr. Jose claimed that in this process, many issues were being covered up or distorted, and media organisations were not able to cross-check facts. “The process has been institutionalised,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hindutva-converting-citizens-into-subjects/article33893126.ece
21 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Woman succumbs to injuries||A home-maker who was admitted to hospital three days ago with a serious slit on her neck succumbed to injuries on Saturday. The victim was identified as Saleena Yusef. The woman was reportedly attacked by her husband during their stay in a hotel in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-succumbs-to-injuries/article33893124.ece
21 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Vijayaraghavan evasive on PSC rank holders’ issue||CPI(M) State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan was evasive on direct questions about media reports, saying the party State secretariat had asked the State government to hold talks with PSC rank holders, who had been protesting in the capital for nearly a month. He told the media here on Saturday that it was left to mediapersons to prove the veracity of their reports. Despite being repeatedly asked to give a clear answer if the party had issued any such directions to the government, Mr. Vijayaraghavan appeared to give evasive answers. “… The current protest is by people whose PSC rank list had expired already. Their demand is to extend its validity, which is not legally possible because we can’t do it beyond a point. Lakhs of others are in the line to apply for government jobs. The party cannot force the government to take an illegal decision,” he said. Asked if there would be any government-level talks as reported in the media, the CPI(M) leader said it was left to those who started the protest to stop it. “If some people give a wrong thing as news and ask me to deny it, is it even fair?” Mr. Vijayaraghavan asked. He claimed that the government had not signed any deal with EMCC International Private Ltd., a U.S.-based multinational corporation, to conduct trawling off the Kerala coast, as alleged by Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala. He said that Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma had already clarified the government’s stand. Sreedharan’s remarks Mr. Vijayaraghavan said that E. Sreedharan’s remarks that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan was an autocratic and authoritarian leader came from his lack of understanding of history. He added that the Principal Adviser to Delhi Metro Rail Corporation Limited, who recently announced his decision to join the BJP, was a good engineer. “However, see which party has he landed in now. It is regretful to say that he has a poor sense of history,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vijayaraghavan-evasive-on-reports-of-talks-with-rank-holders/article33893118.ece
21 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kidnapped youth appears before police||The mysterious kidnapping incident at Nadapuram on Friday morning took a new turn when the kidnapped youth himself appeared before the police late in the day. Ajnas told the police that he was freed by the gang subsequent to a search for him. Police sources said Ajnas was kidnapped by a gang in connection with a suspected gold smuggling case. An officer said Ajnas was targeted by the gang as he was suspected of hiding a huge cache of gold ornaments smuggled through the Kannur international airport. The police said the youth would be quizzed about the purported smuggling incident and gold deal. He was reportedly in police custody till Saturday evening. A few suspects had already been interrogated in connection with the case. It was the second such incident reported from rural Kozhikode within a week. A non-resident Indian from Thuneri was kidnapped last week. He was released on the third day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kidnapped-youth-appears-before-police/article33893191.ece
21 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||602 new cases||As many as 602 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Saturday. According to the District Medical Officer, there were 592 locally acquired infections, and the source of infection of seven others is not known. There were 659 recoveries and the active caseload stands at 5,781. As many as 1,640 people were vaccinated, of whom 1,039 got the second dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/602-new-cases/article33893119.ece
21 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||C.H. Haridas award for MLA, port officer||Kozhikode North MLA A. Pradeep Kumar and Beypore Port Officer K. Ashwini Prathap have been selected for the award instituted by C.H. Haridas Foundation in memory of the late Congress leader. The award will be presented at the C.H. Haridas commemoration event to be held at Tagore Centenary Hall in Kozhikode on Monday. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the event online, and lyricist and musician Kaithapram Damodaran Namboodiri will be the guest of honour. Minister for Ports and Museums Ramachandran Kadannappally will give away the awards, while Kozhikode Mayor Beena Philip will present the citations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ch-haridas-award-for-mla-port-officer/article33893123.ece
21 February 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Standing committee chief quits soon after election||A CPI(M) councillor in Vettom grama panchayat stepped down as standing committee chairperson within hours of being elected on Saturday. K.T. Rubeena resigned as chairperson of the welfare standing committee after she was elected with the support of the Welfare Party of India (WPI). Ms. Rubeena became the first civic body member in Malabar to step down from an elected position as a result of the disenchantment between the CPI(M) and the WPI. Ms. Rubeena was elected head of the standing committee by three votes against two in the election held on Saturday morning. Apart from two LDF votes, she got the lone WPI vote too. But she tendered her resignation in the afternoon reportedly after having been told to do so by the CPI(M) leadership. Out of the 20 seats in Vettom panchayat, the LDF has nine, the UDF 10 and the WPI one. The WPI had stayed away from the president and vice president elections, and thus helped the UDF gain power in the panchayat. However, the CPI(M) made an understanding locally with the WPI in the standing committee chairperson election. As it became a matter of discussion, the CPI(M) leadership intervened and asked its member to quit the post that was won with WPI help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/standing-committee-chief-quits-soon-after-election/article33893125.ece
21 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Second restructuring package for KSRTC||The government has announced a second restructuring package for the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) to help it overcome the financial crisis caused by the widening revenue-expenditure gap and reduce dependence on the exchequer. Announcing the details of the KSRTC Restructure 2.0 package at a press conference on Saturday, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the package would be implemented over a three-year period. Of the nine instalments of DA due to employees from July 2016, three would be paid this March. The pay revision due from 2016 would be implemented from June 2021. Mr. Vijayan said the government had decided in principle to convert the loan of Rs. 3,197.13 crore given to the KSRTC as equity and write off the interest and penal interest amounting to Rs. 961.79 crore. The management would consider filling at least 10% of the vacancies at various levels through promotions. He announced plans to rehabilitate the empanelled drivers and conductors who were retrenched. Those with over 10 years of service would be accommodated in the KURTC and the rest in KSRTC-SWIFT, the newly formed company for LNG, CNG and electric buses. The workshop network of the KSRTC would be restructured with 14 major workshops and six at the sub-division level, all equipped with modern facilities. Neat rest rooms for crew would be provided at all halting stations. Staff at the head office would be redeployed to the administrative and accounting sections and provided with more promotion prospects. Non-ticket revenue New schemes such as shops-on-wheels, KSRTC logistics and digital advertisements would be launched to tap non-ticket revenue sources.  The KSRTC would join hands with the Kerala Tourism Development Corporation for the construction of a hotel in Munnar. As many as 600 employees would be posted at the petrol and diesel outlets to be set up at 76 depots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/second-restructuring-package-for-ksrtc/article33893197.ece
21 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||COVID transmission needs to be tracked: expert||It is vital that a very sensitive and responsive surveillance system is put in place to track COVID-19 transmission in the community, followed up by immediate and appropriate containment measures as soon as evidence of spread surfaces. If this is not done with diligence, COVID-19 could soon become endemic in the country, Raman Gangakhedkar, former Head of Epidemiology, Indian Council of Medical Research , has warned. He was speaking here on Pandemic Response at the ongoing international health webinar being organised by the Department of Health However, the bigger challenge would be the sustenance of COVID-appropriate behaviour in the community. The use of mask has declined significantly, while the mobility has gone up to near normal, he pointed out. Dr. Gangakhedkar said de-centralised approaches were going to be quite critical in COVID containment and reducing disease transmission because there are significant differences in the levels of outbreaks in different geographic areas. The national epidemic curve masks the heterogeneity of transmission dynamics in the country and while the curve seems to have come down, resurgence of cases are now being witnessed in some districts in Maharashtra and in Kerala. Kerala’s first wave of the epidemic has been prolonged because of the strong containment measures and better adherence to public health protocols. However, as the State struggles to contain the resurgence of COVID-19, the emergence of new virus variants, which have more infective as well as immune escape potential, are going to pose serious challenges, Dr. Gangakhedkar said. SARS CoV 2 tends to mutate slowly in comparison to HIV and Influenza viruses. However, immune escape variants seem to be emerging due to the repeated and indiscriminate use of convalescent plasma and because of the prolonged COVID infection among people who are immuno-compromised (survival of the virus might be longer in these patients, giving more opportunities for it to mutate) Plasma therapy It is essential to curb the use of convalescent plasma therapy and to reduce the transmission or the number of cases to stop the emergence of virus variants, Dr. Gangakhedkar said. Vaccine acceptance among the public should be improved with appropriate communication strategies because rapid vaccination is one way one to break disease transmission in the community and to reduce the chances of virus variants, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-transmission-needs-to-be-tracked-expert/article33893296.ece
21 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Janasevana Kendrams in all wards||The city Corporation will open Janasevana Kendrams in all wards to deliver various services at the doorstep to city residents. Mayor Arya Rajendran made the announcement at a council meeting here on Saturday. During a discussion on draft annual plan for 2021-22, the Bharatiya Janata Party councillors alleged that a proposal for citizen data collection in the annual plan raises questions on data privacy of the city residents. Responding to this, Ms. Rajendran said a decision had been taken to amend this proposal and suggested instead the setting up of decentralised Janasevana Kendrams in all wards. She said data would be handled here without compromising on data security. A development seminar to discuss the Corporation’s annual plan will be held on Sunday. Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran will inaugurate the seminar at the Girideepam convention centre at 10.30 a.m. Land assets The council also decided to collect information on all land assets of the Corporation that are remaining unutilised or not recorded properly. The record of all available surplus land with the civic body is being prepared to be utilised for the housing projects of the Corporation. Debates on development The council meeting also witnessed debates between the ruling and Opposition party councillors to claim credit for the various developmental projects in the city. During a discussion on an Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) project related to the sewage plant, BJP councillor Karamana Ajith said the council should collectively thank Prime Minister Narendra Modi for implementing AMRUT projects, including the water treatment plant at Aruvikkara. The Mayor said that considering the Central government share of 50%, State Government share of 30%, and Corporation share of 20%, thanks were in order for the Prime Minister, the Chief Minister, and the former Corporation Mayor. Later, during a discussion on the LIFE housing projects, BJP councillors alleged that Central housing projects were being renamed by the State to claim credit. Left Democratic Front (LDF) councillor Palayam Rajan said the LIFE project provided Rs. 4 lakh for all beneficiaries in the State while PMAY project in other States provided only Rs. 2.5 lakh for a house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/janasevana-kendrams-in-all-wards/article33893321.ece
21 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Digital university comes into being in capital||Kerala University of Digital Sciences, Innovation and Technology (commonly referred to as Digital University Kerala), the 15th university in the State, formally came into being at Technocity in Mangalapuram on the outskirts of the capital on Saturday. Governor Arif Mohammed Khan, who inaugurated the university through videoconferencing, said the university would provide impetus to the State’s dream of becoming the digital powerhouse of India as well as a global hub of digital activity. He expressed optimism that the university would play a significant role in adopting technology to enable the State to keep pace with the fourth Industrial Revolution that had witnessed technologies, including Artificial Intelligence, Blockchain, Data Analytics, Robotics and Bio-computing, transforming lives and disrupting conventional models of work and business. The university would spark a digital transformation that would provide access to world-class facilities to “think digital, innovate digital and act digital,” the Governor said. In his presidential address, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the university, the first of its kind in the country, is likely to play a crucial role through its various postgraduate and research programmes. Colloborations Collaborations with other universities and industry bodies would hold the university in good stead. The university had been entrusted with spearheading the State’s Digital Transformation Mission meant to ensure all sections enjoyed the benefits of digital advancements, he said. The Digital University Kerala has been set up by upgrading the two-decade-old Indian Institute of Information Technology and Management – Kerala (IIITM – K) through an ordinance promulgated in January 2020. Developed on a 10-acre campus in Technocity, the university will provide education to 12,000 residential scholars on the campus and many technology-linked learners outside. It will start off with five schools that will cover the dimensions of science, technology and humanities of the digital world. The university will offer master-level programmes in computer science, informatics, applied electronics and humanities with specialisations. It has set its sights on establishing specialised centres in various avenues, including Blockchain, ArtificiaI Intelligence and Machine Learning, Robotics, Cyber Security, Big Data Analytics and Geospatial Analytics in collaboration with international academic, research and industry bodies. Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel; Deputy Speaker V. Sasi; Adoor Prakash, MP; Digital University Vice Chancellor Saji Gopinath; IIIT-K chairman Madhavan Nambiar; and director Elizabeth Sherly; spoke on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/digital-university-comes-into-being/article33893182.ece
21 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||4,650 new cases in the State||Kerala’s cumulative case burden of COVID-19 cases rose to 10,30,587 cases with the State reporting 4,650 new cases on Saturday when 65,968 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The test positivity rate which had been remaining steady showed a slight increase to 7.05% on the day. Of the 65,968 tests done by the State, 39,079 were rapid antigen assay while the RT-PCR test numbers numbered 24,878. Other molecular diagnostic tests such as Truenat and CBNAAT constituted the remaining tests. The State’s active case pool which had risen past 65,000 cases last week now dipped to 58,606 cases on Saturday, with the State registering 5,841 recoveries, which is significantly more than the number of new cases reported on the day. The cumulative recoveries reported by the State ever since the pandemic began thus rose to 9,67,630 cases. 13 deaths The addition of 13 new deaths that took place in the past few days to the official list of COVID fatalities in the State on Saturday took the State’s cumulative COVID toll till date to 4,074 deaths. Thrissur reported three deaths, Kannur, Kozhikode, Alappuzha and Malappuram two each while one death was reported at Pathanamthitta. The number of critically ill COVID patients in the State, currently being treated in ICUs in various hospitals in the State, was 741 as on Saturday, according to official reports, with 230 of them requiring ventilator assistance. Among districts, Kozhikode reported the maximum number of new cases at 602, followed bt Ernakulam 564, Malappuram 529, Thrissur 503, Kollam 444, Alappuzha 382, Thiruvananthapuram 328, Pathanamthitta 317, Kottayam 267, Palakkad 193, Kannur 176 Wayanad 143, Kasaragod 124, and Idukki 78. Declining trend Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that new COVID cases in the State were showing a progressive declining trend and when compared to the previous week, there had been a dip in new cases by 5.8%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/4650-new-cases-in-the-state/article33893199.ece
21 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Over 91,000 expected at Army job rally||A little over 91,000 candidates are expected at a combined Army recruitment rally planned at the Greenfield Stadium, Karyavattom, from February 26 to March 12. The decision to release the international stadium for the recruitment rally had drawn the ire of sports lovers as it made the facility unavailable for an upcoming India-South Africa women’s cricket series. They fear that the recruitment drive will cause extensive damage to the turf. The Army rally, meant for volunteer male candidates from all 14 districts, is being jointly organised by the Army Recruitment Offices (ARO) in Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode under the aegis of the HQ Recruiting Zone, Bangaluru. The ARO, Thiruvananthapuram, will hold the rally for the southern districts of Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam, and Idukki from February 26 to March 5. In all, 48,656 candidates have registered from the southern districts. The ARO, Kozhikode will conduct the rally for the northern districts From March 6 to March 12. The total number of registrations from the northern districts stands at 42,990. COVID-19 protocols COVID-19 protocols will be strictly observed at the event, the Army said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/over-91000-expected-at-army-job-rally/article33893324.ece
21 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Follow pandemic protocol during Pongala: Collector||COVID-19 protocols have to be strictly followed for all functions related to the Attukal Pongala festival, District Collector Navjot Khosa has said. The devotees should take care to ensure physical distancing, wearing of masks, and sanitising of hands during visits to the temple. She said sectoral magistrates had been deployed on special duty at the Attukal temple for the duration of the pongala festival. Offering of pongala would not be allowed in public areas and roads considering the prevailing COVID-19 situation. The temple administration also had to ensure this. The administration had informed that all rituals would be organised within the temple without any crowd. No large groups Physical distancing and other COVID-19 protocols had to be followed by the devotees offering pongala within their house compounds. The devotees should avoid visiting the temple in large groups after offering the pongala. Police force had been deployed on the temple premises to control the rush. The public should follow the instructions from the police, said the Collector. The body temperature of devotees would be checked using thermal scanners before entering the temple. Sanitiser would also be provided. The police would also regulate the organising of events related to the festival in various parts of the city. New shops, other than the existing ones in the vicinity of the temple, would not be allowed to open. A medical team would be available near the temple during all days of the festival. Toilet facilities had been arranged. The Collector said that green protocol had to be followed in the festival area.  The devotees should avoid visiting the temple in groups after offering the pongala||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/follow-pandemic-protocol-during-pongala-collector/article33893294.ece
21 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Pig farmers script a success story in State||They may not be as popular as cattle or poultry, yet, but pigs — numbers indicate — are increasingly hogging the attention of livestock farmers in Kerala who have come to appreciate their worth as money-spinners. The pig population in the State has shot up by 86.19% over a seven-year period, reveals the 20th Livestock Census carried out by the Statistics Division of the Animal Husbandry Department. The population has increased from 55,782 animals in the 2012 headcount to 1,03,863 animals in 2019. The findings of the 20th Livestock Census were published on Friday. Exotics and cross-breeds account for 97.27% of the pigs bred in the State. At the same time, the number of animals in the indigenous/non-descript category has slipped from 4,965 animals in 2012 to 2,829 in 2019. Rural areas, predictably, account for much of the increase, but the population has almost doubled in urban settings too, show data. The pig population in the rural areas has risen from 52,036 animals in 2012 to 97,292 in 2019, whereas the number has increased from 3,746 to 6,571 in urban areas. Animal Husbandry experts describe the increase in population as remarkable, but not that surprising given the profits involved in pig rearing. More profitable “Compared to goat or cattle rearing, pigs are more profitable, especially when it is properly managed. Pigs are more prolific breeders compared to cows or goats. Moreover, the State government has relaxed rules which has helped pig farmers,” said Jose James, managing director, Kerala Livestock Development Board (KLDB). Today, Kerala has several farmers who have established pig farms in the interior. They also have their own association and are familiar with scientific management practices, he said adding that the KLDB alone supplies around 1,500 piglets annually to farmers. According to the latest census data, pigs now constitute 3.57% of the total livestock in the State. All 14 districts have witnessed an increase in pig population, but the pig population is higher in Idukki, Thrissur, Kannur and Kozhikode compared to other parts of Kerala. Disease outbreaks The sector is not without its challenges, especially in the management of disease outbreaks. But with the sector turning more organised, early detection and management of diseases too have become easier, said Baby Joseph, till recently Chief Disease Investigation Officer, State Institute of Animal Diseases, Palode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pig-farmers-script-a-success-story-in-state/article33893196.ece
21 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Allegations against selection process||The Save University Campaign Committee has alleged undue haste in the selection process of Registrar by the University of Kerala. The organisation, which has petitioned the Governor to suspend the process, claimed that the university was scheduled to interview 12 applicants on Monday, only four days after the deadline for applying for the post ended on February 18. A special meeting of the Syndicate had also been planned to be held later in the day to ratify the appointment. Claiming that the process violated a High Court order, the complainants alleged it was tailored to appoint someone who was already identified for the post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/allegations-against-selection-process/article33893320.ece
21 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘Drop plan to use stadium for rally’||Minister of State for External affairs V. Muraleedharan has urged Defence Minister Rajnath Singh to drop the plan to use the Greenfield Stadium, Karyavattom, for the combined Army recruitment rally planned from February 26 to March 12. The stadium, one of the best in the State, was designed for cricket and football matches and had been constructed as per FIFA and International Cricket Council norms. Sports lovers and sports organisations feared that the recruitment rally would damage the turf and render the stadium unusable for sports events, Mr. Muraleedharan said. Other suitable grounds in Thiruvananthapuram, including the Colachel Stadium at the Military Station, Pangode, could be used for the rally, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/drop-plan-to-use-stadium-for-rally/article33893323.ece
21 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Chandy terms PSC test reforms cruel||Youths have to surmount formidable hurdles to appear for PSC tests owing to “insane” reforms implemented by the LDF government, former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy has said. The LDF dominated PSC has insisted that candidates face preliminary screening and seek “confirmation sanction” to appear for public examinations for government posts. At a stroke, the LDF has whittled down the opportunity of youth to appear for PSC tests. “It is a cruel act”, Mr. Chandy said in a letter to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The unwise decision held grave repercussions for jobseekers. As many as 24 lakh youths had appeared for preliminary screening tests to get confirmation sanction to partake in PSC examinations. Only 16 lakh cleared the tests. The PSC eliminated the rest, dashing their hopes of getting government employment. The PSC has scheduled the next screening test three years down the lane. The rejected eight lakh job seekers have to patiently sit out to try their luck again to get clearance to attend the PSC test. Many would become overage by then. Earlier, all applicants could sit through PSC tests. However, the LDF has upended the norm to the detriment of youth. Mr. Chandy said the government had recast PSC norms without consulting the opposition or ruling front partners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chandy-terms-psc-test-reforms-cruel/article33893192.ece
21 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KALNET goes on stream||KALNET (Kerala Academic Library Network), a shared platform for academic resources of libraries, has come into being in the State. Developed by the Kerala State Higher Education Council (KSHEC), the platform brings together 15 lakh titles of 11 universities and 147 libraries. With a single search interface created using VuFind open source software, it serves as a unified catalogue to search for items across the collections of different academic libraries in the State. It enables quick searches based on title, subject, author and ISBN or ISSN codes. In addition to books, other library resources such as journals or periodicals, Ph.D theses, postgraduate dissertations, DAISY Digital talking books (audio books) and various reports have also been indexed. The University of Kerala, Cochin University of Science and Technology, University of Calicut, Mahatma Gandhi University, Kerala Agricultural University, Kannur University, Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit, Thunchath Ezhuthachan Malayalam University, Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies, and the National University of Advanced Legal Studies have become part of the endeavour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kalnet-goes-on-stream/article33893193.ece
21 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘Tree-healing’ event today||A ‘tree-healing’ event for a damaged ‘blackboard’ tree (Ezhilam pala) on the Museum-Nandavanam road here will be held at 10 a.m. on Sunday. The Vriksha Ayurveda event is being organised by the Tree Walk and the Vriksha Paristhithi Samrakshana Samithi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tree-healing-event-today/article33893186.ece
21 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Innovation challenge for start-ups||The Research and Development Centre, Hitachi India, has invited applications from start-ups in the country for the innovation challenge being launched in association with the Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM), seeking digital solutions to address some of the problems faced by small and medium businesses. Registered start-ups can apply for the innovation challenge, titled APPATHON through https://business.   startupmission.in/   hitachi . The last date for submission of application is February 28. The winner of the challenge will get Rs. 20 lakh as prize and the first and the second runners up will get Rs. 10 lakh and Rs. 5 lakh respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/innovation-challenge-for-start-ups/article33893145.ece
21 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||328 new cases,459 recoveries in capital district||The district’s COVID-19 active caseload fell significantly to 3,857 on Saturday as 459 people recovered from the illness, even while 328 people were diagnosed with the disease during the last 24 hours. The death toll stood at 810. The district administration placed 1,947 people in quarantine while 2,080 others were permitted to conclude quarantine. There are 25,187 people who are quarantined at homes and 54 in various institutions in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/328-new-cases459-recoveries-in-capital-district/article33893326.ece
21 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||80% of beneficiaries sign up for laptops||Nearly 80% of the beneficiaries of the Kerala State Financial Enterprises (KSFE) Vidyashree chitty scheme in the district so far have signed up for purchase of laptops of their choice. The Vidyashree chitty scheme is being implemented in association with the Kudumbashree mission to make laptops affordable for Kudumbashree members. The scheme was launched by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday, and 17 students in the district were distributed laptops on the occasion. As many as 9,843 Kudumbashree members have subscribed to the scheme so far. Of them, 7,835 have evinced interest in purchasing laptops, while the remaining have joined the chitty to increase their savings. Of the laptop beneficiaries, 1,251 belong to the Scheduled Castes, 47 to the Scheduled Tribes, 3,574 to the other backward classes, and 678 to the minority communities. Vidyashree was introduced to facilitate purchase of laptops following the introduction of online classes at schools in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. It was estimated that a majority of the children who did not have facilities for online classes would be from homes of Kudumbashree members. Useful investment The KSFE then collaborated with the Kudumbashree to roll out the Vidyashree microcredit scheme to support purchase of laptops by Kudumbashree members for their wards. The laptops are seen as a useful investment that will benefit the students even beyond the COVID-19 situation. Kudumbashree members who join the scheme have to pay Rs. 500 a month. They will be able to buy a laptop of their choice after paying three instalments. The total scheme amount of Rs. 15,000 will have to be repaid in 30 months. Those who join the scheme as a way to make savings will be able to withdraw their money from the 13th month from the launch. The interest on the microcredit scheme will be borne by the government and the KSFE. The government had approved the scheme in July last but it got delayed when only one company responded during the first round of tendering. Original equipment The government then decided to go in for empanelment of original equipment manufacturers to provide more options and better products to students. The laptops will become available within 12 weeks of order placement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/80-of-beneficiaries-sign-up-for-laptops/article33893329.ece
21 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Professor posts sanctioned for colleges||Bringing cheer to large sections of the teaching community, the government on Saturday sanctioned Professorship in government and aided colleges for the first time. By way of an order, the Higher Education Department has implemented Career Advancement Promotion in colleges in accordance with the University Grants Commission regulations on minimum qualifications for appointment of teachers and other academic staff in universities and colleges. Professor posts were hitherto confined to universities despite repeated demands raised by teachers. The demand had remained unfulfilled even while the UGC regulations of 2010 had permitted the same.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/professor-posts-sanctioned-for-colleges/article33893194.ece
21 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Fishers stage protest against contract||The Thiruvananthapuram Matsyathozhilali Forum, under the aegis of the Latin Catholic Archdiocese, organised a Secretariat march on Saturday in protest against the signing of a contract by the State government with EMCC International Private Ltd., a multinational corporation based in the United States, to conduct trawling off the Kerala coast. Vicar General Mon. C. Joseph inaugurated the protest. He said if the contract became a reality, it would affect the livelihood of more than three lakh fisherfolk in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fishers-stage-protest-against-contract/article33893322.ece
21 February 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||503 more cases reported in Thrissur||A total of 503 COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Saturday while 404 people recovered from the pandemic. There are 4,143 active cases in the district and 87 people from the district are undergoing treatment in hospitals in other districts. So far 96,116 COVID-19 cases have been reported from the district and 91,319 people have recovered. According to the official statistics, 489 people, including three health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Saturday. Of them, 76 people are above the age of 60 and 37 children are below the age of 10.  Home care In all, 2,809 people are under home care. In all, 86 people were admitted to the hospital for treatment of the COVID-19 on Saturday. A total of 7,002 samples were collected for the test on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/503-more-cases-reported-in-thrissur/article33893292.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||A decent follow-up to a celebrated film||Having a reputation to maintain and expectations to meet can either be a burden or an inspiration. The sequel to Drishyam has to live up to the stature of one of the best thrillers in Malayalam cinema and Georgekutty, its protagonist, to that of a man whose brain is always one step ahead of the police’s.  Drishyam 2 takes off six years from the time Georgekutty (Mohanlal), a cable television operator, outsmarted the police investigating the murder of Varun Prabhakar, his daughter’s classmate who gets accidentally killed by her. Georgekutty is now a theatre owner who dreams of making a film based on a story he has written. His elder daughter Anju (Ansiba) is still recovering from the trauma, while the younger daughter Anu (Esther) is now a slightly rebellious teenager. The entire family, more so his wife Rani (Meena), is leading their lives with one eye behind their backs, with the fear of the police catching up. Georgekutty’s new-found prosperity has set tongues wagging among the local populace. Many now believe that he has actually committed the crime. The police are still looking for leads to solve the case. Director Jeethu Joseph takes things slow in the first half, which was borderline boring in the previous film too. Some life is injected into the flagging script by an intelligent interval twist. Even when we are reminded of the everydayness of Georgekutty, there is an invincible aura around him which tells us that he has made arrangements for any eventuality. Now, that is a problem which any sequel to such a film will face. Jeethu does manage to break that aura later, with the slow unravelling of Georgekutty’s plans. A few new elements are brought in, which blend seamlessly with the original thread. The intensity of the final one hour of glorious twists and turns contributed much to the success of the first part. There was something organic about how it all tied together in the end, but here even when things remain unpredictable for most parts, it is being achieved using a few conveniently created characters and a slightly contrived set-up with loopholes. Having said that, it is no easy task to flesh out a script like this from a case which was as good as closed.   Despite its negatives, it still is a decent companion piece to its much celebrated prequel. S.R. Praveen||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-decent-follow-up-to-a-celebrated-film/article33893319.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||‘Space for independent filmmakers shrinking’||The fate of innocent minorities caught in the vortex of majoritarian violence had prompted filmmaker Arun Karthick to narrate the story of Nasir , which won the NETPAC Award at the International Film Festival of Rotterdam last year. A passionate movie buff who started making short films at the age of 17, Karthick represents the growing number of independent directors in Tamil. In a candid chat, he shares his concerns on the curbs on expression and the hurdles before new voices. Challenges of an independent filmmaker under a majoritarian rule The emerging censorship now even in the digital domain, including OTT platforms, shows that things are not changing for a filmmaker. Of course, I can still make the films that I want. But, the government is trying to curb your expressions even in the digital space. I am frustrated by these kinds of actions. The government is saying make any kind of films, but do not try to talk about us or religion, same-sex issues, etc. The government itself finds it uncomfortable and seems to be on the offensive against you. OTT and reality They were interested in having different kinds of films in their catalogue in the initial years. But now they are behaving like producers and distributors in the industry, who ask for a known face or asking for themes popular with the larger audience. What next? The pandemic has helped me turn inward and ask questions about the kind of films that I am making and what I should actually make. Nasir taught me that you have to invest time to evoke life on screen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/space-for-independent-filmmakers-shrinking/article33893144.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Road test||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/road-test/article33893201.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Mound of menace||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mound-of-menace/article33893185.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Official check||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/official-check/article33893299.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Final leg of yatra||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/final-leg-of-yatra/article33893328.ece
21 February 2021||AMALAPURAM (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Konaseema goes to polls in fourth phase today||The ground has been prepared to conduct the fourth phase polling on Sunday in the Konaseema region consisting of 16 mandals in East Godavari district. Of the 273 gram panchayats in the Amalapuram revenue division, 259 will go to polls on Sunday. Sarpanches for the remaining panchayats have been elected unanimously. In an official release, Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy said, “The Konaseema region has 235 hyper-sensitive polling stations. As many as 3,232 polling stations have been set up in the region, where 8.71 lakh voters are expected to exercise their franchise.” The fourth phase is the biggest round in the district in terms of the number of voters. Women voters are more than 4.3 lakh. About 7,000 counting staff have been deployed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/konaseema-goes-to-polls-in-fourth-phase-today/article33893286.ece
21 February 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Oops, man elected from women-only ward||The district administration on Saturday realised that a man was elected from a ward reserved for women during the first phase of elections to the gram panchayats, and sought direction from the State Election Commission on the way forward. It was found that M. Ramu was declared elected from Ward No. 8 in Talamarla panchayat, which was reserved for women, because of the oversight of the Stage-1 Returning Officer, who had accepted the nomination papers as though it was a general category seat. The higher-level Returning Officers up to the MPDO too did not notice the gaffe. Similar gaffe A similar oversight was detected in a ward that would go to the polls in the fourth phase of the elections. It was found that the Stage-1 Returning Officer at Ward No.2 (reserved for BC women) of Kodipalli panchayat in Lepakshi mandal had accepted the nominations from aspirants as though it was a general category seat. Re-election later As the mistake was noticed on Friday night, polling in the ward was put off to a later date to be notified by the State Election Commission. In Ramludiki panchayat of Peddavaduguru mandal, a person who was elected as ward member in the third phase died of illness, and re-election to that ward too would be conducted later. The election to one of the wards in Uravakonda, which had to be deferred during the second phase as the name and symbol of a contestant who withdrew from the race got printed on the ballot, would be conducted during the fourth phase. Meanwhile, police identified 968 polling stations as hypersensitive, 676 as sensitive, and 474 as normal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/oops-man-elected-from-women-only-ward/article33893277.ece
21 February 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Not one unanimous election in Anantapur||In a deviation from the earlier three phases of panchayat elections, not even a single sarpanch was elected unopposed (unanimous) in the fourth phase in the 184 gram panchayats of 13 mandals in the Penukonda Revenue Division of the district. All arrangements have been made for the polling to begin on Sunday at 6.30 a.m. for 184 sarpanches and 1,765 ward members. Out of the 2,042 ward members to be elected, 276 have been elected unanimously. Election to one ward has been put off to a later date. District Collector Gandham Chandrudu, Joint Collector Nishant Kumar and Superintendent of Police B. Sathya Yesu Babu made a whirlwind tour of several sensitive and hypersensitive polling stations in the Penukonda division on Saturday to assess the preparedness of the polling and security staff. The District Collector, who visited Mavaturu village, asked officials to make arrangements for the security and polling staff to stay and have food on the polling day and to sleep overnight in a hygienic place. Joint Collector Nishant Kumar and Sub-Collector T. Nishanthi inspected the election material distribution centres in Penukonda. After the polling process is completed by 3.30 p.m., counting of votes for the 3,892 ward member candidates and 611 sarpanch candidates would be taken up at the same place and the entire process videographed as per the SEC orders. The District Collector said the police personnel have been been doing their best to keep the elections peaceful and thanks to their untiring efforts, not a single incident took place in the last three phases. To register complaints, people can dial 8500292992 and 08554220009.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/not-one-unanimous-election-in-anantapur/article33892794.ece
21 February 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spl. operation to drive out jumbos||Officials of the forest department have mooted a special action plan to drive the elusive “bachelor’s group” of wild elephants from Nagari plains into the Seshachalam ranges spread over Chittoor and Kadapa districts. Rs. 10 lakh sanctioned Divisional Forest Officer (Chittoor East Wildlife) G.G. Narentheran told The Hindu that the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (PCCF) has sanctioned Rs. 10 lakh to launch a special operation to find a solution to the problem. A plan of action was chalked out at a meeting of forest officials chaired by the PCCF at Tirupati on Saturday. The plan “As per the plan of action, we will deploy about one hundred forest staff, comprising mostly forest watchers and elephant trackers, from Kuppam, Palamaner, Chittoor West and East division in Nagari plains to divert the bachelor’s group towards Karveti Nagaram range, and from there the trio would be guided to cross into the Seshachalam hills, a few kilometers away,” Mr Narentheran said. The DFO clarified that though the three elephants had come from Tamil Nadu, it was not possible to drive them back into their habitat as they have strayed far away from there. The official said that the Seshachalam ranges, home to about 45 elephants at present, are capable of sheltering even one hundred elephants with its verdant forests. As a precautionary measure, the forest department would also make ready tranquillisers for use in case of emergencies. Much to the relief of the forest officials, one of the three elephants that got separated from the group a few days ago has once again joined it, thus lessening the burden on officials and averting further trouble. The three-member group from Tamil Nadu forests had crossed into Chittoor district in early January and since then have been creating panic among villagers by damaging crops and critically injuring two farmers near Puttur last week. On Saturday morning, two elephants of the group resorted to fighting in the fields close to the Chennai NH passing through Puttur, leaving the villagers unnerved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-operation-to-drive-bachelors-group-of-jumbos-into-seshachalam-hills/article33892796.ece
21 February 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chinta trains his guns on BJP, YSRCP||Former Union Minister and Congress Working Committee (CWC) member Chinta Mohan on Saturday criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party-led NDA government at the centre and the YSR Congress Party government in the State for using oppression against the political opponents by means of unlawful arrests and preventing them from lodging protests against public issues. Speaking to mediapersons at Tirupati, Mr. Chinta Mohan alleged that the BJP was centring its politics around the Ram Mandir, while adopting religious intolerance against other faiths and creating tensions among them. In a similar fashion, the YSRCP government in the State is exploiting the Ramateertham episode to its political advantage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chinta-trains-his-guns-on-bjp-ysrcp/article33892804.ece
21 February 2021||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||All set for fourth phase panchayat polls in W. Godavari||Officials from the Revenue, Police, APSRTC and other departments have made foolproof security arrangements for the smooth conduct of fourth phase of gram panchayat elections in West Godavari district. Polling will be conducted for 237 panchayats and 2,159 wards in 12 mandals on Sunday. Collector Revu Mutyala Raju and Election Observer Lathkar Shrikesh Balaji Rao and Election Expenditure Observer C. Selvam reviewed the arrangements on Saturday. Polling will be held in Bhimadole, Denduluru, Eluru, Dwaraka Tirumala, Ganapavaram, Nallajarla, Unguturu, Tadepalligudem, Pentapadu, Pedavegi, Pedapadu and Nimarru mandals in the district. Security has been arranged at 574 sensitive and 431 hyper-sensitive polling stations. Officials arranged 36 flying squad teams, 36 static surveillance teams and 12 shadow teams. In addition to these, 71 web casting and video cameras have been arranged to monitor the polling process, said Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik. Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) is arranging 200 buses for transporting polling material and the staff. A control room has been set up for monitoring the election process. Complaints can be registered by dialling 08812-2222972 or 08812-295497, said Joint Collector (Revenue) K. Venkata Ramana Reddy. Krishna In Krishna, elections will be conducted for 150 panchayats in 14 mandals in Nuzvid division in Krishna district on Sunday. Of the total 1,716 polling centres, 876 are sensitive and 840 are hyper-sensitive polling stations in the district, said Collector A.Md. Imtiaz. The Collector reviewed the arrangements for the elections with Joint Collector K. Madhavi Latha, Nuzvid Sub-Collector Prathista Mangine, District Panchayat Officer Saibaba and other officers at Nuzvid. Web casting has been arranged at 480 polling centres and the Mandal Revenue Officers (MROs) were instructed to monitor the election process, said Ms. Madhavi Latha. Eluru Range DIG K.V. Mohan Rao reviewed the security arrangements for the fourth phase of panchayat elections with the SPs and ASPs. Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu, SEB Additional SP Vakul Jindal, ASP Mallika Garg and Nuzvid DSP B. Srinivasulu visited the sensitive polling stations in Reddygudem, Agiripalli, Musunuru, Vissannapeta and other mandals in the district on Saturday. Police conducted flag march in Agiripalli village and appealed to the villagers to exercise their franchise freely.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-set-for-fourth-phase-panchayat-polls-in-w-godavari/article33893291.ece
21 February 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six mandals going for polls in Guntur||Arrangements are in place for the fourth and final phase of polling for electing sarpanches and ward members of gram panchayats in Guntur Revenue Division. Six mandals in Guntur division are going for elections on Sunday: Guntur Rural, Medikonduru, Prathipadu, Vatticherukuru, Tadikonda and Pedakakani. Of the 83 panchayats, 26 have been identified as most sensitive, 27 sensitive and the remaining as normal villages. Of the 980 polling booths, 105 have been identified as most sensitive, 93 as sensitive, 109 as normal. Superintendent of Police, Guntur Urban, R.N. Ammireddy said strict measures were taken to ensure free and fair elections. Eight check posts have been set up and vehicular checking has been intensified, he said. As many as 278 persons have been bound over, 58 cases were filed under 110 CrPC and 39 pending warrants have been executed, he added. The police have ensured that 192 fire arms were deposited, and seized liquor worth Rs. 2.68 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/six-mandals-going-for-polls-in-guntur/article33892797.ece
21 February 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. urged to set up network to check pangolin poaching||Conservation biologist Eswar Narayana on Saturday appealed to the State government to set up an outreach wing to keep a vigil on the poaching of the endangered Indian pangolin (Manis crassicaudata) in Andhra Pradesh. Janya Foundation-India in collaboration with the PR Government Degree College, Kakinada and Sri Prakash Synergy School conducted various events in the city, creating awareness among teachers and students on the challenges being faced by the Indian pangolin. The awareness meeting was held marking World Pangolin Day, observed on the third Saturday of February. Natural habitat “The Papikonda National Park is home for the Indian pangolin in Andhra Pradesh, apart from a few forest stretches in the Eastern Ghats. The State-level outreach network should be set up to tackle the growing threats for the species which will help create a field-level vigilance system to prevent poaching,” said Mr. Narayana. Previously, Mr. Narayana was a conservation biologist with the UN Development Programme for the project on the East Godavari River Estuarine Ecosystem (EGREE), including the Coringa Wildlife Sanctuary. “It is the need of the hour to bring all the stakeholders - Forest Department, local communities and academic institutions - under a dedicated network to create awareness and conserve pangolin species in Andhra Pradesh,” he added. He gave a presentation on Indian pangolin and the threats it faced from poachers for export to Asian countries for consumption. “The scales of the Indian pangolin are said to be in great demand in Asian countries reportedly for medicinal purposes,” he said during the interaction with students. P.R. Degree College principal C. Krishna and aquaculture lecturer Srinivas also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-urged-to-set-up-network-to-check-pangolin-poaching/article33892799.ece
21 February 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||South Coastal districts gear up for fourth phase of panchayat polls||The stage is set for the fourth and final phase of the gram panchayat elections in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh on Sunday. Unseasonal rains under the influence of a weather system in the Bay of Bengal kept officials on tenterhooks in the districts of Nellore and Prakasam. Officials had a tough time during distribution of polling material in the Nellore revenue division. “We are fully geared up to hold the elections by putting waterproof tents,” said Nellore Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu while overseeing arrangements for holding of the elections for 181 sarpanch and 1,527 ward member seats. Noting that there had been slackness in observing COVID-19 protocols such as wearing masks and practising social distancing, the Collector said there could be no complacency as active cases could again shoot up if safety norms were not strictly followed. Sarpanches have already been elected unanimously in 55 villages. As many as 810 ward members have also been elected unopposed. An electorate of 4.42 lakh voters will decide the electoral fortunes of 475 candidates for the sarpanch post and 3,303 candidates for the ward member post. “Additional staff members have been pressed into service to ensure that the counting of votes polled is over by 9 p.m.,” he said. The entire process would be webcast/videographed in 150 hyper-senstive polling stations. As many as 150 volunteers of the Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) will assist elderly people as also differently-abled persons to vote.  Security beefed up In Prakasam district, 4.43 lakh voters will vote to decide the fate of 472 candidates in the fray for the sarpanch post and 2,664 candidates for the ward member post in Markapur division in the elections to be held amid beefed up security, district panchayat office officials said. As many as 40 sarpanch and 856 ward member candidates have already been elected uncontested in the revenue division, an erstwhile Maoist stronghold.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/south-coastal-districts-gear-up-for-fourth-phase-of-panchayat-polls/article33892801.ece
21 February 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Privatisation will deprive poor of quota benefits’||Members of the Ambedkar Jyothi Rao Phule Students Association staged a demonstration in front of the Prakasam Bhavan here on Saturday in protest against the Centre’s decision to privatise Visakhapatnam Steel Plant(VSP). Addressing the protesters, Jai Bheem Organisation Founder Jai Bheem Nageswara Rao said the marginalised classes would not get the benefits of reservation if the government goes ahead with privatising everything. The livelihoods of SC, ST, BC youth were in jeopardy as the BJP-led NDA government pursued liberalisation, privatisation and globalisation policies with vigour, Progressive Democratic Students Union (PDSU) State vice-president L. Rajasekhar said. The Central government should step down if it was not in a position to run Public Sector Units profitably, said Organisation for Protection of Democracy State vice-president Ch.Sudhakar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rinl-privatisation-spells-doom-for-depressed-classes/article33892803.ece
21 February 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ensure peaceful polling in last phase, says DGP||Director General of Police D. Goutam Sawang on Saturday directed the police personnel not to give any scope for violence during the last phase of the gram panchayat elections, and in the ensuing elections to the urban local bodies, in Srikakulam and other parts of the State. “Fortunately, the previous three phases of the panchayat elections were peaceful. In the last phase too, it should be incident-free,” he said.  Recalling the services rendered by the police to the people during the lockdown period, Mr. Sawang said that 109 police officials and constables had succumbed to the virus while discharging their duty. Later, the DGP handed over appreciation letters to police officers who checked distribution of illicit liquor in Palakonda division.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ensure-peaceful-polling-in-last-phase-says-dgp/article33893278.ece
21 February 2021||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five initiatives helping city police serve people better||The city police have launched five initiatives — Parishkaram, Marpu, Maddhatu, Bharosa and Nigha — to serve people. Under the Parishkaram initiative, a pre-litigation counselling forum (PLCF) was started on October 10, last year, to solve land and civil litigation, as these cases were occupying a major part of the cases in the police stations. The PLCF was started in a room in Swarna Bharati Stadium and is headed by the Dwaraka ACP. So far, the forum has received 567 petitions and till date 62 have been solved. Ch. Srinivasa Rao, who retired from a public sector unit, and has been facing a land grabbing issue since last one decade could get the problem settled in just one session. “ The initiative is good, but it should reach more number of people anda few more offices should be opened in city suburbs such as Gajuwaka or Pendurthi,” he said. Under the Parishkaram programme, the city police have also started a Disha counselling Centre for women. Under this initiative, women who do not want to approach a police station due to various reasons can approach the centre, which is headed by the Disha ACP and it is an all-women team, said Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha. The centre was opened on December 10, last year, and so far 67 petitions were received and 46 of them were solved. Rahimunissa Begum, an advocate and women rights activist, feels that women who are reluctant to go to a police station are now approaching the Disha centre without any inhibitions. She says it is advisable to increase number of counselling days so that more women can approach the centre. The Marpu was initiated in January, this year, with the idea of delisting reformed rowdy-sheeters, so that they can lead a normal life. Out of 440 rowdy-sheeters in the city, the names of 40 were cleared. Marpu has been extended to counsel policemen who are addicted to substance, youth who are addicted to drugs and alcohol, and youngsters who are into bike racing. About 16 policemen, 35 drug addicts and 32 biker racers were counselled, said ACP (CCS) Shravan, who is heading the team, along with two others including a professional psychologist. Under the Maddhatu programme, the city police have taken a number of initiatives to improve visible policing and have also opened sub-controls across the city, including on Beach Road stretch. The teams present in the sub-controls on Beach Road have rescued about 18 lost children and they were handed over to their family, since January 14, when it was launched, said ADCP (Traffic) Ch. Adinarayana. Under the programme, the traffic wing of the city police have also trained about 100 policemen to be part of the ‘Surakshita Prayanam’ initiative. Under the Bharosa programme, the city police have launched the auto verification initiative. All autos are now registered and numbered at respective police stations and efforts are on to geo-tag them. Nigha is a watch on crime such as house break-ins, chain snatching and cyber crime, said DCP (Crime) V. Suresh Babu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/five-initiatives-helping-city-police-serve-people-better/article33893361.ece
21 February 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kishan Reddy offers prayers at Tirumala||Minister of State for Home Affairs G. Kishan Reddy has said that the incidence of COVID-19 is declining in the country and that every individual should get vaccinated. Speaking to the media after offering prayers at the temple of Lord Venkateswara here on Saturday, Mr. Kishan Reddy urged the TTD to ensure “dhoopa, deepa, and naivedhyams” at the temples without proper income, contribute its bit for the construction of new temples, and also extend its cooperation for carrying out dharmic and religious activities at the village level. He also reiterated that the State government should take stringent steps for protecting the precious red sandalwood grown abundantly in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kishan-reddy-offers-prayers-at-tirumala/article33893279.ece
21 February 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||I am poor and don’t even own a house: Deputy CM||Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy has appealed to the opposition party leaders not to level any kind of corruption charges against him. “TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu is my classmate. But I am very poor. I don’t even own a house to live,” Mr. Narayanaswamy told the media here on Saturday. The Minister said that the YSRCP-backed candidates registered victory in about 130 panchayats in his native constituency, and that those who were unanimously elected presented him the sacred ‘laddu prasadam’ of Lord Venkateswara, which was distributed among those who were present. The Minister said he honestly had no information about the distribution of ‘laddu prasadam’ among the voters, and had never indulged in any kind of corruption in his political carrier. Earlier, he had offered prayers at the temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/i-am-poor-and-dont-even-own-a-house-deputy-cm/article33893280.ece
21 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Liquor flows freely ahead of polls||Liquor and freebies were widely distributed at several places across the State to sway voters during the ongoing gram panchayat elections. The Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB), Police and Excise department personnel seized over 50,000 bottles of liquor worth lakhs of rupees in the last month alone. SEB Commissioner Vineet Brijlal said that over 5,000 persons who were smuggling Non-Duty Paid Liquor (NDPL) from neighbouring Telangana, Karnataka and other States have been arrested. Besides, SEB officials destroyed 15.68 lakh litres of fermented jaggery wash, 36,577 litres of ID liquor, 7,396 kg of black jaggery, four kg of gold ornaments, 439 gm of diamonds, 57 kg of ganja, 100 kg of silver jewellery and 35 saris, which were reportedly meant for distribution to the voters during the panchayat elections. “The SEB team led by ASP S. Gowthami seized 12,192 bottles of liquor hidden under hay stacks at Chippagiri village in Kurnool district on Saturday. The NDPL was seized from Karnataka State. In another raid, SEB officials recovered 6,168 bottles of liquor at Thumukunta checkpost in Anantapur district,” Mr. Brijlal said. In some villages, leaders of various political parties attempted to entice voters by distributing biryani packets while some aspirants distributed liquor in some gram panchayats. The sarpanch and ward member candidates were distributing biryani packets to each house while some aspirants were giving 1 kg chicken to the voters. ‘Diktat’ issued The East Godavari police reportedly seized pressure cookers which were about to be distributed to voters. Community elders organised meetings in some gram panchayats and issued a ‘durai’ (diktat) to the families to vote for the candidates finalised by their community heads. The elders warned that those violating the diktat will face action. “In some villages, voting depends completely on caste while in some panchayats money played a vital role. Many candidates gave freebies to the voters,” said P. Venkanna of Undi in West Godavari district. Krishna district Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu said that police seized 33,000 liquor bottles, Rs. 1.72 crore in cash, over 2,000 saris, 10 kg silver, and some gold ornaments in the raids during the local body elections. West Godavari district Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik said that vigil has been tightened along the borders and added that a huge quantity of NDPL being smuggled from Telangana was seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/liquor-flows-freely-ahead-of-polls/article33893346.ece
21 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Drop plan to sell VSP: Naidu||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Saturday urged the Centre to drop its plan to privatise Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited (RINL), the corporate entity of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), as it was achieved through a long drawn struggle by the Telugu people, who, back in 1960, had united for the cause with the slogan ‘Visakha Ukku Andhrula Hakku’ (Vizag steel is the right of Andhraites). In a letter addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the TDP president recalled how the government had announced its decision to build VSP in 1970. The project was established under the corporate entity of Steel Authority of India Limited. Later, in 1982, it was brought under RINL, he said. Students from the Andhra Medical College, Andhra University, Mrs. A.V.N. College and many other colleges across Guntur, Krishna, Warangal and East and West Godavari districts had participated in the movement, led by stalwarts such as Tenneti Viswanadham, Sardar Gouthu Latchanna, Puchalapalli Sudarayya, Chandra Rajeswara Rao, Nallamalla Giriprasad Rao, T. Nagi Reddy and Vavilala Gopalakrishnaiah, among others. ‘Pride of Telugu people’ The pioneer of the movement, Amruta Rao, from a Dalit community in Guntur district, had staged an indefinite fast, which inspired the Telugu people from across the State to unite for the cause, Mr. Naidu said. Asserting that the steel plant was a symbol of Telugu people’s sacrifice and pride, the TDP president recalled that 32 persons had sacrificed their lives for the project.He said, 16,000 families from 68 villages had given 26,500 acres of land for the project. Overcoming many hurdles, the steel plant was built and dedicated to the nation in 1992. The plant, however, accumulated losses to the tune of Rs. 4,000 crore from 1991 to 2000, and was referred to the Board of Industrial and Financial Reconstruction (BIFR). But the grant of a restructuring package of Rs. 1,333 crore by the Centre helped it curb losses. Mr. Naidu pleaded that VSP was the lifeline of North Andhra, providing livelihood to lakhs of people. It was, therefore, all the more essential to protect the steel plant, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drop-plan-to-sell-vsp-naidu/article33893349.ece
21 February 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘All steel plants are facing losses’||The AP Chambers of Commerce and Industry Association (APCCIA) resolved in a roundtable meeting that the Central government should allot captive iron mines to Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) to bring down its cost of production, permit swapping of high-cost debt with low-cost debt and conversion of short-term and long-term loans into equity and give 10% equity to the public if the situation warranted. APCCIA president K.V.S. Prakash Rao and general secretary P. Bhaskar Rao said people were emotionally attached to VSP as it was established after years of agitation, and that it is the only shore-based steel plant in the country that is located in a well-connected city and has around 20,000 acres of prime urban land that is worth a few lakh crores of rupees. Besides, there are many ancillary units dependent on VSP. The plant earned profits from 2002 to 2014 and had become a ‘Navaratna’ company. The high cost of production caused by the absence of captive mines and an unfavourable global steel cycle contributed to the losses reported by VSP of late. The entire steel industry is faced with fluctuating demand and currently almost all the steel plants in India are running in losses, the APCCIA maintained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-steel-plants-are-facing-losses/article33893275.ece
21 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||19 of 54 new COVID-19 cases reported from Chittoor district||The State reported 54 COVID-19 infections in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning. No fatalities were reported during the period. The number of infections increased to 8,89,210. The number of recoveries also increased to 8,81,439 with 70 patients recovering in the last one day. This left 604 active cases in the State. The recovery rate rose to 99.13%, while the death rate remained at 0.81% as the toll stood at 7,167. In the last one day, 26,436 samples were tested with a positivity rate of 0.20%. The overall positivity rate of the 1.369 crore samples tested so far in the State stands at 6.49%. Chittoor reported 19 new infections, which was 35% of the new infections tally. The count in the remaining districts is as follows: East Godavari and Kurnool (6 each), Guntur and Krishna (5 each), Anantapur, Nellore and Visakhapatnam (3 each), Kadapa (2), and Prakasam and West Godavari (1 each). There were no new cases in Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts. The overall district-wise tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,24,394), West Godavari (94,306), Chittoor (87,295), Guntur (75,654), Anantapur (67,718), Nellore (62,427), Prakasam (62,197), Kurnool (60,858), Visakhapatnam (59,959), Kadapa (55,334), Krishna (48,853), Srikakulam (46,168) and Vizianagaram (41,152).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/19-of-54-new-covid-19-cases-reported-from-chittoor-district/article33893274.ece
21 February 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan highlights impediments to growth of manufacturing sector at NITI Aayog meet||The exorbitant cost of funds provided by the financial institutions, the high cost of power, delays in land procurement, the complexities in granting statutory clearances, and rigid labour laws are the five significant impediments to the growth of the manufacturing sector, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy was speaking at the virtual meeting of the Governing Council of NITI Aayog on Saturday. ‘Cost of funds high’ For creating infrastructure, the State government undertakings too had to avail themselves of loans from the financial institutions at 10% to 11% interest per annum, and it was not difficult to imagine the plight of the private sector, he said. “With such a high cost of funds, the manufacturers in India cannot offer products that can compete with those of countries where debt is available at rates as low as 2%. So is the case with power, which is available in some counties at tariffs lower than Rs. 3 per unit,” the Chief Minister said. Commenting on the agriculture sector, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy suggested five key policy interventions – minimising costs associated with production, ensuring availability of quality inputs (seed, fertilizers and pesticides), making post-harvest technologies and facilities such as storage, grading, and processing available for enhancing quality and marketability of the produce, facilitating the sale of produce at remunerative prices at the farmgate itself and instituting a market stabilisation fund for procuring the crops (making the same fund available to the States as finance from banks and financial institutions at low interest rates), and paying timely compensation for the loss suffered by farmers due to the natural calamities. Natural farming Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said his government was committed to promoting natural farming in a big way given the increased incidence of cancer and other serious ailments primarily attributable to the consumption of agri-products resulting from high usage of pesticides and chemical fertilizers. With reference to the education and health sectors, the Chief Minister stressed the need for providing access to low-cost finance to the State governments for developing social infrastructure to enable them to provide quality services to the citizens at affordable rates. The Chief Minister said his government had launched the Nadu-Nedu scheme, under which the infrastructure in government educational institutions was being revamped, covering nearly 46,000 schools, junior and degree colleges, and hostels. Under the Nadu-Nedu programme in the health sector, he said infrastructure was being improved from the grassroots, i.e. the primary health centres, up to the district and teaching hospitals. “The government is also setting up 16 new medical colleges and five multi-speciality hospitals in the scheduled tribal areas,” he said. Three of the 16 medical colleges were accorded sanction by the Government of India for part-funding, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said, and requested part-funding of the remaining colleges as well. He also appealed to the Centre to make one year government service in the rural areas compulsory for medical and nursing graduates and postgraduates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-highlights-impediments-to-growth-of-manufacturing-sector-at-niti-aayog-meet/article33893276.ece
21 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Review panel happy with progress at Polavaram project||The Dam Designs Review Panel (DDRP) of Polavaram project reviewed the designs of the project on Saturday. The panel, which expressed satisfaction over the works, said that the project would be completed by 2022. The team comprising Polavaram Project Authority Chief Executive Officer Chandrashekar Ayyer, Water Resources Department Secretary Shyamala Rao, Engineer-in-Chief C. Narayana Reddy, Polavaram project Superintendent Engineer Narasimha Murthy, DDRP members Y.K. Handa and Bhargava, Megha Engineering Infrastructures Limited (MEIL) director Ch. Subbaiah, General Manager A. Satish Babu and others reviewed the designs of the project at Rajamahendravaram on Saturday. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Pandya said that work on the spillway, fixing of gates and construction of pillars are fast reaching completion. Earlier, the DDRP visited the project site and gave suggestions to the MEIL and Polavaram Irrigation Project (PIP) officials. They also examined the construction of guider wall which was very crucial.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/review-panel-happy-with-progress-at-polavaram-project/article33893347.ece
21 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Quality being compromised by D.Ed colleges: panel chief||AP School Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission Chairman K. Kantha Rao on Saturday expressed displeasure over gross violation of the rule book by Diploma in Education (D.Ed) colleges in the State. At a press conference here, Justice Kantha Rao said key aspects such as quality standards, eligibility and expertise were being compromised in appointment of teachers. Taking exception to what he called ‘indiscriminate violation of norms’ in making spot admissions by these colleges, he said representatives of only 350 of the 770 D.Ed colleges that were asked to participate in the document-verification process by the commission, had showed up. Of the ones who attended, most had failed to maintain minimum standards. Documents verified He said the commission members and its team had thoroughly verified their documents in two phases in the last six days. The colleges were found to be resorting to irregularities in student and teacher attendance, conduct of practical exams and the facilities in their institutions. Some of the colleges had volunteered to close down, he said, adding that the commission’s team would inspect the remaining colleges that failed to show up. Justice Kantha Rao said the commission would inspect 60% of the colleges and recommend strong action against the ones resorting to malpractices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/quality-being-compromised-by-ded-colleges-panel-chief/article33893342.ece
21 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Allotments for UG admissions released||The AP State Council of Higher Education on Saturday released the allotments made under Phase-II for admissions into the Under Graduate programmes in BA, B.Com, B.Sc offered by the degree colleges for the academic year 2020-21. Council Chairman K. Hemachandra Reddy said 2,62,000 candidates had exercised web options, and allotments were made to 2,60,103 of them. Candidates who were given allotments under Phase-II, including those who self-reported through online after Phase-I, should report to the allotted college by February 24.  Mr. Reddy said left over seats would be handed over to institutions to be filled through spot admissions as per merit before March 6, and that guidelines for admissions under spot category would be issued shortly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/allotments-for-ug-admissions-released/article33893281.ece
21 February 2021||VIJAYaWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sailendra is Executive Director of IndianOil in south||K. Sailendra has assumed charge as the Executive Director (Regional Services), IndianOil Southern Region comprising Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karnataka, Kerala and Lakshadweep. Besides being the Regional In-charge of key areas including human resources, finance, LPG and fuel logistics, contracts, safety and security, aviation and quality control, Mr. Sailendra will also function as the regional-level coordinator for Oil and Gas industry in the above five States. Earlier he was heading the LPG group of IndianOil in Karnataka. A mechanical engineer from Osmania University, Hyderabad, Mr. Sailendra is an acknowledged expert in LPG domain having worked across LPG bottling plants, LPG operations, engineering project, auto LPG, supply chain management, marketing and sales across the country for over three decades. During his extensive tenure in IndianOil LPG, Mr. Sailendra had been responsible for developing exhaustive policies for Auto LPG stations and oversaw network expansion of Auto LPG stations across the country. He commissioned the first electronic carousal and built the first indigenously designed mounded storage for LPG as in-charge of Hyderabad LPG bottling plant which became industry standards later. As LPG Head of Rajasthan, he was responsible for the successful roll out of PMUY, besides implementing the scheme in Karnataka as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sailendra-is-executive-director-of-indianoil-in-south/article33893288.ece
21 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP dares CM to take protest to New Delhi||TDP State president K. Atchannaidu on Saturday dared Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and his party MPs to stage a protest in New Delhi opposing the Centre’s move to privatise the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP). Ridiculing the padayatra taken out by YSRCP Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy in Visakhapatnam, Mr. Atchannaidu wondered what purpose would it serve. Instead of organising a public meeting in New Delhi to make the Centre understand the strong resentment of the people of A.P. on the issue, the YSRCP leaders were merely making statements in support of the protesters, which was eyewash, he said. Criticising that the public meeting in Visakhapatnam was reduced to a platform where the TDP was blamed for the situation, Mr. Atchannaidu wondered why the Parliamentarians from the ruling party did not resign to show their protest. He accused the YSRCP of striking a “secret deal” with POSCO, the South Korean steel company, which would be handed over the land belonging to the VSP as part of a joint venture. He further alleged that the deal was struck in September last, when the ruling party leaders – Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy, Balashouri, Vemireddy and Prabhakar Reddy – met the Union Minister for Petroleum and Natural Gas and Steel, along with representatives of POSCO. “To save himself from the many corruption cases, the Chief Minister is mortgaging the interests of the people,” the TDP leader alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/take-protest-against-vsp-divestment-to-delhi-tdp/article33893283.ece
21 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||56 dead since filing nominations||Fifty-six candidates of recognised and registered political parties died since filing nominations for the municipal elections in the State which were postponed on March 15, 2020 due to COVID. The said parties have to set up candidates as a replacement to the deceased by 3 p.m. on February 28. Twenty-eight of the candidates belonged to YSRCP, 17 TDP, five BJP, three CPI, two Congress and one JSP. The process of elections was completed up to the scrutiny of nominations on March 14 and it was kept on hold the next day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/56-dead-since-filing-nominations/article33893284.ece
21 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Will not allow privatisation of steel plant at any cost: Vijaya Sai||Leading a rally under the banner ‘Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Yatra’, here on Saturday, YSR Congress Party MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy, said that the State government and the party will not allow the proposed strategic sale of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), at any cost. Over 1,000 YSRCP leaders and workers, trade union members and from other political parties, joined the padayatra that began from Gandhi statue, near the GVMC office. The yatra, which covered over 23 km, culminated into a public meeting at the steel plant. Speaking at the public meeting, Mr. Vijaya Sai said that two things were responsible for losses in the VSP. He said that production cost was high as the plant didn’t have captive mines. He said that the VSP had invested around Rs. 1,500 crore in Orissa Minerals Development Company (OMDC) for captive mines, but the mines have not been handed over. He said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is aware of the mines issue and is ready to allocate the mines in Prakasam district, but they are low grade mines and they would not suit the VSP’s requirement. Mr. Vijaya Sai said that the mines located at Karnataka-Andhra Pradesh border are under legal litigation and cannot be allocated. He said that due to the expansion of the plant from 3 to 7.3 million tonnes, the VSP has incurred a debt of about Rs. 20,000 crore and it has been paying around Rs. 2,700 crore as interest. “If captive mines are allocated and the Union government takes a decision to convert the debt to equity, the plant would turn profitable in a short time,” he said. Referring to the POSCO management meeting the Chief Minister, he said during the course of discussion Mr. Jagan had asked them to leave the VSP and start a steel plant at Kadapa or Krishnapatnam. “The Chief Minister had also promised to provide them land,” Mr. Vijaya Sai said. The MP also urged the VSP management not to reduce production, as it would plunge the company into further losses. Top management Hinting at management issues, he alleged that the top management is made up of officers from other States and they may not have the affinity towards the region, as locals would have. Mr. Vijaya Sai said that efforts are on to meet the Prime Minister along with leaders from other political parties and trade unions and if appointment is given, he would raise the issue of debts, captive mines and recruitment of locals into the top management. He said that VSP was established after a huge sacrifice by people and YSRCP will not allow it to be privatised and the agitation would continue till the Union government revokes its decision. Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao, Visakhapatnam MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana, MLAs Gudivada Amarnath and A. Adeep Raj and others walked along with him for the 23 km. Rajya Sabha member Pilli Subhash Chandra Bose, Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu, Fisheries Minister Seediri Appalaraju, MLA Golla Babu Rao, leaders from various trade unions and others were present. Nagari MLA R.K. Roja and Anakapalle MP B.V. Satyavathi also joined the walk for some time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/will-not-allow-privatisation-of-steel-plant-at-any-cost-vijaya-sai/article33892717.ece
21 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naval chief inaugurates renovated golf course||Former cricketers who were part of the 1983 World Cup winning squad and now turned professional golfers — Roger Binny and Syed Kirmani — and sports commentator Charu Sharma, were in awe of the renovated golf course at East Point Golf Club (EPGC). The sprawling greens spread over 86 acres was inaugurated on Saturday by Chief of Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh. He said it was one of the finest golf courses that meets international standards. Roger Binny and Kirmani, who along with Charu Sharma, spent some time on course, said that the course meets the international standards and its location with the backdrop of hills, makes it soothing to the eyes. Earlier, the golf course was a normal one with 18 holes. Now it has been upgraded into category-A championship golf course, after the makeover, said EPGC secretary R.V.S. Rudraraju. “Very soon a team from the Indian Golf Union will visit the course and certify it to a championship course and then we can expect to host national and international championships,” he said. EPCG was established in 1884 and was then known as Golf Links. It was then a nine-hole course spread over 45 acres and located near the present VMRDA Park. It was later shifted to its present location beside the Mudasarlova reservoir in 1964.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naval-chief-inaugurates-renovated-golf-course/article33893344.ece
21 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Organisations should constitute internal complaints committees: DLCC chief||Director of Dr. Durgabai Deshmukh Centre for Women’s Studies, Andhra University, and Chairperson of District Local Complaint Committee (DLCC) P. Usha said that according to the POSH Act (Prevention of Sexual Harassment) every organisation has to constitute an internal complaints committee (ICC) when there are 10 or more women employees. The committee will hear and redress grievances pertaining to sexual harassment and update the details of the committee constituted, she said. She was speaking during the DLCC meet over Sexual Harassment of Women at Place (Prevention,Prohibition and Redressal) in the district, which was held at AU, here on Saturday. Ms. Usha said that the documentation should be maintained and review meetings must be conducted quarterly. She said that awareness campaigns must be conducted by the committee. She said that the ICC should display ‘dos and don’ts and also display the DLCC committee details with contact numbers on board. The DLCC will visit the organisations for verification. The DLCC also resolved to have a meeting with all the chairpersons of ICC, which would be addressed by the District Collector, she said. Members M.V. Lakshmi, K. Swarna Kumari and ex-officio member N. Sita Mahalakshmi were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/organisations-should-constitute-internal-complaints-committees-dlcc-chief/article33893355.ece
21 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials gear up for final phase of panchayat polls today||A total of 279 sarpanch candidates are contesting for 103 posts and 1,965 candidates are going to polls for 904 ward members posts in the fourth and the last phase of gram panchayat elections which are going to held in six mandals — Anandapuram, Bheemili, Parawada, Sabbavaram, Padmanabham and Pendurthi — on Sunday. According to the officials, 117 sarpanch offices were notified for elections and out of which 14 were unanimously elected. Similarly, 295 of 1,200 ward members were unanimously elected. The district administration has geared up to conduct the elections in a hassle-free manner. District Collector V. Vinay Chand had conducted review meets with the polling staff. More than 1,500 police officials, including five ACP/DCP rank officers, 10 Circle Inspectors, 33 Sub-Inspector rank officers, 1,174 police constables and other police personnel, are being deployed in the six mandals. The Police Department has identified problematic areas in the six mandals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-gear-up-for-final-phase-of-panchayat-polls-today/article33893356.ece
21 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Street play organised||Students and 2(A) girls battalion NCC cadets of St Ann’s College, Malkapuram, organised a social service activity and community development programme at GVMC Coromandel Grounds, here on Friday. A street play was organised by the students showcasing how women play a pivotal role in society. Principal Prema Kumari, Havaldar Vikas Kumar, NCC officer Sivaranjani and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/street-play-organised/article33893354.ece
21 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||760 kg ganja seized at Ananthagiri||The district police, in association with Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) and the Forest Department, have seized about 760 kg ganja which was being transported in a lorry at Ananthagiri mandal in the Agency area of Visakhapatnam district on Saturday. According to the police, based on a credible information, a check-post was set up near Chilakalagedda forest area. On Saturday morning, a lorry with Maharashtra registration number, which was heading towards the check-post stopped at a certain distance. Noticing the officials, the driver of the vehicle got down and escaped into the forest. “There were about 19 bags, each containing about 40 kg ganja. In order to escape from checks, the smugglers had covered the ganja bags with a waterproof cover,” the police said. Efforts are on to nab the accused. A case was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/760-kg-ganja-seized-at-ananthagiri/article33893359.ece
21 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rain likely in south coastal A.P. today||A trough in low level easterlies lies over west central Bay of Bengal and run from north Tamil Nadu coast to south Odisha coast at 1.5 km above the mean sea level, according to a statement issued by the Cyclone Warning Centre(CWC), Visakhapatnam. Under its influence, rain or thundershowers is very likely to occur at a few places over south coastal Andhra Pradesh on Sunday. Dry weather is likely to prevail over north coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam on Sunday. The chief amounts of rainfall recorded (in cm) during the last 24 hours, ending at 8.30 a.m. on Saturday are: Ongole (Prakasam) – 6 and Udayagiri – 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rain-likely-in-south-coastal-ap-today/article33893289.ece
21 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘People’s movement can only halt privatisation of VSP’||Muslim Thinkers Forum, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, convener A. M. Khan Yazdani, said that a massive people’s movement can only halt privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP). He was speaking at a programme organised for students and youth organisations, here on Saturday. He reminded the students about the steel plant agitation of 1960s and how students played a vital role in that. “The path has been laid and now the present generation has to follow it. Students and youth should take a cue from the Shaheen Bagh movement and farmers agitation and step up the ongoing protests,” he said. Forum A.P. convener Jaha Aara and representatives from PDSO, AISF, SFI, CPI, CPI (M), Mahila Chetana and SIO were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/peoples-movement-can-only-halt-privatisation-of-vsp/article33893363.ece
21 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Goods sheds modified||The Goods Sheds of Waltair Division at Visakhapatnam New Goods Complex and at Vizianagaram have been modified to handle bulk parcel cargo. Cargo aggregators, business entities and parcel cargo handlers can utilise this facility for hassle-free services. Interested entrepreneurs can log on to the web site:www.ireps.gov.infor more details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/goods-sheds-modified/article33893311.ece
21 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Arrangements being made for civic polls: Sub-Collector||Narsipatnam Sub-Collector N. Mourya said that all arrangements are being made for the municipal elections scheduled to be held in Narsipatnam on March 10. Speaking to the media on Saturday, she said that as per 2011 census, the population of Narsipatnam municipality is about 61,540. She said that as on March 9, 2020, the total number of voters were 47,389, including 24,884 women. She said that a control room with number 089322-36065 was set up for the elections. Narsipatnam Circle Inspector Swamy Naidu, Municipal Commissioner N. Kanakaraju and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/arrangements-being-made-for-civic-polls-sub-collector/article33893365.ece
21 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Save pangolins, students told||About 40 students from various schools took part in the awareness programme about the endangered species Indian Pangolin which was organised by the officials from Indira Gandhi Zoological Park, Visakhapatnam, on the occasion of World Pangolin Day, on Saturday. IGZP Curator Nandani Salaria, stressed on the responsibility to save the species which is listed in Schedule 1 of Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. Participation certificates were given to the students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/save-pangolins-students-told/article33893357.ece
21 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ICAI contributing to growth of economy: AU Registrar||Andhra University Registrar V. Krishna Mohan attended the new office-bearers introduction programme for Visakhaptnam branch of Southern India Regional Council (SIRC) of Institute of Chartered Accountants of India( ICAI), here on Saturday. He said that the ICAI is contributing a lot towards the growth of Indian economy. He extended wishes to new Chairman S. Murali Krishna and other office-bearers for the year 2021-22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/icai-contributing-to-growth-of-economy-au-registrar/article33893358.ece
21 February 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Polls in LWE-hit areas a challenge for officials||The Vizianagaram district administration is geared up for the final phase of the panchayat elections to be held on Sunday. Voters will elect 238 sarpanches and 1,947 ward members. The elections are expected to be crucial in Lotugedda, Kuneru, Kondalingalavalasa and Daraparthi with the reported presence of Maoists and their sympathisers. Vizinaagaram Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal and Superintendent of Police B. Rajakumari reviewed the poll arrangements and advised the staff to guard the polling material and inform higher officials in case of any untoward incident in sensitive places. Dr. Hari Jawaharlal who visited Gantyada, S. Kota, Vepada, L. Kota and Kothavalasa mandals directed mandal special officers to ensure all the facilities for the polling staff. He said that the proper arrangements from early hours would make more voters participate in the election process and achieve highest voting percentage in the district. “We are arranging CCTV cameras at polling stations and the entire election process will be monitored by web casting. We will ensure that voters are not inconvenienced. Counting will also be done on Saturday evening and results will be announced immediately,” he added. Meanwhile, both the ruling YSR Congress Party and Opposition Telugu Desam Party are pulling out all stops to win the maximum number of seats in the panchayats which come under Sringavarapukota , Gajapathinagaram and Salur Assembly constituencies. S. Kota MLA Kadubandi Srinivasa Rao visited various panchayats in Kothavalasa, S. Kota, L. Kota and other places to ensure a victory for YSRCP-backed sarpanch candidates. Former Union Minister P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju and other senior leaders hoped that the opposition-backed candidates would win more seats in the final phase of elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/polls-in-lwe-hit-areas-a-challenge-for-officials/article33893313.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plane hits pole at Gannavaram||The pole got uprooted under the impact and the aircraft’s wing was damaged. Airport director G. Madhusudhana Rao said no injuries were reported and all the passengers and crew members were safe after the incident. He said the incident did not impact the airport operations and everything was normal. About 20 of the passengers in the flight belong to Krishna and nearby districts and the flight was supposed to leave for Tiruchirapalli (Trichy) airport in Tamil Nadu. As the Boeing 737-800 aircraft was grounded following the incident, the remaining Tiruchirapalli-bound passengers were sent to their destinations by other planes arranged by Air India. The authorities concerned are inquiring into the causes of the mishap.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plane-hits-pole-at-gannavaram/article33893272.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM demands Special Category Status||A.P. has complied with the 229 reforms under the District Business Reform Action Plan of the Government of India, he said. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy sought quick approval of the revised cost estimates of the Polavaram project and support for its timely completion. He said the project was declared as a national project and is regarded as the State’s lifeline. Energy policy He urged the Central government to come up with a national policy to encourage the use of reverse pumping technology given the increase in the share of renewable energy in total energy generation, and to permit the States’ power utilities to swap high-cost debt with low-cost long-term debt to ensure survival of the sector. He said the A.P. government recently floated a tender for a 10,000 MW solar power project at Rs. 2.48 per unit tariff for a 30-year period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-demands-special-category-status/article33893273.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Life by the river||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/life-by-the-river/article33893353.ece
21 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Lawyers’ murder: Police trying to link accused with crime||With the arrest of the four accused in the lawyer-couple murder case, police successfully completed the first phase of investigation. But the real and crucial challenge of connecting the accused with the crime to secure conviction awaits them now. Though the investigators explained how the accused had executed the twin murders, it is clear that the statement made before the police is not admissible in the court of law. Naturally, the police have to present irrefutable evidence to prove that the quartet was responsible for the gory killing of the husband and wife. Police records say that two of them hacked the couple to death on Kalvacheral outskirts on Manthani-Peddapalli road. An important evidence is the video clip showing two of the accused indiscriminately attacking Rao before fleeing. “It becomes a valid evidence if police trace the person who originally recorded it. But procedures like securing Section 65-B certificate under Evidence Act are involved,” say criminal lawyers. Driver of the lawyer couple, who was present at the time of the attack, needs to corroborate the content of the video clip. More importantly, the police are now in the process of identifying the passengers of an RTC bus many of whom had witnessed the double murder. “It is said that a person travelling in that bus also recorded video of the gory killing which would be of immense help in linking the accused with the crime,” the police said. Police records said the accused dumped the blood-stained arms in Sundilla reservoir, which need to be recovered. Already, police are planning to take the accused into remand from judicial custody for further questioning and build up the case properly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lawyers-murder-police-trying-to-link-accused-with-crime/article33893093.ece
21 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘TSCAB tops in using IT, good governance, HR practices’||The Telangana State Cooperative Apex Bank (TSCAB) is making strides and tops in the country in the utilisation of Information Technology, good governance and HR practices, said managing director N. Muralidhar. The TSCAB has set a target of making a business of Rs.15,000 crore during the financial year 2021-2022, he said and added that they had done a business of Rs. 11,300 crore till date during this financial year of 2020-2021 and set a target of making Rs. 12,000 crore by March-end this year. They had done a business of Rs. 10,800 crore during the year 2019-2020. The TSCAB is the only cooperative bank in the country to utilise the Cyber Security Operations Centre (C-SOC) 24x7 on a par with any nationalised bank, he pointed out. They were planning to provide internet banking facilities for its customers and applied for the same with RBI. The TSCAB is the only bank in the country with the lowest NPA (non-performing assets) of only 0.17% and a good recovery rate of 98%. Dr. Muralidhar was in Karimnagar town on Saturday to participate in the day-long State-level review meet with the CEOs of various DCCBs, general managers and other TSCAB officials at the Karimnagar DCCB office along with TSCAB chairman Konduru Ravinder Rao. He said that the TSCAB and all the DCCBs were functioning successfully and making profits complying with the statutory norms of the RBI except for the Khammam DCCB. Since the formation of TSCAB in April 2015, they were doing well and there was a tremendous increase in the performance on all the parameters. The TSCAB had won the best performer award at the national level twice and the Karimnagar DCCB had won thrice as the best performing DCCB in the country. “Our success formula and strong areas are the use of technology, good governance and HR,” he stated. Following the successful computerisation of all PACS in the State, the NABARD had decided to aid TSCAB to convert all the PACS into multi-service centres in the coming three years period and provide loans at only 4% interest rate. So far, around 200 societies have come forward for taking up 366 types of activities amounting to Rs. 153 crore. TSCAB is supporting DCCBs as friend, philosopher and guide and providing training and recruitment processes, he said, and added that they had recruited around 1,900 staff in the cooperative sector, including 266 in TSCAB and 1,571 in DCCBs, in a transparent manner through Institute of Banking Personnel Selection (IBPS). He said that they were planning for a uniform HR policy in all the DCCBs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tscab-tops-in-using-it-good-governance-hr-practices/article33893095.ece
21 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS team scouts for stone to be used in Secretariat||A delegation led by Minister for Roads and Buildings Vemula Prashanth Reddy visited the stone quarries of Dholpur, Bari, Karauli and a few other places in Rajasthan on Saturday as part of shortlisting the stone varieties for use in the construction of new Secretariat buildings here. The delegation comprising Engineer-in-Chief (R&B) I. Ganaptathi Reddty, Executive Engineer Shashidhar, architect Oscar, representative of executing agency Shapoorji Pallonji Group Lakshman and others enquired about the varieties of stones available therd and their quality including longevity. They also visited red stone quarries in Hinapur and biju stone quarries in Kheda and their availability. The delegation has been on the visit following the directions of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for sourcing the quality stone for the new Secretariat. The delegation visited Taj Mahal and Red Fort and enquired about the quality of stone used in the monuments with the officials concerned. On Friday, they visited Rashtrapati Bhavan and Parliament buildings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-team-scouts-for-stone-to-be-used-in-secretariat/article33893104.ece
21 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Indian Oil mulls training fuel, LPG truck drivers on simulators||National oil marketing company Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) is assessing the scope of providing simulator-based training to nearly 2,300 drivers of LPG and fuel trucks attached to 12 of its installations across Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. Aimed at enhancing driving skills and reducing road accidents, the proposal gained momentum with the company inviting an expression of interest (EoI). A first step, the EoI will help identify companies with the required hardware and software capabilities for the training programme. ED and State head of IOC for Telangana and Andhra Pradesh ,R.Sravan S.Rao said on-site simulator-based training for the drivers is being contemplated to hone their skills. The company is constantly looking at ways through which it can minimise and possibly eliminate road accidents involving the vehicles that move widely consumed products such as liquefied petroleum gas, petrol and diesel. Though not its employees — the drivers are engaged by those who bag transportation contracts — the company still is keen on improving their skills, particularly safe driving techniques, given the inflammable nature of products they transport. The emphasis is also on their health. “We have done extensive eye test for all the drivers,” Mr. Rao said. There are plans to check their hearing ability as well. At another level, the vehicle tracking system in trucks also helps the company keep an eye on drivers and violations, especially over speeding. Whenever it takes shape, the simulator-based training will cover all the drivers, irrespective of their experience, he added. While simulator-based driver training is offered by some institutions at their premises, IOC is keen on providing it at the bottling plants, oil terminals and depots since this would ensure that all the drivers are covered, within a specific time-frame. The EoI comes on the back of a pilot project conducted in Tamil Nadu and is also expected to help standardise training modules. “We understand there are some startups which have got this capability,” another official said, adding the EoI would be followed by physical demo of the facilities by the identified companies. Thereafter, negotiations related to training programme would be conducted. IOC will provide the training free of cost. The programme will be offered at Indane bottling plants in Thimmapur and Cherlapally, both near Hyderabad, and in Kadapa, Kondapally and Visakhapatnam; IOC’s Hyderabad, Vijayawada, Chittoor, Rajahmundry and Visakhapatnam terminals; and oil depots in Ongole and Ramagundam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/indian-oil-mulls-training-fuel-lpg-truck-drivers-on-simulators/article33893077.ece
21 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Dhruva’s ‘Muqabla’ goes online||Dhruva College of Management hosted the 18th All India UG and PG students fest MUQABLA-2021 virtually that was attended by more than 200 students from as many as 93 colleges across the country. A bouquet of events like singing, dancing, storytelling, speech delivery, poster making, essay writing, quiz and video campaigning were part of the festival. “The objective of the competition is to ignite competitive spirit, camaraderie and creativity,” said Pratap Reddy, chairman of Dhruva College of Management. Apart from the prize money of Rs. 50,000, Dhruva college also offered fee waiver to top two students at the time of admission. The committee offered a healthy competitive environment despite the inevitable technological and geographical constraints.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dhruvas-muqabla-goes-online/article33893082.ece
21 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘BJP cadre harassed by police’||State BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar alleged that his party activists and leaders were being subjected to harassment and atrocities by the police at the behest of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and the police responsible for it would face the music after the 2023 Assembly elections. Addressing a press conference here on Saturday, he accused the TRS government of carrying out atrocities against the BJP activists and leaders through intelligence chief T. Prabhakar Rao. The BJP government to be formed in 2023 would not spare any officer who had been dancing to the tunes of the TRS leadership and acting illegally and undemocratically, he said. Mr. Sanjay asked State government officials, particularly the police, to mend their ways before it was too late. He also suggested the TRS leadership as also the officers victimising the BJP activists, leaders and supporters “to recollect what had happened to M. Karunanidhi, Lalu Prasad Yadav and Mulayam Singh Yadav after they were thrown out of power”. On the issue of encroachment of land belonging to tribals of Gurrampode thanda in Nalgonda district by some private persons, the BJP leader alleged that the police were harassing the tribals. In the past, the police had illegally detained 40 tribals for trying to remove sheds constructed by private persons on their land and used third degree on them for 60 days. Recently, when a BJP team led by him went to Gurrampode thanda, police had again attacked the tribals, although the HC had issued orders that the land belonged to tribals there, instead of protecting them. On the lawyer-couple murder, he reiterated party stand that it was a murder sponsored by government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-cadre-harassed-by-police/article33893091.ece
21 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Putta Madhu laments ‘media trial’, says he has no role in murders||After being under attack from political opponents on the brutal killing of the lawyer-couple Vaman Rao and Nagamani in Manthani, Peddapalli ZP chairman and former Manthani MLA Putta Madhu clarified that he had no role in the killings as being claimed by the media. Mr. Madhu, who was silent for three days after the killings in broad daylight, said there was a political conspiracy in dragging his name into the murder and blamed Congress MLA from Manthani D. Sreedhar Babu for what he called media propaganda against him. “The media has started the trial even as the police are investigating the murders,” he argued. He said rumours were being spread that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao refused to meet him despite his efforts. “I made no effort to meet them or was declined a meeting. I am very much in Manthani meeting the people,” he said in response to allegations that he had returned midway on his way to Hyderabad to meet the top leadership. Mr. Madhu also said that he would hold a press meet in Hyderabad after the police investigation and reveal the details behind the conspiracy. He claimed that Mr. Sreedhar Babu was jealous of his political rise. Accusing the media of dragging his name into the murders, he claimed that he was not a rich guy to purchase the media in his favour. Though it was a well known fact that Mr. Madhu had differences with the deceased Vaman Rao, the focus shifted onto him after his nephew, Bittu Srinu, was arrested for allegedly supplying the swords and the car used in the murder. The strong view taken by the High Court forced the police to change its initial focus of investigation from local rivalry to role of political leaders. DGP M. Mahender Reddy is apparently monitoring the case personally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/putta-madhu-laments-media-trial-says-he-has-no-role-in-murders/article33893099.ece
21 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||National conference on ‘rule of law’ opens||“No man should be trusted with absolute power. There should be no preponderance of power over an individual. The concept of rule of law is to protect people from power,” said former Chief Justice Manepalli Narayana Rao Venkatachalaiah in his inaugural address of the Indian Democracy at Work virtual conference which began on Saturday. On World Day of Social Justice, Justice Venkatachalaiah underscored the various lacunae in the prosecution and judicial system in the country. Loss of man hours “In the lower courts, the number of civil cases is 30% and criminal cases is 70%. This ratio gets reversed in the higher courts. When litigants come to court and go back without getting any work done, it is loss of man hours. Every year, Rs. 2 lakh crore loss is incurred by citizenry due to this,” said the former judge of Supreme Court who lamented forensics remaining a non-priority area for prosecution. Earlier, the stage for the conference was set by Jaya Prakash Narayana of Foundation for Democratic Reforms who linked the economic progress, prosperity of a country to trust and prevalence of rule of law. Later, former Reserve Bank of India Governor D. Subbarao gave the example of North and South Korea and how the prosperity of South Korea is linked to free enterprise and rule of law. “In 1776, Adam Smith wrote Wealth of Nations. Exactly 200 years later, Gunnar Myrdal wrote Asian Drama: An Enquiry into Poverty of Nations. From examining wealth we started finding out reasons for poverty. Why do some countries remain poor while some become rich?” asked Mr. Subbarao. “Institutions matter. Rule of law matter. Only if rule of law prevails will businesses find it profitable to invest in India,” said Mr. Subbarao as he shared examples from different countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/national-conference-on-rule-of-law-opens/article33893083.ece
21 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Paediatric Rare Genetic Disorders laboratory inaugurated at CDFD||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday inaugurated the ‘Paediatric Rare Genetic Disorders’ lab at the Centre for DNA Fingerprinting and Diagnostics here. Appreciating the Department of Biotechnology (DBT) of the Central government for asking CDFD to take-up a major research programme on “Paediatric Rare Genetic Disorders”, he said the programme would contribute positively towards the Government of India’s sustainable development goals regarding human health and mitigate the societal burden of genetic diseases. He addressed the scientists of the centre after going round its facilities and said that a few years ago, the WHO data had attributed 61% of all deaths in India to non-communicable diseases (NCDs) like heart disorders, cancer and diabetes. This trend, he said must be arrested by mounting a massive national campaign on the importance of adopting healthy lifestyle and food habits. In this context, he urged the scientists to create awareness among people on making healthy choices. Referring to the burden of genetic diseases, the Vice President asked the scientists to develop simpler and cost-effective methods for diagnosis of various genetic diseases to help in better patient management. He lauded CDFD for identifying novel genetic mutations for more than 10 disorders in India, including the identification of 4 new genes, which would be helpful in genetic counseling and management of diseases. Observing that an estimated 350 million people were suffering from “Rare diseases” worldwide and about 70 million (1 in 20) in India, Mr. Naidu pointed to the cascading effect of the burden of these disorders on the economy and social structure of the society since most of them are untreatable. Telangana Home Minister Mohammed Mahmood Ali, CDFD Director, Dr. K. Thangaraj, senior officials from the Department of Biotechnology, scientists, research scholars and staff were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/paediatric-rare-genetic-disorders-lab-opens-at-cdfd/article33893079.ece
21 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Sharjah-bound passenger held at RGIA||A 23-year-old Sharjah-bound passenger was detained by the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport, Shamshabad, in the wee hours of February 19 for possessing various foreign currencies without valid documents. CISF sources said currencies equivalent to Rs. 9,77,441 was found with Asif Ahmed Khan while conducting baggage checks. A resident of Jahanuma in the old city, Khan was scheduled to board Air Arabia flight No. G9 459. He was handed over to Customs officials for further investigation. A case was registered under relevant sections of the Customs Act against Khan before he was let off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sharjah-bound-passenger-held-at-rgia/article33893089.ece
21 February 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Anti-Human Trafficking meet held||A convergence meeting with the Rachakonda Commissionerate’s Anti-Human Trafficking Unit, and other stake holders was organised on Saturday. Commissioner of Police Mahesh Bhagwat said that so far their team cracked 29 human trafficking cases and rescued as many as 109 victims. They arrested 76 accused persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/anti-trafficking-meet-held/article33893106.ece
21 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Habitual offender held||The Government Railway Police (GRP) said that on Saturday they have solved five theft cases aboard outstation trains by arresting a 50-year-old from Punjab. Jagroop Singh from Meerput Hans in Ludhiana was arrested at Secunderabad Railway Station. Police recovered 102 grams of gold jewellery and 228 grams of silver articles worth Rs. 4.50 lakh from him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/habitual-offender-arrested/article33893107.ece
21 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Dargah under Waqf Board direct management||The Telangana State Waqf Board has taken under its direct management (DM) the famous Sufi shrine Dargah Hazrat Yusufain in Nampally. The move comes after the year-long term of the temporary mutawalli Abul Fath Syed Shah Hassan Shabbir Mohammed Mohammedul Hussaini came to an end on November 11 this year. The TSWB will not directly manage the waqf institution, its mosque, ashoorkhana, graveyard and other structures such as shops endowed to it. The Inspector-Auditor of the TSWB has been directed to take full charge of the institution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dargah-under-waqf-board-direct-management/article33893109.ece
21 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State Information Commission urged to hold e-hearings||A Right to Information activist sent a representation of the Telangana State Information Commission (TSIC), requesting the body to conduct online hearing of petitions. The activist, S.Q. Masood, stated that given the COVID-19 pandemic, applicants as well as respondents, especially from the districts of the State, have been facing difficulties in travelling to Hyderabad to attend hearings. “The advantages of virtual hearings are well known. Applicants and respondents need not travel distances to appear before the Commission. Thus, justice delivery would become more efficient, faster and less costly,” he stated. Mr Masood also requested TSIC to implement recommendations of e-committee of the apex court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-information-commission-urged-to-hold-e-hearings/article33893084.ece
21 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||City hospital initiates use of millets||Apollo Hospitals, Hyderabad, initiated the use of millets in collaboration with over 5,000 women farmers working with Deccan Development Society. The healthcare group has procured 4,000 kg of millets and will procure 1,000 kg every month to support women farmers of Sangareddy. The usage of millets will become a feature in the Apollo Hospitals’ dining areas and menus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/city-hospital-initiates-use-of-millets/article33893073.ece
21 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pact for academic and technical linkage||The Military College of Electronics & Mechanical Engineering (MCEME) at Secunderabad and the Ordnance Factory Medak signed an academic and technical linkage agreement on Friday for designing an indigenous Armoured Tracked Repair Vehicle. Lieutenant General T.S.A. Narayanan, Commandant-MCEME and Colonel Commandant, Corps of EME, presided over the ceremony, according to a press statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pact-for-academic-and-technical-linkage/article33893080.ece
21 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Training programme for policemen||Untrained employees take approximately up to six times longer to perform the same task as trained employees, said Cyberabad Commissioner of Police VC Sajjnar. To improve the individual skills of officers of all ranks in Cyberabad Commissionerate in usage of technology, drafting skills, and to improve quality of investigation in different cases, regular training is organised, he said. A monthly calendar was prepared after analysing the training needs of officers every month and accordingly training sessions were scheduled with the help of subject experts and resource persons from across the State. In the first fortnight of February, they conducted training classes on POCSO Act and rape cases, rule-based driving skills, fatal and non-fatal road accidents, HRMS training, investigation of cyber crimes and English speaking and drafting skills, Mr. Sajjanar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/training-programme-for-policemen/article33893315.ece
21 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||UoH honours 3 researchers of eminence||The University of Hyderabad (UoH) has appointed three Institution of Eminence (IoE) Research Chair professors recently. Deevi Basavaiah has been appointed as IoE Research Chair Professor in Chemistry, in the School of Chemistry; Agepati S. Raghavendra as IoE Research Chair Professor in Life Sciences, in the School of Life Sciences and K. Narayana Chandran as IoE Research Chair Professor in Literary and Cultural Theory in the Department of English, School of Humanities. A statement from the university said that all the three were already recognised worldwide for their pioneering research and in all cases unique, research in their respective areas. “By bringing them into the IoE project in this fashion, we expect to showcase high-impact research globally, which is one of the IoE aims. They will also be teaching in the university so that our students can learn from the best,” it said. “They are three role models and aspirational figures for the university community, and will inspire colleagues and researchers. Their publication record and research profile are unmatched and this will set the standards for IoE,” said UoH VC and chairman of the IoE project Appa Rao Podile.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/uoh-honours-3-researchers-of-eminence/article33893098.ece
21 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Suryapet gets water from SRSP: Bhatti||Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Bhatti Vikramarka has challenged the government to an open debate on the loans acquired for the Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project and how useful the water is. Speaking at the “Face to Face with Farmers” programme at Suryapet on Saturday, he asked Power Minister G. Jagadish Reddy to participate in a debate with him if the CM was not interested. He said Mr. Reddy was taking credit for the development done by Congress government, and reminded that credit for water from SRSP to Suryapet should go to ex-MLA Ramreddy Damodar Reddy. “Mr. Reddy is lying on Kaleshwaram water reaching Suryapet. In fact, water is from SRSP and Dindi projects constructed by the Congress governments,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/suryapet-gets-water-from-srsp-bhatti/article33893100.ece
21 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||157 more test COVID-positive in the State||Telangana recorded 157 COVID-19 cases on Saturday, pushing up the tally to 2,97,435. While 23702 people were examined, results of 538 were awaited. Zero COVID-related deaths were reported on Saturday, which is the third such instance this month. The new 157 cases include 27 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, 15 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, and 12 from Rangareddy. No case was reported from Nirmal, Narayanpet, Kamareddy, Jogulamba Gadwal and Jangaon. From the time the first positive case was detected in Telangana on March 2 last year, 84,33,333 samples have been put to test. Of the total cases, 1,715 were active while 2,94,097 have recovered. The death toll stands at 1,623.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/157-more-test-covid-positive-in-the-state/article33893072.ece
21 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Three branches of SBI opened||Three branches of the State Bank of India (SBI), Hyderabad Circle, were inaugurated on Saturday. Inaugurating the Income Tax Colony branch, Banjara Hills, Anjaneya Nagar branch in Kukatpally, and a rural branch in Thorrur, Rangareddy district, Chief General Manager Om Prakash Mishra said the facilities had been opened with the purpose of providing personalised service to residents of localities. Opening the Anjaneya Nagar facility, Mr.Mishra interacted with customers and handed over sanction letters of housing loan totalling Rs. 3.50 crore. A press release said the renovated, dedicated office for State Bank of India SC/ST Employees Welfare Association (SEWA) was also inaugurated by Mr.Mishra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-branches-of-sbi-opened/article33893105.ece
21 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Green channel for organ transport||Hyderabad traffic police on Saturday facilitated transport of a pair of lungs by providing non-stop movement to the ambulance carrying the live organ. At 11.27 a.m., the ambulance carrying the organ started from Yashoda Hospital, Malakpet, to Yashoda Hospital, Secunderabad. The distance of 11.7 km between two hospitals was covered in 15 minutes. So far this year, the traffic police facilitated organ transportation eight times, Additional Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Anil Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/green-channel-for-organ-transport/article33893316.ece
21 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Mayor to assume office on Feb. 22||The newly-elected Mayor and Deputy Mayor of GHMC will assume charge on February 22, a statement from the GHMC informed. Mayor Vijayalakshmi R. Gadwal and Deputy Mayor Mothe Srilatha, who were elected by the newly sworn in GHMC Council on February 11, will conduct special prayers on the said day at 9.30 a.m., before assuming charge, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mayor-to-assume-office-tomorrow/article33893087.ece
21 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||43 nominations filed for MLC polls||Academic and intellectual K. Nageshwar was among the 19 aspirants who filed nominations on Saturday for the Mahabubnagar-Ranga Reddy-Hyderabad Graduates’ Constituency polls for the Telangana Legislative Council. A total of 43 nominations have been filed so far, a statement from the GHMC informed. Muppadi Rajeshwar, Anwar Khan, Meesala Gopalakrishna, Mumba Ashok Kumar, Mohammed Ali, Mohammed Imtiaz Ahmed, Marella Gopal, Murali Goud, Dodla Venkatesham, Kolukuru Prathap, Mateti Raveendranath, Koshiga Anikanth, Harshavardhan Reddy, K.Sayanna, Syed Fariduddin, and Jacob Babu were the other candidates who filed nominations on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/43-nominations-filed-for-mlc-polls/article33893101.ece
21 February 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Dolomite workers on warpath||Amid raging protests against the Centre’s move to privatise the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) in Andhra Pradesh, the growing agitation in the neighbouring State is finding resonance in Madharam of Karepalli mandal in Telangana’s mineral-rich Khammam district, where the VSP’s captive dolomite mine is located. Taking a cue from the mounting anti-privatisation stir in the coastal city of Visakhapatnam and elsewhere in Andhra Pradesh, several trade unions operating in the Madharam dolomite mining belt have embarked on a phase-wise agitation against the Centre’s privatisation move. The Madharam Dolomite Mine (MDM) was commissioned in 1989 as a captive mine of the Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited (RINL)-VSP with 1500 tonnes per day capacity at Madharam in Khammam district in the then united Andhra Pradesh, sources said. Around 950 acres of land spread in five gram panchayats in and around Madharam was allotted for the MDM in the last 80s, sources added. The mining operations are currently under way in the core mining zone of a little over 100 acres. It has around 160 regular employees including workers on its rolls apart from nearly 60 contract workers. In the wake of the Centre’s move to privatise the VSP, local leaders of the CITU, the INTUC and the AITUC launched a relay hunger stir in front of the MDM on Friday demanding withdrawal of the Centre's privatisation plan. “We have submitted memoranda to the mandal and the district authorities against the move to privatise our public sector undertaking in the past one week,” said G Narasimha Rao, CITU Madharam committee secretary. “The move to privatise our parent organisation (VSP) will eventually result in the MDM going into the hands of private players thereby jeopardising the interests of the workforce,” he deplored, reiterating that they would organise a phase-wise agitation above trade union affiliations to avert privatisation of the VSP/MDM. The long-pending grievances of several land losers of the dolomite mining area still remained unaddressed, alleged a local trade union activist. “Privatisation will allow big private firms to plunder the rich mineral wealth at the cost of the workers’ welfare and the environment, the activist alleged. “We will mount pressure on the Centre to drop the privatisation move to safeguard the public sector mine and livelihoods,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dolomite-mine-workers-on-warpath/article33893108.ece
21 February 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Artists drum up support for farmers’ agitation||Amplifying farmers' voices of protest against the Centre's new farm laws, artists of the cultural wings of the Left parties are playing a catalyst role in drumming up support for the ongoing farmers' agitation in New Delhi. The artists of the Praja Natya Mandali affiliated to the CPI(M) and the Arunodaya Samskruthika Samakya of the CPI (ML-New Democracy) led a string of rallies and meetings organised by the Left parties expressing solidarity with the agitating farmers across the undivided Khammam district in recent weeks. Several poets known for their progressive bent of mind penned poems giving an expression to the anguish of agitating farmers. The artists of the Arunodaya cultural troupe led the CPI (ML-ND)'s rally christened "Rythu Garjana" from the front here last week. Apart from the Arunodaya local artists, noted poet and folk singer Jayaraj also performed at a public meeting held soon after the rally expressing solidarity with the farmers' agitation. His song "Rythe Deshaniki Annadhata Rythe Lokaniki Pranadhata, Pudamiki Pachhani Maniharam Akali Teerche Dhanyagaram" praising farmers as food givers and lifeline of the nation evoked wide admiration from the participants at the Rythu Garjana. "We performed at various fora on songs based on the ongoing farmers' agitation against the farm laws and impending danger to the livelihoods of millions of farmers and food security of the country from the big corporate firms," said Gaddam Lakshman, the district secretary of the Arunodaya cultural troupe. “We will continue our cultural campaign to articulate the farmers' protests and mobilise public support to their historical struggle against "anti-farmer" policies,” he asserted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/artists-drum-up-support-for-farmers-agitation/article33893318.ece
21 February 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||BRF||Kanyavandanam will be celebrated at Haridaspur village in Sangareddy district on Sunday. This village has stood out of the rest in Telangana by celebrating the birth of a girl child. The festival will include applying turmeric and ‘Parani’ to little girls dressed like the Goddess. Chilkur Balaji chief archaka C.S. Rangarajan will apply the ‘Parani’. Collector M. Hanumantha Rao will also participate. “Through this worship, we want to revive the respect for women and girls,” said Rangarajan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article33893102.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Edge-of-the-seat thriller||In this whodunnit thriller set in 1975 and the 80s, Gautham (Sumanth) plays a traffic cop who is frustrated with his job and wants to work in the crime department. He comes across a bunch of skeletons and believes a murder took place. Though his higher-ups advise to desist from going ahead, he begins a search for the killers. This leads him to find support in a retired, alcoholic inspector Ranjit (Nasser), who was originally the investigating officer in that case. We are also introduced to GK (Jayaprakash) and another man Aleru Srinivas. The rest of the story shows the stumbling blocks in Gautham’s effort to nab the killers. Though this is a faithful remake of the original Kannada film Kavuladhari , efforts have been made to show thatit’s not just another commercial subject. The film does keep you engaged, retains the suspense for most part but lacks any emotional connect. Sumanth’s and Nasser’s portions keep you hooked. Nandita Swetha plays Jaya Prakash, a journalist’s daughter, and doesn’t have much to do. Jayaprakash also excels in his role as a scribe, in fact he is a revelation. He seems to have walked the extra mile to show his prowess as a drunkard. The film is interesting and the heroine’s entry changes the mood of the story, albeit for a short while. There is an item dance by Suman Ranganathan who plays a film actress and her sudden disappearance evokes interest. This is a good film for Sumanth. The film isn’t too sleek, but good enough to generate interest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/edge-of-the-seat-thriller/article33893086.ece
21 February 2021||New Delhi,||Three-wheelers most popular in electric vehicle segment: govt.||Three-wheelers have emerged as bestsellers in the electric vehicle segment in the Capital, the Delhi government said on Saturday. Since the launch of the Delhi EV policy in August last year, 5,534 new EV three-wheelers have been registered and more users are coming forward, the government said. Under the policy, 177 three-wheeler models are available and eligible for purchase, and scrapping incentives across 68 manufacturers. According to the government, subsidies under the policy on electric three-wheelers reduce the total cost of its ownership by up to 26% and by switching to one an individual buyer can save approximately Rs. 29,000 annually. Similarly, subsidies for e-rikshaws reduce the total cost of ownership by up to 33%. “I received a subsidy of Rs. 30,000 for my e-rickshaw. Registration fee and road tax were waived under the EV policy,” said Sunil Kumar, a beneficiary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/three-wheelers-most-popular-in-electric-vehicle-segment-govt/article33892960.ece
21 February 2021||new delhi,||Police register case against two NGOs||The Economic Offences Wing of the Delhi Police has registered a case against two NGOs: Umeed Aman Ghar and Khushi Rainbow Home, in connection with alleged financial irregularities. Both were established by the Centre for Equity Studies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/police-register-case-against-two-ngos/article33892958.ece
21 February 2021||New delhi,||Top cop reviews law and order in city, takes note of pending cases||Delhi Police Commissioner S.N. Shrivastava on Saturday reviewed the law and order, and crime situation in the city. The top cop took note of pending investigation cases and reviewed the analysis of Integrated Complaint Management System data for pending complaints. Mr. Shrivastava also discussed the status of implementation of e-beat book and Crime and Criminal Tracking Network System. The performance of Districts Special Staff unit in terms of detection and cases under investigation were also reviewed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/top-cop-reviews-law-and-order-in-city-takes-note-of-pending-cases/article33892970.ece
21 February 2021||Aurangabad,||Inter-State gang of diesel thieves busted, 14 held||Police have busted an inter-State gang of diesel thieves at Kannad in Maharashtra’s Aurangabad district and arrested 14 of its members, an official has said. Four trucks, around 40 containers filled with diesel, cash and other material, collectively worth over Rs. 98 lakh, were seized during the operation conducted on February 17, the police official said. “The action was taken based on a complaint lodged in Chikalthana police station in the district on February 16, which said that 3,480 litres of diesel had been stolen from a petrol pump in Chitegaon,” district Superintendent of Police Mokshada Patil told reporters on Friday. The local Crime Branch received information that a gang from Osmanabad district was involved in this, she said. The police came to know that these gang members would fill trucks with sand from Tapi district of Gujarat and sell it in Osmanabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/inter-state-gang-of-diesel-thieves-busted-14-held/article33893166.ece
21 February 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha to close paddy procurement on March 31||Notwithstanding the farmers’ protest over paddy lying unsold across Odisha, the State government on Saturday said its procurement would come to an end on March 31. The budget session also witnessed uproarious scenes in the Assembly. Speaker Surjya Narayan Patro had to adjourn the House multiple times. Ranendra Pratap Swain, Food Supplies and Consumer Welfare and Cooperation Minister, read out the statement on paddy procurement amidst sloganeering by the Opposition BJP and Congress members. “As on February 19, total 55.03 lakh metric tonnes (mt) paddy has been purchased. On the same day last year, 45.61 lakh mt paddy was procured,” he told the House.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/odisha-to-close-paddy-procurement-on-march-31/article33892977.ece
21 February 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab seeks Centre’s help to ramp up health infrastructure||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday urged the Central government to consult with the State before fixing priorities for COVID-19 vaccination. With the database of healthcare and frontline workers frozen on the Centre’s app, several such workers of the State who want to register have been left out, Capt. Amarinder said. In his speech at the NITI Aayog meeting, the Chief Minister also urged the Central government to provide immediate financial assistance of at least Rs. 300 crore to upgrade health infrastructure, equipment and other healthcare needs (medicines and consumables etc.) in view of the pandemic. ‘Release GST amount’ The Chief Minister also requested the Central government to release the pending amount of GST compensation to the State, amounting to Rs. 8,253 crore for the period April 2020 to January 2021. He reiterated the State’s demand for releasing the GST compensation on monthly basis in the coming fiscal year, and sought extension in the period of GST compensation beyond the current 5 years for States like Punjab. He also urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ensure urgent resolution of the ongoing farm unrest by the Centre “to the satisfaction of the protesting farmers by addressing all their grievances”. He reiterated his government’s stand that agriculture is a State subject and law-making on it should be left to the States in the true spirit of “cooperative federalism” enshrined in the Constitution. Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal sought the Central government’s intervention in resolving the long pending issue of the Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) and the Hansi-Butana Link Canals so that the State could get its legitimate share of river water. “To overcome the water shortage problem in the State, the government will soon be signing a Memorandum of Understanding for the Kishau dam. Besides this, MoUs have already been signed with the Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh governments for Lakhwar and Renuka dam,” said Mr. Lal, speaking at meeting of the NITI Aayog through videoconferencing. Mr. Lal said at present maximum area of the State is getting converted into dark zone, therefore if the SYL and Hansi-Butana Link Canal issues are resolved then the problem of water scarcity in Haryana would be addressed immediately. He said though Haryana is at the forefront in GST collection, it gets only 20% of the same due to Input Tax Credit. Mr. Lal urged the Prime Minister to formulate a plan for incentivising the States having the maximum GST collection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/punjab-seeks-centres-help-to-ramp-up-health-infrastructure/article33892975.ece
21 February 2021||Ghaziabad,||Don’t take any drastic step, Tikait tells farmers||Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said on Saturday that his appeal to farmers to be ready to sacrifice their standing crops should not be taken literally. This clarification comes after a farmer in Bijnor destroyed almost half of his wheat crop on Saturday morning. Mr. Tikait said the appeal was made for an extreme situation. “The movement hasn’t reached that stage yet. Farmers should not take any drastic step in a huff,” he urged. In a video that went viral, Rohit Kumar, from Kulchana villge in Bijnor, could be heard saying that he destroyed his standing wheat crop to register his protest against the farm laws. Speaking over phone, Mr. Kumar said  he ran his tractor over wheat crop in six bighas after listening to Mr Tikait. Mr. Tikait said farmers would continue with their protest during summer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/dont-take-any-drastic-step-tikait-tells-farmers/article33892976.ece
21 February 2021||GURUGRAM,||Highways keep snuffing out wild animals of Aravalis||Mukesh Pandey, the priest at Manesar’s Shri Shani Dev Ji Dham off the busy Delhi-Jaipur highway, has spent more than a decade at this temple in the middle of the Aravalis. He has a plethora of fascinating stories to tell about his encounters with the wildlife in the surroundings. The 35-year-old vividly remembers how a leopard once strayed into the temple premises in 2008 at night and rushed towards the highway when the staff switched on the lights. “Scared, he probably rushed towards the highway and was hit by a speeding vehicle,” says Mr. Pandey. “Again, a leopard was found dead near a gaushala here in 2011,” he adds. The priest recalls having seen many Nilgais, hyenas, golden jackals and even porcupines and hares left injured, maimed, or killed by speeding vehicles. “I remember burying many Nilgais that were left to die after accidents.” A passage for animals Just outside the temple, a culvert is now blocked for a decade. Dharambir Malik, a local, said the culvert was blocked during the widening of the highway and later the construction of the service road. “If the culvert is opened, it could act as a passage for the wildlife as well as the local villagers,” says Mr. Malik. Two more culverts, around two km away from the temple on either side of a roadside eatery — Fauji Dhaba —at Panchgaon, too are choked to the top. “I remember having walked through it earlier. But gradually it got choked,” says Hamid, who runs a puncture shop near one of these culverts. He also confirms a leopard’s death in a road accident near the culvert in 2019. Vaishali Rana, a wildlife activist, says several wild animals, including leopards, were killed in road accidents on the three highways — Delhi-Jaipur Highway (NH-48), Gurugram-Alwar Highway (NH-248A) and Gurugram-Faridabad Highway — cutting through the Aravalis and fragmenting the wildlife habitat. It was after she pursued the matter with the Forest Department and the Public Works Department for more than two years that the authorities put around 20 signboards on NH-48 and Gurugram-Faridabad Highway warning the motorists to slow down. Thermoplastic rumble strips are also fixed at five locations on the Gurugram-Faridabad Highway. The PWD remained in denial about the wildlife deaths for two years till November 2020 when the Forest Department provided them with a record of accidental deaths of leopards and golden jackals, says Ms. Rana. Involvement of leaders “But it was after I met Deputy Chief Minister and PWD Minister Dushyant Chautala two weeks ago that the department swung into action,” says she. However, the more important task of underpasses on the three highways still remains. The three highways bisect the corridor used by the wildlife to traverse from Asola Wildlife Sanctuary in Delhi to Sariska in Rajasthan through Gurugram (Mangar -Bandhwari-Damdama). The forest department, in a series of letters to the PWD, has requested for the construction of underpasses on Gurugram-Faridabad Highway, but Rajeev Yadav, Superintending Engineer, PWD (Gurugram) says the paucity of funds is a major constraint. Divisional Wildlife Officer Rajinder Prasad says the process would be kicked off with the fresh budget allocation in April this year. “We need an underpass at Manesar on NH-48 and two more near Pali Police Post and Bandhwari village on Gurugram-Faridabad Highway,” he says. Almost a year-old internal official communication of the Forest Department to the office of Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) says opening of the three culverts on NH-48 and two km fencing along the highway could stop the death of wildlife in road accidents. “The forest policy calls for the creation of corridors to link the protected areas and funds are set aside for the protection of wildlife in projects through ecologically sensitive zones, but nothing substantial has been done,” says Ms. Rana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/highways-keep-snuffing-out-wild-animals-of-aravalis/article33892974.ece
21 February 2021||Mumbai,||‘Disha Ravi’s arrest shows Centre in panic mode’||The arrest of climate change activist Disha Ravi (22) shows that the Central government is panicking and mistaking people with anti-government sentiment to be anti-national, according to retired bureaucrats and intellectuals. They criticised the arrest of the Bengaluru youth by the Delhi Police on February 13 for allegedly sharing with Swedish teen climate activist Greta Thunberg a toolkit on the farmers’ protest against the Centre’s new farm laws. “They [Centre] seem threatened by her. The Delhi Police wants to say this girl has taken help from Poetic Justice Foundation [a Canada-based outfit alleged to be pro-Khalistani] to prepare the toolkit, which was edited by her and two others [lawyer Nikita Jacob and activist Shantanu Muluk]. So, where is the question of her being a Khalistani?” asked Padma Bhushan awardee Julio Ribeiro, who played a key role in quelling the Khalistan movement during his tenure as the Director General of Punjab Police. The Delhi Police’s attempt to show that the toolkit led to the violence in Delhi on Republic Day was “ridiculous”, said Mr. Ribeiro, who is part of Constitutional Conduct Group (CCG), an association of about 300 ex-bureaucrats. The Delhi Police claims that Ms. Ravi was in touch with pro-Khalistani sympathisers and helped prepare a Google document, which was tweeted and then deleted by Ms. Thunberg. The police said Ms. Ravi deleted her WhatsApp messages to Ms. Thunberg as she was aware of their legal implication. Retired Indian Police Service officer Meeran Borwankar, also part of CCG, said youth by definition are “radical and revolutionary” and should not be viewed as “violent or anti-nationals”. She said police officers should engage and partner with the youth instead of alienating them. “She [Ms. Ravi] should have been advised to join the investigation. If concrete evidence emerged that is criminal in nature, then her arrest would have been justified,” said Mrs. Borwankar, the first woman to serve as Pune Police Commissioner and Mumbai Crime Branch chief. Vappala Balachandran, former additional secretary, cabinet secretariat, highlighted the importance of NGOs in a democracy. He said, “The present world is a global village. There is a shared perspective of democracies. The role of NGOs in a society is to scrutinise government policies. NGOs have a legal right to point out that they don’t agree with these laws and policies.” ‘Not a war on India’ Mr. Balachandran said Ms. Ravi was expressing solidarity with the protesting farmers and was in touch with Ms. Thunberg and a foreign NGO. However, her role is being construed as a conspiracy. “This is not a war on our country,” he added. Senior advocate Indira Jaising said toolkits are not illegal or unconstitutional, but a measure adopted by all protest movements. She said, “To hold demonstrations outside an embassy is part of the fundamental right. To demonstrate for a just cause does not make you an anti-national. They [the Delhi Police] are confusing anti-national and anti-government. Opposing a policy of the government does not make you anti-national.” Writer Ganesh Devy, who returned his Sahitya Akademi Award to protest the attack on writers in 2015, said that the Centre is nervous. “Farmers have been protesting for almost three months. Our farmers have made our country. The agitation is real and it can’t be taken away. The use of draconian provisions of law [Ms. Ravi has been booked for sedition] reflect that the government is panicking, nervous, and suspicious,” Mr. Devy said. Renowned documentary filmmaker Anand Patwardhan said the Centre was feeling threatened by the protesting farmers and this snowballed into a desperate move of arresting Ms. Ravi. “We have become a laughing stock for reacting to a tweet by Rihanna and Greta. This just reveals the government is insecure,” he said. Writer Githa Hariharan said instead of being scared, India should be proud of youths like Ms. Ravi. “They are the hope for our country. We must learn from young people like Disha Ravi to engage with issues that affect people’s lives, whether it is climate change or farmers’ protests,” she said.  We must learn from young people like Disha Ravi to engage with issues that affect people’s lives, whether it is climate change or farmers’ protests Githa Hariharan Writer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/disha-ravis-arrest-shows-centre-in-panic-mode/article33893169.ece
21 February 2021||New Delhi,||All HC judges to hold physical court hearings from March 15||The Delhi High Court on Saturday issued an office order stating all its judges would hold physical hearing of cases from March 15. The existing system under which only 11 Benches, including two Division Benches of two judges each and nine single-judge Benches, hear matters via physical mode will continue till March 12, the court said. “The full court is pleased to order that the existing system of hearing the matters shall continue up to March 12, 2021,” the office order issued by Registrar General Manoj Jain stated. “It has further been ordered that all Benches of this court shall hold physical courts on a daily basis with effect from March 15, 2021, and shall continue to take up the matters as per the existing arrangement of listing,” it also stated. In exceptional cases, according to the order, the court might permit any of the parties and/or their lawyers to join the proceedings through video conferencing, subject to the availability of requisite infrastructure. Currently, some courts hold hybrid proceedings where lawyers and involved parties have the option to attend the hearing via videoconference instead of an appearance in person. Pending matters According to the order, all pending routine or non-urgent matters listed before it from February 22 to March 26 would be adjourned en bloc to dates between April 15 and May 20. It also urged advocates, litigants and other visitors to the High Court to “strictly adhere to norms of social distancing and other COVID-19 related guidelines.” On January 14, the court had decided to increase the number of judges who would be hearing cases physically from January 18 onwards, “in view of the decline in the intensity of spread of COVID-19 pandemic in Delhi”. Prior to January 18, only two to three Benches were holding physical courts daily on a rotation basis. On March 25 last year, the High Court had restricted its functioning as well as that of the district courts till April 14, 2020, which was later extended from time to time till January 16, 2021. On August 27, 2020, the High Court decided to partially resume physical hearing of matters from September 1, 2020 by two Division Benches and three single-judge Benches on a rotation basis. The number of Benches was later scaled down to one Division Bench and two single-judge Benches in view of the rise in COVID-19 cases, and a majority of the lawyers indicating their preference for virtual hearings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/all-hc-judges-to-hold-physical-court-hearings-from-march-15/article33892972.ece
21 February 2021||New Delhi,||AAP leader visits new Hanuman temple in Chandni Chowk||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) senior leader and party in-charge of municipal corporations Durgesh Pathak on Saturday offered prayers at a newly constructed Hanuman Temple at Chandni Chowk. This temple was built in place of another which was demolished by authorities earlier this year. Mr. Pathak alleged that the BJP-ruled north body had played with the faith of the devotees by “demolishing” the Hanuman Temple earlier this year. Devotees have built it again and the Delhi government is with the people, he said. “It is very sad to say that this temple — Sankat Mochan Lord Hanuman in Chandni Chowk — was demolished by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation,” the AAP leader said. “We have come here to pray before Lord Hanuman that he removes all the crisis of the country and the world and gives sanity to all. In the times of COVID-19, people have lost their jobs, suffered huge losses in terms of health and wealth, we pray that Lord Hanuman protects everyone,” Mr. Pathak added. The AAP leader said the corporation’s job is to keep Delhi’s roads, streets, and parks clean, along with ensuring good facilities in schools and hospitals. “The people of Delhi are perturbed by the BJP’s rule in the civic body and they want to entrust the AAP government with this responsibility,” Mr. Pathak said. Cong. leaders join AAP He said by praying at the temple, they have not only received blessings of the deity, but also received blessings of the people of Delhi. Also, former Congress councillor Anjana Parcha and its other leaders joined AAP on Saturday, the party said. AAP also alleged that the BJP-ruled municipal corporations have come up with a proposal to take 10% out of the funds spent in development works from MPLADS and MLA funds as “brokerage”. Responding to it, Leader of House of South Delhi Municipal Corporation Narendra Chawla said AAP is making “false allegations” without checking the details of the proposal passed earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/aap-leader-visits-new-hanuman-temple-in-chandni-chowk/article33892966.ece
21 February 2021||New Delhi,||Must focus on start-ups, manufacturing: Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday addressed the NITI Aayog Governing Council Meeting where he spoke on the importance of promoting the manufacturing sector and start-ups for the economic progress of India. “The youth of our country need to come to the forefront. The youth possess the potential and the energy to start new businesses. We need to aggressively promote start-ups,” he added. ‘Centre, State together’ Mr. Kejriwal said the Central and State governments should come together to build manufacturing hubs across the country to provide facilities and give tax breaks to MSMEs, manufacturers, and industrialists, for import substitutes and exports. “In the last 70 years, our country has never given importance to the manufacturing sector as a result of which people are leaving the sector and moving towards trading and service sectors. Our country is lagging behind in the manufacturing sector,” he said. “We witnessed that India had to confront two issues in the last year. First is COVID-19, which hugely affected the manufacturing sector. Secondly, on one hand, we saw how China has been challenging us on the border, and on the other, it has captured our markets and Chinese products are replacing Indian products on a large scale. We should aggressively pursue manufacturing,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/must-focus-on-start-ups-manufacturing-kejriwal/article33892967.ece
21 February 2021||New Delhi,||LoP inaugurates renovation work on Agra Canal road||Leader of Opposition in Delhi Legislative Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri on Saturday inaugurated renovation work on the Agra Canal road here. Mr. Bidhuri said the project, which falls under the jurisdiction of his Assembly constituency of Badarpur, would be completed at a cost of Rs. 1 crore. The cost is being borne by the Uttar Pradesh government, he said, adding: “This stretch is not only utilised by those commuting to Agra but also by locals and had been damaged in several sections increasing travelling time as well as posing the risk of accidents.” Inconvenience caused “The inconvenience that commuters were facing will not last for long; the road is being repaired from the Lohia bridge to Durga builders and will be completed soon,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/lop-launches-renovation-work-on-agra-canal-road/article33892964.ece
21 February 2021||New Delhi,||Over 26,000 take COVID-19 shot, highest till now: govt.||A total of 26,110 beneficiaries, healthcare and frontline workers took the COVID-19 vaccination in the city on Saturday, which is the highest till now. Also, there were 13 minor Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI), said a Delhi government spokesperson. Of the total beneficiaries, 21,759 received the first dose and 4,351 their second dose. Till now, a total of 1,31,854 healthcare workers and 1,53,037 frontline workers have received the vaccine, as per the government. The vaccination of healthcare workers started in the city on January 16 and frontline workers from the first week of February. The second dose of the vaccine is taken after 28 days of receiving the first dose and started from February 13. The vaccination will now continue from Monday. Delhi witnessed 152 new COVID-19 cases in 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 6,37,755, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Saturday. One death was reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 10,898.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/over-26000-take-covid-19-shot-highest-till-now-govt/article33892969.ece
21 February 2021||Pune,||NFAI acquires Jaishankar Danve’s personal collection||Carrying on with its yeoman service of preserving memorabilia from the ‘Golden Age’ of Indian cinema, the National Film Archive of India (NFAI) has now acquired the personal collection of noted yesteryear actor-director Jaishankar Danve. A celebrated thespian of the Marathi stage and screen who also worked in Hindi cinema, Danve, who was born in Pune in 1910, was especially memorable in villainous and anti-heroic roles. He was also noted for his skilled stage direction in his illustrious career of more than five decades until his death in 1986. He started out as a stage artiste in Marathi and Urdu theatre, apprenticing with the legendary Bhalji Pendharkar — a cousin of the great V. Shantaram. The Danve family handed over the collection to NFAI director Prakash Magdum in Kolhapur. Mr. Magdum said, “The priceless collection includes handwritten literary work by Jaishankar Danve, which comprises 14 novels, eight plays and five stories. Besides, we have received around 40 vintage black-and-white photos encased in frames from Danve’s films. These rare photos showcase his versatile body of work on stage and screen, while another album has 250 photos featuring clicks from his films and plays and 51 rare photos of other contemporary actors. In addition to this, there are three albums containing booklets, newspaper clippings, articles, rare handbills, and other publicity material from the 1930s.” The jewel in thistrove is a collection of wigs used by the thespian and a moustache that Danve donned in his 1933 stage adaptation of William Shakespeare’s Hamlet . Even more fascinating is the fact that Danve starred in this adaptation, which was an Urdu rendition of Hamlet titled ‘ Khune-Naahak ’. “Danve steadily worked his way up, eventually becoming an assistant director to Pendharkar in the Kolhapur-based Jayprabha Studios in the 1930s. At the time, Kolhapur was a wellspring of creativity and home to several giants of Marathi literature as well as the stage and the screen,” Mr. Magdum said. Remarking on Danve’s tryst with the Urdu stage, Mr. Magdum said the thespian made his film debut in an Urdu-language film titled Asire Havis in 1935. “He played important parts in Hindi and Urdu cinema during the 30s and 40s in films like Sach Hai (1939), and shared screen space with the legendary father-son duo of Prithviraj Kapoor and Raj Kapoor in Valmiki (1946),” Mr. Magdum said. Danve, who later made his name as an outstanding character actor, had a prodigious output in cinema and theatre, working in 67 films and 134 plays alongside some of the giants in early Indian cinema. Among his most memorable films are the cinematic version of Baburao Painter’s unforgettable Savkari Pash in 1936, considered one of Marathi cinema’s classics of ‘social realism’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/nfai-acquires-jaishankar-danves-personal-collection/article33893168.ece
21 February 2021||MANDALAY,||Myanmar protests: 2 dead in police firing||Two people were killed in Myanmar’s second city Mandalay on Saturday when police and soldiers fired to disperse protests against a February 1 military coup, emergency workers said, the bloodiest day in more than two weeks of demonstrations. Protesters took to the streets in cities and towns across Myanmar with members of ethnic minorities, poets, rappers and transport workers among those demanding an end to military rule and the release from detention of elected leader Aung San Suu Kyi and others. Tensions escalated quickly in Mandalay where police and soldiers confronted striking shipyard workers and other protesters. ‘Live rounds used’ Some of the demonstrators fired catapults at police. Police responded with tear gas and gunfire, and witnesses said they found the cartridges of both live rounds and rubber bullets on the ground. “Twenty people were injured and two are dead,” said Ko Aung, a leader of the Parahita Darhi volunteer emergency service. One man died from a head wound, media workers, including Lin Khaing, an assistant editor with the Voice of Myanmar media outlet in the city, and a volunteer doctor said. Mr. Ko Aung and the doctor said a second man was shot in the chest and died later of his wound. He was identified by relatives as Thet Naing Win, a 36-year-old carpenter. “They took away the body to the morgue. I cannot bring him back home. Although my husband died, I still have my son,” his wife, Thidar Hnin, said. Several other injured protesters were carried away on stretchers by volunteer medics, their clothes soaked in blood. Police were not available for comment. State television MRTV’s evening news broadcast made no mention of the protests or casualties. In the main city Yangon, residents again banged pots and pans in a nightly ritual expressing defiance of the coup. More than a fortnight of demonstrations and a civil disobedience campaign of strikes and disruptions show no sign of dying down. Opponents of the coup are sceptical of the Army’s promise to hold a new election and hand power to the winner. A young woman protester died on Friday after being shot in the head last week as police dispersed a crowd in the capital, Naypyitaw, the first death among anti-coup demonstrators. The Army said one policeman has died of injuries sustained in a protest. Memorial ceremony On Saturday, young people in Yangon carried a wreath and laid flowers at a memorial ceremony for the woman, Mya Thwate Thwate Khaing, while a similar ceremony took place in Naypyitaw. “The sadness from her death is one thing, but we’ve also got courage to continue for her sake,” said student protester Khin Maw Maw Oo. The demonstrators are demanding the restoration of the elected government and the release of Ms. Suu Kyi and others. They have also called for the scrapping of a 2008 Constitution that has assured the Army a major role in politics since nearly 50 years of direct military rule ended in 2011.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/myanmar-protests-2-dead-in-police-firing/article33892693.ece
21 February 2021||Moscow,||Moscow court upholds prison term for Navalny||A Moscow court on Saturday upheld a ruling to jail the Kremlin’s most prominent opponent, Alexei Navalny, sealing his first lengthy prison sentence after a decade of legal battles with Russian authorities. Judge Dmitry Balashov dismissed Mr. Navalny’s appeal against a decision to imprison him for violating the terms of a suspended sentence received for embezzlement. Mr. Navalny was ordered on February 2 to serve the time in a penal colony for breaching his parole terms while he was in Germany recovering from a nerve agent poisoning he blames on the Kremlin. The anti-corruption campaigner appeared in court on Saturday inside a glass cage for defendants, wearing a plaid shirt, smiling and flashing the V for victory symbol. In a closing address that often broke from his usual sarcastic tone, Mr. Navalny referenced the Bible and said he had no doubts about his decision to return to Russia. “The Bible says: ‘Blessed are those who hunger for righteousness, for they will be satisfied,’” he told the court. “I have no regrets that I am back.” ‘Absurd’ case He also quoted from a character in the Harry Potter books, saying it was “important not to feel alone” because that was what the villain Voldemort wanted. He described the legal process to jail him as “absurd” and called on Russians to take action to make the country a better place. “Russia should be not only free, but also happy,” Mr. Navalny said. Prosecutors lashed out at Mr. Navalny, saying he acted as if he was above the law and had “an exclusive right to do as he pleases”. The judge decided, however, to count six weeks Mr. Navalny was under house arrest as part of the time served, so he will now be imprisoned for just over two-and-a-half years in a penal colony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/moscow-court-upholds-prison-term-for-navalny/article33892695.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||With media blitz, China crafts new narrative on border crisis||Over the past 24 hours, the Indian Embassy in Beijing has received thousands of messages in its mentions on Weibo, the Twitter-equivalent used in China, more than it has ever received in one day. Most of them were angry and abusive, from Chinese Internet users expressing their anger following the announcement, made on Friday morning, of the deaths of four soldiers in the Galwan Valley clash that took place eight months ago. The flood of messages, which began on Friday evening, was not much of a surprise. Through the day, state media outlets had highlighted the announcement of honours for five soldiers, four awarded posthumously. The names and images of the five were being shared widely on Chinese social media, along with their personal stories, all leading to an outpouring of sentiment. Full effect The carefully crafted narrative, which was buttressed by the state media releasing new footage from the Galwan clash of June 15, was timed for full effect. The announcement was made a day after China returned to work after a seven-day national holiday for the lunar new year, and nine days after India and China announced the beginning of a disengagement process. The People’s Liberation Army (PLA) said the announcement, made eight months after the clash in which 20 Indian soldiers lost their lives, was aimed at honouring the soldiers and “setting the record straight”, after it accused India of “distorting the truth” and “slandering the Chinese border troops”. By waiting for the disengagement to begin, the Chinese government avoided a situation where it would inflame national sentiment in the middle of an ongoing border crisis. The media blitz, which touched a national nerve in China, also occupied the focus of the attention, rather than any questions about the PLA agreeing to withdraw from the north bank of Pangong lake and other areas it occupied. The broader aim of the narrative appeared aimed at underlining the message that the Communist Party had defended China and to portray India as the aggressor — a message that was repeated in the official media. This is a narrative that turns on its head the genesis of last year’s border crisis, which began with a mass mobilisation of PLA troops along the border following a military exercise that caught India by surprise, and multiple transgressions across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) that led India to lose access to territory and multiple patrolling points, an unusual outcome for any supposed aggressor. The details of the PLA’s withdrawal did not get in the way of the most popular social media hashtag of the day, which said, “Not an inch of our country’s mountains and rivers can be lost.” That was shared by some of the most popular Chinese celebrities, including singer Hua Chenyu, who shared the message with his 39 million followers. The popular pop group TFBoys did the same to its 21 million followers, adding a message of thanks to the PLA soldiers. By the end of Friday, the hashtag had 1.6 billion views and generated more than 1.7 million posts. Accounts run by official media shared stories of valour of the four soldiers who had died: battalion commander Chen Hongjun and soldiers Chen Xiangrong, Xiao Siyuan and Wang Zhuoran. Videos were also shared of the regiment commander Qi Fabao, who sustained a head injury and was honoured as “hero regimental commander for defending the border”, in an earlier confrontation with Indian soldiers. The state media also shared posts from their battlefield diaries, including a note from Wang Zhuoran to his parents, written “before he left for the battlefield”, apologising if he could not return to be “a filial son” and promising “to repay their love and care in the afterlife”. The other messages were both patriotic and political. “We are the boundary stone of the motherland and every inch of land under our feet is the territory of the motherland,” Xiao Siyuan was quoted as saying. “One should mark accomplishments wherever he is needed by the Communist Party,” was the message from Chen Hongjun, battalion commander. PLA Senior Colonel Ren Guoqiang, spokesperson for the Ministry of Defence, described the five as “iron soldiers nurtured by the Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era and the Xi Jinping’s thinking on strengthening the military”, and as “outstanding representatives of the Chinese military in the new era”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/with-media-blitz-china-crafts-new-narrative-on-border-crisis/article33892698.ece
21 February 2021||Washington,||Joe Biden’s Indian-American nominee faces Senate challenge||Indian-American Neera Tanden, U.S. President Joe Biden’s nominee for the position of Director of White House Office of Management and Budget, is facing a challenge to her confirmation after Democratic Senator Joe Manchin announced that he would vote against her over “overtly partisan statements”. Mr. Manchin’s announcement means that unless a Republican Senator comes forward to support her nomination, it is unlikely that Tanden, 50, will be confirmed for the job. Mr. Manchin said “her overtly partisan statements will have a toxic impact on the important working relationship between members of Congress”. The 100-member Senate is evenly split between the Republicans and the Democrats. The vote of Vice-President Kamala Harris will tilt the balance in favour of the Democrats. As such the vote of Mr. Manchin gains significance, given that a majority of the Republicans are likely to oppose Ms. Tanden. In the past, Ms. Tanden has referred to Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell as “Voldemort”, a villain in Harry Potter book series, and has battled Senator Bernie Sanders and his supporters online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/joe-bidens-indian-american-nominee-faces-senate-challenge/article33892700.ece
21 February 2021||Paris,||200 million vaccine shots administered worldwide||More than 200 million coronavirus vaccine doses have been administered in at least 107 countries and territories, according to an AFP count based on official sources Saturday. In total 201,042,149 doses had been given worldwide by 1000 GMT — a figure that does not include the latest data from China and Russia, who have stopped making their progress public in recent days. Some 45% of the injections took places in countries belonging to the wealthy G7 club, whose members account for just 10% of the global population. G7 leaders plan to more than double their total support to worldwide vaccinations, to $7.5 billion. More broadly, 92% of doses worldwide have been given in countries classified by the World Bank as “high-income” or “upper-middle income”, accounting for around half of global population. Among the 29 countries the institution ranks as “low-income”, only Guinea and Rwanda have begun vaccinating. Israel is far ahead of any other country with almost half its population having received at least one vaccine dose. One in three Israelis has received both doses needed for full protection. Other countries to have given more than 10% of their people at least one dose include Britain (25%), Bahrain (16), the U.S. (13), Chile (12), the Seychelles (43) and the Maldives (12). In absolute figures, the US has injected more people than any other nation, with 59.6 million doses. China had reached 40.5 million by February 9, while Britain is at 17.5 million, India 10.7 million and Israel 7.1 million.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/200-mn-vaccine-shots-administered-globally/article33892696.ece
21 February 2021||Washington,||China’s Coast Guard law raises concern||The U.S. has voiced concern over China’s recently enacted Coast Guard law, which it said may escalate the ongoing disputes in the region and can be invoked to assert unlawful claims. China passed a law last month which explicitly allows its Coast Guard to fire on foreign vessels. “The U.S. joins the Philippines, Vietnam, Indonesia, Japan and other countries in expressing concern with China’s Coast Guard law, which may escalate the territorial and maritime disputes,” State Department Spokesperson Ned Price said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chinas-coast-guard-law-raises-concern/article33892701.ece
21 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘View India’s spending in context of stimulus’||India is urging global credit rating agencies to look at its fiscal deficit and debt numbers in the context of the stimulus spending requirements posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Saturday. Stressing that the government’s infrastructure spending push would have an ‘immediate impact’ on core sectors, opportunities for labour, and demand creation at the industry as well as consumer level, the Minister said she expected the Indian economy to recover and record good, sustainable growth in the next decade.  Glide path “Spending is being taken up even with borrowings, but we have also given a glide path on the fiscal deficit management,” Ms. Sitharaman said. “We are spending but we are also very clearly telling even the credit rating agencies that every country is going through the pandemic and every country has to spend to keep the stimulus going,” she said in an address at the 65th foundation day of the All India Management Association. “So every country’s rating will have to be in relative terms, and not just into the silo of India, ‘x’ or ‘y’ country. So spending, borrowing are all relative terms and we would want every institution to look at it with a sense of the relative understanding and context,” Ms. Sitharaman said. “However, because we have given the glide path, the fiscal deficit is something we will watch probably after the stimulus giving has shown clear impact on the ground,” she added. Urging the industry to have confidence in the Centre’s infrastructure building strategy as ‘it is not just short-term relief’ but investments whose impact could last for the “next 5-6 years,” Ms. Sitharaman said it was now time for the industry to step up and invest. “Post the corporate-tax reduction, I have been waiting to see expansion happen from the private sector in India. Now, the policy is clear and consistent, and ease of doing business is still going further,” the Minister said. “I would like now to see private investors in India coming forward with that so-called animal spirits to show that it is possible for India to pull up and keep it high as one of the fastest growing economies. It is now on your shoulders entirely,” she said. “With all your participation, involvement and ideas coming to us, I expect the Indian economy to recover and recover such that we are an exemplar for the entire world,” she said. Privatisation for good The Minister also said the government was privatising public sector units not for them to be closed down but for improving their operational efficiency with professional skills available outside the government. “We want them to be kept running. For an economy like ours, which has a high demand for many of these items of production like steel, coal or copper, that public sector firms have been making for decades now, the economy still needs them,” the Finance Minister said. “So, when we are selling it away, it’s not as though we are selling them away totally even if it ends up being closed. We want these institutions to be run better, and productivity to be improved over the next several decades,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/view-indias-spending-in-context-of-stimulus/article33892677.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Vodafone, Cairn disputes will get resolved in a way most consider fair’||India’s recovery in recent months from the steep contraction in the initial phase of the COVID-19 pandemic, is probably the strongest in the world, and the economy could record a fairly high growth rate in the coming two years if the global economy recovers by 2022-23, said Sanjeev Sanyal , principal economic advisor, Finance Ministry. Terming the Vodafone and Cairn tax disputes 'legacy issues' , Mr. Sanyal said these would hopefully be resolved in a manner considered fair. Edited excerpts:  The Budget has taken steps like coming clean on the fiscal deficit position, a privatisation push and FDI liberalisation. What is the broad message? Obviously the Budget has come at a time after we have gone through a difficult shock in the global economy that affected us too. We needed to respond to it. Since the lockdown, we have taken a lot of measures to ramp up demand even before the Budget. Two things we did – unlike almost any other country in the world, we did a lot of supply side reforms in labour laws, farm laws, large scale deregulation in sectors. At the same time, once the lockdown had been reasonably opened up, some pent-up demand came in and we also added to it by ramping up very significantly the capital expenditure, with data showing a 129% rise in October 2020, 249% in November, and 62% in December. So a demand stimulus was already being delivered for four months. And that has shown in the V-shaped recovery with virtually every indicator coming back strongly, probably the strongest in the world right now. Now, we will presumably open up the supply side even further – there are some sectors still under tightness – entertainment and so on, where there are some restrictions. But we will be opening them up and getting the benefits of all the supply side measures done over many years — GST is now by and large settled. I don’t think people grumble too much about it and it is obviously a vast improvement on what used to be the old system. The IBC is in abeyance right now, but cases are still happening and some backlog is still getting cleared. The benefit of these will keep coming in and so what we are doing in the Budget is to provide a demand kick. We have a very specific approach to pump demand using capital expenditure on infrastructure in a wide sense, including health and education. The reason we are doing this is because we are conscious of the fact that while the economy requires some support, we will be running up more debt. It is very important that we build assets and leave behind future generations who will repay these debts, with assets. The second reason is because this has the biggest multiplier effect. Many studies show infrastructure spending is the one that gives the biggest bang for the buck, because it creates jobs across the talent and skill range – from engineers to the man who pours the cement. Multiplier effects extend to cement, steel, earth moving equipment and once the infrastructure is in place, creates other jobs. So the job multiplier is high and it is reasonably quick. While the project may take many years, as soon as you get the projects running, you are creating demand. All this fits together very well at this point of time. It is investment-driven growth, initially driven by the public sector, but hopefully, the private sector will come in, in the not-too-distant future. We are opening up to FDI, but, at the same time, there is a protectionist stance on customs duties... This is a complete misunderstanding. Atma Nirbhar Bharat is not a return to 1950s style import substitution. We are open for business and want to be part of global supply chains. The PM and the FM are absolutely clear on this. We are opening systems for foreign investors to come in and build capacities in India. But at the same time, AtmaNirbharta means we do invest in some sort of resilience. For example, we may have a globally competitive pharma sector. But we do need some of the key inputs to be produced in India as well. Otherwise, as we found last year, if you have a single foreign source, all of a sudden, that source may stall for whatever reason and this great sector you have stalls too. So AtmaNirbharta is not about going back to the Ambassador car at all. We intend to be at the cutting edge of technology, we intend to bring in the very best of the world and we want to compete with the rest of the world in foreign markets as well. And we are doing so, whether it is in vaccines now or in electronics. As far as tariffs are concerned, some have gone up but some have gone down as well, like in special steels. That is tactical management. You spent several years at Deutsche Bank and looked at the Indian economy from a foreign investor's viewpoint. What is the signal that goes out from the Vodafone and Cairn taxation cases? This is a legacy issue... The former Finance Minister had given a commitment that such retrospective taxes will not be done. Nevertheless, since we inherited it, we are following the process to its logical end and at some point of time, it will get resolved in a way that I think most people will consider fair. It’s just going through the process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/vodafone-cairn-disputes-will-get-resolved-in-a-way-most-consider-fair/article33892680.ece
21 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Expedite vaccine roll-out: Uday Kotak||Top banker Uday Kotak has called for the rapid roll-out of COVID-19 vaccines, stressing it was critical to revive the economy. He also urged the government to work with the central bank to ensure that the planned higher public borrowing in the coming year did not push up long-term interest rates, hurting potential investments. Recalling the global economy’s resurgence after the Spanish flu in the 1920s that came to be known as the ‘Roaring Twenties’, Mr. Kotak said that 2021 could see the start of a similar recovery if the vaccinations could be expedited. “The faster we do it to get into the post-pandemic era, the better it is. The world, and India, have taken up the challenge of vaccination and I do hope we can vaccinate our people as soon as possible and embark upon the new journey,” Mr. Kotak said in a keynote address to the All India Management Association. “I would like to see the world and India getting into the roaring Twenties of 2021 and beyond. For us to get there, one of the most critical aspects is to get COVID behind us and under control as soon as possible,” the banker said. “The biggest opportunity and challenge for us is to get the vaccination done as soon as possible. This is one big critical item for our future,” said Mr. Kotak, who is also the president of the Confederation of Indian Industry. The CII has urged the Centre to allow the private sector to help, adding that industry could help vaccinate 100 million people expeditiously.  Risks to opportunity Contending that India could become the factory and the office to the global economy in a post-COVID world, Mr. Kotak, however, flagged the risks to the investments that would need to be made to tap the opportunity if long-term interest rates rose. “Over the next 12 to 18 months also, we need to ensure that as the size of the borrowing programme goes up, we are able to keep the long-term interest rates, on the basis of which businesses and industry take investment decisions, in a reasonable range,” he added. “I understand it is a challenging thing because you are managing many different variables, but I think a stable tax rate and a reasonable range for long-term interest rates will really help business and industry invest,” Mr. Kotak said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/expedite-vaccine-roll-out-uday-kotak/article33892675.ece
21 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Reacting to data in high velocity is key, says Srivastava||Data became a first-class citizen last year and now has a seat at the board table of large global corporations, said Sanjay Srivastava, chief digital officer at Genpact commenting changes and challenges in the post-pandemic market. “It is not just that data has become the first-class citizen in enterprises but reacting to data in high velocity is emerging as the new market driver,” remarked Mr. Srivastava. “Data is no longer a byproduct of automation,” the Genpact official added. Citing the example of a U.S.-based client trading in farm produce, he said the company sources strawberries, blueberries and other berries from all over the world. “You actually pluck a berry when its ripe. But, if you are in the banana business you can harvest a banana before it’s ripe and it gets ready for consumption as it travels from farm to market.  ‘Just two weeks’ “The berry has two weeks, from the point it is picked to the time it has to be eaten. So in the shortest possible time, you will have to connect farmers, suppliers and buyers around the globe together. And that brings the point that velocity is becoming so important, not just data. Genpact is ensuring this by using automation, analytics, and AI along with the right mix of digital technologies and industry experiences,” he elaborated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/reacting-to-data-in-high-velocity-is-key-says-srivastava/article33892673.ece
21 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||GST shortfall: Rs. 1 lakh crore released so far||The Centre has now transferred Rs. 1 lakh crore to States on account of GST compensation shortfalls for the year, the finance ministry said on Saturday. These funds have been raised through a special borrowing window set up in October 2020 to meet the estimated shortfall of Rs. 1.10 lakh crore in revenue for States on account of implementation of GST. Till now, 91% of the total estimated GST compensation shortfall has been released to States and Union Territories with Legislative Assembly. Out of this, an amount of Rs. 91,460.34 crore has been released to the States and an amount of Rs. 8,539.66 crore has been released to the 3 UTs with Legislative Assembly,” the ministry said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gst-shortfall-rs-1-lakh-crore-released-so-far/article33892678.ece
21 February 2021||New Delhi,||Petrol touches Rs. 97 a litre in Mumbai||Petrol price on Saturday touched an all-time high of Rs. 97 per litre in Mumbai, while diesel rate crossed the Rs. 88-mark. Petrol price was increased by a record 39 paise per litre and diesel by 37 paise a litre, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. This is the twelfth straight day of price hike and the largest daily increase since oil companies started to revise rates on a daily basis in 2017. The increase pushed petrol price to Rs. 90.58 a litre in Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/petrol-touches-rs-97-a-litre-in-mumbai/article33892681.ece
21 February 2021||New Delhi,||CSR shouldn’t be mandated, says Premji||IT czar and philanthropist Azim Premji on Saturday said companies should not be legally mandated to engage in corporate social responsibility as contributions to society need to “come from within”. Mr. Premji, who contributed Rs. 7,904 crore in donations last year, also highlighted that the COVID-19 crisis was a “wake up call” to look at fundamental issues like the need to improve public systems like health, and changing the structure of society to make it more equal and just. “I do not think we should have a legal mandate for... CSR,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/csr-shouldnt-be-mandated-says-premji/article33892682.ece
21 February 2021||Melbourne,||Osaka reigns at Melbourne||Japan's Naomi Osaka dismissed Jennifer Brady 6-4, 6-3 in front of thousands of fans to win the Australian Open in style for her fourth Grand Slam title here on Saturday. Third seed Osaka preserves her 100% record in Grand Slam finals after winning the 2018 and 2020 US Opens and the 2019 title in Melbourne. In elite company The 23-year-old, who becomes only the third player after Monica Seles and Roger Federer to win their first four Major finals, will now rise to second in the world rankings. Osaka, the world's top-earning female athlete, wore down fellow big-hitter Brady with consistency, and lifted her racquet above her face in a muted celebration of her win as the crowd roared. It was a rematch of last year's epic US Open semifinal, dubbed by some as the best match of 2020, but Osaka triumphed far more comfortably on this occasion. Rise in ranking Brady's resilient run ended after serving 14 days' hard quarantine before the tournament, unlike other players who were allowed out of their hotel rooms to train. Despite the defeat, Brady will rise to a career-high 13th in the WTA rankings. Later, Barbora Krejcikova and Rajeev Ram won their second Australian Open mixed doubles title in three years with a 6-1, 6-4 win over home pairing Sam Stosur and Matthew Ebden. For Krejcikova it was her third Australian Open title in a row after combining with Nikola Mektic of Croatia to win the mixed doubles a year ago. She had lost in the women's doubles final with fellow Czech Katerina Siniakova on Friday to Elise Mertens and Aryna Sabalenka, but put her disappointment behind her in just 59 minutes on Rod Laver Arena. Ram has a chance to pick up another title on Sunday, when he and Britain's Joe Salisbury defend their men's doubles title against Ivan Dodig and Filip Polasek.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/osaka-reigns-at-melbourne/article33892816.ece
21 February 2021||Hyderabad:,||Sovet Pride should make amends||Sovet Pride, who ended third in her last start, should make amends in the Moment Of Glory Plate, the main event of Sunday’s (Feb. 21) afternoon races. Rails will be announced one hour before the first race.  WISHFUL THINKING PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II) — 1. 45: 1. Akido (9) B.R. Kumar 56, 2. Epsom (6) N.B. Kuldeep 56, 3. Indian Glory (1) Mukesh Kumar 56, 4. Magic Mark (---) , 5. Solar Eclipse (7) Ashad Asbar 56, 6. Special Effort (2) Ajeeth Kumar 56, 7. Winning Streak (4) Trevor 56, 8. Keystone (3) Akshay Kumar 54.5, 9. Muaser (10) Kuldeep Singh 54.5, 10. N R I Style (8) A.A. Vikrant 54.5 and 11. Spectacular Cruise (5) Suraj Narredu 54.5.  1. KEYSTONE, 2. WINNING STREAK, 3. AKIDO   AUXILLARY PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II) — 2.15: 1. Warrior Supreme (9) Deepak Singh 60, 2. N R I Symbol (8) A.A. Vikrant 59, 3. Wah Ms Zara (4) Suraj Narredu 57, 4. Sporting Smile (2) Abhay Singh 56.5, 5. City Of Blossom (10) Gaurav Singh 55, 6. Asteria (7) G. Naresh 54.5, 7. Mr. Shanghai (1) Ashad Asbar 53, 8. Mystery (3) Koushik 53, 9. Dunkirk (5) Ajeeth Kumar 52.5 and 10. N R I Vision (6) Akshay Kumar 51.5.  1. WAH MS ZARA, 2. N R I VISION, 3. SPORTING SMILE   WISHFUL THINKING PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m) (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only — 2.45: 1. Ashwa Misgun (4) Ashad Asbar 56, 2. Bugsy (2) Trevor 56, 3. Costello (10) Deepak Singh 56, 4. General Atlantic (1) Mukesh Kumar 56, 5. Kingston (9) B.R. Kumar 56, 6. November Rain (6) Suraj Narredu 56, 7. Salisbury (5) G. Naresh 56, 8. Wallop And Gallop (3) Ajeeth Kumar 56, 9. Able Love (7) Kuldeep Singh 54.5 and 10. Lifes Song (8) Akshay Kumar 54.5.  1. NOVEMBER RAIN, 2. ASHWA MISGUN, 3. SALISBURY   AUXILLARY PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II) — 3.15: 1. Shaquille (4) Deepak Singh 60, 2. Her Legacy (6) Kiran Naidu 59.5, 3. N R I Elegance (10) Akshay Kumar 58, 4. Rapid Fire (3) Ashad Asbar 57, 5. Incredulous (5) R.S. Jodha 56, 6. Forever Splendour (11) Suraj Narredu 55, 7. Max (2) N.B. Kuldeep 53.5, 8. Loch Stella (8) C.P. Bopanna 53, 9. Rhythm Selection (7) Afroz Khan 53, 10. Mind Reader (1) B.R. Kumar 51.5 and 11. N R I Magic (9) Ajeeth Kumar 51.5.  1. FOREVER SPLENDOUR, 2. N R I ELEGANCE, 3. INCREDULOUS   ABERADER PLATE (1,200m), (Terms) 3-y-o only (Cat. II) — 3.45: 1. Falcon Edge (6) Akshay Kumar 59.5, 2. Horse O’ War (7) Mukesh Kumar 55.5, 3. The Prospect (9) A.A. Vikrant 55.5, 4. Born To Be (1) Suraj Narredu 54, 5. New Look (10) Kiran Naidu 54, 6. Unmatched (5) Koushik 54, 7. Equitas (2) Abhay Singh 51.5, 8. Jean Lafette (8) Kuldeep Singh 51.5, 9. Angel Wings (3) Afroz Khan 50 and 10. Secret Idea (4) G. Naresh 50.  1. FALCON EDGE, 2. BORN TO BE, 3. THE PROSPECT   MOMENT OF GLORY PLATE (1,600m), rated 60 to 85 (Cat. II) — 4.15: 1. Yours Forever (7) P. Gaddam 61.5, 2. Paso Robles (9) Trevor 60.5, 3. Pontius Pilate (5) Ashad Asbar 60, 4. Prince Valiant (10) Surya Prakash 58.5, 5. Sovet Pride (3) Akshay Kumar 57, 6. Artistryy (2) Gaurav Singh 56, 7. Havelock Cruise (6) Suraj Narredu 56, 8. Mark My Word (11) C.P. Bopanna 54, 9. That’s My Class (8) Md. Ismail 53, 10. Starlight (4) Ajeeth Kumar 52.5 and 11. Southern Legacy (1) Gopal Singh 51.5.  1. SOVET PRIDE, 2. HAVELOCK CRUISE, 3. PASO ROBLES   QUTAB SHAHI PLATE (1,600m), rated 20 to 45 — 4.45: 1. Alta Vita (1) Deepak Singh 60, 2. City Of Passion (4) Gaurav Singh 59.5, 3. Committed Warrior (6) Akshay Kumar 59.5, 4. Queen Daenerys (8) Mukesh Kumar 58, 5. Eagle Bluff (9) Abhay Singh 57.5, 6. Castlerock (10) Koushik 56, 7. Melting Ice (14) B.R. Kumar 56, 8. N R I Sun (7) Ajeeth Kumar 56, 9. Grand Finale (2) Suraj Narredu 55.5, 10. Satin Symphony (11) Trevor 55.5, 11. Team Player (12) Kuldeep Singh 55.5, 12. Due Diligence (3) Surya Prakash 54.5, 13. Lightning Pearl (5) P. Gaddam 54.5 and 14. Alluri’s Pride (Ex: Shivalik Meadow) (13) R. Manish 54.  1. MELTING ICE, 2. N R I SUN, 3. COMMITTED WARRIOR   SECUNDERABAD CLUB PLATE (1,400m), rated upto 25 (Cat. III) — 5.15: 1. Blue Cruise (12) Suraj Narredu 60, 2. Lorena (9) R.S. Jodha 60, 3. Proud Legacy (13) A.A. Vikrant 60, 4. Queen Blossom (5) Kiran Naidu 60, 5. That’s My Speed (4) Md. Ismail 60, 6. That’s My Star (3) Akshay Kumar 60, 7. Minnelli (10) P. Gaddam 59.5, 8. Sun Dancer (8) N.B. Kuldeep 59.5, 9. Honourable Guest (6) Koushik 59, 10. Big Day (7) B.R. Kumar 58, 11. Kintsugi (14) Abhay Singh 57, 12. Ice Berry (2) C.P. Bopanna 55.5, 13. Shanu Shanu (11) Gaurav Singh 54.5 and 14. Royal Avenger (1) Afroz Khan 54.  1. BLUE CRUISE, 2. THAT’S MY STAR, 3. KINTSUGI  Day’s Best: FALCON EDGE  Jackpot: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8. Mini Jackpot: (i) 2, 3, 4 & 5. (ii) 5, 6, 7 & 8. Treble: (i) 1, 2 & 3, (ii) 3, 4 & 5, (iii) 6, 7 & 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sovet-pride-should-make-amends/article33892684.ece
21 February 2021||BENGALURU:,||Cool Rider wins feature event||Manjri Horse Breed Farm Private Limited’s Cool Rider (Srinath up), won the Sherlock Bangalore Juvenile Million, the chief event of the races held here on Saturday (Feb. 20). The winner is trained by Neil Darashah.  The results:   RAICHUR PLATE (1,400m), rated 00 to 20, 5-y-o & over: COMMANDPOST (Angad) 1, Fierce Fighter (Ikram Ahmed) 2, Azeemki Princess (Naveen K) 3 and Gazebo Talk (Likith Appu) 4. 9-1/4, 1/2 and 1-3/4. 1m 30.34s. Rs. 211 (w), 31, 27 and 17 (p), SHP: 69, THP: 46, FP: 3,575, Q: 1,398, Trinella: 33,153 and 7,104, Exacta: 34,899 and 14,956. Favourite: Gazebo Talk. Owners: Mr. S.M. Choudury & Mr. S.N. Harish. Trainer: Narayana Gowda.  HORANADU PLATE (Div. II), (1,200m), rated 15 to 35: DECORUM (Aakash Chavan) 1, Star Hopper (Shreyas Singh) 2, Phoenix Surprise (Ankit Yadav) 3 and Star Citizen (Chethan G) 4. 2-3/4, 12-1/4 and 3/4. 1m 16.49s. Rs. 428 (w), 54, 18 and 29 (p), SHP: 54, THP: 95, FP: 2,169, Q: 995, Trinella: 4,947 and 23,085 (carried over), Exacta: 35,392 (carried over). Favourite: Star Hopper. Owner: Mr. Kersi H. Vachha. Trainer: Darius Byramji.  PLANETARIUM PLATE (1,200m), rated 30 to 50, 5-y-o & over: SCHAFENBERG (Indrajeet Singh) 1, Tokyo Rose (Suraj) 2, Spirit Of London (Angad) 3 and Mr. Humble (B. Dharshan) 4. 3/4, 1 and 1/2. 1m 16.22s. Rs. 466 (w), 52, 18 and 198 (p), SHP: 40, THP: 294, FP: 4,028, Q: 754, Trinella: 46,518 (carried over), Exacta: 1,14,118 (carried over). Favourite: Port Of Beauty. Owner: Mr. Prithiv Sivaji Dorai. Trainer: S. Attaollahi.  INDIAN NAVY PLATE (1,600m), rated 45 to 65: HOKKAIDO (Suraj) 1, First Impression (Sandesh) 2, Set To Win (S. Sunil) 3 and Crack Of Dawn (Trevor) 4. Lnk, 1 and Lnk. 1m 41.80s. Rs. 46 (w), 19, 16 and 75 (p), SHP: 52, THP: 166, FP: 155, Q: 93, Trinella: 1,020 and 669, Exacta: 28,529 and 5,558. Favourite: First Impression. Owner: United Racing & Bloodstock Breeders Ltd. Trainer: S. Attaollahi.  STEWARDS TROPHY (1,400m), rated 75 & above: ABIRA (Neeraj) 1, Northern Alliance (J.H. Arul) 2, Saint Petersburg (Shreyas Singh) 3 and Automatic (Srinath) 4. Nose, Nose and 2-3/4. 1m 27.67s. Rs. 36 (w), 18 and 17 (p), SHP: 33, THP: 46, FP: 87, Q: 48, Trinella: 544 and 208, Exacta: 892 and 440. Favourite: Northern Alliance. Owner: Sarainaga Racing Pvt Ltd. Trainer: Arjun Mangalorkar.  SHERLOCK BANGALORE JUVENILE MILLION (1,400m), 3-y-o only, (Terms): COOL RIDER (Srinath) 1, Pecanwood (Antony) 2, Stockbridge (Neeraj) 3 and Scruples (Suraj) 4. 6-1/4, 1-1/4 and 5-1/4. 1m 27.53s. Rs. 39 (w), 16, 19 and 50 (p), SHP: 52, THP: 96, FP: 448, Q: 231, Trinella: 2,392 and 1,757, Exacta: 10,487 and 1,634. Favourite: Scruples. Owner: Manjri Horse Breed Farm Pvt. Ltd. Trainer: Neil Darashah.  KEDARNATH PLATE (1,600m), rated 15 to 35: REDOUBTABLE (Sandesh) 1, Royal Blossom (Antony) 2, Pissarro (Zervan) 3 and Amazing Blaze (Trevor) 4. Not run: Max Mueller. 4-1/4, 1 and 3/4. 1m 41.66s. Rs. 51 (w), 14, 17 and 22 (p), SHP: 51, THP: 54, FP: 228, Q: 102, Trinella: 1,444 and 762, Exacta: 2,223 and 893. Favourite: Amazing Blaze. Owner: Mrs. Ammu Ajit. Trainer: Prasanna Kumar.  HORANADU PLATE (Div I), (1,200m), rated 15 to 35: GRIFFIN (Salman Khan) 1, Java Peninsula (Angad) 2, Chain Of Thoughts (Arvind K) 3 and Crimson Heart (S. Saqlain) 4. 3/4, 9-3/4 and 2. 1m 16.57s. Rs. 23 (w), 15, 45 and 19 (p), SHP: 115, THP: 70, FP: 724, Q: 484, Trinella: 2,563 and 1,412, Exacta: 9,096 and 3,898. Favourite: Griffin. Owner: Mr. Mohd. Javeed Ghatala. Trainer: Irfan Ghatala. Jackpot: Rs. 7,272 (52 tkts); Runner-up: 1,422 (114 tkts); Treble (i): 777 (11 tkts). (ii): 438 (36 tkts).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cool-rider-wins-feature-event/article33892685.ece
21 February 2021||KOLKATA,||Bengal banks on youth and experience||Bengal captain Anustup Majumdar thinks a fine mix of youth and experience will stand his side in good stead in the Vijay Hazare Trophy one-day tournament, starting here from Sunday. Bengal will meet Services in its opening Group E match at the Eden Gardens. The host will take on Chandigarh (February 23), Ranji champion Saurashtra (Feb. 25), Jammu and Kashmir (Feb. 27) and Haryana (March 1) in its subsequent engagements. Majumdar, a seasoned batsman, felt the youngsters will play a key role in the side. “The team is well balanced with experienced and young players. We have several talented players. If they help us win two or three matches, we will qualify to the next stage,” said Majumdar. Apart from known faces, the team has some promising cricketers like Kaif Ahmed, Suvankar Bal, Mohammed Kaif, Ritwik Roy Chowdhury, Aritra Chatterjee and Sudip Gharami. Learning from mistakes Majumdar said his team would learn from its mistakes in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy and give a better performance. “We have prepared well and our primary target is to qualify for the next stage. We did not play well in some parts of Mushtaq Ali. “We have to work on the areas we were lacking. Everyone is in good shape,” said Majumdar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bengal-banks-on-youth-and-experience/article33893151.ece
21 February 2021||Chandigarh,||Will Sathiyan break the jinx?||G. Sathiyan has beaten the competition to become the only Indian to break into the top-25 of the world rankings, but when it comes to winning the National title, he still has work to do. Having figured in three finals and three semifinals in his last six appearances, Sathiyan is looking to break the jinx in the next four days of the National table tennis championship that began on Saturday. “This is the first time when I got three weeks to train at home for the National championship and I hope all the hard work pays off this time,” was how Sathiyan spoke about his preparations at Panchkula on Saturday. While most players stayed back in India during the pandemic since last March, Sathiyan played league matches in Poland for two weeks, a month in Japan and returned to Poland for a week. Japanese cuisine “I must point out, in Japan, two weeks were spent in quarantine and I gained a couple of kilograms while enjoying Japanese cuisine during my time in the hotel,” said Sathiyan with a laugh and continued, “The only downside of travelling for competitions was undergoing mandatory quarantine.” Unlike Sathiyan, his ONGC teammate and defending champion Harmeet Desai has far less weighing on his mind. The reigning Commonwealth champion, also a 2019 Arjuna Awardee, is currently playing some of his best table tennis. Interestingly, both Sathiyan and Harmeet played their last competitive match on January 26 this year. Feeling fitter “Once the action resumed in Europe, for about two months, I played competitively in France and trained in Denmark. Thereafter, I had a three-week stint in Germany and another 10 days in Belgium,” said Harmeet, who feels fitter as compared to his pre-COVID days. The last word came from Sathiyan, “you have to beat at least three strong players to win the Nationals. In the past, I could manage to beat only two. This time, I intend to do better.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/will-sathiyan-break-the-jinx/article33892870.ece
21 February 2021||Bengaluru,||UP defeats Karnataka by VJD method||Rinku Singh (62 n.o., 61b, 7x4, 1x6) helped Uttar Pradesh defeat Karnataka in a rain-interrupted Vijay Hazare Trophy opening match at M. Chinnaswamy Stadium here on Saturday. Chasing 247, Uttar Pradesh moved to 215 for four in 45.2 overs, before heavy showers stopped play. Uttar Pradesh was declared the winner by nine runs, via the VJD method. Good knocks Batting first, host Karnataka rode on good knocks from opener Devdutt Padikkal (52, 84b, 7x4) and Aniruddha Joshi (68, 48b, 4x4, 4x6) to post a respectable total. Left-arm spinner Shivam Sharma, making his List A debut, picked up three wickets. Skipper and lead pacer Bhuvneshwar Kumar finished with tidy figures of one for 35 in 10 overs. Opening batsmen Abhishek Goswami (54, 67b, 3x4, 2x6) and Karan Sharma (40, 74b, 3x4) put Uttar Pradesh on the right track with a 102-run stand. Rinku and Upendra Yadav (26 n.o., 41b, 1x4) got together for an unbroken 65-run fifth-wicket stand, before rain intervened. At Alur (1) ground, Robin Uthappa (107, 85b, 10x4, 4x6) helped Kerala take out Odisha. Set a target of 259, Kerala, riding on Uthappa’s 15th List A century, raced to 233 for four in 38.2 overs. Rain arrived, leading Kerala to win the match by 34 runs via the VJD method.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/up-defeats-karnataka-by-vjd-method/article33892808.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Tilak, Milind and Bhui hog the limelight||Hyderabad rode on a 166-run opening partnership between skipper Tanmay Agarwal (86, 100b, 9x4) and Tilak Varma’s unbeaten 156 (145b, 10x4, 5x6) to amass 349 for five against Tripura in their Elite A Hazare Trophy match at Surat on Saturday. In reply, Chama Milind’s five for 43 saw Tripura being shot out for 236. Asked to bat first, Hyderabad switched into top gear from the word go. The openers matched each other stroke for stroke, with Tilak also showcasing his big-hitting skills with five sixes. Tanmay was the first to go when he was dismissed in the 32nd over by Rajat Dey. However, Tilak continued in the same vein for the rest of the innings. He added 70 for the third wicket with Himalay Agarwal (38, 26b, 3x6) and 81 for the fourth with B. Sandeep (41. 23b, 3x4, 2x6). Chasing a mammoth target, Bikramkumar Das (65, 83b, 6x4, 1x6) and Milind Kumar (67, 63b, 10x4, 1x6) forged a 123-run stand for the third wicket for Tripura which was bowled out in 42 overs, thanks to Milind’s spell. At Indore, Ricky Bhui’s undefeated 101 (78b, 6x4, 6x6) overshadowed centuries from Faiz Fazal (100, 105b, 10x4, 3x6) and Yash Rathod (117, 113b, 11x4, 2x6) as Andhra overhauled Vidarbha’s 331 with four balls and three wickets to spare in an Elite B match Andhra, 45 for two at one stage, was revived by an 89-run stand between skipper Hanuma Vihari (65, 67b, 8x4, 1x6) and Nitish Kumar Reddy (54, 58b, 5x4, 2x6) for the third wicket. Bhui then took over.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tilak-milind-and-bhui-hog-the-limelight/article33893062.ece
21 February 2021||MUMBAI,||We have to accept the conditions, says Pujara||Having grown up in Rajkot, a four-hour drive from Ahmedabad, Cheteshwar Pujara is no stranger to the Sardar Patel Stadium in Motera. In fact, the last Test the ground hosted before being rebuilt as the world’s largest cricket stadium saw Pujara scoring a double hundred against England in 2012. As he trained at the swanky venue for the first time, Pujara recalled that the last match was so long ago that he had “just got engaged”. Despite the fond memories, he was not sure about what’s in store next week for the third Test against England. Not only will India play just its second day-night Test at home but it will also be confronted by a pitch that is yet to stage a First Class game. “We didn’t have too many games after the completion of the stadium due to COVID, so I feel we have to accept the conditions and move on,” Pujara said in a virtual interaction on Saturday. “We don’t have enough experience with the pink ball. We will get used to it as we keep playing more. Going forward, not sure if we’ll play more games with the pink ball,” he said. “It’s again a Test, we’ll have to play normal cricket, have similar game-plans to what we had in the last match depending on how the pitch is. As a team, we have certain goals as batting and bowling units, so we would stick to that.” While the possible grass cover, necessary to maintain the condition of the pink ball, will be the talk of the town, last week’s turner at Chepauk continues to draw flak from former England cricketers. Pujara, however, didn’t see anything untoward with the pitch. “When it comes to turning tracks, you can’t define how much it should turn,” he said. “It’s a thin line. I don’t think it was a bad pitch. Yes, it always becomes difficult to bat in the second innings. [But that’s also the case] when we play in Australia on Day 4 or Day 5, [when] the pitch becomes a little dangerous, with the odd ball hitting cracks and taking off.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-have-to-accept-the-conditions-says-pujara/article33892819.ece
21 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Sania chasing the Olympic dream||At 34, six-time Grand Slam winner Sania Mirza is chasing yet another dream — to win an Olympic medal. “Olympics has been at the back of my mind. I am practising more than four hours daily,” she said in an exclusive chat with The Hindu after another long grind at the Sania Mirza Tennis Academy here. “I try to stay healthy and keep myself fit for the challenge of taking part in the Olympics, which will be my fourth. An Olympic medal is one thing which is missing from my list of achievements. I want to shut this chapter of my life with a medal in Tokyo,” Sania said. “I want to put myself in a position to be in with a chance of winning. I love to stay positive and am conscious of the kind of challenges one has to face to win an Olympic medal,” Sania said. Step by step “I will take it step by step. It will be a different kind of challenge to be back in the circuit after such a long gap because of the pandemic. The bio bubble is going to be another major issue,” she said after a long training session with Davis Cupper Saketh Myneni and others. “There is nothing like setting a major goal as I look ahead. The biggest challenge during the pandemic is to stay healthy. Even, I have recovered from the COVID-19. That way, it took a little bit longer for me to start full length training,” Sania revealed. On yet another comeback when she will be competing in the forthcoming Doha and Dubai Opens, Sania says she is really excited. “I am looking forward to compete again. Let us see how it goes.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sania-chasing-the-olympic-dream/article33893067.ece
21 February 2021||madrid,||Levante stuns Atletico||Atletico Madrid stumbled to just its second defeat of the campaign as Levante stunned the hosts by two unanswered goals in LaLiga on Saturday. Levante went ahead fortuitously in the 30th minute when Morales’ effort took a double deflection to leave Jan Oblak in goal stranded. Then its goalkeeper Daniel Cardenas pulled off a string of spectacular saves in the second half as Atletico surged forward in search of an equaliser. Levante sealed the issue deep in stoppage time. With Oblak also in the visitors’ box to attack a corner, Levante’s De Frutos ran off with a breakaway and buried a long-range effort. Hope for rivals Bundesliga leader Bayern Munich crashed to a 2-1 defeat at Eintracht Frankfurt as it gave hope to its Bundesliga title rivals. In-form Frankfurt took control with first-half goals by Japan midfielder Daichi Kamada and Armin Younes and held on for the win despite Robert Lewandowski’s 26th league goal of the season. Reigning champion Bayern, which was also held to a 3-3 home draw by struggling Arminia Bielefeld on Monday, visits Lazio in its Champions League last-16 first leg on Tuesday.   Mason Mount preserved Thomas Tuchel’s unbeaten record as the Chelsea midfielder equalised from the penalty spot to earn a 1-1 draw at Southampton on Saturday. Tuchel’s side trailed to a first half goal from Japan star Takumi Minamino at St Mary’s. Unbeaten run Mount came to the rescue as he won and converted the second half spot-kick that extended Tuchel’s unbeaten run to seven matches in all competitions since he replaced the sacked Frank Lampard in January. Chelsea remains fourth in the Premier League after its run of five successive wins came to an end. In a performance reminiscent of the issues that plagued Lampard, Chelsea monopolised possession without delivering the knockout blow and paid for a defensive lapse.  The results: Premier League: Southampton 1 (Minamino 33) drew with Chelsea 1 (Mount 54-pen).   LaLiga: Elche 1 (Calvo 33) bt Eibar 0; Atletico Madrid 0 lost to Levante 2 (Morales 30, De Frutos 90+5).   Serie A: Lazio 1 (Luis Alberto 24) bt Sampdoria 0.   Bundesliga: M’Gladbach 1 (Stindl 26) lost to Mainz 05 2 (Onisiwo 10, Stoger 86); Freiburg 0 lost to Union Berlin 1 (Promel 64); Eintracht Frankfurt 2 (Kamada 12, Younes 31) bt Bayern Munich 1 (Lewandowski 53); Cologne 0 lost to Stuttgart 1 (Kalajdzic 49).   Friday: Premier League: Wolves 1 (Meslier 64-og) bt Leeds 0.   LaLiga: Real Betis 1 (Iglesias 84) bt Getafe 0.   Serie A: Fiorentina 3 (Vlahovic 51, Castrovilli 65, Eysseric 83) bt Spezia 0; Cagliari 0 lost to Torino 1 (Bremer 76).   Bundesliga: Arminia Bielefeld 0 lost to Wolfsburg 3 (Steffen 29, Steffen 47, Arnold 54).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/levante-stuns-atletico/article33892829.ece
21 February 2021||Indore,||Jagadeesan, Aparajith set up Tamil Nadu’s win||Opener N. Jagadeesan slammed a brilliant 101 (103b, 14x4, 2x6) to help Tamil Nadu post a six-wicket win over Punjab in the Elite Group-B match of the Vijay Hazare Trophy here on Saturday. Chasing 289 for victory, Jagadeesan and B. Aparajith (88, 115b, 11x4, 1x6) added 185 runs for the second wicket, setting the platform for the chase. Spot of bother TN was in a spot of bother losing three quick wickets and needing 63 off the last nine overs before M. Shahrukh Khan came to the rescue. Shahrukh, who was signed by Punjab Kings for Rs. 5.25 crore in the IPL auction on Thursday, showcased his finishing abilities slamming an unbeaten 55 off just 36 balls to ensure victory. Earlier, put in, Gurkeerat Singh slammed an unbeaten 139 off just 121 balls slamming 14 fours and seven sixes to help Punjab post 288. TN started well with left-arm spinner R. Sai Kishore who bowled a miserly spell and finished with figures of 1/31. Mann was ably supported by Sanvir Singh who scored a quickfire 58 off 53 balls as the two added 136 runs for the fourth wicket in just 17.2 overs to give Punjab a fighting total after a slow and cautious start. Jagadeesan delighted Speaking about his knock, Jagadeesan said, “I am happy to start the tournament well and more importantly we won the game. It was important once you got a start to make it big because it was not easy for a new batsman to come in and score easily. “The partnership with Aparjith was crucial.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jagadeesan-aparajith-set-up-tamil-nadus-win/article33892868.ece
21 February 2021||BENGALURU,||Indians can manage ISL clubs, says Moosa||Bengaluru FC (BFC) interim coach Naushad Moosa feels that Khalid Jamil’s success at NorthEast United has raised hopes of an Indian manager taking over at an ISL club on a permanent basis. Currently, the four Indian coaches in the league — Moosa, Jamil, Kerala Blasters’ Ishfaq Ahmed and Odisha FC’s Steven Dias — are all on interim roles. However, Jamil, who took charge after Gerard Nus’ sacking in early January, is unbeaten in seven games (including four victories) and has taken NorthEast to the threshold of a playoff spot. “[If] you ask whether Indians can be coaches in ISL, you can see that Khalid is proving himself,” said Moosa, on the eve of BFC’s match against FC Goa. “He’s unbeaten so far and is doing a great job. For me also, if we have the right set of players from the beginning, why not? I feel that I will need a year or two to be there.” Moosa, who will soon pass the baton to Marco Pezzaiuoli at BFC, added that it was all down to man-management. Main challenge “The main challenge was dealing with the players. Of course, I will need more time and [need to] learn more things like how to handle the situation when you’re losing and what to do when you’re winning.” “What I learned from [Albert] Roca and Carles [Cuadrat] are different from what I learned in my playing days under an Indian coach. Now you’ll have Marco [Pezzaiuoli] whose idea is totally different.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indians-can-manage-isl-clubs-says-moosa/article33892812.ece
21 February 2021||Pune:,||Miracle may repeat||Miracle, trained by P. Shroff, won well in her last outing and should repeat her performance in the Panchshil Breeders’ Produce Stakes (Gr. 3), the main attraction of Sunday’s (Feb. 21) Mumbai races to be held here. Rails will be announced one hour before the first race.  BOLD MARCH PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), Cl. IV, 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 46 — 1.00 p.m.: 1. Ron (2) S. Amit 59, 2. Safdar (4) K. Kadam 57.5, 3. Northern Singer (3) Dashrath 57, 4. Tanahaiyaan (8) Chouhan 56.5, 5. Pride’s Angel (Late Memorable Eyes) (9) C.S. Jodha 54.5, 6. Flying Yoda (5) Aniket 53.5, 7. Gabbriel (11) T.S. Jodha 52.5, 8. Eternal Dancer (10) Nazil 51, 9. Arabian Storm (1) Peter 50.5, 10. Va Bene (6) Zervan 49.5 and 11. On Va Danser (7) Kaviraj 49.  1. TANAHAIYAAN, 2. NORTHERN SINGER, 3. SAFDAR   PICASSO PLATE (1,600m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66 — 1.30: 1. Van Dyke (1) Akshay 60, 2. Athulya (4) Ajinkya 56.5, 3. Makhtoob (3) C.S. Jodha 55.5, 4. Tigrio (5) Chouhan 53.5 and 5. Venezuela (2) Kaviraj 50.  1. TIGRIO, 2. MAKHTOOB   DAYS BEST PLATE (Div. I) (2,000m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46 — 2. 00: 1. Seasons Greetings (2) Srinath 60, 2. Arcadia (3) Chouhan 59.5, 3. Wind Whistler (4) C.S. Jodha 58.5, 4. In Contention (5) T.S. Jodha 58, 5. La Teste (8) Zervan 58, 6. Magic In The Wind (6) Parmar 57.5, 7. Sandman (1) Nazil 57.5, 8. Historian (9) Gagandeep 57 and 9. Justified (7) Sandesh 56.  1. SEASONS GREETINGS, 2. IN CONTENTION, 3. ARCADIA   PIONEER PLATE (1,000m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only — 2.30: 1. Excellent Star (4) T.S. Jodha 56, 2. The Mentalist (5) C.S. Jodha 56, 3. Circus Queen (2) Sandesh 54.5, 4. Emerald (1) Chouhan 54.5, 5. Hilma Klint (6) Dashrath 54.5 and 6. Petronia (3) Zervan 54.5.  1. PETRONIA, 2. EMERALD   HYDERABAD RACE CLUB TROPHY ( 2,400m), Cl. I, rated 80 and upward — 3.00: 1. Vulcan (1) Sandesh 59, 2. Wizard Of Stocks (7) T.S. Jodha 56.5, 3. Parisian (4) Chouhan 55.5, 4. Magistero (2) Bhawani 53.5, 5. Truly Epic (3) Parmar 52.5, 6. Golden Era (5) C.S. Jodha 52 and 7. Lorraine (6) Nazil 52.  1. PARISIAN, 2. WIZARD OF STOCKS   HUNT FOR GOLD PLATE (Div. II) (1,000m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30 — 3.30 (No whip race. Only apprentice jockeys will be permitted to ride in this race): 1. Kardashian (4) Nazil 60, 2. Twinkling Star (6) Aniket 60, 3. Dashing Image (2) Shubham 59.5, 4. La Peregrina (10) K. Bhagat 58.5, 5. Treason (1) Santosh G 58.5, 6. About The Cloud (8) M.S. Deora 57.5, 7. Galloping Star (11) Vishal Bunde 57, 8. Dowsabel (7) Peter 56.5, 9. Divija (9) Ajinkya 55, 10. Thea’s Pet (12) Kaviraj 54, 11. Primum Non Nocere (3) A. Prakash 52.5 and 12. Supreme Being (5) Raghuveer 50.  1. KARDASHIAN, 2. LA PEREGRINA, 3. DASHING IMAGE   PANCHSHIL BREEDERS’ PRODUCE STAKES (Gr. 3) (1,400m) (Terms) 3-y-o only — 4.00: 1. Infinite N Beyond (7) Sandesh 57, 2. Catalina (2) Bhawani 55.5, 3. Dragoness (1) Parmar 55.5, 4. Miracle (3) Chouhan 55.5, 5. Alfayiz (6) Zervan 54, 6. Cold Pursuit (5) C.S. Jodha 54 and 7. Succession (4) T.S. Jodha 54.  1. MIRACLE, 2. DRAGONESS   DAYS BEST PLATE (Div. II) (2,000m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46 — 4.30: 1. Benevolence (9) Ayyar 59, 2. Gold Medalist (1) Ajinkya 59, 3. Chancellor (7) Sandesh 58.5, 4. Irina (3) T.S. Jodha 58, 5. Socrates (8) Chouhan 58, 6. Brazos (4) Parmar 57.5, 7. Chutzpah (2) Bhawani 57.5, 8. Corus (5) S. Kamble 57 and 9. Mandeville (6) Srinath 57.  1. CHANCELLOR, 2. SOCRATES, 3. MANDEVILLE   BOLD MARCH PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), Cl. IV, 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 46 — 5.00: 1. Sandalphon (6) T.S. Jodha 61.5, 2. Arc Shine (1) Peter 59.5, 3. Thunderclap (5) Chouhan 59, 4. Classicus (3) Ajinkya 58.5, 5. Timeless Deeds (2) Dashrath 57.5, 6. White River (9) C.S. Jodha 57, 7. C’est L’Amour (7) Aniket 56.5, 8. Rising Brave (11) K. Kadam 56.5, 9. Pulverize (10) Bhawani 55.5, 10. Twinspire (8) Zervan 54 and 11. Mythical Power (4) Kaviraj 50.  1. THUNDERCLAP, 2. WHITE RIVER, 3. ARC SHINE   HUNT FOR GOLD PLATE (Div. I) (1,000m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30 — 5.30 (No whip race. Only apprentice jockeys will be permitted to ride in this race): 1. Feel Lucky (7) A. Prakash 62, 2. Istanbul (5) Nazil 61, 3. Flower Power (4) Kaviraj 60.5, 4. Smuggler’s Art (13) K. Bhagat 60.5, 5. World Is One (9) M.S. Deora 60.5, 6. Isinit (3) Santosh G 60, 7. Little More (8) Peter 59.5, 8. Michelangelo (12) Ayyar 59.5, 9. Brave (11) Aniket 59, 10. Star Sincerity (6) Gagandeep 59, 11. Willows (1) Vishal Bunde 59, 12. Titanium (2) P. Shinde 58.5 and 13. Colosseum (10) P. Vinod 55.5.  1. ISTANBUL, 2. LITTLE MORE, 3. BRAVE  Day’s Best: TIGRIO  Jackpot: (i) 3, 4, 5, 6 & 7. (ii) 6, 7, 8, 9 & 10. Treble: (i) 4, 5 & 6. (ii) 7, 8 & 9. (iii) 8, 9 & 10. Tanala: All races. Super Jackpot: 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 & 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/miracle-may-repeat/article33893242.ece
21 February 2021||Mumbai,||Pujara delighted with Super Kings call-up||Picked by the Chennai Super Kings during the player auction earlier this week, Cheteshwar Pujara is delighted to return to the Indian Premier League after 2014. He is also confident that the IPL won’t hinder his preparation for India’s five-Test series in England starting August. “It’s good to be back again. I would like to thank CSK for picking me. As for County cricket, I’ll still have enough time before we play England. There’ll be a window where I can play a few County games. Plus we will also have a couple of warm-up games before the series in England. I’ll take that call once the IPL gets over or midway through the IPL,” Pujara said. “I always want to play shorter formats and it’s good to be back in IPL. My focus once this Test series gets over will be on IPL and once the IPL gets over, I’ll think about the England Test series, which is a big series. We’re also very hopeful that we’ll play the World Test Championship final in June as well. One thing at a time.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pujara-delighted-with-super-kings-call-up/article33892862.ece
21 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Tewatia, Suryakumar and Ishan get maiden call-ups||Rahul Tewatia, Suryakumar Yadav and Ishan Kishan earned their maiden international call-ups, with the trio being named in the India squad for the five-match T20 series against England. Spinner Varun Chakravarthy, meanwhile, received a second chance to make a mark. He had received a call-up in the T20 squad for the tour of Australia last year but pulled out due to a shoulder injury. Tewatia shot to fame in IPL 2020, when his 31-ball 53 helped Rajasthan Royals chase a mammoth 224-run target set by Kings XI Punjab. Suryakumar, who has been consistent for Mumbai Indians in the IPL and for Mumbai in domestic cricket, finally gets his big break. Like Suryakumar, wicketkeeper-batsman Kishan played a key role in Mumbai Indians’ title run. The explosive Jharkhand southpaw scored 516 runs, at a strike rate of 145.76, to finish as the fifth highest run-scorer. Fast bowler Jasprit Bumrah has been rested. Pacer Bhuvneshwar Kumar, who missed a significant part of the IPL due to a thigh injury, returns to the national team. The matches will be held at Ahmedabad on March 12, 14, 16, 18 and 20.  The squad: Virat Kohli (Capt.), Rohit Sharma (vice-capt.), K.L. Rahul, Shikhar Dhawan, Shreyas Iyer, Suryakumar Yadav, Hardik Pandya, Rishabh Pant (wk), Ishan Kishan (wk), Yuzvendra Chahal, Varun Chakaravarthy, Axar Patel, Washington Sundar, Rahul Tewatia, T. Natarajan, Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Deepak Chahar, Navdeep Saini, and Shardul Thakur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tewatia-suryakumar-and-ishan-get-maiden-call-ups/article33892827.ece
21 February 2021||New Delhi,||Alfiya Pathan picks up gold||Alfiya Pathan (81+kg) claimed India’s first gold medal at the 30th Adriatic Pearl boxing tournament in Budva, Montenegro. Asian junior girls’ champion in 2019, Alfiya notched up an easy 5-0 win over Daria Kozorev of Moldova.  Other results:   Semifinals: Women: 51kg: Babyrojisana Chanu bt Feruza Kazakova (Uzb) 3-2.   60kg: Vinka bt Suvi Tujula (Fin) RSC.   69kg: Arundhati Choudhary bt Sevinchkhon Mirkhnjonova (Uzb) 5-0.   75kg: Sanamcha Chanu bt Sokhiba Ruzmetova (Uzb) 5-0.   54kg: Claudie Totova (Cze) bt Neha 5-0.   Men: 60kg: Tengiz Kotoian (Rus) bt Akash Gorkha 3-2.   64kg: Ratmir Turchaninov (Ukr) bt Ankit Narwal 3-2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/alfiya-pathan-picks-up-gold/article33892683.ece
21 February 2021||SONEPAT:,||Malik wins||Ajay Malik beat Bikramjeet Singh Chawla 6-4, 3-6, 6-0 for the title in the Rs. 1,00,000 AITA men’s ranking tennis tournament at the Little Angel School Sports Complex.  The results (final): Ajay Malik bt Bikramjeet Singh Chawla 6-4, 3-6, 6-0; Semifinals: Bikramjeet bt Rohan Mehra 7-5, 4-6, 7-5; Malik bt B.R. Nikshep 6-4, 6-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/malik-wins/article33892945.ece
21 February 2021||New Delhi,||Bopanna loses in qualifying; Yuki returns||Rohan Bopanna had a taste of professional singles after eight years on the circuit, and went down 3-6, 4-6 to third-seeded Christopher Eubanks of the US in the first qualifying round of the $361,800 ATP tournament in Singapore. The 40-year-old Bopanna made the qualifying draw as one of the four alternates, and pocketed $1,290 for the effort. Bopanna last played a professional singles match at the Queen’s Club tournament in 2013. The singles draw in Singapore also features Ramkumar Ramanathan and will witness the return of Yuki Bhambri.  The results: $361,800 ATP, Singapore: Qualifying singles (first round): Christopher Eubanks (US) bt Rohan Bopanna 6-3, 6-4.   $15,000 ITF women, Sharm El Sheikh, Egypt: Doubles (semifinals): Erika Sema (Jpn) & Shalimar Talbi (Blr) bt Raphaelle Lacasse (Can) & Ashmitha Easwaramurthi 6-1, 6-1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bopanna-loses-in-qualifying-yuki-returns/article33892810.ece
21 February 2021||ANANTAPUR:,||Anantapur posts win||Anantapur scored a five-run win over Hyderabad Veterans in the first of the T20 match series.  The scores:   Anantapur Veterans 135/3 in 20 overs (Sanjeev Reddy 41, N. Sardar 35) bt Hyderabad Veterans 130/7 in 20 overs (R.A. Swaroop 62 n.o., Sesha Giri 33, G. Harinath Reddy 3/25).  Raju cracks a fine century K.S.N. Raju cracked 105 (129b, 11x4, 1x6) to help West Godavari record a 90-run win over Prakasam in the ACA inter-district under-19 (one-day) cricket championship at Mulapadu.  The scores:   Guntur 284 in 49.2 overs (Shaik Rasheed 76, Samanvith 66, Mahima Kumar 55, G. Chanti 3/61, Ch. Nithik 3/45) bt Krishna 194/9 in 50 overs (Sk. Kaja Mohiddin 45, B. Pavan 36, P. Akshay 4/40, V. Sai Akhil 3/33).   West Godavari 243/8 in 50 overs (K.S.N. Raju 105, B.V.S.S. Harsha 57, A. Kiran 3/34) bt Prakasam 197 in 48.4 overs (G. Rohith 41, J. Vishnu Datta 37, A. Kiran 33).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anantapur-posts-win/article33893269.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||JFC still in with a chance||Goals from super-subs Boris Singh and David Grande kept Jamshedpur FC’s playoff hopes alive as it defeated Mumbai City FC 2-0 in a 2020-21 Indian Super League outing at the Tilak Maidan in Vasco on Saturday. This loss further hampered MCFC’s chances of overtaking ATK Mohun Bagan in the ISL League Winners’ Shield race. This victory takes JFC to 24 points from 19 matches. With a win in its final clash against Bengaluru FC and a few other results going its way, the club can make the final-four. Earlier, both teams made two changes each in their line-ups. Jamshedpur manager Owen Coyle brought back star striker Nerijus Valskis and Isaac Vanmalsawma into his playing XI.  The result: Jamshedpur FC 2 (Boris Singh 72, David Grande 90+1) bt Mumbai City FC 0.   Sunday’s matches: Bengaluru vs Goa, 5 p.m.; Kerala Blasters vs Chennaiyin, 7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jfc-still-in-with-a-chance/article33892809.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Velammal hoopsters triumph||Mitchell Anthony Mannays (114) and R. Alexander (five for 36) were the architects of Indian Bank’s 83-run win over RKS CA in a second division Elite match of the TNCA league recently.  The scores: II div. Elite: Indian Bank 279/8 in 49 overs (Mitchell Anthony Mannays 114, Sachin Omprakash Katariya 53, G. Jayavaradhan 32, V. Rajinikanth 30) bt RKS CA 196 in 42.3 overs (J. Suresh Kumar 71, Abhinav Bali 41, R. Alexandar 5/36, S. Risheek Kumar 3/36)   IV-B: BSNL Chennai Telephones 206 in 49.3 overs (Harish Sasi Kumar 83, R. Seshanth 4/60, G. Jagannathan 3/46) lost to Ranji CC 207/5 in 44.3 overs (P.L. Harshavardhan Sai 73, S. Ravikumar 41, P.B. Madava Ramanaa 41).     A 16-member squad will represent Tamil Nadu in the 82nd National cadet and sub-junior table tennis championships at Indore from Feb. 26 to Mar. 6.  The squad: Sub-junior boys: S. Preyesh, S. Manikandan, A. Prajith, Advait; Cadets: Nikhil Menon, Akash, Vishruth Ramakrishnan, and Aman Gadia. Sub-junior girls: S. Nalene Amrutha, C. V. Madhu Preetha, V. Mourya Dharshini, M. Hansini; C adets: M. Hansini, B. R. Nandini, R. H. Mansi, and A. H. Kaniha.   Coaches: S. Raman, A. Muralidhara Rao, A. Devaraj and Meenakshi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/velammal-hoopsters-triumph/article33892866.ece
21 February 2021||KOCHI:,||Akhil and Sharafuddeen shine for Tripunithura-B||M.S. Akhil scored a century and N.M. Sharafuddeen took four wickets as Tripunithura-B thrashed Muthoot Microfin by 104 runs in the Ernakulam District A-division cricket league on Saturday.  The scores: Tripunithura-B 281/7 in 50 overs (M.S. Akhil 119, K. Sreenath 80, Akhil Ashok 3/55) bt Muthoot Microfin 177 in 39.3 overs (Adarsh Dileep 46, Akhil Anil 57, N.M. Sharafuddeen 4/28, Abdul Basith 3/38) .      KCA-B defeated KCA C by four wickets in the KCA-HPC under-19 cricket tournament here on Saturday. Needing 198 for a win, P. Aditya struck a half-century (64) to anchor the chase as KCA reached the target for loss of six wickets with more than two overs to spare.  The scores: KCA-C 197/9 in 50 overs (Krishnarayanan 45, Abhishek J. Nair 40, Vijay S. Viswanath 3/30, P. Hani 3/36) lost to KCA-B 201/6 in 47.3 overs (R. Aditya 64, K.P. Anandhu 39, Bibin Emmanuel 30, Kiran Sagar 4/27) .      Loongs CC defeated Baijus CC by two wickets in the Youngsters Trophy cricket tournament.  The scores: Baijus 147/9 in 27 overs (Midhun Krishna 70) lost to Loongs 148/8 in 26.3 overs (Srihari Varma 61).   EKK Globestar 263/7 in 25 overs (Fayaz Reenz 57, Pranav Raj 46, Churchil 42) bt Devamatha 64 in 17.2 overs (Rahul R. Nair 4/20).   Tellichery Cricketers Junior 146 in 27 overs (Abhinav 31, Nice Yadav 4/22) lost to Triadent 149/6 in 22.1 overs (Anandhakrishnan 38, Fardhan 3/27).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/akhil-and-sharafuddeen-shine-for-tripunithura-b/article33893171.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||CCI edges Parkophene, enters semifinals||Cricket Club of India (CCI) registered an exciting two-run victory against Parkophene Cricketers and entered the semifinals of the 73rd Police Shield tournament here. Riding on opener Rudra Dhanday’s run-a-ball 85, CCI tallied 243 for nine in the 45-over contest. Despite Japjeet Singh Randhawa’s century, Parkophene fell agonisingly short of the target.  The scores: Group A: Dr. D.Y. Patil Sports Academy 258 in 41.2 overs (Anand Bous 74, Shubham Ranjane 49, Nikhil Date 3/46) bt MIG Cricket Club 255/8 in 45 overs (Gaurav Jathar 81, Swapnil Salvi 68, Arjun Tendulkar 39, Uzair Khan 3/48).   Islam Gymkhana 190 in 42.5 overs (Salman Khan 44 n.o., Aman Farooqui 41, Parag Khanapurkar 3/22, Vikrant Auti 3/28) lost to Parsee Gymkhana 194/4 in 28.3 overs (Nikhil Patil Jr. 67 n.o., Parag Khanapurkar 39).   Group B: Cricket Club of India 243/9 in 45 overs (Rudra Dhanday 85, Vishwajeet Thakur 3/44) bt Parkophene Cricketers 241/8 in 45 overs (Japjeet Singh Randhawa 109, Sagar Mishra 52, Adib Usmani 40, Vaibhav Mali 3/38).   Bombay Gymkhana 256/6 in 45 overs (Bhupen Lalwani 105, Pranav Kela 60, Amit Pandey 3/61) bt Mumbai Police CC 231 in 41.4 overs (Yash Chavan 74, Rohit Pol 31, Yashraj Malap 4/43).   Group C: Karnatak Sporting Association 236 in 44.4 overs (Manan Khakhar 59, Aishwarya Surve 49, Amanullah Manihar 3/44) bt P.J. Hindu Gymkhana 174 in 38.4 overs (Utkarsh Raut 43 n.o., Megh Adhvaryu 40, Vinayak Bhoir 4/27).   National CC 334/9 in 45 overs (Ajinkya Beloshe 54, Prathmesh Pawar 51, Shashikant Kadam 49 n.o., Akshay Jambhekar 3/48, Nehal Katakdhond 3/55) bt New Hind SC 239 all out, 39.5 overs (Avdhoot Dandekar 62, Bhavin Thakkar 61, Shashikant Kadam 3/39).   Group D: MCA Colts 281/1 in 40 overs (Siddharth Akre 138 n.o., Divyaansh Saxena 108 n.o. bt Shivaji Park Gymkhana 240 in 36.3 overs (Jayesh Pokhare 85, Ninad Kadam 52, Vedant Murkar 41, Danish Shaikh 3/36, Siddharth Akre 3/40).   D.Y. Patil Group (Sponsor’s XI) 265 in 45 overs (Sumit Ghadigaonkar 104, Rohan Raje 3/38) lost to Payyade SC 269/8 in 44.5 overs (Rohan Raje 81, Siddhesh Lad 78, Prayag Bhati 44, Vineet Sinha 3/49).   Semifinal line-up: Parsee Gymkhana vs Payyade SC; CCI vs Karnatak SA .      Kaevaan Setalvad his sibling Zahan returned from the National Equestrian Championship with a gold and silver in the 150cm Grand Prix of the show-jumping event. At the championship which concluded in New Delhi on February 16, the brothers rode German, Dutch and French warmblood horses, which are especially bred for show-jumping. Kaevaan, who won the national crown in 2016, thus joins brother Zahan as a two-time National champion. Zahan bagged gold in 2018 and 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cci-edges-parkophene-enters-semifinals/article33893241.ece
21 February 2021||Villupuram:,||Sunny Sachin CC triumphs||A. Kameleeswaran's unbeaten 70 helped Captain CC beat Sunny Sachin CC by 54 runs in the final of the Pongal T20 tournament recently.  The scores: Captain CC 173/ 2 in 20 overs (S. Raja 36 n.o., A. Kameleeswaran 70 n.o.) bt Sunny Sachin CC 119/7 in 20 overs (K. Karthi 27, S. Anbalagan 3/18) .    M. Vignesh's 125 (111b, 14x4) set up Vasantham's 142-run win over Grand Dravid CA in the CDCA fifth division league.  The scores: I div.: Sri Ramakrishna Cricket Trust 196 in 49.5 overs (S. Radhakrishnan 64,C. Sathyanarayanan 32, Y. Aravindhan 3/37, G. Maharaja 3/31) bt Suryabala 133 in 41.5 overs (M. Premkumar 46).   V div.: G 251 in 49.5 overs (M. Faizaldeen 32, S. Anand Kumar 40, E. Mahendran 61,N. Muruganantham 4/61) lost to Devil Strokers 252/7 in 49.5 overs (V. Prabhul Raj 42, M. Sakthivel 73, M. Naveen 40, U. Kiran Kumar 3/33).   Vasantham 263/7 in 50 overs (P. Saravanan 40 , M. Vignesh 125, M. Balraj 43 n.o.) bt Grand Dravid CA 121 in 32.4 overs (B. Karthik 3/34, K. Sridhar 3/28).   VI div.: Appasamy 222/9 in 50 overs (P. Balakrishnan 35, J. Vasanthkumar 41, A. Madhan Kumar 49, A. Jones 3/25) bt CDCA Junior Colts 168/6 in 50 overs (B.M. Prasanna 39) .    S. Arivazhagan's five-wicket haul was the highlight of Luckystar's one-wicket win over Rangers in the JSW-SDCA third division league. In another match, S. Sathish Kumar's five-wicket haul went in vain as S.R. Prabhakar Memorial lost to Writer Ramasamy Memorial by 21 runs.  The scores: II div.: Ravindran Memorial 210 in 45 overs (Baskar 57, Arunprasath 41, Ajith Kumar 44, E.Senthil Rajmohan 3/26, R. Selvam 3/42) lost to Muthusamy Memorial 213/7 in 41.5 overs (K. Silambarasan 85 n.o., S. Nithin Mouliya 32, E. Senthil Rajmohan 31, Baskar 3/51).   III div.: Writer Ramasamy Memorial 155 in 45 overs (S. Arun 52, S. Sathish Kumar 5/23) bt S.R. Prabhakar Memorial 134 in 45 overs (J. Tamilselvan 4/34).   Rangers 108 in 43 overs (Deepak Ram 30, S. Arivazhagan 5/31) lost toLuckystar 111/9 in 20.1 overs (Murali 4/48, Prabu 3/22).   Achievers 181/9 in 43 overs (R. Amith Singh 55, S. Sharun Kumar 39, K. Boopathy 3/41) bt Tigers-B 168 in 43 overs (D.K. Bharat Krishna 34, R. Amith Singh 3/44).   V div.: Rothmans 107 in 45 overs (S. Suresh 4/25, S. Praveen Kumar 3/32) lost toNew Universal 110/7 in 19.5 overs (C. Sathish Kumar 33) .    J. Tharun's all-round show (73 & four for 39) helped Maruthi Super Kings script a 66-run win over AR in the DCAT third division league.  The scores: II div.: Lucky Star 126 in 40.3 overs (Manjunathan 45, B. Joy Gupta 3/28, S. Nithiyanantham 3/22) lost to Tirupur CF-A 129/2 in 24.2 overs (G. Sanjay Venkateshwar 38, N.S. Yuvan Shankar 49 n.o.).   III div.: Maruthi Super Kings 225/8 in 50 overs (P. Hari Prasanth 62, J. Tharun 73, M. Ganesan 4/32) bt AR 159 in 41.5 overs (Vijayakumar 35, S.P. Raghul 3/40, J. Tharun 4/39) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sunny-sachin-cc-triumphs/article33892923.ece
21 February 2021||Los Angeles,||Clippers snap Jazz’s nine-game win streak||Kawhi Leonard returned from a leg injury to score 29 points as the revitalised Los Angeles Clippers beat the NBA-leading Utah Jazz in the second of a two-game set here on Friday. With both Leonard and Paul George back in the line-up after sitting out with injuries, the Clippers held on to beat the Jazz 116-112 to snap the team's nine-game winning streak.  The results: Minnesota Timberwolves 81 lost to Toronto Raptors 86; Philadelphia 76ers 112 bt Chicago Bulls 105; Boston Celtics 121 bt Atlanta Hawks 109; LA Clippers 116 bt Utah Jazz 112; Memphis Grizzlies 109 bt Detroit Pistons 95.   Milwaukee Bucks 98 bt Oklahoma City Thunder 85; New Orleans Pelicans 114 lost to Phoenix Suns 132; Orlando Magic 124 bt Golden State Warriors 120.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/clippers-snap-jazzs-nine-game-win-streak/article33892814.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 07:56 IST,||Sudoku — February 21, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-february-21-2021/article33893482.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Two sides of the same coin||Scenarist and actor Murali Gopy is one of the newer cast members in Mohanlal’sDrishyam 2,the sequel to Jeethu Joseph’s hit film from 2013. Murali plays a police officer who digs into a cold case involving Georgekutty (Mohanlal) and the missing youngster. In an interview, Murali discusses the sequel, and also the new films he is part of in 2021. Edited excerpts: What was it like to act in the sequel to a classic like Drishyam ?  Drishyam was a film that took both the box office and viewers’ imagination by storm. To make a sequel is indeed a challenging task, especially since it was not originally planned to be a franchise. But I think Jeethu Joseph [the film’s writer-director] has done a great job. It was a memorable experience to work with Jeethu and, of course, with Lal ettan [Mohanlal].  What is the update on Empuraan , the sequel to Lucifer ?  Empuraan is the second part in the Lucifer franchise; it was originally conceived as a three-part film series. Empuraan will be mounted on a bigger scale than Lucifer . We will have to wait till all restrictions pertaining to the COVID-19 pandemic are lifted before it can be shot. Empuraan is expected to go on floors by mid-2022. You are also turning producer with Theerppu . What is the film about?  As a writer, I have always tried to hop across genres, with each film. Theerppu will be an allegorical tale set in the present milieu. I am producing the film along with its director Rathish Ambat in association with Vijay Babu’s Friday Film House.  How do you evaluate yourself as a writer-actor? I go with the flow. Evaluating my work is not something for me to do, it is up to the audience. I would rather apply myself fully in what I do.  When you write, you must also be visualising. Does that help in getting into the skin of the character you portray?  Acting and writing, if you ask me, are similar processes that need to be approached from different angles and routes. Visualising is there in both. But that does not mean the methods are same. The way an actor visualises and approaches his character is different from the way a writer conceives his character. When an actor acts, he is actually writing with his body, his mind and his entire being. A writer, when he writes, actually is an actor with a pen! What’s in store for Murali, the actor?  Besides Drishyam 2 , there are Kuruthi , One and Kochaal . Drishyam 2 is currently streaming on Amazon Prime Video||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/two-sides-of-the-same-coin/article33893154.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||A virtual springboard||Cinema, a world that has fascinated the makers and viewers for ages. Talents have come and gone with a few tasting success while the majority have been spurned by fickle fortune. And this is where the protagonist of this story, Sudheer Kumar Yandapalli, steps in. Sudheer, whose debut film was shelved due to the lack of right contacts, founded Filmy Profile. “The platform is for those interested in a career in films. It is open to everyone — from actors, models and dancers to singers and photographers.” All one has to do is create an account with the line of interest, contact information and experience. The platform, Sudheer says, will bring like-minded people together and also provide a break for those struggling to connect with people from the industry. “Without the right opportunity, even the best talents are not able to go far. We are trying to bridge the gap with Filmy Profile.” The platform, with over 6,000 registered users, features audition updates and help with networking, connecting with other talents and promoting the candidates’ portfolios, virtually. “Every registration will get a personalised link that s/he can share and this will also act as their personalised website space, dedicated specifically to them,” he says. The service, he claims, is free as of now. “We also have a paid service, where we offer you the networking facility. Here, you get access to people from the Kannada and the Telugu film industries. We get auditions for at least 10 people every week. Last week seven people were chosen by the Kannada film industry through our platform. We will share the details as soon as they sign their film projects.” Sudheer says the idea for Filmy Profile germinated in 2015. “I also started off as a director, but could not get the right opportunity. That is when I started looking for people who were sailing in the same boat as me. I studied the challenges we faced and created this platform to address the practical problems faced by beginners in the field of cinema.”  For details visit www.filmyprofiles.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-virtual-springboard/article33893157.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||How about a date with seagulls at ECR?||A time-consuming roadtrip need not necessarily have to always precede a date with seagulls. The ‘T-junction’ can be as near as Bessie. Especially, during this phase of the migratory season. “From now to May, when you go down the beach, heading north, you will start seeing them more regularly. You do not have to go to Pulicat, even if you are at Besant Nagar beach, you can the Brown-headed Gull, the Black-headed Gull, the Lesser Black-backed Gull (Heuglin’s Gull), the Pallas’ Gull and Slender-billed Gull. The Brown-headed Gull is common, and others not so common,” says Vikas Madhav Nagarajan, resident of an apartment overlooking the Valmiki Nagar beach. The space cheek by jowl with Bessie — famously called the Adyar Estuary — has the reputation for being seagull pitstop. Sections of the shoreline on East Coast Road hold much promise of seagull sightings. “I always call Mudaliyarkuppam, the ‘southern Pulicat’. There are a lot of similarities. Whatever you get this side you get on that side also. Obviously you will have more at Pulicat, but there are many common stuff. Long-toed Stint, Broad-billed Sandpiper and Lesser Flamingo are known to be sighted in both places. Both areas have the the same species of gulls. No difference,” says Vikas, who reviews bird records on the eBird platform. At Muttukadu, the Brown-headed Gull is known to flock in significant numbers; so is the Hugelin’s Gull. Flocks of gulls are a given. However, if one tended to exaggerate certain minor points of sociability, there can be ranking on this parameter, with the Pallas’ Gull ending up at the bottom. “The Pallas’ Gull does not come in large, but small flocks. In contrast, the Brown-headed Gull and the Lesser Black-backed Gull are hugely flocking birds. I have seen a flock of 400 Hugelin’s at Idayanthittu and Alamparai,” says Vikas. Besides the Heuglin’s Gull, there is another subspecies of the Lesser Black-backed Gull, the Steppe Gull which occurs in these parts, but is hugely on the rarer side. The Brown-headed Gull is known to make inland forays. “There is the chance of sighting the Brown-headed Gull in any of the large freshwater waterbodies inland. The Hueglin’s Gull like beach-type setups, and as you go further south in Tamil Nadu, and reach places like Point Calimere, you will find it in large flocks in isolated patches of mangroves,” elaborates Vikas. In their non-breeding finery, black-headed and the brown-headed gulls will have their respective black and brown hoods reduced to dots behind their eyes. At the fag end of the migratory season, before leaving Chennai for their breeding grounds, some birds slip into their breeding plumage. Ruff with its arresting head-dress is a colourful and extravagant example. The Brown-headed Gull and Black-headed Gull also give a peek into their “dress code” for life away from their wintering grounds. “Around March , they will start transitioning back to their breeding plumage. I have seen beautiful Black-headed Gulls and Brown-headed Gulls in their breeding plumage in April, when most of them would be in their breeding plumage. You have to be in the right place to find them: Pulicat, Alamparai, Mudaliyarkuppam, Idayanthittu and Adyar Estuary.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/how-about-a-date-with-seagulls-at-ecr/article33892489.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Kazura Garden RWA complains of leakage from CMWSSB pipes||Piped drinking water from Nemmeli seawater desalination plant passes through Kazura Garden in Neelankarai on East Coast Road. The residents of Kazura Garden do not benefit from this desalination plant which comes under the purview of the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (CMWSSB). Neither do they enjoy piped water supply from any other source of CMWSSB. The residents continue to depend on groundwater for their potable requirements. And, for the past two to three months, residents of Kazura Garden have been put to inconvenience, on account of the water pipes belonging to the desalination plant. Residents are complaining of water leakage from these pipes which were laid more than nine years ago in the locality, adjacent to the groundwater pipes laid decades ago by the erstwhile Palavakkam Panchayat. The localiity now comes under the Greater Chennai Corporation. Sri Lakshmi Mohan Rao, vice-president, Kazura Garden Welfare Association, says, “Months ago, a team from CMWSSB dug up the roads and opened the pipes to check the water flow. However, after checking, the pipes have not been connected at many places, and this has led to the leakage problem. The leakage is happening for many days now. The soil in this region is clayey. Hence, the tyres of the vehicles get stuck in the soil, causing traffic snarls. Barricades have not been placed to cordon off the dug-up sections of the roads. Steps should be taken at the earliest to arrest the leakage. I have raised this issue with CMWSSB, but necessary action has not been taken.” In this regard, a grievance section officer at the CMWSSB says that they have not received any such complaint or petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/kazura-garden-rwa-complains-of-leakage-from-cmwssb-pipes/article33892478.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Road bend in Besant Nagar needs attention||The bend on First Cross Street, near Beach Home Avenue First Street in Besant Nagar, have to be negotiated with caution. Because, there is no speed-breaker near the bend. Residents of the locality have requested the Greater Chennai Corporation to lay a speed-breaker at near this spot. “Motorists come at a fast clip increasing the risk of accidents. There is a school in the vicinity. Hence, necessary safety measures should be in place,” says C. Pattammal Chandrasekhar, a longtime resident of Besant Nagar. Further, residents have pointed out that some motorists drive on the wrong side of the road and there also those who take the turn in a rash manner. “I have made representations to the office of Zone 13 Adyar of Greater Chennai Corporation to have a speed-breaker laid. But, no step has been taken till date,” says Pattammal. Further, the section of the road near the bend is not well-lit. The lamps on the poles are missing. However, a few metres away from the bend, there is a speed-breaker along with a signboard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/road-bend-in-besant-nagar-needs-attention/article33892484.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Workers damage grill along Adyar river bund’||Once again, construction workers have broken the pointed ends of the grill on the wall along the Adyar river. The grill had been constructed by the Public Works Department, Chennai Rivers Restoration Trust and Greater Chennai Corporation to protect the river bund from encroachments. It was built from Thiru Vi Ka bridge in Adyar to Kotturpuram. A few months ago, the pointed ends of the grill on the wall was cut open and construction labourers of work site nearby stay at a shed constructed on Lock Street along the river bund. Instead of walking through Lock Street, the labourers find it convenient to walk along the river bund for which they have broken the grill. After repeated representations to Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC), the Assistant Engineer of Ward 172 repaired the grill. However, we once again find workers damaging the pointed ends of grill and climbing over the wall to walk along the river bund. We request GCC to taken necessary action in this matter. T. D. Babu is resident of Shastri Nagar in Adyar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/workers-damage-grill-along-adyar-river-bund/article33892493.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Underpass in a bad condition||Motorists have to drive extremely cautiously at this passageway below Kathipara Grade Separator in Alandur. The damaged surface can prove tricky for them. The surface at the underpass is sandy and uneven, raising the possibility of skids for cyclists and motorcyclists. The underpass is located opposite New Street, Alandur, and provides connectivity to K. K. Nagar, Ekkattuthangal and Grand Southern Trunk Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/underpass-in-a-bad-condition/article33892491.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Footpath in Indira Nagar usurped||Footpaths across the city are misused to park vehciles and items belonging to shops, especially by eateries. To cite an example, the footpath in Indira Nagar is usurped by a food cart. No sooner was a footpath laid on First Main Road at Indira Nagar, the food cart took up space there. Can we ever have footpaths only for pedestrians? R. Ashok is a resident of Adyar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/footpath-in-indira-nagar-usurped/article33892495.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Stray dogs menace on the rise’||The number of stray dogs in Perumbakkam is increasing by the day. There have been many complaints of dogs chasing pedestrians and motorcyclists. Hence, I request the Perumbakkam Village Panchayat and Chengalpet District Collectorate to do the needful at the earliest. N. K. Raja is president of Nesamani Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association in Perumbakkam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/stray-dogs-menace-on-the-rise/article33892494.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Readers write about civic issues||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/readers-write-about-civic-issues/article33892480.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||How about a date with seagulls at ECR ?||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/how-about-a-date-with-seagulls-at-ecr/article33892482.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The big boss’s word on the Metro counts||Five kilometers separate Sanjay Chugh’s homestead and cabin. What queers the pitch is that these spaces are in Harrington Road and Teynampet respectively, making the distance longer than it really is. That is, if Sanjay seeks to cover it by road in his sedan during rush hour. When he allows himself to be chauffeured by the Metro, there is some proportion to the distance and the time taken to cover it. So, Sanjay unabashedly promotes the Metro. A big boss, his word is bound to count, and it does, as proved by the growing number of Metro pass holders at ANAROCK Property Consultants Pvt. Ltd., where Sanjay is city head and vice-president. “I have told everyone to use the Metro, because I find it convenient. Some started doing so as an experiment, and have become comfortable with it.” Of course, not all of his team members can follow his example even if they wanted to. “Those who do not live near the Metro Corridor regret it.” Sanjay admits he is fortunate on both counts. His office is next door to the Teynampet Metro station; and his house, just a kilometre from the Pachaiyappa’s College Metro station. “I ride the Metro two to three times a week, mostly in the evenings. Though I have to change a train at Central, it still makes it easier for me to get back home quickly,” says Sanjay, and he cannot help pointing out how during the evening rush hour, his car gets as mobile as the waxworks at Madame Tussad’s while navigating signals en route , particuarly in Nungambakkam. “Sometimes, I leave the car in the office and hop on the Metro. From the Pachaiyappa’s College Metro Station, I just walk it back home. On days when I take the Metro in the morning, I do some work on the go, on my laptop,” he elaborates. As a team, they take the Metro to reach meeting spots. “When we have to go to, say, Anna Nagar for a meeting, we prefer this mode of transport, particularly in the second half of the day, after 5 p.m. or 6 p.m., when the traffic becomes heavy everywhere, at all junctions.” Sanjay points out that his team would benefit immensely when the Metro network has spread hugely across the metropolitan area, as his team does considerable on-the-field work, being in the property business, and Metro rides would help these field trips.  The mid-way switch  K. Ramakrishnan, director and chief operating officer, APA Engineering, sometimes gets himself chaffeur-driven to Alandur, and from that mid-point, travels by the Metro, thereby circumventing spirit-crushing bumper-to-bumper traffic on sections of Jawarharlal Nehru Road. “My office is at MEPZ Tambaram; and I love the Metro for two reasons. One, for the comfort it offers; and two, for sparing me a road trip down the Bypass Road,” says Ramakrishnan Though travelling by the Bypass remains the norm, Ramakrishnan does allow himself a break from the monotony by hopping on the Metro, especially “when I have work in the city, and I have to come this side”. “Many a time, I have asked my driver to drop me at the Alandur Metro Station and go home. I detrain at Anna Nagar and just walk back home, which is located behind Sundaram Medical Foundation. It makes a lot of sense. During such trips back home by the Metro, I reach home earlier than my driver,” laughs Ramakrishnan, and paints a picture of how the hapless driver would be stuck at “this junction and that junction” down Jawaharlal Nehru Road via the congested sections of Ashok Pillar, Vadapalani and Koyambedu. Ramakrishan can detrain either at Anna Nagar Tower Metro Station or Thirumangalam Metro Station. “I do not mind walking. In fact, I used to cycle back home, when the cycle stand was next to my house. Unfortunately, it was removed.” He has a word of praise for the service he encounters at Metro stations. “I do not know what kind of training they underwent. Everyone is ready to help you, telling you where to go, and they wear a smile when they do so.”  I have told everyone to use the Metro, because I find it convenient. Some started doing so as an experiment, and have become comfortable with it Sanjay Chugh    Many a time, I have asked my driver to drop me at the Alandur Metro Station and go home. I detrain at Anna Nagar and just walk back home  K. Ramakrishnan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-big-bosss-word-on-the-metro-counts/article33892518.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Stopping clothes from reaching the landfill||On February 18, Thuli’s Adyar outlet reopened, dusting off an inertia that lasted eleven months. For those who are not aware, Thuli receives gently-used clothes and accessories, repurposes and offers them to the underprivileged, free of cost. “There is always a willingness to give away clothes, but we insist that people offer clothes that are not torn or stained,” says Ajith Kumar, one of the founders of Thuli, a non-profit established in 2018. Thuli runs another outlet at Vadapalani. In Chennai, this form of sustainability seems to be catching on. For over a decade, near Porur, Little Drops, an NGO that takes care of the destitute and the old, runs ‘Trash and Treasure’ where the underprivileged can shop for items ranging from clothes and toys to utility items, all of them collected from donors, at throwaway prices. Rajasthan Cosmo Club Foundation (RCCF) runs two ‘Smile’ stores, one at Nungambakkam and the other at Avadi, both of which opened in the last five months. “We plan to open five more outlets this year,” says Manish Chowdhari, president of RCCF. Located adjacent to the office of the Mylapore MLA at Alwarpet, the goodwill store Danagam has a facility for people to drop their donations. Why run thrift stores? While helping the less fortunate, these stores also promote the sustainable practices of recycling and reusing. “What would have ended in the landfill in five to eight years you give it longer life by refurbishing and getting another person to use,” says Manish. He says in the last six months they have received 1.25 lakh clothes. These are washed, disinfected, ironed and barcoded before it reaches its outlets for people to shop. “A carton of clothes takes two to three months before it finally reaches our stores; those needing minor repair are mended or refurbished to give it a new life,” says Manish. Sorting clothes Not all the clothes that are collected are in good condition. “When we started Thuli only 30 per cent of the clothes received were good; and remaining 70 per cent would not be worth using. Now, we have reversed this to 70:30 by showing people what we stock and with our volunteers at the store who explain to customers the initiative’s objective,” says Ajith, who started Thuli with two friends Shivaji Prabhakar and Jey Bala. The non-profit has actor Vijay Sethupathi as its honorary trustee. At RCCF, seven to eight per cent of the stock is not fit to be reused. “The clothes that we think cannot be reused by a second person are sent to a small unit in Guindy where cloth bags are made by members of the transgender community,” says Manish. Nearly 500 cloth bags are made every month, and the income goes towards supporting those engaged in the project. Upcycling old clothes For some months, Thuli had a visiting faculty from National Institute of Fashion Technology (NIFT) helping them refashion clothes lying at their warehouse. “We make sure shoppers feel good when they shop for clothes from us. Sometimes, finding a good fit for those in the age group of 5 to 15 years is a challenge, so we outsourced it to a unit that would remodel the clothes and sent them back to us,” says Ajith. Little Drops works on a slightly different model, accepting anything from people. “Nothing goes waste at our centre and we add value to the ones that are discarded,” says Edgar Jones Paul, one of the founders of Little Drops. “Torn clothes are used to make doormats, discarded garments are recycled to make adult diapers and fallen trees are used as firewood. Old garden hose, domestic appliance, leftover building material or curtains, we find use for anything” Paul continues: “During the lockdown, many shops had folded up and we added value to their interior works. For instance, we removed the plywood in many of them and made use of them,” says Paul. He says each of these utility items would serve somebody and because of the pricing they get picked up easily. Those working in the area of sustainability points out that any city would gain from this model as it helps reduce the amount of waste going to the landfill and at the same time, fulfils a group’s need. Sustaining the model Little Drops says it earns reasonably well from its store and this income helps it buy medicines for the residents of the home. “Currently, we have 1000 people and some of them are bed-ridden,” says Paul. RCCF looks for spaces where they do not have to incur any expenses toward rent. Thuli is self-funded. Ajith adds, “We are happy with the way we have managed all these years. If at all we need help it is in sorting clothes, which are largely done by some of my employees. We would love to have more people chip in, once in a while.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/stopping-clothes-from-reaching-the-landfill/article33892520.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||This FOB leaves commuters gasping||The new Foot Over Bridge (FOB) connecting platforms one and two at Ambattur railway station is sure to make commuters break into a sweat. That is because the FOB is steep and climbing it is exhausting, especially for senior citizens. There are no ramps, so commuters have no choice but to take a flight of stairs. The facility was built during the lockdown and it is only since the last few months that people have started using it. “It is unfortunate that a new facility has put commuters, especially the disabled, to great hardship. They have to crawl to reach the platforms at the station,” says T. Gunaseelan, a long-time commuter from Ambattur. Of the three platforms at the railway station, one and two cater mainly to users of suburban trains between Arakkonam, Chennai Central and Chennai Beach stations; and platform 3 is for Express trains. The patronage for local trains have increased since December last year.  Every day, on an average, around 260 trips are made by suburban trains on the western rail route between Chennai Central and Arakkonam, which is the last suburban station on the western section of Chennai.  There is another grievance that commuters want addressed. The main ticket counters are located along platform one, so there is more rush on that section. Commuters want the Railway to set up another ticket counter or at least relocate the existing ticket vending machine, now located on platform one, to platform two where all local trains from Arakkonam and Tiruvallur proceed towards Chennai Central. “Steps will be taken to provide ramps for the disabled at the new FOB soon,” says a railway official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/this-fob-leaves-commuters-gasping/article33892506.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||New traffic signal at Maduravoyal junction||A new traffic signal has come up close to Primary Health Care Centre (PHC) around the Maduravoyal junction. The facility near the clover-shaped flyover in Maduravoyal, which connects Chennai Bypass with Poonamallee High (PH) Road, will be of help to regulate traffic on the busy stretch. The intersection where the new traffic signal has been installed was a dangerous traffic spot as the carriageway is narrow in front of the PHC. Large concrete blocks were placed in the middle of the stretch to prevent motorists from running into the incomplete pillars. As a result, pedestrians using the street near the PHC would find themselves at risk for accidents as the movement of vehicles would be continual, especially during rush hour. Motorists would find it difficult to notice walkers from a distance and this would cause accidents after sunset. “The new signal will help road users especially pedestrians. Reflectors and zebra crossing markings are also needed to ensure motorists stop on the designated lines,” says K. Prakash, a motorist from Maduravoyal. Hundreds of motorists use the facility to reach various parts of the city and also the outskirts through arterial roads like GST Road, Grand Northern Trunk (GNT) Road and CTH Road. The flyover remains a key link for container lorries to reach the Chennai port and southern Tamil Nadu from the Kolkata Highway (GNT Road). The Chennai Bypass, which connects Tambaram with Puzhal, a distance of 32 km between the two places, also has to pass through the flyover.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/new-traffic-signal-at-maduravoyal-junction/article33892525.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||New collection pit on Flowers Road to prevent drainage overflow||Drainage overflow in and around Flower Road in Purasawalkam should hopefully be a thing of the past. Chennai Metrowater has started constructing an additional collection pit at the triangular roundtana of Dr. Alagappa Chetty Road and Flowers Road. The sewage collection pit, which will be around 12 feet deep, would help prevent overflow of drainage from the manholes on to Flowers Road, especially during monsoon. Flowers Road is separated from other key stretches such as Ormes Road, Dr. Alagappa Chetty Road, Barnaby Road, Flower’s Road and Millers Road by a small triangular roundtana at the intersection. “Wrong-way driving and drainage overflows from manholes were long-standing problems for many years,” says S. Venkat, a motorist from Kilpauk. Drainage overflow from manholes on Flowers’ Street especially in front of the multi-storey apartment complex has been a long-standing issue in the neighbourhood. Chennai Metrowater would declog the drains whenever complaints were received. But, the problem has to do with the decades-old narrow drainage pipelines that have limited capacity to discharge drainage water of a congested neighbourhood. As a result, the drain on the stretch gets clogged often. “The entire work on the additional collection pit will be completed in a month,” says a Chennai Metrowater official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/new-collection-pit-on-flowers-road-to-prevent-drainage-overflow/article33892526.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Around the country in 70 days by public transport||Twenty-nine-year-old Dheleepan G V from Chennai and 26-year-old Adamsonraj J from Puducherry are chasing a world record, hitching their wagon to buses, trains and the odd flight. “Travel For Tourism”, as they call it, attempts to cover much touristy ground entirely by public transport and following an inked-in itinerary. When their Guinness World Records-approved itinerary is behind them, the duo would have covered a “distance of about 34,500 km across 23 States and 4 Union Territories by 34 trains, 18 buses and 8 flights in 70 days”. This attempt, which will “criss-cross the country thrice north-south and thrice east-west”, seeks to topple the record set by Durga Charan Mishra and Jyotsna Mishra from Odisha. On its website, Guinness World Records mentions Jotsna Mishra and Durga Charan Mishra as holders of the record for “the longest journey by scheduled public transport in a single country” covering 29,119 km (18093.71 miles) across India, from 18th February to 30th March 2018. It adds that they “beat the previous holder by over 12,000 miles”. Both Dheleepan and Adamsonraj are connected closely with the tourism industry, the former as a research scholar, working on his doctoral thesis in “rail tourism” with processes and models adopted by IRCTC as the focal point; and 26-year-old Adamsonraj, who has an MBA in travel and tourism to his name, is focussed on creating a career in tour operations. Their paths crossed at the Pondicherry University due to their academic pursuits. “We applied for the record way back in April 2020, and we got the guidelines. Based on that, we prepared an itinerary that was approved by Guinness,” says Dheleepan. In a communication about this attempt, the duo reports: “Our first bid to Guinness World Records was in 2018 where we proposed to cross the North Temperate Zone in the fastest time by Train. However, our proposal was not accepted since it did not match certain criteria. The following year we applied to break an existing GWR Record titled, ‘Greatest Distance Travelled by Train in 24 Hours’. Though our request was approved, we could not proceed further as the target was revised.” The record-attemping tour was flagged off at Puducherry on February 7 by the Vice-Chancellor of Pondicherry University; and before that, a felicitation function was organised for the duo at the Russian Cultural Centre in Alwarpet by groups that support the initiative. Scattered events over the years and the insights gained from them have encouraged the duo to make public transport central to any Guinness World Record in tourism they would attempt. “I went on tour to Singapore in 2019, a planned family trip, and barring two trips, we used only public transport to get around Singapore, as the entire city was adequately connected by buses and trains. In Chennai, I have been using public transport right from my childhood, because my parents would encourage it. Yet, I had not taken a close look at our public transport systems,” Dheleepan points out. It also took a feedback from a friend from Puducherry for the scales to fall. Dheleepan believes parents should encourage their children to explore and use public transport networks in their areas, an encouragement he received from his own, even while during his schooling at Alpha Matriculation in CIT Nagar, Saidapet. Later, when he would go on to study at Madras Christian College, the suburban rail network would become an integral part of his workaday life. In fact, Dheleepan is a ferroequinologist, and his interest in railway systems stemming from an early age, and his choice of a career was solidified at that point. “I am a rail fan from my childhood, and that is the reason I pursued tourism in my UG and PG studies. I do regular blogging on a number of railway sites, am a member of Indian Railway Fan Club Association; and at India Rail Info, I am an admin,” reveals Dheleepan. Adamsonraj is into backpacking, and at 26, sees himself as a veteran at backpacking, having undertaken many trips. “For my internship in my MBA programme in tourism, “backpacking” was my topic and it took me to Shimla, where I explored untouched areas, backpacking.” Adamsomraj was working in the travel industry when he was laid off in July 2020 due to the pandemic, and as a stop-gap arrangement, he took up employment with a company dealing with publishing and copyright processing work. He points out that before this trip, he quit the job, and after it runs its course, would start focussing again on his career in tour operations. There would be updates on the duo’s travel on Instagram: tripsandtidings and atwww.tripsandtidings.com.  In Chennai, I have been using public transport right from my childhood, because my parents would encourage it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/around-the-country-in-70-days-by-public-transport/article33892514.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Manhole caves in while relaying road||A heavy vehicle that was pressed into service at our road — 2nd Street, Rajan Nagar in Kolathur — for milling, before road-relaying, seems to have done more harm than good. Due to the pressure exerted by the vehicle, the manhole that was already weak caved in further. We raised this issue with Greater Chennai Corporation on February 13 but we are still waiting for a solution. We also raised a complaint through Namma Chennai app but even before solving the issue, they have marked it as “resolved”. There are over 20 houses at this street, which comes under ward 64 of Zone 6, and we are worried about the seepage in the sewer line. Movement of four-wheelers is not allowed due to this issue. We want Metrowater to first fix the sewer line and the Greater Chennai Corporation to take up road work after that. Veeraraghavan R  Kolathur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/manhole-caves-in-while-relaying-road/article33892502.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Fashion designer gives a classy touch to used dresses||When Deepak Panicker, a visiting faculty with National Institute of Fashion Technology in Chennai, learnt about the challenge Thuli faced in maintaining a steady stock of boys’ clothes, he offered help. Children’s clothes make the staple of what Thuli sells, and so he offered to re-fashion these clothes, says Deepak, a fashion designer and educator with a studio of his own. He found a tailoring unit at Kundrathur that was happy to take up the work, with some guidance. Deepak trained them to make optimum use of the second-hand clothes brought to them. “We opened some plus-sized shirts, separating the sleeve, yoke and collar and placed the pattern to transform them into fashionable clothes for young boys,” says Deepak. This way, many extra-large shirts got converted into clothes for boys and t-shirts got redone as shorts. Deepak says as long as the fabric is good, it can be upcycled to make it more fashionable. More than 300 clothes got altered at the tailoring unit to be showcased at the store. “We did this till COVID called a halt to this work,” says Deepak. He knows that not many are keen on taking up the work of cutting old clothes and resizing them, but emphasises that as this initiative promotes sustainability, fashion designers should take it up. “The textile industry is the second largest pollutant and some fabrics pose a greater threat to the environment, so the least we can do is upcycle them,” says Deepak, adding that he is keen on engaging with enterprises and groups for similar projects. For details, email mantizatelier@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/fashion-designer-gives-a-classy-touch-to-used-dresses/article33892523.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Footpath on 10th Main Road in Anna Nagar becomes ‘scrap yard’||Tangedco has dumped many scrap materials on the pavement at 10th Main Road, Anna Nagar. Besides being an eyesore, it prevents the use of the pavements by pedestrians. I request the authorities concerned to take remedial action. S. Pattabiraman 7th Main Road West, Anna Nagar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/footpath-on-10th-main-road-in-anna-nagar-becomes-scrap-yard/article33892499.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Badminton event for women||Sportena Academy is organising a badminton event for women on March 7. Those between 13 and 60 years of age can participate. The top five winners will be honoured with a trophy and a medal each, said a release. Venue: Sathish Sivalingam Stadium, Velammal Annexure Campus, Mel Ayanambakkam. For more details, call 9380869045 / 8778394729||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/badminton-event-for-women/article33892500.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||BAPASI book fair from Feb 24||Booksellers And Publishers Association of South India is organising its 44th edition of Chennai Book Fair 2021 at YMCA in Nandanam from February 24 to March 9. Time: From 11 a.m. to 8p.m. During the fair, the COVID 19 guidelines prescribed by the government will be followed. It includes, providing hand sanitiser and checking temperature of the visitors. To create awareness about the fair, a run will be organised at Elliot’s Beach in Besant Nagar on February 21 at 6 a.m. It will be flagged off by former Commissioner of Police, Greater Chennai, A. K. Viswanathan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/bapasi-book-fair-from-feb-24/article33892503.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||New traffic signal at Maduravoyal junction||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/new-traffic-signal-at-maduravoyal-junction/article33892508.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Stopping clothes from reaching the landfill||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/stopping-clothes-from-reaching-the-landfill/article33892510.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The big boss’s word on the Metro counts||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-big-bosss-word-on-the-metro-counts/article33892512.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Around the country in 70 days by public transport||Twenty-nine-year-old Dheleepan G V from Chennai and 26-year-old Adamsonraj J from Puducherry are chasing a world record, hitching their wagon to buses, trains and the odd flight. “Travel For Tourism”, as they call it, attempts to cover much touristy ground entirely by public transport and following an inked-in itinerary. When their Guinness World Records-approved itinerary is behind them, the duo would have covered a “distance of about 34,500 km across 23 States and 4 Union Territories by 34 trains, 18 buses and 8 flights in 70 days”. This attempt, which will “criss-cross the country thrice north-south and thrice east-west”, seeks to topple the record set by Durga Charan Mishra and Jyotsna Mishra from Odisha. On its website, Guinness World Records mentions Jotsna Mishra and Durga Charan Mishra as holders of the record for “the longest journey by scheduled public transport in a single country” covering 29,119 km (18093.71 miles) across India, from 18th February to 30th March 2018. It adds that they “beat the previous holder by over 12,000 miles”. Both Dheleepan and Adamsonraj are connected closely with the tourism industry, the former as a research scholar, working on his doctoral thesis in “rail tourism” with processes and models adopted by IRCTC as the focal point; and 26-year-old Adamsonraj, who has an MBA in travel and tourism to his name, is focussed on creating a career in tour operations. Their paths crossed at the Pondicherry University due to their academic pursuits. “We applied for the record way back in April 2020, and we got the guidelines. Based on that, we prepared an itinerary that was approved by Guinness,” says Dheleepan. In a communication about this attempt, the duo reports: “Our first bid to Guinness World Records was in 2018 where we proposed to cross the North Temperate Zone in the fastest time by Train. However, our proposal was not accepted since it did not match certain criteria. The following year we applied to break an existing GWR Record titled, ‘Greatest Distance Travelled by Train in 24 Hours’. Though our request was approved, we could not proceed further as the target was revised.” The record-attemping tour was flagged off at Puducherry on February 7 by the Vice-Chancellor of Pondicherry University; and before that, a felicitation function was organised for the duo at the Russian Cultural Centre in Alwarpet by groups that support the initiative. Scattered events over the years and the insights gained from them have encouraged the duo to make public transport central to any Guinness World Record in tourism they would attempt. “I went on tour to Singapore in 2019, a planned family trip, and barring two trips, we used only public transport to get around Singapore, as the entire city was adequately connected by buses and trains. In Chennai, I have been using public transport right from my childhood, because my parents would encourage it. Yet, I had not taken a close look at our public transport systems,” Dheleepan points out. It also took a feedback from a friend from Puducherry for the scales to fall. “When a friend from Puducherry, Hemachandiran R., was in Chennai, I took him by the Metro, the suburban railway and a feeder service to a car service facility he had to visit, and he was impressed with the public transport network he experienced. He had done a semester in France as part of his graduation programme, and he compared the Metro in Chennai to the one in France. That was an eye-opener,” says Dheleepan. Dheleepan believes parents should encourage their children to explore and use public transport networks in their areas, an encouragement he received from his own, even while during his schooling at Alpha Matriculation in CIT Nagar, Saidapet. Later, when he would go on to study at Madras Christian College, the suburban rail network would become an integral part of his workaday life. In fact, Dheleepan is a ferroequinologist, and his interest in railway systems stemming from an early age, and his choice of a career was solidified at that point. “I am a rail fan from my childhood, and that is the reason I pursued tourism in my UG and PG studies. I do regular blogging on a number of railway sites, am a member of Indian Railway Fan Club Association; and at India Rail Info, I am an admin,” reveals Dheleepan. Adamsonraj is into backpacking, and at 26, sees himself as a veteran at backpacking, having undertaken many trips. “For my internship in my MBA programme in tourism, “backpacking” was my topic and it took me to Shimla, where I explored untouched areas, backpacking.” Adamsomraj was working in the travel industry when he was laid off in July 2020 due to the pandemic, and as a stop-gap arrangement, he took up employment with a company dealing with publishing and copyright processing work. He points out that before this trip, he quit the job, and after it runs its course, would start focussing again on his career in tour operations. There would be updates on the duo’s travel on Instagram: tripsandtidings and atwww.tripsandtidings.com.  In Chennai, I have been using public transport right from my childhood, because my parents would encourage it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/around-the-country-in-70-days-by-public-transport/article33892543.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The big boss’s word on the Metro counts||Five kilometers separate Sanjay Chugh’s homestead and cabin. What queers the pitch is that these spaces are in Harrington Road and Teynampet respectively, making the distance longer than it really is. That is, if Sanjay seeks to cover it by road in his sedan during rush hour. When he allows himself to be chauffeured by the Metro, there is some proportion to the distance and the time taken to cover it. So, Sanjay unabashedly promotes the Metro. A big boss, his word is bound to count, and it does, as proved by the growing number of Metro pass holders at ANAROCK Property Consultants Pvt. Ltd., where Sanjay is city head and vice-president. “I have told everyone to use the Metro, because I find it convenient. Some started doing so as an experiment, and have become comfortable with it.” Of course, not all of his team members can follow his example even if they wanted to. “Those who do not live near the Metro Corridor regret it.” Sanjay admits he is fortunate on both counts. His office is next door to the Teynampet Metro station; and his house, just a kilometre from the Pachaiyappa’s College Metro station. “I ride the Metro two to three times a week, mostly in the evenings. Though I have to change a train at Central, it still makes it easier for me to get back home quickly,” says Sanjay, and he cannot help pointing out how during the evening rush hour, his car gets as mobile as the waxworks at Madame Tussad’s while navigating signals en route , particuarly in Nungambakkam. “Sometimes, I leave the car in the office and hop on the Metro. From the Pachaiyappa’s College Metro Station, I just walk it back home. On days when I take the Metro in the morning, I do some work on the go, on my laptop,” he elaborates. As a team, they take the Metro to reach meeting spots. “When we have to go to, say, Anna Nagar for a meeting, we prefer this mode of transport, particularly in the second half of the day, after 5 p.m. or 6 p.m., when the traffic becomes heavy everywhere, at all junctions.” Sanjay points out that his team would benefit immensely when the Metro network has spread hugely across the metropolitan area, as his team does considerable on-the-field work, being in the property business, and Metro rides would help these field trips.  The mid-way switch  K. Ramakrishnan, director and chief operating officer, APA Engineering, sometimes gets himself chaffeur-driven to Alandur, and from that mid-point, travels by the Metro, thereby circumventing spirit-crushing bumper-to-bumper traffic on sections of Jawarharlal Nehru Road. “My office is at MEPZ Tambaram; and I love the Metro for two reasons. One, for the comfort it offers; and two, for sparing me a road trip down the Bypass Road,” says Ramakrishnan Though travelling by the Bypass remains the norm, Ramakrishnan does allow himself a break from the monotony by hopping on the Metro, especially “when I have work in the city, and I have to come this side”. “Many a time, I have asked my driver to drop me at the Alandur Metro Station and go home. I detrain at Anna Nagar and just walk back home, which is located behind Sundaram Medical Foundation. It makes a lot of sense. During such trips back home by the Metro, I reach home earlier than my driver,” laughs Ramakrishnan, and paints a picture of how the hapless driver would be stuck at “this junction and that junction” down Jawaharlal Nehru Road via the congested sections of Ashok Pillar, Vadapalani and Koyambedu. Ramakrishan can detrain either at Anna Nagar Tower Metro Station or Thirumangalam Metro Station. “I do not mind walking. In fact, I used to cycle back home, when the cycle stand was next to my house. Unfortunately, it was removed.” He has a word of praise for the service he encounters at Metro stations. “I do not know what kind of training they underwent. Everyone is ready to help you, telling you where to go, and they wear a smile when they do so.”  I have told everyone to use the Metro, because I find it convenient. Some started doing so as an experiment, and have become comfortable with it Sanjay Chugh    Many a time, I have asked my driver to drop me at the Alandur Metro Station and go home. I detrain at Anna Nagar and just walk back home  K. Ramakrishnan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-big-bosss-word-on-the-metro-counts/article33892531.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||A window to the world||The premise pivotal to Dulkal’s project: Books are a window to the world. Some have no other window to take in the wider world. For some others, the window needs to be fitted in, joisted on a steady supply of free reading material. A voluntary group, Dulkal — which concatenates groups of letters in former Indian president APJ Abdul Kalam’s name — establishes libraries in government schools and in communities “marooned in developmental hinterlands”. The gift of knowledge shared by Dulkal Libraries, as the project is called, smells of cellulose. The team is clear, at least for now, that “only physical books” would make up its libraries. The core team — Karthikeyan Panchanathan, Leela Karthiga, Mini N, Amirtha and Marian Britto, all of them from Chennai — are in the 24-to-29 age group, their mean age at 26. So much for millennial stereotyping about reading, particularly reading the “old way”. “We are working professionals from different fields. I am a marine engineer; Britto is an IT professional; Leela, also an IT professional; Mini is a college professor; and Amritha, a primary school teacher. Our paths crossed while volunteering for different NGOs; together, we started this initiative. We are not friends from school or college or office,” Karthikeyan points out. “There are 150 to 200 volunteers, with Chennai accounting for a major chunk of it. In the rest of Tamil Nadu, many government school teachers volunteer with us.” The founders launched Dulkal one-and-half years ago as “for government school students, beyond academics, the exposure to the outside world was negligent, in fact beginning only after their schooling years.” For an initiative this young, the numbers are impressive, especially because much of the work unfolded against the backdrop of a pandemic. Three full-fledged libraries: At a government high school in Vengaluthur, Kancheepuram district (800 books); a primary school at Anayeri in Thiruvanamalai district (700 books); and a community library “inaugurated only a month ago” at Sathiraithoppu in Thiruvallur district (500 books), “primarily for the benefit of children from an Irular community found in Sathiraithoppu and surrounding villages”. Around 70 mobile libraries: “During the pandemic, these small libraries were run in around 70 villages, including 25 in tribal belts, with around 5,500 books. We started it when government school teachers expressed fears that the children might not return to school, post-pandemic, having to work to shore up their families’ finances. We would send these government school teachers books, which they would get the children to read, and return. In some villages, mobile libraries were kept at residents’ homes; in others, they were operated with pushcarts,” he elaborates. Six street libraries: “Again, during the pandemic, we set up street libraries at six streets in Pirattiyur, a village in Tiruchirappalli, as children from government schools did not have access to learning. We coordinated with the local officials for this work. A street library would be parked at one home in a street, with the volunteer-family keeping the one-rack library outside during the day. No register; children are trusted to take the books, read and return them to the rack,” Karthikeyan further explains. The libraries are composed of Tamil books (85 p.c.) and English books (15 p.c.). “At full-fledged libraries, data is collected rigorously to find out who reads much, and which books are read the most. The monitoring is done with the help of student coordinators. We encourage students to create art out of the books they have read, through storyboards,” says Karthikeyan. The government school or community we established a library because the focal point of continued engagement. “If a government school needs some support, we try to meet it with the help of our network. We conduct programmes for children.” Dulkal runs its libraries by organising book-donation and crowd-funding drives. He explains: “We collect used books, and buy new ones through funds received. To give an example, the ‘mobile libraries’ were organised through a ‘Gift-A-Book’ crowd-funding project. We started a 50 rupee challenge, a book costing Rs. 50. So, donations of Rs. 50 or Rs. 100, Rs. 150 would come in.”  A street library would be parked at one home in a street, with the volunteer-family keeping the one-rack library outside during the day. No register; children are trusted to take the books, read and return them to the rack||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-window-to-the-world/article33892553.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Stopping clothes from reaching the landfill||On February 18, Thuli’s Adyar outlet reopened, dusting off an inertia that lasted eleven months. For those who are not aware, Thuli receives gently-used clothes and accessories, repurposes and offers them to the underprivileged, free of cost. “There is always a willingness to give away clothes, but we insist that people offer clothes that are not torn or stained,” says Ajith Kumar, one of the founders of Thuli, a non-profit established in 2018. Thuli runs another outlet at Vadapalani. In Chennai, this form of sustainability seems to be catching on. For over a decade, near Porur, Little Drops, an NGO that takes care of the destitute and the old, runs ‘Trash and Treasure’ where the underprivileged can shop for items ranging from clothes and toys to utility items, all of them collected from donors, at throwaway prices. Rajasthan Cosmo Club Foundation (RCCF) runs two ‘Smile’ stores, one at Nungambakkam and the other at Avadi, both of which opened in the last five months. “We plan to open five more outlets this year,” says Manish Chowdhari, president of RCCF. Located adjacent to the office of the Mylapore MLA at Alwarpet, the goodwill store Danagam has a facility for people to drop their donations. Why run thrift stores? While helping the less fortunate, these stores also promote the sustainable practices of recycling and reusing. “What would have ended in the landfill in five to eight years you give it longer life by refurbishing and getting another person to use,” says Manish. He says in the last six months they have received 1.25 lakh clothes. These are washed, disinfected, ironed and barcoded before it reaches its outlets for people to shop. “A carton of clothes takes two to three months before it finally reaches our stores; those needing minor repair are mended or refurbished to give it a new life,” says Manish. Sorting clothes Not all the clothes that are collected are in good condition. “When we started Thuli only 30 per cent of the clothes received were good; and remaining 70 per cent would not be worth using. Now, we have reversed this to 70:30 by showing people what we stock and with our volunteers at the store who explain to customers the initiative’s objective,” says Ajith, who started Thuli with two friends Shivaji Prabhakar and Jey Bala. The non-profit has actor Vijay Sethupathi as its honorary trustee. At RCCF, seven to eight per cent of the stock is not fit to be reused. “The clothes that we think cannot be reused by a second person are sent to a small unit in Guindy where cloth bags are made by members of the transgender community,” says Manish. Nearly 500 cloth bags are made every month, and the income goes towards supporting those engaged in the project. Upcycling old clothes For some months, Thuli had a visiting faculty from National Institute of Fashion Technology (NIFT) helping them refashion clothes lying at their warehouse. “We make sure shoppers feel good when they shop for clothes from us. Sometimes, finding a good fit for those in the age group of 5 to 15 years is a challenge, so we outsourced it to a unit that would remodel the clothes and sent them back to us,” says Ajith. Little Drops works on a slightly different model, accepting anything from people. “Nothing goes waste at our centre and we add value to the ones that are discarded,” says Edgar Jones Paul, one of the founders of Little Drops. “Torn clothes are used to make doormats, discarded garments are recycled to make adult diapers and fallen trees are used as firewood. Old garden hose, domestic appliance, leftover building material or curtains, we find use for anything” Paul continues: “During the lockdown, many shops had folded up and we added value to their interior works. For instance, we removed the plywood in many of them and made use of them,” says Paul. He says each of these utility items would serve somebody and because of the pricing they get picked up easily. Those working in the area of sustainability points out that any city would gain from this model as it helps reduce the amount of waste going to the landfill and at the same time, fulfils a group’s need. Sustaining the model Little Drops says it earns reasonably well from its store and this income helps it buy medicines for the residents of the home. “Currently, we have 1000 people and some of them are bed-ridden,” says Paul. RCCF looks for spaces where they do not have to incur any expenses toward rent. Thuli is self-funded. Ajith adds, “We are happy with the way we have managed all these years. If at all we need help it is in sorting clothes, which are largely done by some of my employees. We would love to have more people chip in, once in a while.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/stopping-clothes-from-reaching-the-landfill/article33892544.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||How about a date with seagulls at ECR?||A time-consuming roadtrip need not necessarily have to always precede a date with seagulls. The ‘T-junction’ can be as near as Bessie. Especially, during this phase of the migratory season. “From now to May, when you go down the beach, heading north, you will start seeing them more regularly. You do not have to go to Pulicat, even if you are at Besant Nagar beach, you can the Brown-headed Gull, the Black-headed Gull, the Lesser Black-backed Gull (Heuglin’s Gull), the Pallas’ Gull and Slender-billed Gull. The Brown-headed Gull is common, and others not so common,” says Vikas Madhav Nagarajan, resident of an apartment overlooking the Valmiki Nagar beach. The space cheek by jowl with Bessie — famously called the Adyar Estuary — has the reputation for being seagull pitstop. Sections of the shoreline on East Coast Road hold much promise of seagull sightings. “I always call Mudaliyarkuppam, the ‘southern Pulicat’. There are a lot of similarities. Whatever you get this side you get on that side also. Obviously you will have more at Pulicat, but there are many common stuff. Long-toed Stint, Broad-billed Sandpiper and Lesser Flamingo are known to be sighted in both places. Both areas have the the same species of gulls. No difference,” says Vikas, who reviews bird records on the eBird platform. At Muttukadu, the Brown-headed Gull is known to flock in significant numbers; so is the Hugelin’s Gull. Flocks of gulls are a given. However, if one tended to exaggerate certain minor points of sociability, there can be ranking on this parameter, with the Pallas’ Gull ending up at the bottom. “The Pallas’ Gull does not come in large, but small flocks. In contrast, the Brown-headed Gull and the Lesser Black-backed Gull are hugely flocking birds. I have seen a flock of 400 Hugelin’s at Idayanthittu and Alamparai,” says Vikas. Besides the Heuglin’s Gull, there is another subspecies of the Lesser Black-backed Gull, the Steppe Gull which occurs in these parts, but is hugely on the rarer side. The Brown-headed Gull is known to make inland forays. “There is the chance of sighting the Brown-headed Gull in any of the large freshwater waterbodies inland. The Hueglin’s Gull like beach-type setups, and as you go further south in Tamil Nadu, and reach places like Point Calimere, you will find it in large flocks in isolated patches of mangroves,” elaborates Vikas. In their non-breeding finery, black-headed and the brown-headed gulls will have their respective black and brown hoods reduced to dots behind their eyes. At the fag end of the migratory season, before leaving Chennai for their breeding grounds, some birds slip into their breeding plumage. Ruff with its arresting head-dress is a colourful and extravagant example. The Brown-headed Gull and Black-headed Gull also give a peek into their “dress code” for life away from their wintering grounds. “Around March , they will start transitioning back to their breeding plumage. I have seen beautiful Black-headed Gulls and Brown-headed Gulls in their breeding plumage in April, when most of them would be in their breeding plumage. You have to be in the right place to find them: Pulicat, Alamparai, Mudaliyarkuppam, Idayanthittu and Adyar Estuary.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/how-about-a-date-with-seagulls-at-ecr/article33892546.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||When in doubt, choose the slash||Last week, Sundaravel Palanivelu was in perplexity over a snipe. He was not sure what to call it — common or pintail. Studying the markers from a photo he had clicked of the migratory snipe, he was up against a “six of one and half a dozen of the other” scenario. “Really broad and in front of the eye, the supercilium looks like a pintail’s; the scapulars suggest ‘common’; with a tinge of grey, the cheeks can easily be those of a ‘common’; not long enough, the bill appears to be that of a ‘pintail’; and the coverts suggest pintail,” Sundaravel details his quandary. Snipe watchers cannot dodge such curveballs. Its beak shoved into its back, the bird can descend into a ball-like stillness. Together with its cryptic plumage, this posture can make it “invisible”. And curiously, when it is in clear sight, you cast around for a “name” to describe it. Tough life indeed for Common/ Pintail Snipe watchers. Actually, the answer is out there in that line. Birders can opt for the “slash” and uncomplicate their lives, unless of course they know in their bones they are on sure ground. Ironically, for a birder to be on such a ground, the Common Snipe or Pintail Snipe should have taken off the ground, and be in flight, exposing its underwings. More on this, later. Now, here is how eBird helps birders out of such perplexities. Ashwin Viswanathan of Bird Count India, which offers the eBird platform for birdwatchers to record their species sightings and observations, acknowledges that together, Common Snipe and Pinatail Snipe make it to the list of difficult birds to identify. “In some parts of the country, it is a little clearer. In western and north-western parts, it is almost only Common Snipe. So, the onus is on birders to find a Pintail Snipe. But in the rest of the country, both may occur in almost equal numbers,” says Ashwin. Chennai falls in the rest of the country. “eBird has ways to deal with it, which is to give birders the option of putting ‘Snipe sp’ or ‘Pintail/ Common Snipe’. Based on the area, these options may appear, but not the actual species. Because, sometimes, it is difficult to say which, in the field when you are making a checklist,” he explains. However, when any of these two snipes — common or pintail — is in flight, they offer a peek into what they are. “The moment you see the bird in flight, it is very easy to tell. When they are in flight you can tell from the underwing. The Pintail Snipe has an evenly barred pattern on the underwing, whereas the Common Snipe mostly has a white underwing with some pattern but not evenly-patterned. Much the Common Snipe’s underwing is just white,” explains Ashwin. So, while making a Pintail Snipe entry, many eBirders would be inclined to make the assertion on the basis of the bird seen in flight, with its identity worn on its underwings. “When a Common Snipe is in flight, a white trailing edge to the wings would be visible. That is the easiest thing to notice in the field,” says Ashwin. “There are ways to tell them apart when you get good views while they are sitting also: The pattern of feathers on the coverts. Looking at that pattern and the scapulars, you can tell them apart.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/when-in-doubt-choose-the-slash/article33892548.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Trouble spot||In certain parts of Chennai, rash driving continues as a stubborn problem, seemingly impossible to dislodge. The narrow intersection of P.S. Sivaswamy Salai and Luz Church Road in Mylapore is one such part. Motorists coming from Luz Church Road complaining about how difficult it is not to caught unawares by vehicles zooming in from the narrow P.S. Sivaswamy Salai, is a recurrent theme. A huge volume of vehicular traffic passes through the narrow intersection to many key roads in the vicinity. The intersection is part of what links Mylapore via Luz Church Road with two arterial roads, Cathedral Road and Royapettah High Road. “As many senior citizens take a walk along the intersection on both sides, rash and wrong-way driving can result in accidents,” says V. Jegan, a motorist from Alwarpet. A lone traffic police personnel can be spotted during rush hour near Vivekananda College to regulate traffic and allow students and other pedestrians to cross the road safely. Rash driving, mainly by motorcyclists, seems to be encouraged by the fact that there is not much traffic on the stretch, and by the lack of speed breakers.  Adequate safety measures including speed breakers and reflectors and permanent deployment of traffic police personnel are needed. More importantly, CCTV cameras have to be installed at the narrow intersection which will act as a deterrent against such traffic violations, motorists point out. “Steps will be taken to provide adequate safety measures at the intersection soon,” say police sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/trouble-spot/article33892535.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Readers’ forums seek opening of dailies section at public libraries||It is six months since government libraries reopened following relaxations in COVID-19 lockdown rules. At present, only the lending section at these libraries is functioning, and therefore, regular visitors to government libraries feel crippled by the fact that all other sections — the dailies and magazines section, in particular — are yet to started functioning. Further, they are unhappy about the reduction in visiting hours. “Youngsters preparing for competitive examinations have to read many newspapers and magazines. Some dailies carry special columns for these examinations including question banks and experts’ tips on how to crack the examinations. Likewise, youngsters on the lookout for jobs also rely on newspapers. Further, the section where visitors can bring their own book and read is not yet open. That facility was very useful for aspirants staying in hostels. Hence, it is important that these sections are reopened at the earliest,” says K. Subramani, vice-president, readers circle, Full-Time Branch Library in Thirovottiyur. S. Chitra, who works with underprivileged children, says “I used to make use of the Thirovottiyur library, the children’s section of it, to teach children from poor socio-economic backgrounds, English. But all that is not happening now in spite of relaxations in lockdown. Likewise, a few government libraries in Chennai were offering coaching classes for competitive examinations which was actually benefiting aspirants who cannot afford private academies. Those services should also be resumed at the earliest.” Members of readers’ circles also suggested that libraries should consider the possibility of home delivery of books for the benefit of senior citizens. “While cinema theatres, restaurants and other places of entertainment are allowed to function by complying with standard operating procedures to curb the spread of COVID-19, libraries can very well be allowed to function in totality too,” says S. Krishnan, a readers’ circle member of Full-Time Branch Library at Jawahar Nagar in Kolathur. A senior official from the libraries department requesting anonymity says “We very much understand the requirements of regular visitors to public libraries. The Tamil Nadu government is making the necessary arrangements so that all sections of a library could function without compromising measures to curb the spread of COVID-19. Most probably in a week or two, all sections of the government libraries will start to function.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/readers-forums-seek-opening-of-dailies-section-at-public-libraries/article33892555.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Support for the initiative||In a written communication, Dheleepan G V from Chennai and Adamsonraj J, who are for a record in the category, “the longest journey by scheduled public transport in a single country”, under Guinness World Records, list the organisations that have supported them variously. “Our Record Attempt is supported by various governmental and nongovernmental organisations like India Tourism, Indian Coast Guard, Pondicherry University, BRICS Generation, Youth Hostels Association of India (YHAI) and DAIRIYAM by Prakruthi,” it says. “The Indian Coast Guard has honoured us by handing over their Flag at a felicitation function organised by BRICS Generation and DHAIRIYAM by Prakruthi in association with the Russian Cultural Centre, Chennai and IRCURF. We will be carrying the flag throughout our trip and create awareness about the Indian Coast Guard,” the communication adds. “During the course of our attempt we will be promoting the ‘Dekho Apna Desh’ initiative by the Ministry of Tourism, Government of India,” they add. Dheleepan points out that the the south, west & central zones of India Tourism is taking care of the hospitality part of the duo’s trip in areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/support-for-the-initiative/article33892541.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Session on well-being||Durai Pandi, a yoga practitioner, will conduct a session on ‘Breathe and Heal’ on February 27 at Mind Cafe, Bells Road. The session will involve asanas to deal with back pain, shoulder pain and promote overall flexibility, along with guided meditation for stress relief, insomnia and mental well-being, says a release. The fee for the session is Rs. 250. To register, call 9150727744||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/session-on-well-being/article33892528.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Relocate the halting point’||I request the Metropolitan Transport Corporation to take steps to relocate the halting point at Parry’s junction. The designated stop where Route numbers 4, 6D and 44C stop is found at the intersection of NSC Bose Road and Rajaji Salai. Before the signal turns red, the MTC crew can be seen hurrying commuters to alight or board the buses. Some commuters are seen standing on the kerb of the median at the intersection. They face the risk of being knocked down by speeding motorists. There is ample space for the creation of a bus shelter facility near the High Court and RBI Subway. A. Vijay Parrys||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/relocate-the-halting-point/article33892530.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Veggies store comes up at Semmozhi Poonga||Visitors to Semmozhi Poonga park on Cathedral Road in Teynampet will be in for a pleasant surprise — the park has a new attraction. Tamil Nadu Horticulture Development Agency (TANHODA) has set up a vegetable and fruits store at the park. Called Thottakalai Sales Centre, the spacious facility was inaugurated on February 13 by the Director of Horticulture and Plantation Crops, Subbaiyan N. According to K. Ramesh Kumar, Assistant Horticulture Officer, the aim of creating this store is to have an outlet that would sell all products of TANHODA. “We are sourcing vegetables and fruits from various districts of Tamil Nadu. This includes pineapples from Pechipparai; apples and garlic from Kodaikanal; shallots from Madurai and Tirunelveli; bananas from Tiruchirapalli; pepper from Namakkal; turmeric from Erode; brinjal and lady’s finger from Kancheepuram and Thiruvallur; and pumpkins from Chenglepet. We are directly sourcing them from farmers,” says the Assistant Horticulture Officer. Further, chocolates from TANHODA’s unit in Madhavaram; pickles and jams from Coonor and millets and millets-based snacks from Erode are available. Besides, bouquets, saplings, and seeds are sold. “The fruits and vegetables are fresh. It has the potential to receive good patronage from residents living nearby,” says Manjula Sampath, a resident of Gopalapuram. The store is open on all days from 7.30 a.m. to 8 p.m. For details, call 9444526362.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/veggies-store-comes-up-at-semmozhi-poonga/article33892536.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Fashion designer gives a classy touch to used dresses||When Deepak Panicker, a visiting faculty with National Institute of Fashion Technology in Chennai, learnt about the challenge Thuli faced in maintaining a steady stock of boys’ clothes, he offered help. Children’s clothes make the staple of what Thuli sells, and so he offered to re-fashion these clothes, says Deepak, a fashion designer and educator with a studio of his own. He found a tailoring unit at Kundrathur that was happy to take up the work, with some guidance. Deepak trained them to make optimum use of the second-hand clothes brought to them. “We opened some plus-sized shirts, separating the sleeve, yoke and collar and placed the pattern to transform them into fashionable clothes for young boys,” says Deepak. This way, many extra-large shirts got converted into clothes for boys and t-shirts got redone as shorts. Deepak says as long as the fabric is good, it can be upcycled to make it more fashionable. More than 300 clothes got altered at the tailoring unit to be showcased at the store. “We did this till COVID called a halt to this work,” says Deepak. He knows that not many are keen on taking up the work of cutting old clothes and resizing them, but emphasises that as this initiative promotes sustainability, fashion designers should take it up. “The textile industry is the second largest pollutant and some fabrics pose a greater threat to the environment, so the least we can do is upcycle them,” says Deepak, adding that he is keen on engaging with enterprises and groups for similar projects. For details, email mantizatelier@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/fashion-designer-gives-a-classy-touch-to-used-dresses/article33892545.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Free bus pass tokens for senior citizens||MTC has restarted the distribution of free bus pass tokens for senior citizens. Senior citizens, who have identity cards issued by the MTC, can apply for these tokens. Those who want to apply for new identity cards can do so by submitting the requisite documents at any nearby bus terminus. Forms can also be downloaded fromwww.mtcbus.tn.gov.in.  The tokens are month-specific and cannot be used the next month, if the beneficiary fails to use them. The tokens can be used across bus services, excluding air-conditioned bus services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/free-bus-pass-tokens-for-senior-citizens/article33892527.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||BAPASI book fair from February 24 onwards||Booksellers And Publishers Association of South India is organising its 44th edition of Chennai Book Fair 2021 at YMCA in Nandanam from February 24 to March 9. Time: From 11 a.m. to 8p.m. During the fair, COVID-19 guidelines prescribed by the government will be followed. It includes providing hand sanitisers and checking the temperature of visitors. To create awareness about the fair, a run will be organised at Elliot’s Beach in Besant Nagar on February 21 at 6 a.m. It will be flagged off by former Commissioner of Police, Greater Chennai, A. K. Viswanathan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/bapasi-book-fair-from-february-24-onwards/article33892529.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Build a vehicular subway at Korukkupet’||Southern Railway should build a vehicular subway at Level Crossing 2, connecting Kannan Street and Thiagappa Chetty Street in Korukkupet. The LC 2 is located at Korukkupet railway terminal. In the absence of a subway, motorists and pedestrians put their lives in jeopardy, crossing the level crossing even after the barrier gates have come down. Recently, an elderly woman tried to cross the tracks even an approaching electrical multiple unit from Basin Bridge was dangerously close. A Railway Protection Force Personnel deployed at the level-crossing ran dragged her to safety. He advised her and even tried to stop the public from negotiating through the crossing after the barrier gates are down, but who is listening? N. Mahendran Korukkupet||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/build-a-vehicular-subway-at-korukkupet/article33892532.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer writer||Dear readers, write to us about civic issues in your neighbourhood to downtownfeedback @thehind.co.in Letter should carry name, phone number and postal address||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/you-can-be-our-volunteer-writer/article33892533.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||A window to the world||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-window-to-the-world/article33892538.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Around the country in 70 days by public transport||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/around-the-country-in-70-days-by-public-transport/article33892540.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Around the country in 70 days by public transport||Twenty-nine-year-old Dheleepan G V from Chennai and 26-year-old Adamsonraj J from Puducherry are chasing a world record, hitching their wagon to buses, trains and the odd flight. “Travel For Tourism”, as they call it, attempts to cover much touristy ground entirely by public transport and following an inked-in itinerary. When their Guinness World Records-approved itinerary is behind them, the duo would have covered a “distance of about 34,500 km across 23 States and 4 Union Territories by 34 trains, 18 buses and 8 flights in 70 days”. This attempt, which will “criss-cross the country thrice north-south and thrice east-west”, seeks to topple the record set by Durga Charan Mishra and Jyotsna Mishra from Odisha. On its website, Guinness World Records mentions Jotsna Mishra and Durga Charan Mishra as holders of the record for “the longest journey by scheduled public transport in a single country” covering 29,119 km (18093.71 miles) across India, from 18th February to 30th March 2018. It adds that they “beat the previous holder by over 12,000 miles”. Both Dheleepan and Adamsonraj are connected closely with the tourism industry, the former as a research scholar, working on his doctoral thesis in “rail tourism” with processes and models adopted by IRCTC as the focal point; and 26-year-old Adamsonraj, who has an MBA in travel and tourism to his name, is focussed on creating a career in tour operations. Their paths crossed at the Pondicherry University due to their academic pursuits. “We applied for the record way back in April 2020, and we got the guidelines. Based on that, we prepared an itinerary that was approved by Guinness,” says Dheleepan. In a communication about this attempt, the duo reports: “Our first bid to Guinness World Records was in 2018 where we proposed to cross the North Temperate Zone in the fastest time by Train. However, our proposal was not accepted since it did not match certain criteria. The following year we applied to break an existing GWR Record titled, ‘Greatest Distance Travelled by Train in 24 Hours’. Though our request was approved, we could not proceed further as the target was revised.” The record-attemping tour was flagged off at Puducherry on February 7 by the Vice-Chancellor of Pondicherry University; and before that, a felicitation function was organised for the duo at the Russian Cultural Centre in Alwarpet by groups that support the initiative. Scattered events over the years and the insights gained from them have encouraged the duo to make public transport central to any Guinness World Record in tourism they would attempt. “I went on tour to Singapore in 2019, a planned family trip, and barring two trips, we used only public transport to get around Singapore, as the entire city was adequately connected by buses and trains. In Chennai, I have been using public transport right from my childhood, because my parents would encourage it. Yet, I had not taken a close look at our public transport systems,” Dheleepan points out. It also took a feedback from a friend from Puducherry for the scales to fall. “When a friend from Puducherry, Hemachandiran R., was in Chennai, I took him by the Metro, the suburban railway and a feeder service to a car service facility he had to visit, and he was impressed with the public transport network he experienced. He had done a semester in France as part of his graduation programme, and he compared the Metro in Chennai to the one in France. That was an eye-opener,” says Dheleepan. Dheleepan believes parents should encourage their children to explore and use public transport networks in their areas, an encouragement he received from his own, even while during his schooling at Alpha Matriculation in CIT Nagar, Saidapet. Later, when he would go on to study at Madras Christian College, the suburban rail network would become an integral part of his workaday life. In fact, Dheleepan is a ferroequinologist, and his interest in railway systems stemming from an early age, and his choice of a career was solidified at that point. “I am a rail fan from my childhood, and that is the reason I pursued tourism in my UG and PG studies. I do regular blogging on a number of railway sites, am a member of Indian Railway Fan Club Association; and at India Rail Info, I am an admin,” reveals Dheleepan. Adamsonraj is into backpacking, and at 26, sees himself as a veteran at backpacking, having undertaken many trips. “For my internship in my MBA programme in tourism, “backpacking” was my topic and it took me to Shimla, where I explored untouched areas, backpacking.” Adamsomraj was working in the travel industry when he was laid off in July 2020 due to the pandemic, and as a stop-gap arrangement, he took up employment with a company dealing with publishing and copyright processing work. He points out that before this trip, he quit the job, and after it runs its course, would start focussing again on his career in tour operations. There would be updates on the duo’s travel on Instagram: tripsandtidings and atwww.tripsandtidings.com.  In Chennai, I have been using public transport right from my childhood, because my parents would encourage it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/around-the-country-in-70-days-by-public-transport/article33892590.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The big boss’s word on the Metro counts||Five kilometers separate Sanjay Chugh’s homestead and cabin. What queers the pitch is that these spaces are in Harrington Road and Teynampet respectively, making the distance longer than it really is. That is, if Sanjay seeks to cover it by road in his sedan during rush hour. When he allows himself to be chauffeured by the Metro, there is some proportion to the distance and the time taken to cover it. So, Sanjay unabashedly promotes the Metro. A big boss, his word is bound to count, and it does, as proved by the growing number of Metro pass holders at ANAROCK Property Consultants Pvt. Ltd., where Sanjay is city head and vice-president. “I have told everyone to use the Metro, because I find it convenient. Some started doing so as an experiment, and have become comfortable with it.” Of course, not all of his team members can follow his example even if they wanted to. “Those who do not live near the Metro Corridor regret it.” Sanjay admits he is fortunate on both counts. His office is next door to the Teynampet Metro station; and his house, just a kilometre from the Pachaiyappa’s College Metro station. “I ride the Metro two to three times a week, mostly in the evenings. Though I have to change a train at Central, it still makes it easier for me to get back home quickly,” says Sanjay, and he cannot help pointing out how during the evening rush hour, his car gets as mobile as the waxworks at Madame Tussad’s while navigating signals en route , particuarly in Nungambakkam. “Sometimes, I leave the car in the office and hop on the Metro. From the Pachaiyappa’s College Metro Station, I just walk it back home. On days when I take the Metro in the morning, I do some work on the go, on my laptop,” he elaborates. As a team, they take the Metro to reach meeting spots. “When we have to go to, say, Anna Nagar for a meeting, we prefer this mode of transport, particularly in the second half of the day, after 5 p.m. or 6 p.m., when the traffic becomes heavy everywhere, at all junctions.” Sanjay points out that his team would benefit immensely when the Metro network has spread hugely across the metropolitan area, as his team does considerable on-the-field work, being in the property business, and Metro rides would help these field trips.  The mid-way switch  K. Ramakrishnan, director and chief operating officer, APA Engineering, sometimes gets himself chaffeur-driven to Alandur, and from that mid-point, travels by the Metro, thereby circumventing spirit-crushing bumper-to-bumper traffic on sections of Jawarharlal Nehru Road. “My office is at MEPZ Tambaram; and I love the Metro for two reasons. One, for the comfort it offers; and two, for sparing me a road trip down the Bypass Road,” says Ramakrishnan Though travelling by the Bypass remains the norm, Ramakrishnan does allow himself a break from the monotony by hopping on the Metro, especially “when I have work in the city, and I have to come this side”. “Many a time, I have asked my driver to drop me at the Alandur Metro Station and go home. I detrain at Anna Nagar and just walk back home, which is located behind Sundaram Medical Foundation. It makes a lot of sense. During such trips back home by the Metro, I reach home earlier than my driver,” laughs Ramakrishnan, and paints a picture of how the hapless driver would be stuck at “this junction and that junction” down Jawaharlal Nehru Road via the congested sections of Ashok Pillar, Vadapalani and Koyambedu. Ramakrishan can detrain either at Anna Nagar Tower Metro Station or Thirumangalam Metro Station. “I do not mind walking. In fact, I used to cycle back home, when the cycle stand was next to my house. Unfortunately, it was removed.” He has a word of praise for the service he encounters at Metro stations. “I do not know what kind of training they underwent. Everyone is ready to help you, telling you where to go, and they wear a smile when they do so.”  I have told everyone to use the Metro, because I find it convenient. Some started doing so as an experiment, and have become comfortable with it Sanjay Chugh    Many a time, I have asked my driver to drop me at the Alandur Metro Station and go home. I detrain at Anna Nagar and just walk back home  K. Ramakrishnan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-big-bosss-word-on-the-metro-counts/article33892571.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Stopping clothes from reaching the landfill||On February 18, Thuli’s Adyar outlet reopened, dusting off an inertia that lasted eleven months. For those who are not aware, Thuli receives gently-used clothes and accessories, repurposes and offers them to the underprivileged, free of cost. “There is always a willingness to give away clothes, but we insist that people offer clothes that are not torn or stained,” says Ajith Kumar, one of the founders of Thuli, a non-profit established in 2018. Thuli runs another outlet at Vadapalani. In Chennai, this form of sustainability seems to be catching on. For over a decade, near Porur, Little Drops, an NGO that takes care of the destitute and the old, runs ‘Trash and Treasure’ where the underprivileged can shop for items ranging from clothes and toys to utility items, all of them collected from donors, at throwaway prices. Rajasthan Cosmo Club Foundation (RCCF) runs two ‘Smile’ stores, one at Nungambakkam and the other at Avadi, both of which opened in the last five months. “We plan to open five more outlets this year,” says Manish Chowdhari, president of RCCF. Located adjacent to the office of the Mylapore MLA at Alwarpet, the goodwill store Danagam has a facility for people to drop their donations. Why run thrift stores? While helping the less fortunate, these stores also promote the sustainable practices of recycling and reusing. “What would have ended in the landfill in five to eight years you give it longer life by refurbishing and getting another person to use,” says Manish. He says in the last six months they have received 1.25 lakh clothes. These are washed, disinfected, ironed and barcoded before it reaches its outlets for people to shop. “A carton of clothes takes two to three months before it finally reaches our stores; those needing minor repair are mended or refurbished to give it a new life,” says Manish. Sorting clothes Not all the clothes that are collected are in good condition. “When we started Thuli only 30 per cent of the clothes received were good; and remaining 70 per cent would not be worth using. Now, we have reversed this to 70:30 by showing people what we stock and with our volunteers at the store who explain to customers the initiative’s objective,” says Ajith, who started Thuli with two friends Shivaji Prabhakar and Jey Bala. The non-profit has actor Vijay Sethupathi as its honorary trustee. At RCCF, seven to eight per cent of the stock is not fit to be reused. “The clothes that we think cannot be reused by a second person are sent to a small unit in Guindy where cloth bags are made by members of the transgender community,” says Manish. Nearly 500 cloth bags are made every month, and the income goes towards supporting those engaged in the project. Upcycling old clothes For some months, Thuli had a visiting faculty from National Institute of Fashion Technology (NIFT) helping them refashion clothes lying at their warehouse. “We make sure shoppers feel good when they shop for clothes from us. Sometimes, finding a good fit for those in the age group of 5 to 15 years is a challenge, so we outsourced it to a unit that would remodel the clothes and sent them back to us,” says Ajith. Little Drops works on a slightly different model, accepting anything from people. “Nothing goes waste at our centre and we add value to the ones that are discarded,” says Edgar Jones Paul, one of the founders of Little Drops. “Torn clothes are used to make doormats, discarded garments are recycled to make adult diapers and fallen trees are used as firewood. Old garden hose, domestic appliance, leftover building material or curtains, we find use for anything” Paul continues: “During the lockdown, many shops had folded up and we added value to their interior works. For instance, we removed the plywood in many of them and made use of them,” says Paul. He says each of these utility items would serve somebody and because of the pricing they get picked up easily. Those working in the area of sustainability points out that any city would gain from this model as it helps reduce the amount of waste going to the landfill and at the same time, fulfils a group’s need. Sustaining the model Little Drops says it earns reasonably well from its store and this income helps it buy medicines for the residents of the home. “Currently, we have 1000 people and some of them are bed-ridden,” says Paul. RCCF looks for spaces where they do not have to incur any expenses toward rent. Thuli is self-funded. Ajith adds, “We are happy with the way we have managed all these years. If at all we need help it is in sorting clothes, which are largely done by some of my employees. We would love to have more people chip in, once in a while.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/stopping-clothes-from-reaching-the-landfill/article33892591.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||A window to the world||The premise pivotal to Dulkal’s project: Books are a window to the world. Some have no other window to take in the wider world. For some others, the window needs to be fitted in, joisted on a steady supply of free reading material. A voluntary group, Dulkal — which concatenates groups of letters in former Indian president APJ Abdul Kalam’s name — establishes libraries in government schools and in communities “marooned in developmental hinterlands”. The gift of knowledge shared by Dulkal Libraries, as the project is called, smells of cellulose. The team is clear, at least for now, that “only physical books” would make up its libraries. The core team — Karthikeyan Panchanathan, Leela Karthiga, Mini N, Amirtha and Marian Britto, all of them from Chennai — are in the 24-to-29 age group, their mean age at 26. So much for millennial stereotyping about reading, particularly reading the “old way”. “We are working professionals from different fields. I am a marine engineer; Britto is an IT professional; Leela, also an IT professional; Mini is a college professor; and Amritha, a primary school teacher. Our paths crossed while volunteering for different NGOs; together, we started this initiative. We are not friends from school or college or office,” Karthikeyan points out. “There are 150 to 200 volunteers, with Chennai accounting for a major chunk of it. In the rest of Tamil Nadu, many government school teachers volunteer with us.” The founders launched Dulkal one-and-half years ago as “for government school students, beyond academics, the exposure to the outside world was negligent, in fact beginning only after their schooling years.” For an initiative this young, the numbers are impressive, especially because much of the work unfolded against the backdrop of a pandemic. Three full-fledged libraries: At a government high school in Vengaluthur, Kancheepuram district (800 books); a primary school at Anayeri in Thiruvanamalai district (700 books); and a community library “inaugurated only a month ago” at Sathiraithoppu in Thiruvallur district (500 books), “primarily for the benefit of children from an Irular community found in Sathiraithoppu and surrounding villages”. Around 70 mobile libraries: “During the pandemic, these small libraries were run in around 70 villages, including 25 in tribal belts, with around 5,500 books. We started it when government school teachers expressed fears that the children might not return to school, post-pandemic, having to work to shore up their families’ finances. We would send these government school teachers books, which they would get the children to read, and return. In some villages, mobile libraries were kept at residents’ homes; in others, they were operated with pushcarts,” he elaborates. Six street libraries: “Again, during the pandemic, we set up street libraries at six streets in Pirattiyur, a village in Tiruchirappalli, as children from government schools did not have access to learning. We coordinated with the local officials for this work. A street library would be parked at one home in a street, with the volunteer-family keeping the one-rack library outside during the day. No register; children are trusted to take the books, read and return them to the rack,” Karthikeyan further explains. The libraries are composed of Tamil books (85 p.c.) and English books (15 p.c.). “At full-fledged libraries, data is collected rigorously to find out who reads much, and which books are read the most. The monitoring is done with the help of student coordinators. We encourage students to create art out of the books they have read, through storyboards,” says Karthikeyan. The government school or community we established a library because the focal point of continued engagement. “If a government school needs some support, we try to meet it with the help of our network. We conduct programmes for children.” Dulkal runs its libraries by organising book-donation and crowd-funding drives. He explains: “We collect used books, and buy new ones through funds received. To give an example, the ‘mobile libraries’ were organised through a ‘Gift-A-Book’ crowd-funding project. We started a 50 rupee challenge, a book costing Rs. 50. So, donations of Rs. 50 or Rs. 100, Rs. 150 would come in.”  A street library would be parked at one home in a street, with the volunteer-family keeping the one-rack library outside during the day. No register; children are trusted to take the books, read and return them to the rack||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-window-to-the-world/article33892595.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||How about a date with seagulls at ECR?||A time-consuming roadtrip need not necessarily have to always precede a date with seagulls. The ‘T-junction’ can be as near as Bessie. Especially, during this phase of the migratory season. “From now to May, when you go down the beach, heading north, you will start seeing them more regularly. You do not have to go to Pulicat, even if you are at Besant Nagar beach, you can the Brown-headed Gull, the Black-headed Gull, the Lesser Black-backed Gull (Heuglin’s Gull), the Pallas’ Gull and Slender-billed Gull. The Brown-headed Gull is common, and others not so common,” says Vikas Madhav Nagarajan, resident of an apartment overlooking the Valmiki Nagar beach. The space cheek by jowl with Bessie — famously called the Adyar Estuary — has the reputation for being seagull pitstop. Sections of the shoreline on East Coast Road hold much promise of seagull sightings. “I always call Mudaliyarkuppam, the ‘southern Pulicat’. There are a lot of similarities. Whatever you get this side you get on that side also. Obviously you will have more at Pulicat, but there are many common stuff. Long-toed Stint, Broad-billed Sandpiper and Lesser Flamingo are known to be sighted in both places. Both areas have the the same species of gulls. No difference,” says Vikas, who reviews bird records on the eBird platform. At Muttukadu, the Brown-headed Gull is known to flock in significant numbers; so is the Hugelin’s Gull. Flocks of gulls are a given. However, if one tended to exaggerate certain minor points of sociability, there can be ranking on this parameter, with the Pallas’ Gull ending up at the bottom. “The Pallas’ Gull does not come in large, but small flocks. In contrast, the Brown-headed Gull and the Lesser Black-backed Gull are hugely flocking birds. I have seen a flock of 400 Hugelin’s at Idayanthittu and Alamparai,” says Vikas. Besides the Heuglin’s Gull, there is another subspecies of the Lesser Black-backed Gull, the Steppe Gull which occurs in these parts, but is hugely on the rarer side. The Brown-headed Gull is known to make inland forays. “There is the chance of sighting the Brown-headed Gull in any of the large freshwater waterbodies inland. The Hueglin’s Gull like beach-type setups, and as you go further south in Tamil Nadu, and reach places like Point Calimere, you will find it in large flocks in isolated patches of mangroves,” elaborates Vikas. In their non-breeding finery, black-headed and the brown-headed gulls will have their respective black and brown hoods reduced to dots behind their eyes. At the fag end of the migratory season, before leaving Chennai for their breeding grounds, some birds slip into their breeding plumage. Ruff with its arresting head-dress is a colourful and extravagant example. The Brown-headed Gull and Black-headed Gull also give a peek into their “dress code” for life away from their wintering grounds. “Around March , they will start transitioning back to their breeding plumage. I have seen beautiful Black-headed Gulls and Brown-headed Gulls in their breeding plumage in April, when most of them would be in their breeding plumage. You have to be in the right place to find them: Pulicat, Alamparai, Mudaliyarkuppam, Idayanthittu and Adyar Estuary.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/how-about-a-date-with-seagulls-at-ecr/article33892593.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||When in doubt, choose the slash||Last week, Sundaravel Palanivelu was in perplexity over a snipe. He was not sure what to call it — common or pintail. Studying the markers from a photo he had clicked of the migratory snipe, he was up against a “six of one and half a dozen of the other” scenario. “Really broad and in front of the eye, the supercilium looks like a pintail’s; the scapulars suggest ‘common’; with a tinge of grey, the cheeks can easily be those of a ‘common’; not long enough, the bill appears to be that of a ‘pintail’; and the coverts suggest pintail,” Sundaravel details his quandary. Snipe watchers cannot dodge such curveballs. Its beak shoved into its back, the bird can descend into a ball-like stillness. Together with its cryptic plumage, this posture can make it “invisible”. And curiously, when it is in clear sight, you cast around for a “name” to describe it. Tough life indeed for Common/ Pintail Snipe watchers. Actually, the answer is out there in that line. Birders can opt for the “slash” and uncomplicate their lives, unless of course they know in their bones they are on sure ground. Ironically, for a birder to be on such a ground, the Common Snipe or Pintail Snipe should have taken off the ground, and be in flight, exposing its underwings. More on this, later. Now, here is how eBird helps birders out of such perplexities. Ashwin Viswanathan of Bird Count India, which offers the eBird platform for birdwatchers to record their species sightings and observations, acknowledges that together, Common Snipe and Pinatail Snipe make it to the list of difficult birds to identify. “In some parts of the country, it is a little clearer. In western and north-western parts, it is almost only Common Snipe. So, the onus is on birders to find a Pintail Snipe. But in the rest of the country, both may occur in almost equal numbers,” says Ashwin. Chennai falls in the rest of the country. “eBird has ways to deal with it, which is to give birders the option of putting ‘Snipe sp’ or ‘Pintail/ Common Snipe’. Based on the area, these options may appear, but not the actual species. Because, sometimes, it is difficult to say which, in the field when you are making a checklist,” he explains. However, when any of these two snipes — common or pintail — is in flight, they offer a peek into what they are. “The moment you see the bird in flight, it is very easy to tell. When they are in flight you can tell from the underwing. The Pintail Snipe has an evenly barred pattern on the underwing, whereas the Common Snipe mostly has a white underwing with some pattern but not evenly-patterned. Much the Common Snipe’s underwing is just white,” explains Ashwin. So, while making a Pintail Snipe entry, many eBirders would be inclined to make the assertion on the basis of the bird seen in flight, with its identity worn on its underwings. “When a Common Snipe is in flight, a white trailing edge to the wings would be visible. That is the easiest thing to notice in the field,” says Ashwin. “There are ways to tell them apart when you get good views while they are sitting also: The pattern of feathers on the coverts. Looking at that pattern and the scapulars, you can tell them apart.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/when-in-doubt-choose-the-slash/article33892594.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Section of South Usman Road ignored||Though more than six months have gone by since work on widening a stormwater drain was completed on South Usman Road, the dug-up section of the road still waits for a road-relaying exercise. The work was carried out on the side of the road where traffic movement is towards Kodambakkam, and which registers traffic volume higher than the other side does. It witnesses an unrelentingly continuous flow of traffic because it provides access to Duraiswamy subway. “The damaged portion of the road has to be relaid at the earliest to ensure motorists’ safety. The surface, as it is now, can cause motorcycle skids,” says K. Sekar, a resident of Kodambakkam. Residents of the locality have pointed out that the section of South Usman Road that is between its intersection with the Duraiswamy subway and the North Usman Road up to Bazullah Road (near Vivek & Co outlet) is narrow and therefore motorists coming from the nearby flyover find it difficult to negotiate the carriageway. Further, the flyover needs attention as it has potholes at many spots. “Steps will be taken to relay the damaged portion of the road at the earliest,” says a Corporation official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/section-of-south-usman-road-ignored/article33892567.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Veggies store comes up at Semmozhi Poonga||Visitors to Semmozhi Poonga park on Cathedral Road in Teynampet will be in for a pleasant surprise — the park has a new attraction. Tamil Nadu Horticulture Development Agency (TANHODA) has set up a vegetable and fruits store at the park. Called Thottakalai Sales Centre, the spacious facility was inaugurated on February 13 by the Director of Horticulture and Plantation Crops, Subbaiyan N. According to K. Ramesh Kumar, Assistant Horticulture Officer, the aim of creating this store is to have an outlet that would sell all products of TANHODA. “We are sourcing vegetables and fruits from various districts of Tamil Nadu. This includes pineapples from Pechipparai; apples and garlic from Kodaikanal; shallots from Madurai and Tirunelveli; bananas from Tiruchirapalli; pepper from Namakkal; turmeric from Erode; brinjal and lady’s finger from Kancheepuram and Thiruvallur; and pumpkins from Chenglepet. We are directly sourcing them from farmers,” says the Assistant Horticulture Officer. Further, chocolates from TANHODA’s unit in Madhavaram; pickles and jams from Coonor and millets and millets-based snacks from Erode are available. Besides, bouquets, saplings, and seeds are sold. “The fruits and vegetables are fresh. It has the potential to receive good patronage from residents living nearby,” says Manjula Sampath, a resident of Gopalapuram. The store is open on all days from 7.30 a.m. to 8 p.m. For details, call 9444526362.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/veggies-store-comes-up-at-semmozhi-poonga/article33892582.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||A street in Vadapalani where the bins never go empty||With relaxations in COVID-19 lockdown, old problems have returned to haunt residents of Nerkundram Pathai in Vadapalani. According to residents, the bins opposite a Tasmac outlet were empty during the lockdown and the whole street — Nerkundram Pathai — was refreshingly litter-free. Not anymore. The Tasmac outlet located near the intersection of Nerkundram Pathai and Jawaharlal Nehru Main Road is extremely busy, and in addition to being the cause of traffic chaos during evening hours, it also contributes hugely to the contents in the waste bins. The waste bins not being cleared every day, stray dogs often swarm around them, say residents. “Waste pile-ups can be found around these bins,” says S. Pavan, a resident of Vadapalani. Before outlet came up on the street, it would take three days for the bins to be filled up. But now, these bins are overflowing just a few hours after conservancy workers clear them, say residents. A Corporation official says, “Steps will be taken to clear the bins every day and, if required, more bins will be placed on this section.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-street-in-vadapalani-where-the-bins-never-go-empty/article33892573.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Kudos to State Highways||The footpath work in front of Gandhi Mandapam on Sardar Patel Road in Guindy deserves appreciation. It shows that the State Highways Department which carried out the work was thoughtful about the tree. I noticed the same on the entire stretch of the road. The slabs on the footpath around trees have provisions for water percolation. Such care should be taken while laying footpaths across the State. Sundari Gandhi is a resident of Poonamallee||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/kudos-to-state-highways/article33892586.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Readers’ forums seek opening of dailies section at public libraries||It is six months since government libraries reopened following relaxations in COVID-19 lockdown rules. At present, only the lending section at these libraries is functioning, and therefore, regular visitors to government libraries feel crippled by the fact that all other sections — the dailies and magazines section, in particular — are yet to started functioning. Further, they are unhappy about the reduction in visiting hours. “Youngsters preparing for competitive examinations have to read many newspapers and magazines. Some dailies carry special columns for these examinations including question banks and experts’ tips on how to crack the examinations. Likewise, youngsters on the lookout for jobs also rely on newspapers. Further, the section where visitors can bring their own book and read is not yet open. That facility was very useful for aspirants staying in hostels. Hence, it is important that these sections are reopened at the earliest,” says K. Subramani, vice-president, readers circle, Full-Time Branch Library in Thirovottiyur. S. Chitra, who works with underprivileged children, says “I used to make use of the Thirovottiyur library, the children’s section of it, to teach children from poor socio-economic backgrounds, English. But all that is not happening now in spite of relaxations in lockdown. Likewise, a few government libraries in Chennai were offering coaching classes for competitive examinations which was actually benefiting aspirants who cannot afford private academies. Those services should also be resumed at the earliest.” Members of readers’ circles also suggested that libraries should consider the possibility of home delivery of books for the benefit of senior citizens. “While cinema theatres, restaurants and other places of entertainment are allowed to function by complying with standard operating procedures to curb the spread of COVID-19, libraries can very well be allowed to function in totality too,” says S. Krishnan, a readers’ circle member of Full-Time Branch Library at Jawahar Nagar in Kolathur. A senior official from the libraries department requesting anonymity says “We very much understand the requirements of regular visitors to public libraries. The Tamil Nadu government is making the necessary arrangements so that all sections of a library could function without compromising measures to curb the spread of COVID-19. Most probably in a week or two, all sections of the government libraries will start to function.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/readers-forums-seek-opening-of-dailies-section-at-public-libraries/article33892596.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Competitions to mark Women’s Day event||Jothi Madhar Sangam is celebrating Women’s Day on March 3 at The Stenographer’s Guild, No: 1, Guild street, T. Nagar. Time: From 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. According to a press release, the events include bajans, kolattam, drama, games, kolam competition, music, and quiz. For details, call 9840540850||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/competitions-to-mark-womens-day-event/article33892563.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Music album released||Beatz Academy for Music and Artz based in Kalaignar Karunanidhi Nagar has released a music album, which is a recomposed version of Muthai Tharu Pathi Thirunagai, a hymn from Thiruppugazh, an anthology dedicated to Lord Murugan. It was relased as part of Thai Poosam celebration recently, says a press release. The founder of the academy, Sooreyakanthan, along with his Carnatic vocal students — Suneha Kesevi, Madhueasha, Sai Varshini, and Anbumathi, and their guru, Charanya, rendered the composition, adds the press release||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/music-album-released/article33892588.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Support for the initiative||In a written communication, Dheleepan G V from Chennai and Adamsonraj J, who are for a record in the category, “the longest journey by scheduled public transport in a single country”, under Guinness World Records, list the organisations that have supported them variously. “Our Record Attempt is supported by various governmental and nongovernmental organisations like India Tourism, Indian Coast Guard, Pondicherry University, BRICS Generation, Youth Hostels Association of India (YHAI) and DAIRIYAM by Prakruthi,” it says. “The Indian Coast Guard has honoured us by handing over their Flag at a felicitation function organised by BRICS Generation and DHAIRIYAM by Prakruthi in association with the Russian Cultural Centre, Chennai and IRCURF. We will be carrying the flag throughout our trip and create awareness about the Indian Coast Guard,” the communication adds. “During the course of our attempt we will be promoting the ‘Dekho Apna Desh’ initiative by the Ministry of Tourism, Government of India,” they add. Dheleepan points out that the the south, west & central zones of India Tourism is taking care of the hospitality part of the duo’s trip in areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/support-for-the-initiative/article33892589.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Workshop on mushroom cultivation||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Information & Training Centre is conducting a workshop on mushroom cultivation on February 25. Another session on terrace gardening will be held on February 26. The workshops will be held on the centre’s premises in Guindy. For details, call 044 -2225 0511 / 2250 1960.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/workshop-on-mushroom-cultivation/article33892565.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Short-term courses in welding||Thakkar Bapa Vidyalaya ITI is offering a three-month basic training in welding, AC and refrigeration mechanics. According to a press release, the programme is supported by Blue Star Ltd. Classes will begin in March. They will be held at No: 58, Venkatanarayana Road, T. Nagar. For details, call 044-24362103 / 24343302. Deserving students will be given scholarships, adds the press release. For details, call 8838551832 / 9962290610 / 9176624283 / 9176624283||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/short-term-courses-in-welding/article33892576.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Humour meet today at T.Nagar||T. Nagar Humour Club is organising its monthly meet on February 21 at The Stenographers’ Guild, T. Nagar. Time: At 4 p.m. According to a press release, the chief guest will be P. K. Govindarajan, a stage artist and a Tamil poet. For details, call S. Sekar, founder-president of the club, at 979077557.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/humour-meet-today-at-tnagar/article33892584.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Fashion designer gives a classy touch to used dresses||When Deepak Panicker, a visiting faculty with National Institute of Fashion Technology in Chennai, learnt about the challenge Thuli faced in maintaining a steady stock of boys’ clothes, he offered help. Children’s clothes make the staple of what Thuli sells, and so he offered to re-fashion these clothes, says Deepak, a fashion designer and educator with a studio of his own. He found a tailoring unit at Kundrathur that was happy to take up the work, with some guidance. Deepak trained them to make optimum use of the second-hand clothes brought to them. “We opened some plus-sized shirts, separating the sleeve, yoke and collar and placed the pattern to transform them into fashionable clothes for young boys,” says Deepak. This way, many extra-large shirts got converted into clothes for boys and t-shirts got redone as shorts. Deepak says as long as the fabric is good, it can be upcycled to make it more fashionable. More than 300 clothes got altered at the tailoring unit to be showcased at the store. “We did this till COVID called a halt to this work,” says Deepak. He knows that not many are keen on taking up the work of cutting old clothes and resizing them, but emphasises that as this initiative promotes sustainability, fashion designers should take it up. “The textile industry is the second largest pollutant and some fabrics pose a greater threat to the environment, so the least we can do is upcycle them,” says Deepak, adding that he is keen on engaging with enterprises and groups for similar projects. For details, email mantizatelier@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/fashion-designer-gives-a-classy-touch-to-used-dresses/article33892592.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Chaos near MTC terminus in T Nagar||Share-auto rickshaws parked near T. Nagar junction, that is near the Metropolitan Transport Corporation terminus is hindering the free movement of vehicles. Further, the MTC crew finds it difficult to enter and leave the terminus. This happens in spite of the presence of the traffic police near the junction. A.S. Thirumalai is a resident of West mambalam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/chaos-near-mtc-terminus-in-t-nagar/article33892574.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Street in Porur needs new name board’||The old and weather-beaten name board of Samayapuram Second Street in Porur needs to be replaced. I wrote down the name of the street with a marker, but it has faded. So, people have started misusing it as a board for pasting advertisements. I hope the Greater Chennai Corporation does the needful without any delay. Fathima K.N. is a resident of Porur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/street-in-porur-needs-new-name-board/article33892579.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Short-term course on Vedic astrology||Indian School for the Study of Vedic Astrology and Research is offering a short-term course on Vedic astrology. According to a press release, no fee will be charged. Ten sessions will be held from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. on alternate weekdays. Prior registration is necessary. The programme is open to all. For details, call 91763 59580 / 88381 58072.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/short-term-course-on-vedic-astrology/article33892557.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||BAPASI book fair||Booksellers And Publishers Association of South India is organising its 44th edition of Chennai Book Fair 2021 at YMCA in Nandanam from February 24 to March 9. Time: From 11 a.m. to 8 p.m. In this regard, K.Nagarajan, vice-president, BAPASI, says “The fair will be inaugurated by the Deputy Chief Minister, O Panneerselvam at 11 a.m. on February 24. During the fair, the COVID-19 guidelines prescribed by the government will be followed. It includes providing hand sanitiser and checking temperature of the visitors. To create awareness about the fair, a run will be organised at Elliot’s Beach in Besant Nagar on February 21 at 6 a.m. It will be flagged off by former Commissioner of Police, Greater Chennai, A. K. Viswanathan.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/bapasi-book-fair/article33892559.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Baking classes||A workshop on baking eggless cakes will be conducted on February 27 at No:20, Cresent Park Street, T. Nagar. According to a press release, the preparation of the following varieties will be demonstrated: vanilla, plum, and black-forest. Time: From 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. For details, call 99402 69288.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/baking-classes/article33892561.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Around the country in 70 days by public transport||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/around-the-country-in-70-days-by-public-transport/article33892568.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||A window to the world||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-window-to-the-world/article33892570.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The great cricket incubator||When India tap-danced on the burning deck and still ambushed Australia in its back yard, a prospect that once seemed bleak considering it was a weakened squad plagued by injuries and the absence of regular personnel, it was the biggest ‘shock and awe’ moment in recent sporting history. Delirium within Indian fans was inevitable and the cricketing world applauded. David quelling Goliath is an enduring trope, and this triumph, a 2-1 series verdict in Tests, is burnt into our collective memories and is one tinged with warm nostalgia. There was Eden Gardens in 2001 when V.V.S. Laxman, Rahul Dravid and Harbhajan Singh scripted a miracle to stun the Aussies and ruined Steve Waugh’s ‘Final Frontier’ plans. To that rich array of the greatest Houdini acts in sport, Ajinkya Rahane’s men added their latest heist in the fourth Test at Brisbane’s Gabba on January 19. Just as champagne bottles were popped in that dressing room, a thought took shape and leapt across the aerial distance of 9,274 km that splits Brisbane from Bengaluru. Across Twitter, that instant tool to express angst and ecstasy, and for some to reveal their petulance or herd-mentality, it was a surreal moment suffused with gratitude. Many whispered about the National Cricket Academy (NCA), located inside the M. Chinnaswamy Stadium premises. Yes, it was time to celebrate a splendid win and give credit to the coaching staff led by Ravi Shastri, but it was also apt to remember the wheels that run Indian cricket’s conveyor belt. And what better place to honour within memory’s alcoves than the NCA, for its role in charting out a roadmap for talented youngsters? As the academy was being celebrated, another individual and his quiet role in bolstering the bench strength of the Indian squad was remembered. Massive in stature but someone who shuns the limelight, loves the rustle of books and the odd wisecrack with his close friends, Dravid is a throwback to a more genteel past of solid work and few words. The former India captain and batting legend heads the NCA besides coaching the India ‘A’ and under-19 squads. Rigours of the game Just as Rishabh Pant, Shubman Gill and Washington Sundar were proving their quality in jousts against Australia, what sprung to mind was the pep talks given to them by Shastri and the support that the NCA and Dravid extended to them as they came through the ranks. For all his immense stature as a cricketer, Dravid is always grateful to his coaches, be it the late Keki Tarapore or the many former players who guided him when he shone as a bright talent. In the past, Dravid has written about the overnight train journeys when, as a Ranji player, he listened wide-eyed to the tales from greats like G.R. Viswanath while also leafing through Harper Lee’s To Kill a Mockingbird . After he joined the pantheon of cricketing greats and retired, Dravid briefly dabbled with commentary. He then chose to do the hard yards as a coach. Youngsters have to cope with the rigours of the willow game while also being caught up with acne, first love, academic stress and teenage anxieties. It isn’t an easy state to be in. Dravid wrote perceptive lines in the book Cricket Drona co-authored by Jatin Paranjape and Anand Vasu: “Some of the kids, if they have the wrong experience with the game early on, end up not just leaving cricket but turning their back on sports in general, and this is dangerous. As a coach dealing with someone who is just starting out in a sport, you need to give your students a grounding in the game while at the same time making it interesting and fun for them.” It is not that the NCA and Dravid had a magic wand but both the institution and the cricketing great are at a point when the accrual benefits of a system that took shape over two decades ago are yielding visible results. The academy was a pet project of former BCCI president, the late Raj Singh Dungarpur, who was keen to have a cricketing finishing school which had the best coaching inputs, state-of-the-art fitness accessories and generous mentors. Bangalore, as Bengaluru was known then, was picked for its pleasant weather and with the Karnataka State Cricket Association (KSCA) earmarking space within the Chinnaswamy Stadium premises besides lending the KSCA (B) Ground for training, the NCA was launched in 2000. Holistic approach Every summer, age-group camps for the best young cricketers in India were then held at the academy. It also became a coaching start-up, incubating ideas and embracing new technologies, and was open to global expertise. Besides its structured coaching programmes, it also dealt with the Indian team’s preparatory camps while individual senior players were also free to use the facility to train. The NCA wasn’t just about players; it was also about helping coaches evolve. It conducted innumerable certification courses, and this trickled down to the States as guiding methods and fitness yardsticks were standardised. The best coaches, physiotherapists, trainers and nutritionists all became part of the academy’s canopy. Eminent coaches like the late Hanumant Singh and Vasoo Paranjape and talent scouts like Makarand Waingankar were all part of the initial blend. It was not just always about sport; there were sessions with business leaders, and even media-handling classes were held with Prannoy Roy and a few veteran sports scribes stepping in. Dravid was a regular and there is this anecdote about him that reveals his no-fuss air. Once as a player, he turned up a wee bit early for his morning workout. But the gates were shut, he hung around quietly, gazed at the various cricketing greats’ pictures lining the walls and once the staff turned up, he accessed the gym and did his routines. Now when he walks in thanks to his administrative-mentorship role, the same old style of quiet dignity and reticence is back in vogue. Sunil Gavaskar, Kapil Dev and Anil Kumble have all helmed the academy at various points. So did Brijesh Patel, Sandeep Patil, Shastri and Shivlal Yadav, to name a few. Some of them due to their other commitments were absentee guides, keeping a tab through the Internet and also popping up for meetings. With Dravid in the lead role, there is a more hands-on approach. He drives down from his home near the Old Airport Road and has tightened the system. However, it was never smooth for the academy, which was once derisively referred to as Indian cricket’s hospital, considering the number of players doing their injury-rehabilitation stints. There seemed to be an identity crisis, and within the BCCI some even speculated about shifting it to other cities. To make it worse, in the past a few cricketers who were certified fit broke down on the field. There was another angle to it too as the then Indian management took a punt on a few players, leaning on their class and hoping they would perform on the park. The gamble didn’t exactly pay off and in the process, the NCA became a convenient punching bag. To plug this loophole, Dravid has added rigour to the testing routines and the Bangalorean has been firm about the way the academy clears a player’s fitness. The NCA may have the best of facilities but it finally boils down to individual players to make the most of it. And form could be transient: for instance Prithvi Shaw, who came through the system, is searching for a spark to revive his career. The academy can only add to what has already been acquired or finessed, be it skill-sets, fitness or attitude, over the years from the existing infrastructure in the respective States. For now, the academy has struck roots in Bengaluru while an alternative land parcel has been identified so that a full-fledged facility could be carved out in the future. As Indian cricket’s caravan moves to Ahmedabad for the next part of the current Test series against England, its factory settings still rest within the NCA even as its commercial heart remains in Mumbai. Team goals Dravid has always sought the cumulative rewards of hard work. If his 2004 Multan declaration left Sachin Tendulkar stranded on 194, it was also about driving home the point that the team’s goals are always more important than individual records. The same benchmark is being adhered to in the way he is dealing with the academy and the junior teams he shepherds. Dravid is looking at the bigger picture while not losing sight of the specifics. The COVID-19 pandemic, and the lull it bequeathed to sport, affected the academy too as many coaches found their contracts not being renewed. Most of them were backed by Dravid. It is expected that as the academy’s Director of Cricket, he would paper over these cracks and get the personnel back once the scars of the virus heal and cricket revives at the domestic level. And it is expected that eventually the various camps would commence and the serendipitous meetings innate to the academy would surface, like a Mithali Raj and Dravid exchanging batting notes or a Jhulan Goswami running into a Jasprit Bumrah. While tipping a hat to the academy, it would also be prudent to acknowledge the contributions made by the Chennai-based MRF Pace Foundation in grooming fast bowlers. When you see gripping cricket out on the field, also do recognise the furnaces in which all this talent is burnished.  Every summer, age-group camps for young cricketers have been held at the academy. It has also becme a coaching start-up, incubating ideas and embracing technology. And senior players of the Indian team use the facility to train||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-great-cricket-incubator/article33892621.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Woman, foregrounded||Scholar Leela Gandhi said that what post-colonial theory “fails to recognize is that what counts as ‘marginal’ in relation to the West has often been central and foundational in the non-West.” This rings true with regard to feminism and its relationship with women from minority communities, whether Muslim or Dalit or Black. While Indian feminists successfully negotiated the mainstream to reposition issues like Sati or widow remarriage as being about women first and about culture and religion after, they hesitated to make the same leaps with, say, triple talaq. Indian feminism, while justifiably anxious to keep at bay right-wing extremism, has often felt impelled to consider some foundational issues of women from minority communities as being amenable to postponement until larger issues of religious and cultural rights are addressed. Everywoman’s story This is today compounded by the growing anxieties of inter-cultural and inter-faith non-judgmentalism and the trend towards relativism. There is, however, a strong case to be made for respecting cultural diversity without taking one’s eyes off a robust shared ethical framework. While celebrating differences, one need not be diffident about making universalist demands for dignities and freedoms that disregard community or geography. One recalls late feminist political philosopher Susan Moller Okin, who criticised multiculturalists for valuing “group rights for minority cultures” over the welfare of individual women. It is against this backdrop that one must approach Tamil poet-writer-politician Salma’s works to understand why they mark a crucial literary watershed. Salma is part of an Indian Islamic feminism that has been taking shape over the past few decades, but her hard-won personal victories give her voice universal resonance and a unique, reified timbre. It allows her to confidently foreground the woman. As she once said, “This [oppression] has nothing to do with Islam or any particular religion. This has primarily to do with male-dominated society’s oppression against women.” Her second novel, Women, Dreaming (2016), now translated into English by Meena Kandasamy, tells the interlinked stories of six women in a small, orthodox Muslim village in Tamil Nadu. Their names are Subaida, Asiya, Parveen, Mehar, Amina, and Sajida, but their stories are those of Everywoman — they struggle alike against their chains, they dream similar dreams. The oppression has passed down from mother to daughter to granddaughter; each generation fights a little harder, cowers down a little slower, but when the novel ends, we seem no closer to real hope than when we began. Only, the windows have been opened wider and more light pours in for Sajida than it ever did for her mother Mehar. Looming large over the book and the village is the shadow of Hasan, Mehar’s husband. Once cheerful, enjoying music and cinema, he has returned from his haj in Makkah laden with purdahs, dogmas and orthodox Islam. His mother, wife, sister, daughter, the village women — everyone is being whipped into submission by his loftier, harsher religiosity. Even the village cleric cannot continue the milder ways in which he once minded his flock. True path Hasan’s discovery of the “true path” has also meant his taking a second wife, contrary to the village’s long tradition of monogamy, but he is convinced that being a man, moreover one who follows the book, places him outside the pale of criticism. Mehar leaves him but cannot escape his continuing wrath, nor can his son, daughter or mother. Only his sister Parveen frees herself of his influence, discovering her mind, her body, her sexuality, her independence. By singling out Hasan’s zealotry, Salma recreates the existing tensions in the Muslim world between its orthodox and moderate factions, within which the women exist, locked inside homes, rules, conventions, mirroring real life and Salma’s own incarceration of nine years. In that sense, the book reads not so much as fiction as docu-drama, a slice of life. The language matches this — plain, sometimes halting, sometimes staccato, with few flourishes. If there’s a failing, it is repetitiveness. The women’s constant crying and lamentation might be true to a certain ceremony of grief associated with Islamic traditions and Tamil sensibility, but the repeated mentions in the book are tedious and not lyrical. A slice of life The women’s revolts are mostly indirect, tentative, often pushing them into greater bondage, sometimes gaining them minor freedoms. The women are controlled by the word of god, varyingly interpreted by whichever reigning male with whatever interpretation that furthers patriarchy most. More than the hopeless flailing of her cast, what I found poignant was Salma’s restraint. She is negotiating — politics, family, clergy. She is murmuring where she wants to shout. She is protecting. Even Hasan gets his interior monologue, with Salma seeming to ask, wanting to believe, surely an excess of faith would excuse his misogyny? These questions and compromises, these self-doubts echo those of many Muslim women who are straining to escape male-spun religious cocoons — but don’t want to break the skeins either. Scholar Sylvia Vatuk in her paper ‘Islamic Feminism in India’ points to how nascent Islamic feminists refer not to universalistic human rights principles but to the Quran, which they insist grants Muslim women rights denied in interpretation and practice by the ulemas . For now, this may be their only culturally viable approach, but their priorities as women are bound to overtake those of community. More butterflies like Salma will surely emerge.  Women, Dreaming  Salma, trs Meena Kandasamy  Penguin Hamish Hamilton  Rs. 499    The women’s revolts are mostly indirect, tentative, often pushing them into greater bondage, sometimes gaining them minor freedoms||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/woman-foregrounded/article33892632.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Workshop of words||The year is 2003. I am a newly minted assistant professor recruited primarily to teach communicative English to undergraduate techie students and to humanise them via that odd elective course in literature. I am both excited and nervous at the same time. Who are these students I am about to meet? What are they like? My head is on fire with questions. My first class — spent teaching the rules of letter writing to a large class of mostly male, mostly amused students — is a disaster. Gradually, and very painfully, I get better at a game I am most certainly not a natural at. A year down the line I have managed to find a tiny sliver of head space from which to write poetry after a long hiatus. My children are still young. I carry with me a visceral sense of being split and splintered, of being torn between work and motherhood and the wanting to write. It is at a point of absolute insanity that something goblinesque in me sits up and writes a proposal for an elective workshop-style course in creative writing to be offered to the same, largely male, undergraduate, techie population of students that is our constituency. This is a time before elite private universities legitimise, even glamourise courses in writing. Much to my surprise, the department is largely encouraging and the course is passed, a fact I attribute to our location outside the traditional Indian university circuit. Tailored teaching Creative writing pedagogy in India serves a different constituency, and to model it on the MFA programmes of British or American universities would not quite work. For one thing, my students bring with them varied levels of capabilities. Not all are at ease with English and so, I learn to emphasise the richness of the multilingual imagination and of translation, of reading and writing in the languages one is most at home in. I learn that not all writing prompts and readings work — they are but seeds that may or may not sprout. I learn how to structure each three-hour session, beginning always with some free-writing time, moving on to a lecture on an aspect of writing, followed by illustrative readings and the setting of a writing exercise, and then the class gets on with the writing. I learn how to work around infrastructural limitations — the absence of classrooms and spaces designed for discussion, for instance. I learn the importance of minimising myself in the classroom, of not talking all the time, of letting my students get on with the work of communing with themselves, mining their lives lived outside the classroom to produce work. I learn to treat struggling writers with respect, to see them as young people in progress with interesting stories to tell,to offer feedback that I hope (but am never sure) will be of help. All this makes me a tentative teacher. It was clear to me that most of my students were not going to end up with a publishable story or poem. That wasn’t the goal. I hoped, however, that in learning how to shape a piece of creative work, they would have added to their repertoire of transferable skills and found pleasurable moments of pause. The writer Joyce Carol Oates once remarked, “I have forced myself to start writing when I have … felt my soul as thin as a playing card… and somehow the activity of writing changes everything.” I hoped that writing would do this for my students — would give them what my own writing had given me. Fresh voices With the introduction of the five-year integrated master’s programme in the humanities at IIT Madras, my class began to fill up with literature majors. This meant I now had more women students. They enriched the course with their very different perspectives and writing voices. I also invited writers to speak to the students about their work. I remember a student saying to me years after she had graduated that the course had “democratised” writing for her — that she would never have had the courage to write otherwise. Another student wrote in to say that he liked the in-class writing time when students sat down to write “blushing internally, pens indecisive”. Students who have since passed out and are now practising poets tell me that what drew them to the course was the “opportunity to engage directly with literature and not filtered through the prism of literary theory” and the understanding it gave them about writing being “a sustained practice with its own toolkits.” One student remembered my assigning the class a poetry writing task, sitting down to write myself and sharing my draft with the class. She said seeing a published version of the same poem subsequently made the whole process real to her. “Assorted comfortable seating spaces and nooks and bay windows and maybe even some open spaces — writing spaces that are always available for those who do not have a ‘room of their own.’” This is what a former student said she would have liked. I am still thinking of ways to enable that — though it does feel like a pipe dream. In the meantime, I remain deeply grateful for the opportunity to teach the practice of writing. For not only has it made my own writing life more spacious, it has also been my emotional connect with academia. The writer is a professor of English at IIT Madras. Her latest book is the poetry collection,The Unmistakable Presence of Absent Humans.  It was clear to me that most of my students were not going to end up with a publishable story or poem. That wasn’t the goal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/workshop-of-words/article33892601.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Time was away and somewhere else’||The reunion of anyone after a lapse of many years can be the stuff of drama. The story of the meeting of Krishna and Kuchela, classmates at Sandeepani’s gurukul, comes to mind. There was no drama whatsoever when at last my high school classmate K. and I met recently after 75 years. COVID-19 had stranded us in Thrissur, where a mutual friend, also stranded, had put us in touch with each other. We had several exchanges over the phone, and once the virus had relaxed its stranglehold on the city, K. called and said he would visit me the next morning with his son, who is in his 60s. I opened the door to the father and son. Both wore masks, which they removed as they walked in. K. and I beamed, gave each other a once-over, and exclaimed almost in unison: “I wouldn’t have recognised you if our paths had crossed anywhere outside.” K. had kept himself much better than I had. He is lean and erect, has no difficulty walking, still has a well-groomed crop of hair, and no wrinkles to speak of. Despite all those phone conversations, we were still a bit shy. Ogden Nash’s Candy is dandy but liquor is quicker from Reflections on Ice-Breaking kept playing in my mind. But what came out was, “What will you have — tea or coffee?” “Thanks, but no, nothing,” K. said. “It is almost lunchtime. Let us just sit and talk.” “Something to munch, then, while we talk,” I said. I reached for my stick and hobbled to my kitchen, K.’s son, thoughtfully, following. I put some roasted cashews into a bowl and some banana chips into another. He carried the bowls to the living room. Violin days K. pulled up his chair closer to mine and showed me a few pictures from his violin days. How I wished I could hear him play! He had stopped playing because he found it hard to sit on the floor, and he was not used to playing on his feet or seated on a stool. It turned out K. had lived most of his life — and still does — in a port town next to Kochi where his father worked. He attended school there but with the distant rumblings of the Second World War and the resultant fear of air raids on Kochi, the family had temporarily relocated to their home village in Malabar and that was how he had happened to be at the same school as mine. Or rather, I had happened to be at the same school as his for I had joined it a year later — relocated from Calicut (Kozhikode) to my home village for other reasons. The hour we spent together was travel in time for us, a holiday in old pastures, and a study in the ways of destiny!  Before leaving, K.’s son noted my e-mail ID. Later, he mailed me a few pictures of two oldies in earnest conversation. I gazed long at those pictures and as the poet Louis MacNeice put it in a different context in his Meeting Point , Time was away and somewhere else…  pmwarrier9@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/time-was-away-and-somewhere-else/article33892617.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||When nature speaks out||As we watched with shock the videos from Uttarakhand, of a flooding river rushing down the mountains in a wave of fury and destruction, it seemed obvious that an ecological balance is urgently needed to face the challenge of climate change in our century. However, this was not so evident in the early 1970s. That was when the Chipko movement was born. Life of struggle Chipko evolved as a response to wanton environmental degradation. “In this northern State, though nature can be found at its most beautiful, its spartan and frightening aspects are seldom obscured. The homes of peasants and small-town dwellers frequently nestle in sylvan and foliage-full environments, but the people within them mostly live a life of hard struggle. The past two centuries have seen an onslaught on local resources, and this has led to the present economy of dependence,” writes historian Shekhar Pathak in his account of the Chipko movement. The epigraph reads: “for all our communities who know most truly the many meanings in our forests.” It is not surprising that Pathak’s interest in the relationship between forests and communities emerged organically out of his years of work on the oppressive feudal and colonial system of forced labour known as ‘begaar’. A fascinating section of the book tells of Uttarakhand’s early forest struggles, which were inextricably linked to people’s quest for livelihood and dignity. After taking power from feudal rulers, colonial officials began to expect the same free labour and supplies from local people that the feudal rulers had demanded. But there had been sporadic protests against ‘begaar’ through the 19th century. In 1903, villagers in Almora refused to provide free labour and provisions to officials. Despite fines, they fought the matter up to the High Court. A 1910 editorial in The Garhwali wrote about the constitution of reserved forests by the colonial government, pointing out that until then, the forests had only been used for the benefit of the people. In 1918, at the Provincial Council, lawyer and editor Tara Dutt Gairola spoke about coolie ‘begaar’ and forest rights, quoting the bitter words of a Kumaoni soldier from the war in Europe: “We are fighting here to protect the Empire while our brothers are bearing the misery of begaar and the forests.” In independent India, forest issues became central in hill society and politics by the 1960s. The forest question came up repeatedly in the Legislative Assembly. Indramani Badauni, the legislator from Devaprayag, spoke of how contractors were ruthlessly chopping down even unmarked trees. Warnings aplenty “The natural world had also begun episodically speaking out,” adds Pathak: an unusually severe monsoon, flash floods, a severe drought, the caving of a mountainside. But these early warnings were ignored. July 1970 saw an unprecedented flooding of the Alaknanda all the way down to Hardwar in the plains. The devastation encompassed 55 human lives, animals, crops, bridges, vehicles, motorable roads, hundreds of houses, and more. An Industrial Training Institute 60 miles downstream, in Srinagar, was surrounded by debris six feet high. Where had the flooding started? With the breaking of a lake in the Rishiganga above Reni. As a people’s history, Pathak’s account is about the ordinary human figures and communities who came together in an extraordinary struggle for forest rights. Govind Singh Rawat who, “carrying for the first time in his life a microphone in his hand,” reached Lata village in October, 1973. The children of Uttarakhand who learnt the words of Ghanshyam Sailani’s Chipko song from pamphlets distributed by the local people.The man who stood up at Chandi Prasad Bhatt’s meeting and said trees were going to be cut because the villagers themselves had helped to mark those that were to be felled. And the word ‘Chipko’ itself, which, Pathak notes, “evoked a smile among the women sitting at the back.” The girl from Reni who, one morning, saw labourers climbing towards the forest, and — with the men away at work — ran to tell the head of the village mahila mandal, Gaura Devi. And Gaura herself, who until then had not been able to attend any of the Chipko meetings, but whose son had told his mother about them in detail. The women of Reni who stopped their cooking, weaving, and bathing babies — and began walking rapidly towards the Sitel forest path. And the little girls who followed them there, to make history. “On 26 March 1974, in the upper Alaknanda Valley, it seemed as if through Gaura Devi, not just Reni but all of Uttarakhand, and all forest dwellers of the country, had spoken.” Chipko would be the beginning of the modern environmental movement in India. ‘Tree as a young person’ The movement spread. In late 1974, an article in the newspaper Amar Ujala described the fundamental nature of the struggle: “If trees remain, the mountains remain, and so does the country... To be against trees is akin to denying your own identity. We have to see each tree as a young person in a new India.” The legacy of the movement was to break the hold of colonial ideas of forest exploitation and suggest that new models of community-based forest management were needed. “Chipko... is all about the imperative of balancing the use and conservation of nature, the complex differentiations between need and greed,” notes Pathak. Pathak’s fascinating, thoughtful and deeply human account draws from local newspapers, books, pamphlets, discussions in the legislature, archival material, and not least of all, a vast amount of fieldwork, including physically walking the entire stretch of the Uttarakhand Himalayan region, stopping at every hamlet and habitation on the way to talk to fellow residents. In the story of Chipko, everything is profoundly interconnected: livelihood, sustainability, equity, and dignity.  The reviewer is in the IAS.  The Chipko Movement: A People’s History Shekhar Pathak Permanent Black  Rs. 895    The legacy of the movement was to break the hold of colonial ideas of forest exploitation and suggest that new models of community-based forest management were needed||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/when-nature-speaks-out/article33892645.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Man of the moment||A powerfully built man wearing a chignon and maang tikka reclines regally on a bolster. With his bold gaze, he could be Manet’s Olympia, but unlike the naked woman of the painting, the man in this photograph wears a black blouse and an emerald green silk sari whose brilliant red border counterpoints the cherry of the bolster. The photograph of this bejeweled, queenly (pun intended) man flies in the face of our idea of the reviled and impoverished transgender people who go around begging for alms. Part of a brightly coloured series titled The New Pre-Raphaelites, this image was created in 2008 by photographer, archivist, writer and HIV activist Sunil Gupta as a response to Article 377, which was dropped 10 years later. Young and gay It is among the 154 works (in 16 series) on display in Gupta’s first major retrospective, From Here to Eternity , that opened in The Photographers’ Gallery in London on October 9, 2020. It’s currently closed owing to the ongoing lockdown in the U.K. Over a career spanning 45 years, the Indian-born Canadian photographer has often used staged images. Photography is a natural corollary to his interest in cinema that developed in his early years in Delhi. Gupta is currently based in London. The retrospective collates Gupta’s work from various periods, recording the life of a gay man of Indian origin as he moves from place to place and documents changes in society’s attitude towards homosexuality. “What does it mean to be a gay Indian man? This is the question that follows me around everywhere I go and is still ever present in my work,” he says. In 1969, Gupta moved from Delhi’s Nizamuddin to Montreal, Canada, with his family. He started taking photographs there and later in New York, little knowing that in a few years’ time his work would be hailed as a milestone of gay activism, granting visibility to a community hitherto hidden behind society’s front of ‘normality’. Gupta’s earliest body of work ( Friends & Lovers ) documents in black and white Montreal’s gay lib demonstrations, which bristle with placards. To be young, as he was then, indeed was very heaven, with unbridled promiscuity its natural extension. Montreal was the hotbed of the gay liberation movement in the 70s — for Gupta, even old Europe with its accoutrements of culture, couldn’t compare with it. By 1976, he was in New York with his boyfriend, discovering the flamboyant and carefree habitués of Christopher Street. The photographs from this period feature hunky men in tight jeans and leather with whom the artist evidently felt a deep sense of kinship. Emboldened generation Arriving in London in the early 80s, Gupta felt the toxicity of racism and homophobia for the first time. The black-and-white photographs of local black people — a term that covered those who lived in the former British colonies — show them as ‘types’, at work and leisure. There’s a solitary shot of himself with his boyfriend, the neon sign of a cinema screening My Beautiful Laundrette (about soured race relations) glowing behind them. In 1986, Gupta returned to India in the hope of photographing the Indian gay scene. It was nowhere in sight. Frustrated, he staged scenes of romantic encounters ( Exiles ) with the deserted monuments of Delhi in the background. His models were willing to be photographed so long as their faces were not visible. By 2011, things had changed. The images from this period feature Indians of a new emboldened generation posing proudly in public places with crowds swirling around them. When the occasion demanded, Gupta could be confrontational. He stripped himself bare before the camera physically and emotionally after he was diagnosed as HIV+ in 1995. Labelled as the “gay scourge”, the HIV/AIDS epidemic had played havoc with thousands of lives by then. The London retrospective unflinchingly charts the transformation of Gupta’s own body from that of a sexy young adult in briefs to a flaccid mass of flesh as age and disease prey upon it. He has even portrayed himself as a corpse. Object of desire ‘No sex, no life’ — that could be Gupta’s credo. He has no qualms about projecting himself as an object of desire because libido is central to the gay liberation movement and to his art. His personal life and experience blend inseparably with his activism and particular brand of aesthetics. The retrospective is curated by the London-based cultural historian, Mark Sealy, who specialises in the relationship of photography to social changes, identity politics and human rights. Speaking about Gupta, Sealy says: “There is no one single methodology behind the curatorial ethos of this exhibition other than in Sunil Gupta, we have an incredible honest and committed artist who has social change at his core.” What cameras does Gupta use? His answer is characteristic: “I’m very promiscuous. Mostly Nikons, Leicas and Hasselblads. I made Exiles on an ancient Rolleiflex with a 75 mm lens... It is all digital now. Just got a digital Leica body that takes my old lenses. Difference is mainly in the lenses. All the prints are digital,” he says. In his youth, Gupta wanted to break away from his biological family. With the new millennium, he has embarked on a journey to rediscover his extended biological family in the Uttar Pradesh village where his father was born. The pandemic has confined him to London for the time being but he is not giving up. The writer focuses on Kolkata’s vanishing heritage and culture.  When the occasion demanded, Gupta could be confrontational. He stripped himself bare before the camera physically and emotionally after he was diagnosed as HIV+ in 1995||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/man-of-the-moment/article33892658.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The horror of it all||Nikhil Pradhan’s second novel, Yesterday’s Ghosts, is a pacy thriller about four former intelligence operatives and the circumstances that bring them back together after decades of no-contact. It mixes espionage with horror in a pared-down, sparse narrative. The interrogation format is used as the primary narrative device, interspersed with short spells of omniscient narration to ground the novel better. Pradhan’s first book, Cold Truth, had a similar structure and his experimentation with the novel form stood out for diverting from conventional storytelling. Unfortunately, the experimental audacity of the first book becomes the second’s comfort zone. Familiar tropes The interrogation rhetoric gets clichéd here, chock-a-block with familiar tropes like mysterious aliases, codes and locations. The minimalist narration too seems to suggest haste rather than restrain. The characters are stock: Castellan, the interrogator, speaks like a Netflix detective; Jodan the angry is always angry; Roy the pathetic acts pathetically; the mysterious ghost is simply mysterious. All these end up looking like cool tricks designed to stretch a flimsy premise. That said, the book is not short of interesting elements. There is a strong cinematic quality to it. But nothing is developed properly enough to lend the book substance. Pradhan’s eagerness to make the novel smart ends up making it formulaic. If it’s a page-turner it’s because one must turn the pages to finish the story. The reviewer is a poet from Jharkhand.  Yesterday’s Ghosts  Nikhil Pradhan Harper Black   Rs. 299     The characters are stock: Castellan, the interrogator, speaks like a Netflix detective; Jodan the angry is always angry||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-horror-of-it-all/article33892627.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Once upon a democracy||At times, it’s good to remind oneself of how checks and balances are supposed to work in a democratic society. Say you have a political party that’s elected with a solid majority. A government is formed, ministers are appointed and they begin to conduct their business, supposedly for the good of the nation. Let’s imagine, for argument’s sake, that the minister who controls the national law enforcement forces and the police in the capital city orders the police in the capital to go and arrest a person in another major city for the ‘crime’ — as the minister sees it — of organising a widespread protest against some of his government’s policies. What happens then? Or, rather, what should happen then? Well, the police officers in the capital city should examine the merits of the case and politely send the minister a letter pointing out that the person hasn’t actually committed a crime under the national penal code and therefore no action is possible. The minister would seethe but there the matter would end. Honourable men In a slightly different scenario, say, the minister persuades the police to launch an arrest procedure and the cops enthusiastically go to a competent magistrate and ask for an arrest warrant. The honest magistrate, having sworn an oath to the Constitution and not to the protection or furtherance of his career, would look at the file and laugh at the police officer. Politely or rudely, he would ask the officer to take this sheaf of absurd charges and leave. The policeman and the minister would seethe, but there the matter would end. Say, a different minister, or the same one, decided to target a loosely allied group of activists engaged in a genuinely non-violent struggle for tribal rights in different parts of the country. Let’s say, one day, the head of a national enforcement agency got a call: ‘I want you to arrest the following lawyers and activists from this tribal rights movement,’ followed by a list. The director of the national enforcement agency, an honest and honourable man or woman, clear in her or his allegiance to the Constitution and rule of law, would point out that there were no grounds to arrest these lawyers, educators, doctors, poets and priests. The voice at the other end of the phone may then inform the director that when his agents arrested such and such person, they would find such and such documents on his computer, documents that would implicate everyone on the list of violent conspiracy. The director would laugh: ‘Sir, with all due respect, my agency and I can’t be party to these types of underhand, illegal actions. Also, if something has been planted on the man’s computer, it would be detectable and we would end up being internationally humiliated.’ And there the whole sleazy operation would collapse. Proper proof? If the director were morally hollow enough to launch such an operation, his agency would come up against the beady eye of the courts where stern and vigilant judges would simply say: ‘Well, you cannot incarcerate these accused without producing proper proof. These people can remain under investigation but free to continue their normal lives. The only ones who will serve any jail time are the ones you manage to convict in a fair and transparent trial. We will not allow innocent people to be punished before a fair trial.’ Through all these obviously conjectural scenarios, the other strong pillar of democracy — the media — would have been working overtime to uncover the truth and bring it to the public’s attention. This ultimate component would strengthen all the other checks and balances and prevent any elected or appointed official from inflicting their nefarious agenda on the body of the nation. Of course, what is outlined here is an ideal scenario and not what we’ve found in failed, disgraced regimes such as the South and Central American dictatorships of the 20th century, the Uganda of Idi Amin or Apartheid-era South Africa, to cite just a few examples from around the world.  The police officers should examine the merits of the case and politely send the minister a letter pointing out that the person hasn’t actually committed a crime||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/once-upon-a-democracy/article33892660.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Life, one scrip t at a time||For over four decades now, filmmaker Vidhu Vinod Chopra has been an imposing figure in the world of Indian cinema. As director, screenwriter, producer and occasional actor, Chopra has been at the helm of classics such as Parinda , 1942: A Love Story , the Munna Bhai series, 3 Idiots , and PK . He won the National Award for his debut film Murder at Monkey Hill when he was 24 (and got into a tussle with then Minister L.K. Advani over the prize money), bagged an Oscar nomination for An Encounter with Faces two years later, and tasted commercial success and critical acclaim in the years that followed. When I speak with him, Chopra is in the middle of promoting his latest project, a biography titled Unscripted: Conversations on Life and Cinema in which he speaks with his long-time collaborator and screenwriter Abhijat Joshi about his early life and the fascination with cinema that led him to the Film and Television Institute of India in Pune. “After reading the book, people are asking me to make a movie on my life. What a boring idea,” laughs Chopra, as I hop on a conference call with him and Joshi. Edited excerpts: Unscriptedfeels less like a memoir and more like two friends having a conversation. Was that intentional?  Abhijat Joshi: Vinod has never really sat down and spoken about his life. These stories, in fact, tumbled out one or two at a time when we were working on different scripts. For instance, if he had to explain a character he had in mind, he would do so with examples from his life. These anecdotes turned out to be so memorable that I used to share them with my family and friends, so at one point, it felt like a good idea to share them with others as well. There are no in-depth discussions on the technical aspects of cinema here… those belong in a book for connoisseurs or students of cinema. This book has a wider appeal because it’s about life.  VidhuVinod Chopra: I didn’t even remember some of these stories until Abhijat reminded me of them. I’m someone who likes to live in the moment, so I don’t really look back much. When I sent him a copy of the book, director Werner Herzog wrote to me, “You’ve certainly lived life to the fullest. Now let’s see what you do in the next 50 years.” I liked that. Your most recent movieShikarastems from your memories of growing up in Kashmir. How has that experience influenced you as a filmmaker?  VVC: I grew up in a small mohalla in Kashmir’s Wazir Bagh, and studied in an average Hindi medium school there. I didn’t read much, but it so happened that my visual sense and aural sense developed because I was surrounded by the beauty of the valley and the sounds of the rivers, lakes and shikaras. I didn’t know at that time, but I was becoming a visual artist. I had done well at university, was a decent cricketer, and had seen a lot of Hindi films, so I was very arrogant by the time I got into FTII at the age of 19. But the three years there transformed me. I remember seeing three masterpieces — Godard’s Breathless , Orson Welles’ Citizen Kane , and Federico Fellini’s 8½ — in class one day, and emerging a changed man. What is a movie meant to do? Should it reflect reality or should it inform society?  VVC: In all my movies, be it Parinda , 3 Idiots or Munna Bhai , I have worked with the idea that I should be able to give my viewers an experience which makes them a better and richer human being, a more aware human being… it should somehow enrich their life. In 3 Idiots , for instance, we worked off the central idea that if you chase excellence, success will follow. Through Shikara , many people were made aware of the plight of the Kashmiri Pandit community. So for me, the most important thing is to check if my film will make me happy, and if it will make my viewer’s life a little bit enriched. 1942: A Love Story, which is still acclaimed for its music, was one of R.D. Burman’s last works. How was your collaboration with him?  VVC: R.D. Burman was one of the best guys I have met in my life. When I went to meet him for 1942: A Love Story , he was going through a bad phase in his career. He gave me a very strange tune for ‘Kuch Na Kaho’, which I thought wasn’t good. And he told me, “You don’t understand Vinod, you are naïve. You are honest. This is what sells, not the old music.” And I told him, “ Dada , I did not come to you for music that sells. I came for music that I like to hear.” And that was the beginning of a wonderful relationship. You had an interesting method to zero in on the look and feel of your movies in the early days...  AJ: This was very fascinating to me because Vinod had shown me how his team and he had looked at paintings by Renoir to determine the look of 1942: A Love Story . Not just that, he also played two tunes for me — there was Beethoven’s Für Elise which is very gentle, and then there was the Fifth Symphony. The Fifth Symphony had power and Für Elise had tenderness, so he told me that is the range within which various scenes must operate.  You have a reputation for being a stickler for budget. How did that come about?  VVC: You have to understand where I come from. My first film Sazaye Maut (1981) was done with a budget of Rs. 3 lakh, Khamosh was done in Rs. 8 lakh, and Parinda , which they call a ‘cult film’ now, was done with Rs. 12 lakh. How do you make a film in Rs. 12 lakh?! While shooting Parinda , I remember Nana Patekar fought on the sets the first day because he asked for water, and I said, ‘ Ghar se lana tha … (You should have brought it from home)’. The kind of cinema you make and the kind of cinema you allow yourself to make are connected to how much money you spend. If you spend $100 million, you will have to make the kind of film that everybody understands, but if you spend Rs. 10 million, you can do anything you want. Your freedom as an artist depends on your budget.  In your book, you speak about an extremely low point in your career. How did you deal with that sort of turmoil?  VVC: That was when I was writing Khamosh [an unconventional murder mystery with no songs, which was very unlike the Hindi films of those days]. At that time, to think of a movie like that felt disastrous. I was very disillusioned with life because I felt sure that I couldn’t make the kind of films I wanted to make.  When I look back now, I realise that if I had made that misstep, these beautiful 30-odd years of my life would have never happened. I’ve mentioned this incident in the book because I feel it is very important for young people to understand that everyone has ups and downs. It is important to remember, especially when you are going through a rough patch, that ‘this too shall pass’.  While shootingParinda, I remember Nana Patekar fought on the sets the first day because he asked for water, and I said, ‘Ghar se lana tha… (You should have brought it from home)’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/life-one-scrip-t-at-a-time/article33892600.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The overwhelming question||As a form of literature, the short story is both cruel and generous. It allows the very best to shine, to conjure entire worlds in the space of a few dozen pages, as in a Maugham or a Dahl. In the hands of less gifted writers, it can show up glaring technical limitations and a surfeit of cliché.  The Rock Babas and Other Stories by Ameya Prabhu is hence a risky undertaking, an author making a debut through a short story collection. There are nine tales in all, set in locations ranging from the plantations of Colombia to the highlands of Nepal. The characters are also varied, from an African-American police officer to a Bollywood playback singer, from a Japanese billionaire to a Swiss hotelier. Considering that the stories were all written in the course of a couple of months during the lockdown, this is an impressive feat of research and background reading. The title story features a quest for enlightenment, hidden valleys and Rock-music playing monks. This is the Order of Gyur-Tog, a monastic order which dispenses brutal riffs and Instagram-ready wisdom: “People often think that the cycle of birth and rebirth refers to the journey of the soul across multiple lives. While that may be true, we also die and are reincarnated multiple times in this very life itself.” There is also an excursion into the fascinating culture of the Kirati people, a community which venerates the Kanchenjunga as a deity. Some stories have minimal dialogue, instead relying on a steady accretion of details. This results in a certain blandness as the prose gets almost bureaucratic in tone. “Yet, as was his nature, Agent Holder maintained a Zen disposition and disregarding all extraneous factors, assiduously went about examining the evidence at hand.” The characters in the stories are either questioning their life choices or have undergone some traumatic experience which forces them to do so. The Yaksha Prasna episode in the Mahabharata , on living a correct life in the shadow of the inevitability of death, features prominently. Prabhu returns to this theme repeatedly, either mentioning it directly or making it part of the metaphysical backdrop. The writer is a freelance journalist and graphic novelist.  The Rock Babas and Other Stories Ameya Prabhu  Westland  Rs. 399||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-overwhelming-question/article33892625.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Clearing the fog||For most of us, the name Meghalaya would conjure images of verdant hills and rain-soaked bridges. In Daribha Lyndem’s Name Place Animal Thing , though, the bird’s eye view of one of the wettest spots on earth sharpens into focus — rows of eucalyptus on the roadsides; the Wah Umkhrah river snaking through Shillong, Meghalaya’s capital; houses fenced by hollow bamboo sticks overgrown with creepers; women in pretty jaiñsems, the traditional dress of the Khasis; and occasionally, hailstones the size of football. Lyndem’s debut novel is a coming-of-age story of a young Khasi girl (referred to as D) in Shillong during the early 2000s. D tries to make sense of the intricacies of race, class, religion and politics of the region: “Except for the odd tussle between a non-tribal and the Khasis, in my young mind I felt hardly anything interesting went on in our town,” she says, referring to the hostility between the majority Khasis, one of the three indigenous ethnic tribes of Meghalaya, and the ‘Dkhars’, the colloquial (often derogatory) term for non-tribals. As a narrator, D is a likeable, curious kid whose conflicts are largely internal, and easy to trivialise if it was not for their universality. Her life revolves around her family, teachers and school friends — the title is a hat-tip to one of their favourite games — and later, an aspiring pastor boyfriend. They communicate in a creolised version of Khasi and English, with bursts of Hindi; the choice to leave conversational Khasi and Hindi untranslated adds a layer of intimacy to the prose. A civil servant who currently works with the Indian Revenue Service, Lyndem can be lyrical without being maudlin. Describing D’s parents’ tendency to make “ashtrays of things that weren’t meant to be ashtrays,” she says: “On windy days, the ash blew off the places my parents had stubbed cigarettes in, and I felt I was in a grey powdery snow globe.” Though full of promise, Name Place Animal Thing is bogged down by editing errors and a few underdeveloped characters. However, this novella is a captivating addition to the dismally small list of English literary fiction set in the Northeast.  Name Place Animal Thing Daribha Lyndem Zubaan  Rs. 300||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/clearing-the-fog/article33892629.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||At the forefront of the good fight for immigrants||It is fitting that a book on a highly successful immigration lawyer, who began her practice in the U.S., was published during a polarised election campaign in which immigration was a key issue. Adithi Rao’s Being Sheela is not only about the life of Sheela Murthy, founder of the Murthy Law Firm, philanthropist and entrepreneur; it is equally about the anxieties of a people waiting to be accepted in another country they call home. Rao goes beyond writing a biography by also including stories of how families suffer while traversing America’s knotty immigration policies. The theme underlining the book is the American Dream, which has been lately under threat. While Murthy is an inspiring symbol of it, the others who approach her for help struggle to live that dream. The early chapters detail Murthy’s fairly conventional childhood with an aggressive, wilful mother; an affectionate, lenient father; and two sisters. They contain some enjoyable anecdotes. Before she goes to the U.S. to attend a moot court, a young Murthy doesn’t hesitate to call on the Karnataka Chief Minister to request funding. And the first time she meets Vasant, a photographer and digital artist whom she later marries, she pulls him up in an endearing schoolgirl fashion for lurking in the corridors of Alliance Francaise. Through these stories, we get a sense of Murthy being a confident, no-nonsense and intelligent woman. Life stories Murthy’s interest in law, writes Rao, began as early as age 10 when she read Harper Lee’s To Kill a Mockingbird . Rao attributes Murthy’s passion in immigration law to her being a woman of colour and an immigrant in the U.S. but doesn’t tease out details. In an interview to The New York Times , Murthy once said she “went through hell” while trying to get a green card and was “struck by my attorney’s lack of sensitivity and how little he cared.” This clearly frustrating experience, which was perhaps the seed of her dream, does not find mention in Being Sheela . Rao’s painstaking research on immigration rules and their complexities is evident in the chapters on Murthy’s clients. A young man who gets married is unable to bring his wife to the U.S. on a H-4 dependent visa. Following 9/11, a Muslim man, who simply wanted to know how the door of an aircraft worked, is horrified to find himself in the midst of deportation proceedings despite being in the final stages of getting a green card. These stories provide a glimpse into the inner functioning of the law firm and capture the travails of being an immigrant. Woman of grit Murthy is depicted as a family woman, an empathetic lawyer and an indefatigable worker who sets herself punishing schedules. But the various shades of her personality — her weaknesses and struggles that made her a woman of grit — are not etched out. This is where the book is disappointing — it focuses solely on the success of a remarkable woman but never reveals what failures she overcame. In a speech to the law firm, Murthy tells her employees: “What you’ve handled at the firm are not cases. They haven’t been just work to you. They have been labours of love.” This is essentially Murthy’s own approach to her work. It is her relentless pursuit of justice that makes her life so admirable and the book an informative and compelling read.   Being Sheela: The Life Journey of an Immigration Lawyer Adithi Rao HarperCollins India  Rs. 599    While Murthy is an inspiring symbol of the American Dream, the others who approach her for help struggle to live that dream||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/at-the-forefront-of-the-good-fight-for-immigrants/article33892642.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1On January 21, 1958, the CND (Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament) symbol was commissioned in protest against the Atomic Weapons Research Establishment. Designed by Gerald Holtom, the symbol is a super-imposition of the flag semaphore for the characters ‘N’ and ‘D’ (nuclear disarmament). The symbol became popular and took on global prominence when it was used in the American anti-war movement in the 1960s. Also known as ‘chickenfoot’ because of the way it looks, how better do we know the CND symbol? 2This symbol was first seen in seventh-century BCE Egypt as a representation of the plant silphium, which was a popular herbal contraceptive of that time. The plant was so popular that it was depicted on official currencies, became over-cultivated and went extinct by 1 CE. The symbol looks exactly like the seed of this plant, but nowadays we use it to signify something else. And as any school pupil will tell you, the symbol looks nothing like the actual thing it’s supposed to represent now. What symbol is this that is denoted online with a symbol and a number? 3This symbol comes from ancient Chinese culture from as far back as 1400 BCE. It depicts the notion that cosmology and the universe are composed of interrelated, interdependent, and sometimes opposing, but always complementary forces. It signifies that everything that exists in this world is composed of both dark and light forces, of male and female aspects, and positive and negative energies. How do we know this symbol of cosmic balance? 4This symbol represents the Latin conjunction ‘et’. It is thought to have been invented in Ancient Rome by the personal secretary of Cicero to speed up his writing process. He invented a system of abbreviations, of which this symbol became the most popular. At one time, it concluded the English alphabet (after A-Z). It was omitted in the 20th century, but has become more popular nowadays thanks to online use. What symbol is this? 5This symbol was made by combining the runes (ancient Scandinavian alphabet) for two letters, ‘H’ and ‘B’. These stood for Harald Blåtand, a king who ruled Denmark in the 10th century CE. The symbol represents a modern-day technology that connects multiple electronic devices. This king was chosen because he persevered and succeeded inconnecting multiple Scandinavian countries. Which technology’s symbol is this? 6This symbol, which nowadays is found all around us, indicates that you can activate or deactivate a device. This could be on multiple items including switches, buttons and touch-screens. The symbol was created by superimposing the numerals ‘0’ and ‘1’, which represent the binary system used by system engineers. What is this symbol that is simply a line and a circle? 7This symbol was introduced on U.K. roads in 1934 as a distinguishing feature that gives priority to pedestrians. The symbol uses alternating contrasting colours so that it can be seen clearly from a distance. Its interesting name is attributed to a British MP (later prime minister), James Callaghan, who on seeing one remarked that it looked like a particular African animal. What symbol is this? 8These two symbols that are found everywhere nowadays actually come from space. These were the representations for two planets, Mars and Venus, by the Ancient Greeks. The symbols are supposed to represent Mars’s shield and spear and Venus’s hand mirror. Carl Linnaeus was actually the first in recorded history to use these symbols to represent different properties of his botanical specimens. What are these symbols used to denote in the modern age? 9The technical name for this symbol is a ‘lemniscate’, and it has been in use for hundreds of years in religious works of art. Fittingly, it was English clergyman and mathematician John Wallis who used it first in 1655 to denote a very specific and interesting concept in mathematics. It is thought that he derived it from a variant form of the Roman numeral for 1,000. Nowadays drawn as a sideways eight, what is this symbol known as? 10The earliest evidence of this symbol being used to denote this function is on an ancient Neo-Assyrian tablet, more than 2,000 years old. Here, two vertical lines are used in a table of synonyms to denote repeated text. The word we use to describe this symbol comes from the Tuscan language, where it means ‘as said’. What symbol is this? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article33892661.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Land of the giants||Chances are, within the last 24 hours, you’ve searched for something on Google, checked in on friends on Facebook, ordered that bottle of oil on Amazon, tapped out a message on your phone, tablet or other device, and finally, sat back, turned on Netflix... and chilled. Big names The Gang of Four (or Five, in some fomulations) known to the investment community variously as FAANG (give or take Apple) or GAFA, comprises the entities that we think of as Big Tech. As of late last year, they had a combined market capitalisation of USD 5.6 trillion and (based on my back-of-the-envelope calculation) employ some 1.12 million people worldwide. Their hold on the public imagination and their influence in shaping the online ecosystem cannot be underestimated. Amazon has become the way many of us shop for all manner of things, Netflix shapes our viewing choices, Facebook orders our social worlds, Google is our gateway to the Web, and Apple makes the devices that brings the Internet to our fingertips.  Land of the Giants , from Recode and Vox media is a podcast series that takes us into the worlds of these tech superstar companies. In the first season ( The Rise of Amazon , launched in 2019), technology reporter Jason Del Ray takes a deep dive into the business empire that is Amazon. In eight episodes, Del Ray explores multiple facets of the company’s culture (“customer obsession”), operations (the warehouses and the entry of the robots), impact on small towns when it enters and leaves, the pernicious workings of its algorithm, and aggressive incursion into our homes. We learn that the biggest disruptor yet to retail e-commerce — Amazon Prime — was hatched on a hastily called Saturday meeting on Jeff Bezos’ houseboat to widespread skepticism within the company. And that Amazon can leave broken economies — and lives — in its wake when it exits a town. Del Ray is a curious yet critical interlocutor; acknowledging that Bezos’ “number one mission is to make customers’ lives better” he asks “does that intense focus come at a cost?” Netflix effect In the second season which, fittingly, came in the midst of pandemic-enforced lockdown, Rani Molla and Peter Kafka examine The Netflix Effect . Molla, in an interview with NPR, described it as “a straightforward story... it’s a cutthroat company... what does it mean to be a programmer for the world?” The seven episodes go from the small start-up’s challenge to Blockbuster to the streaming wars of the past two years, when Netflix takes on Hollywood itself. Dismissed initially by Blockbuster CEO John Antioco as “a gnat”, the company turned the video rental chain into a distant memory. The happiest Season 3, The Google Empire, hosted by Shirin Ghaffary and Alex Kantrowitz launched on February 16, with new episodes dropping every Tuesday. The opening is promising. “Google was supposed to be the happiest of the tech giants,” says Ghaffary in the trailer, “the one with the colourful logo and the fun doodles.” Kantrowitz adds: “And a really ambitious vision.” But does it really “do no evil”? For anyone with an interest in technology, entertainment and the Internet, the podcast explores the societal impact of these companies. Overall, I found season 1 more thoughtful and less celebratory. While I would recommend listening to the entire series, my favourite episodes were: Alexa, what’s Amazon doing inside my house? (season 1, episode 2) and Did the algorithm make you watch Tiger King? (season 2, episode 3). Questions we certainly need to ask. The Hyderabad-based writer and academic is a neatnik fighting a losing battle with the clutter in her head.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/land-of-the-giants/article33892670.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Magic mountains||In 2020, we should have celebrated the 70th anniversary of India-China’s diplomatic relations, instead it will be remembered for the skirmishes in the Himalayas. Though bilateral ties have been overshadowed by the crisis, there is a whole new world to explore as far as China is concerned, and Shivaji Das takes readers on a journey to the western Sichuan region and the Tibetan highlands in his travelogue, The ‘Other’ Shangri La . Like a dream   It is a fascinating account of the incredible beauty and culture of the region where the Tibetan plateau merges into China and also the myths and legends of Tibet. The author takes the reader into a dream-like tour of Tibet’s magical mountain peaks and the beauty of its people. He blends simple history, well known anecdotes and personal experience to bring to life Tibet as well as Tibetan-Chinese daily exchanges to the reader without over burdening it with politics. Das describes Tibet’s famed monasteries and their legends. At Chonggu Gompa, also known as ‘Bandit Monastery’, he and his wife meet a group of monks who are sunbathing, dropping no hint of a boisterous past. The monastery has a reputation of being an abode of notorious criminals who despite being career-monks terrorised neighbouring areas. It is now known for ‘miracles’ and “sometimes the face of Manjushri, the bodhisattva of great wisdom, suddenly appears in these mountains.” Equally interesting is the introduction to Tibet’s famous peaks like Jambeyang which at 5,958 metres is one of the tallest peaks in the world. But it is the appearance of the mountain that the author presents in an evocative manner — “A sharp pointed beauty, looking like a magician’s wand hidden behind a white handkerchief.” Then and now   Writings on Tibet and western Sichuan are rare and the last time we read such an evocative narrative was perhaps Vikram Seth’s From Heaven Lake (1983) where he introduced the natural splendour of Tibet as well as the bureaucratic machinery of China. The book by Das is an easier read in comparison which shows that despite the decades in between, the other-worldly beauty of Tibet remains unspoilt. However, there are significant differences between then and now. In Das’s narrative, Tibet is infrastructurally better placed. He writes about his visit to Daocheng which at 4,411 metres is one of the highest airports in the world. The airport is used for faster travel to Sichuan which is well known for its cuisine all over the world. The accounts of Sichuan are different from Tibet but show the connection between mainland China and the Tibetan Autonomous Region. While Sichuan is brimming with its spice and western influence, Tibet has played a key role in drawing tourism to the region as showcased by the vast presence of the famous caterpillar fungus in airport shops which are consumed in great quantity these days across China. The section on Sertar in Tibet, one of the greatest and surreal cities known for the practice of Tibetan Buddhism, is perhaps the high point of the book. The author and his Singapore-based Chinese wife, Lobo, also experienced the playful side of the inhabitants. One evening, a bunch of young Tibetans, who had had too much to drink, saw the author and “pounced” on him — all for a photograph with an Indian. Lobo was temporarily worried. The book reminds us that people-to-people exchanges can still salvage relations between the two Asian giants.  The ‘Other’ Shangri-La  Shivaji Das  Konark Publishers  Rs. 299||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/magic-mountains/article33892647.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||All the way||North’s raise to five hearts asked South to go on to slam if he held a second round or better control in the opponent’s suit, in this case diamonds. Holding first-round control, South felt he was entitled to go all the way. Could he make it? South won the opening diamond lead with his ace and cashed the ace of hearts. He crossed to dummy by leading the seven of hearts to dummy’s nine, drawing the last trump at the same time. He cashed the ace of spades, discarding a club, and ruffed a spade high. South led his three of hearts to dummy’s four and ruffed another spade. Dummy was entered once more with a club to the ace and another spade was ruffed. Alas the suit did not split 4-4, but West holding five spades was just as good. After another heart, this was the position: (Grid 2) Knowing that West had the last spade and East the last diamond made it easy. South cashed his last heart. West had to shed a club to keep the high spade, at which point dummy’s spade was discarded. East also had to discard a club to keep the high diamond, and dummy’s kingtwo of clubs took the last two tricks. Well played!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/all-the-way/article33892665.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Attention and applause are addictive||The fear of applause dying down drives people to go to unbelievable extents. A constant effort to get continuous unfettered attention, never-ending moments under the sun. The little girl won’t eat, dress, sleep, study or even go to play if asked to, doing exactly opposite to what is suggested. Get her the favourite red dress, and her patriotism changes to blue. Try to surprise her with her favourite chocolate, and her typical response would be, “but I wanted an ice-cream”. She won’t smile when everyone does, but would surely start off a temper tantrum, throwing everyone off track. When the wobbling, confused family regains balance, she will showcase her cutest smile. As young, confused parents as we were once, many won’t know what to do with such odd behaviour of a child. If the birth of a child means a small earthquake to the parents, the arrival of a sibling was like a tsunami to my daughter, her dictatorial regime giving way to a warlord, our new son. We never expected it to happen to her, who, we believed, had the best of everything. “Why should she be unhappy,” I asked myself. But what I failed to fathom was the deep-seated worry inside her growing, confused mind, trying to find ways to get attention. The fear of loss of attention and applause was so intense that she was ready to forgo her favourite chocolate or the red dress. Fake news Next emerged the storyline. “My friend fell into a ditch on the school playground and could not get out for a long time.” This worried us about the lack of responsibility among schoolteachers. After a pause, we were relieved to hear the rest of the story. “And then another five of my friends fell one by one; we left them and came home.” It’s the child’s way of catching attention. On social media, we call it fake news. The sibling rivalry passes off peacefully for most. As they grow up, they learn the “play, fight, cry, complain, punishment, hug” routine, playing in an endless loop. But a study has shown that as people turn 60, the death rate suddenly jumps up in industrialised societies. This is because after retirement, many revisit the fear of lack of attention, instead of living stress-free lives. A relentlessly tweeting President or a soft-spoken doctor somewhere, everyone craves for attention. Deep in the obscure corner of the human mind, unknown to us, lurks the secret fear of the dying applause. Statutory warning: “Attention is addictive; may cause serious withdrawal effects.” tinynair@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/attention-and-applause-are-addictive/article33892611.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Sedition everywhere||After the controversial arrest of climate activist Disha Ravi, the Delhi Police also got warrants issued against advocate Nikita Jacob and her associate Shantanu Muluk, who later got transit anticipatory bail. They are accused of working with the Canada-based Poetic Justice Foundation to create an allegedly seditious protest toolkit. The police’s actions were widely lambasted, with irregularities alleged in Ravi’s arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sedition-everywhere/article33892603.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Priya acquitted||A Delhi court acquitted journalist Priya Ramani (left) in a defamation case filed by M.J. Akbar, former Union Minister, whom she had accused of sexual harassment at the height of the #MeToo movement. Ramani had named Akbar in a tweet in October 2018. “Women have the right to put their grievances at any platform of their choice and even after decades,” the court said. Ramani said she felt “vindicated on behalf of all the women who have ever spoken out against sexual harassment at the workplace.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/priya-acquitted/article33892605.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Falling dominoes||Puducherry’s Congress-DMK government lost its majority in the legislative assembly with the resignations of former health minister Malladi Krishna Rao and MLA A. John Kumar. This left the government at parity with the opposition N.R. Congress-AIADMK-BJP alliance, but chief minister V. Narayanasamy rejected calls to step down. Soon afterwards, President Ram Nath Kovind removed Lieutenant-Governor Kiran Bedi (in pic) from office and gave Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan additional charge of Puducherry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/falling-dominoes/article33892607.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||U.S. freezes||Millions were left without power and 21 people died as subfreezing temperatures swept through the U.S. Texas witnessed the worst power cuts that affected four million homes and businesses on Tuesday. Another four million people were left without power in Mexico. Deaths were reported in North Carolina, Texas, Louisiana, Kentucky and Missouri from house fires, car crashes and carbon monoxide poisoning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/us-freezes/article33892609.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Club You to Death||Anuja Chauhan  HarperCollins India Rs. 399 A personal trainer is found asphyxiated to death under a barbell at the posh Delhi Turf Club and one of the members of DTC is a cold-blooded killer. As the city bristles with conspiracy theories, Crime Branch veteran ACP Bhavani Singh is appointed to investigate the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/club-you-to-death/article33892623.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Civil Lines||Radhika Swarup  Simon & Schuster India Rs. 499 Rupa Sharma dreamt of women’s lib. When she dies leaving behind a crumbling Lutyens’ bungalow, her daughter Siya travels to Delhi to join her estranged sister, Maya. The sisters chance upon a mysterious note, which unravels dreams, secrets and their mother’s shattered vision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/civil-lines/article33892634.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Oonga||Devashish Makhija  Tulika Rs. 295 Exposing the dystopia of development, this tale is about a little Dongria Kondh boy, Oonga. When gun-wielding demons abduct the village’s idealistic teacher, Hemla didi, Oonga gets into the role of his favourite mythological character, Rama, to rescue her. Based on the critically acclaimed 2013 film.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/oonga/article33892636.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Arzu||Riva Razdan  Hachette India Rs. 399 It is 1991, the time of India’s economic liberalisation. Arzu, the pampered daughter of a newspaper mogul, finds the situation tense. She escapes to New York and discovers independence for the first time. She gets an idea that could change an entire industry back home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/arzu/article33892638.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||This World below Zero Fahrenheit||Suhas Munshi  Penguin Random House  Rs. 499 On August 5, 2019, the Centre withdrew the special status Jammu and Kashmir enjoyed under Article 370, and carved up the State into two Union Territories. Through travels across the Valley, Munshi gives a sense of what that moment meant to the people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/this-world-below-zero-fahrenheit/article33892640.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The Soul of a Woman||Isabel Allende  Bloomsbury  Rs. 599 What do women want? Allende draws up a list which includes safety and control over their bodies. On all fronts, there is work to be done, and she hopes that her book will light the torch for future generations to carry on till it is finished.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-soul-of-a-woman/article33892649.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The Shudras: Vision for a New Path||Kancha Ilaiah Shepherd, Karthik Raja Karuppusamy  Penguin Random House  Rs. 699 This volume weaves together multiple dimensions of the predicament of Shudras. It reformulates their current position as well as future pathways. It strives to provoke Shudras, including regional political party leaders, to realise their unique historical role.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-shudras-vision-for-a-new-path/article33892651.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Under a White Sky||Elizabeth Kolbert  Penguin Random House  Rs. 732 (Kindle price) Can human beings save nature? A writer on the environment takes a look at a new world being created. Besides biologists and researchers, Kolbert meets physicists who are contemplating shooting tiny diamonds into the stratosphere to cool the earth, changing the sky from blue to white.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/under-a-white-sky/article33892653.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3138||Across  1 Dire moments represented in Chaplin classic? (6,5) 9 Every now and then, organist has dairy dish (5) 10 ‘Listen: I get votes. Listen: “masses”’ ... (3,6) 11 ... empower crazy nut as leader? Indefensible (9) 12 Some Hindu calendar concerning a nobleman (5) 13 Student, not so clean, loses money, gets more lean (7) 15 Nowadays, character from Nato goes around boasting (7) 17 Fried horse contains a little taste of umami (7) 19 Book of little weight to cause injury (7) 21 You Trekkies suppress too much (5) 23 Campanologist feigned bad mood (9) 25 Low-quality Spanish wine consumed by personnel (5-4) 26 Resembling gold. Containing uranium. Shame (5) 27 Household appliance increasingly warped as animals found inside (6-5)  Down  1 In France, Everyman gathers up water (7) 2 With end removed, India paper rolled into tube (9) 3 Expressions of frustration and uncertainty arising in health facility (5) 4 Something seen in bathroom; big tale to unfold (6,3) 5 Pet noisily bellowed (5) 6 Sail cut off somewhere in the W. Indies (2,5) 7 Looks for problems, finding Russian cash, heroin, cocaine’s all around (13) 8 I’ll buy soot for reunion; make the most of it (4,4,5) 14 Where Lenin may be seen as bloody bourgeois (3,6) 16 In the morning, a spirit loudly evacuated, causing astonishment (9) 18 Finally, John Woo put reboots all in the past (2,2,3) 20 Less decisive omnivore, not very prone to change (7) 22 Primarily, essentially, that habitual organisational spirit? (5) 24 In advance, or yet to come? (5)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3138/article33892668.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Challenges in developing, testing vaccines against variants||With the emergence of three variants less than two months after the first COVID-19 vaccine was approved for emergency use, all companies have begun making booster shots or tweaking the existing vaccine based on the new variants. Dr. Gagandeep Kang, Professor of Microbiology at CMC Vellore and a vaccine expert explains in an email the challenges in developing and testing newer vaccines to keep pace with the emergence of new variants. Edited excerpts:  What are the main challenges in developing and testing booster vaccine doses to address the new variants? Each variant (and many more beyond the first three that have been widely reported in the last couple of months) will need to be evaluated to see whether the variant has mutations in sites known to affect the antibody response. Because we have good structural models now, this is feasible in silico (or studying structures on a computer). If variants are found that might affect the immune response, then we will need to validate this information in real life. Doing this in humans in phase-3 trials is going to be very difficult if not impossible, so we will have to develop methods that can be done faster. One example of an approach would be to carry out challenge studies in animals, where animals immunised with the version of the vaccine to be tested are challenged with the variant virus. There have been experiments in primates, but not with the variant strains, where it was shown that a low level of antibodies is required for protection, but also that if antibody responses are less than needed then cellular immune responses may also contribute to protection. So we could hypothesise that in case of a variant, what was an effective antibody response could become less effective in terms of antibodies, but the cellular immune system could come to the rescue, but this will need to be tested. How easy is to produce and test a booster vaccine using the mRNA platform? Should the booster vaccine be tested on thousands of participants? Designing the vaccine requires the sequences of the variants. While we can predict which variants are likely to matter for antibody binding and neutralisation, there will be a need to validate the results. The design of the vaccine can be done in a few days, and production of the vaccine is a matter of a few weeks. But after that, knowing whether a vaccine works will require a testing strategy that has not been defined yet. It is highly unlikely that we will be repeating phase-3 studies for every new vaccine based on a variant strain, but we do need alternative regulatory pathways, and most likely these will involve hundreds rather than tens of thousands of people. If we had an immune correlate of protection, where a biological specimen, most likely blood, from a vaccinated person could be tested to show that the person was protected from disease, that would make it easier. But would we need a separate correlate for each variant virus? At the moment, we do not know. Can AstraZeneca/Serum’s vector-based vaccine be redesigned to develop a booster dose? How easy will it be to develop a booster dose using the platform? Yes, the AstraZeneca vaccine is easy to redesign as a booster based on a variant strain, and the time taken will not be much longer than for mRNA vaccines. Redesigning and making the vaccine is not the major hurdle. We need to figure ways of being reasonably sure that the vaccine will work in humans, and preferably against old and new variants. This is feasible to do – in many vaccines the first dose of the vaccine induces a response to the virus on which the vaccine is based, called a homologous response. With further doses, the immune response becomes more able to recognise a wider range of viruses – this is called a heterologous response. What we would like to induce with the smallest number of doses is a protection against a wide range of viruses – old and new variants. Will a separate booster dose be required for each variant in the case of Covaxin? Will the inactivated whole virus platform be better at protecting against variants and be required to go through all stages of clinical testing? We do not know. What is known is that vaccines that are based on the whole spike protein work, and work well. For inactivated vaccines, we expect that immune response that is induced will be against many proteins, including the spike. Does this mean that the vaccine will be more protective? It is feasible that additional immune response might induce a T cell response that could contribute to further protection, but that has not been shown at this time. At the moment, we do not know what protects and how well, but we do know that vaccines based on the spike protect against disease, so it is not essential to have an immune response against other parts of the virus to induce protection. If the most important protein for inducing protection is the spike, then if an inactivated vaccine was made using an older variant with one kind of spike structure, why should we expect it to protect against a virus with a different spike? When a vaccine is based on a whole virus, and we need a new version of the vaccine, is that a new vaccine and does it require a full evaluation through all the phases of testing? So far the only vaccine for which new versions, including inactivated vaccines, have been permitted to be licensed based on limited human testing are vaccines where we have a good understanding of what constitutes protective immunity or influenza vaccines – where annually updated vaccines are made. In general, will booster vaccines be required to undergo phase-3 testing? I do not think new phase-3 trials will be required – proving variant-specific efficacy will be a logistic nightmare and very expensive, so we will need to have better ways for regulators to evaluate new vaccines on any platform. I think we will need phase-1 and phase-2 studies of safety and immunogenicity. Can vaccine development and testing keep pace with variant emergence? Not every variant requires a new vaccine. The D614G mutation emerged in early 2020 and became globally dominant, but vaccines based on older variants protect, and protect well. We can design a new vaccine in days, produce small amounts in weeks and test in weeks or months. The duration of testing requires a regulatory pathway – how much testing will be needed to approve a new vaccine. Manufacturing at scale can take several months, but again when a vaccine is a modification going into an established process, this is not impossible. Influenza vaccines developed each year do not undergo fresh trials? Why is it so and can the same strategy be deployed for vaccines produced against SARS-CoV-2 variants? Influenza vaccines are decided based on strains recommended by WHO twice a year for northern and southern hemisphere vaccines. They require animal studies in ferrets and small safety and immunogenicity studies, based on measurement of antibodies. If we had a reasonable antibody measurement which could reflect protection, then we could potentially follow a similar strategy for SARS-CoV-2. How well will a fully vaccinated person respond to a vaccine against a new variant? Will the original antigenic sin come into play and not be effective against the new variant? Original antigenic sin depends on the antigen which induced the immune response, and as far as I know should not differ between mRNA vaccines or spike-based protein vaccine (unless the adjuvant differs). With the mRNA vaccines, we know that the antibodies induced by older variants have decreased but not absent activity against the variants. Unlike other infections, where a worry is that the original response might trap the immune system into an ineffective response, that does not appear to be the case at this time for [SARS-CoV-2] infection or vaccination, but we will need to do the evaluations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/challenges-in-developing-testing-vaccines-against-variants/article33892776.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Wettest place on Earth sees decreasing trend in rainfall||The quiet, sleepy, yet mesmerising village of Mawsynram trounced Cherrapunji to become the wettest place in the world. Mawsynram receives over 10,000 millimetres of rain in a year. Decreasing trend A recent study that looked at the rainfall pattern in the past 119 years found a decreasing trend at Cherrapunji and nearby areas. The team analysed daily rain gauge measurements during 1901–2019, and noted that the changes in the Indian Ocean temperature have a huge effect on the rainfall in the region. They also analysed satellite data and add that there was a reduction in the vegetation area in northeast India in the past two decades, implying that human influence also plays an important role in the changing rainfall patterns. “The traditional way of cultivation known as Jhum cultivation or shifting cultivation is now decreased and being replaced by other methods. Also, previous studies have noted there is sizable deforestation in the region. Our study also saw the decrease in vegetation cover and increase in the areas of cropland mainly from the year 2006 onwards,” says Jayanarayanan Kuttippurath from Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur. He is the lead author of the paper published last month in Environmental Research Letters.  Increase in cropland The analysis showed reductions in vegetation with 104.5 sqkm lost per year. On the other hand, there were significant increases in crop-land (182.1 sqkm per year) and urban and built-up lands (0.3 sqkm per year) during the period 2001–2018. The team noted that the annual mean rainfall for the period 1973–2019 showed decreasing trends of about 0.42 mm per decade. It was statistically significant along seven stations (Agartala, Cherrapunji, Guwahati, Kailashahar, Pasighat, Shillong and Silchar). But why study the northeast region? The team writes that since northeast India is mostly hilly and is an extension of the Indo-Gangetic Plains, the region is highly sensitive to changes in regional and global climate. “It has to be noted that the first signs of the effect of climate change will be evident for the extreme cases such as the rainfall at Cherrapunji,” adds the paper. “Northeast India has the highest vegetation cover in India and includes 18 biodiversity hotspots of the world, indicating the importance of the region in terms of its greenery and climate-change sensitivity.” Rainfall patterns The team is currently looking at the changes in rainfall patterns across India. “We need to conserve the vegetation or forest area, biodiversity parks, the hills and valleys in the northeast. Also, solid water management strategies are inevitable to combat climate-induced changes of water bodies and ground water. Long-term plans are necessary,” adds Prof. Kuttippurath.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/wettest-place-on-earth-sees-decreasing-trend-in-rainfall/article33892763.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||An estimate of WASH across healthcare facilities in India||The status of WASH (water, sanitation and hygiene) in healthcare facilities is an important issue in development. In an article published recently in BMJ Global Health, researchers from Center for Disease Dynamics, Economics and Policy (CDDEP), Maryland, US, have estimated the cost of ensuring WASH and taking related steps for infection prevention and control for one year in healthcare facilities in all of India. They estimate that improving WASH across the pubic healthcare facilities in India and maintaining this for a year would cost $354 million (Rs 2567,00,00,000 approximately) in capital costs and $289 million (Rs 2095,00,00,000 approximately) in recurrent expenses. The study further finds that the most costly interventions were providing clean water, linen reprocessing and sanitation while the least expensive were hand hygiene, medical device reprocessing and environmental surface cleaning. A 2019 joint global baseline report by WHO and UNICEF had pointed out that globally, one in four healthcare facilities lacked basic water servicing and one in five had no sanitation service and 42% had no hygiene facilities at point of care. Impact of WASH A WHO document on WASH in healthcare facilities points out that 8,27,000 people in low- and middle-income countries die as a result of inadequate water, sanitation and hygiene each year. Also, death of 2,97,000 children under five years can be prevented each year if better WASH could be provided. On a positive note, a 2012 WHO report had calculated that for every dollar invested in sanitation, there was $5.50 to be gained in lower health costs, more productivity and fewer premature deaths. Worthy goal It is noteworthy that ensuring availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation to all is one of the 2030 sustainable development goals of the WHO.  Given this context, the India study by CDDEP comes as a welcome first-level estimate. “The goal of our study was to gather estimates of unit costs for each intervention service unit from which we extrapolated facility wide costs,” says Katie K. Tseng of CDDEP, the first author of the study, in an email to The Hindu. “In our calculation of national cost estimates, the proportion of healthcare facilities requiring intervention were estimated primarily from literature and not from surveyed healthcare facilities,” she says. Inadequacies in proving WASH and also lack of infection prevention and control can lead to healthcare associated infections. Some of the pathogens to look out for are Acinetobacter baumannii, Enterococcus faecalis, Escherichia coli, Salmonella typhi, Streptococcus pneumoniae and many more. “These pathogens are commonly implicated as causative agents of healthcare associated infections because of their ability to develop resistance to antibiotics. Common healthcare associated infections include central-line-associated bloodstream infections, catheter-associated urinary tract infections, surgical site infections and ventilator-associated pneumonia,” says Dr. Tseng. Antimicrobial resistance In the fight against the spread of antimicrobial resistance too, the importance of prevention of infections cannot be overemphasised. “This study was a part of a larger project to determine the cost-effectiveness of WASH interventions to reduce healthcare-associated infections among mother and neonates across the Indian healthcare system,” says Jyoti Joshi of CDDEP, another author of the paper. According to her, while this study forms the starting point for larger costing estimates, it also highlights the need for a concerted effort from local bodies, State and Central governments to sustainably address quality and inequality issues in WASH provision. “We believe our findings show that addressing gaps in WASH across the Indian healthcare system is not only within the realm of possibility in terms of affordability – when compared to other national health campaigns – but can also be combined with other national efforts to address health priorities such as antimicrobial resistance,” she says. “The intersection between WASH, infection prevention and control and antimicrobial resistance is unique in that it offers policy makers an opportunity to address multiple overlapping problems through interventions on WASH in healthcare facilities,” she adds.  Addressing gaps in WASH across the Indian healthcare system is not only within the realm of possibility in terms of affordability... but can also be combined with other national efforts to address health priorities. Jyoti Joshi CDDEP, U.S.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/an-estimate-of-wash-across-healthcare-facilities-in-india/article33892766.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Perseverance to search for signs of life||NASA’s most advanced Mars rover, Perseverance, successfully touched down on the Martian surface on Friday, in a nail-biting landing, the first step in the search for signs of ancient microbial life on Mars. Packed with groundbreaking technology, the Mars 2020 mission launched on July 30, last year, from Cape Canaveral Space Force Station in Florida, US. The rover streaked through the Martian atmosphere and landed safely inside the vast Jezero Crater. after travelling for 203 days and traversing 472 million kilometres, the US space agency said. The touchdown is the first step in the effort to collect Mars samples and return them to Earth, NASA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/perseverance-to-search-for-signs-of-life/article33892764.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Life beneath the freeze||British scientists have found (Science Advances) that lakes underneath the Antarctic ice sheet could be more hospitable than previously thought, and can host more microbial life. More than 400 ‘subglacial’ lakes have been discovered beneath the Antarctic ice sheet, many of which have been isolated from each other and the atmosphere for millions of years. Researchers drilled into two small subglacial lakes at the edge of the ice sheet, where water can rapidly flow in or out and found microbial life beneath. The lakes being cut off from sunlight, they derive their energy not through photosynthesis but by processing certain chemicals found in sediments on the lake beds. Since the sediments are found only on the lake bed, the water mixing is required so that the sediments are evenly distributed. While water in surface lakes gets mixed by the action of wind and convection currents due to the sun’s heat, the team found that in the lakes beneath the Antarctic, ice mix is due to geothermals — rising from the interior of the Earth and generated by the combination of heat left over from the formation of the planet and the decay of radioactive elements. “The water in lakes is not still and motionless; the flow of water is quite dynamic, enough to cause fine sediment to be suspended in the water. With dynamic flow of water, the entire body of water may be habitable, even if more life remains focused on the floors,” Louis Couston from the University of Lyon and the British Antarctic Survey and one of the authors of the study said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/life-beneath-the-freeze/article33892765.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Conclusive land titling and its challenges||The story so far: The Centre wants to reform the country’s land markets through a fundamental legal and procedural shift in how land titles are awarded. In 2020, even as laws for farm reform and labour code reform were being enacted, the government’s think tank, NITI Aayog, took steps to initiate land reforms. A Model Bill on Conclusive Land Titling was sent to States and Union Territories last June seeking their comments. In September, after many States failed to send in their feedback, the Centre warned that their agreement would be presumed. How does the current system work and what will change in the new system? India currently follows a system of presumptive land titling. This means that land records are maintained, with information on possession, which is determined through details of past transactions. Ownership, then, is established on the basis of current possession. Registration of land is actually a registration of transactions, such as sale deeds, records of inheritance, mortgage and lease. Holding registration papers does not actually involve the government or the legal framework guaranteeing the ownership title of the land. On the other hand, under a conclusive land titling system, land records designate actual ownership. The title is granted by the government, which takes the responsibility for accuracy. Once a title is granted, any other claimant will have to settle disputes with the government, not the title holder. Further, under conclusive land titling, the government may provide compensation to claimants in case of disputes, but the title holder is not in any danger of losing ownership, says agricultural economist T. Haque, who chaired the Special Cell on Land Policy at NITI Aayog which recommended a shift to conclusive titling in a 2017 report. Why is conclusive land titling needed? The main advantage is that a conclusive system will drastically lower litigation related to land. According to a 2007 World Bank study on ‘Land Policies for growth and poverty reduction’, land-related disputes accounted for two-thirds of all pending court cases in India. A NITI Aayog study on strengthening arbitration estimated that disputes on land or real estate take an average time of 20 years in the courts to be resolved. “Right now, because land titles are based on transactions, people have to keep the entire chain of transaction records, and a dispute on any link in that chain causes ambiguity in ownership,” says Dr. Haque. He says the potential impact is extensive. “Once conclusive titling is in place, investors who want to purchase land for business activities will be able to do so without facing the constant risk that their ownership may be questioned and their entire investment may go to waste,” he says, noting that the spectre of long-running court cases currently stifles the appetite for investment in many sectors of the economy. “The idea is to promote an active land market,” he adds. Land disputes and unclear titling also create hurdles for infrastructure development and housing construction, leading to costly delays and inefficiency. In cities, urban local bodies depend on property taxes that can be levied properly only if there is clear ownership data available. Ambiguity in ownership also results in a black market for land transactions, which deprives the government of taxes. In rural areas, the need is even more acute. Access to agricultural credit is dependent on the ability to use land as collateral. Without being able to prove their ownership of land and access formal credit from banks, small and marginal farmers are often left at the mercy of unscrupulous moneylenders, entrenching themselves in a mountain of debt. What does the model Bill propose? The Bill circulated by the NITI Aayog in 2020 calls for Land Authorities to be set up by each State government, which will appoint a Title Registration Officer (TRO) to prepare and publish a draft list of land titles based on existing records and documents. This will be considered a valid notice to all potential claimants interested in the property, who will have to file their claims or objections within a set period of time. If disputing claims are received, the TRO will verify all the relevant documents and refer the case to a Land Dispute Resolution Officer (LDRO) for resolution. However, disputes which are already pending in courts cannot be resolved in this way. Having considered and resolved all the disputed claims, the Land Authority will publish a Record of Titles. Over a three-year period, these titles and the decisions of the TRO and the LDRO can be challenged before Land Titling Appellate Tribunals, which will be set up under the law. After a three-year period, entries in the Record of Titles will be considered conclusive proof of ownership. Further appeals can only be taken up in High Courts.  What are the difficulties? “The biggest challenge is that land records have not been updated for decades, especially in rural and semi-urban areas. Land records are often in the name of the grandparents of the current owner, with no proof of inheritance. Unless they are based on updated records, conclusive land titles could create even more problems,” says Dr. Haque. He says comprehensive village-level surveys with community involvement are a necessary precursor to the land titling process. Relying on current records or even satellite imagery will not provide the same accuracy as actual, on-the-ground, local surveys. However, local governments have not been provided with the resources or manpower to conduct such surveys, says Dr. Haque. If surveys are not conducted, the onus falls on village claimants, many of whom have no access to documentation, to proactively challenge the titling during the three-year period.  A conclusive system is expected to drastically lower litigationrelatedto land. A NITI Aayog study estimated that disputes on land or real estate take an average time of 20 years in courts to be resolved||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/conclusive-land-titling-and-its-challenges/article33892687.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The road map for reducing public sector role||The story so far: Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, in her Budget speech for 2021-22, announced a new policy for central public sector enterprises (CPSEs), which she said will serve as a clear roadmap for disinvestment of government-owned firms across sectors. “We have kept four areas that are strategic where bare minimum CPSEs will be maintained and rest privatised. In the remaining sectors, all CPSEs will be privatised,” the Minister said.  What goes outside government control? The government had revealed the broad contours of the policy in May 2020 as part of the Atmanirbhar Bharat package unveiled in the initial stages of the COVID-19 pandemic. The strategic sectors identified at the time for retaining certain public sector entities within the government’s control remain the same in the final policy approved by the Cabinet. These are atomic energy, space and defence, transport and telecommunications, power, petroleum, coal and other minerals, and lastly, banking, insurance and financial services. While the initial plan was to retain one to four public sector firms in these sectors, this has now been replaced by the phrase “bare minimum presence”. Once the government decides what is the bare minimum number of firms it wants to retain, the rest of the firms will be privatised, merged or subsidiarised with other CPSEs, or closed. For all firms in sectors considered non-strategic, privatisation or closure are the only two options being considered. The policy’s objective is to minimise the public sector’s role and create new investment space for the private sector, in the hope that the infusion of private capital, technology and management practices will contribute to growth and new jobs. The proceeds from the sale of these firms would finance various government-run social sector and developmental programmes.  Why is this significant? A bold push for disinvestment of the public sector was expected soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi assumed office in May 2014 and announced that the government had “no business to be in business”. This was seen as a clear intent to privatise a huge chunk of India’s large public sector, a legacy from post-Independence policies that placed government firms at the ‘commanding heights’ of the economy. However, the first term saw little activity by the government on this front, barring an aborted attempt to sell 76% of its stake in the loss-ridden national carrier Air India. A few public sector enterprises were merged with other PSEs and the proceeds from the transactions counted as disinvestment proceeds in the government’s accounts. In its second innings, however, there has been some enthusiasm to privatise, with a fresh push to sell Air India(lock stock and barrel,with 100% stake sale), followed by Maharatna oil PSU Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd. (BPCL), and the likes of Shipping Corporation of India, Container Corporation of India and Pawan Hans. The process for those sales is under way, although timelines and investor interest were affected by the pandemic. However, the process indicated a piecemeal approach to privatisation and created uncertainty. The new policy is significant as it goes beyond such an approach and lays down a rationale for deciding the future ownership pattern of 439 CPSEs, including their subsidiaries. For instance, it is now clear that 151 public sector firms in non-strategic sectors (including 83 holding companies and 68 subsidiaries) will either be closed or sold. The policy also brings public sector banks and insurance entities into the disinvestment ambit for the first time.  How is this different from policies in the past? This is the first time since 2004 that India is working on a slew of privatisation deals. Earlier, the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government between 1999 and 2004 had managed to sell off majority stakes in a dozen-odd public sector enterprises, including Modern Foods, Balco, Hindustan Zinc, VSNL and a few hotels. A separate Ministry had been formed just for disinvestment, led initially by the late Arun Jaitley and then by Arun Shourie, who drove the process. An attempt to sell Air India at the time had, however, got stalled in the face of a political outcry. Prior to that, the early 1990s saw the stock market listing of minority stakes in a bunch of public sector firms, a policy that was replayed when the UPA government was in office from 2004 to 2014. The new policy goes beyond the Vajpayee-era privatisation drive, which was limited to a ‘case-by-case’ sale of entities in non-strategic sectors, by stressing that even strategic sectors will have a ‘bare minimum’ presence of government-owned firms.  What is likely to be sold? The government hopes to conclude the sale of Air India, BPCL and some other entities, where some progress has already been made over the past year. Ms. Sitharaman also promised the sale of two more public sector banks and a general insurance player in her Budget speech, along with plans to list the Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) of India on the stock markets. The Union Budget has estimated Rs. 1.75 lakh crore as receipts from PSU stake sales in the year, compared to its target of Rs. 2.10 lakh crore for 2020-21, of which just about Rs. 20,000 crore has been raised so far. However, the Finance Ministry mandarins are confident of achieving next year’s target.  What is the proposed process for selecting the CPSEs to be sold or retained? The NITI Aayog has been entrusted with suggesting which public sector firms in strategic sectors should be retained, considered for privatisation or merger or ‘subsidiarisation’ with another public sector firm, or simply closed. A core group of secretaries on disinvestment will consider the NITI Aayog’s suggestions and forward its views to a ministerial group. Apart from the Finance Minister, the group will include Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari and the minister in charge of the administrative ministry of the public sector enterprise concerned. After the ministerial group’s nod, the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management in the Finance Ministry will move a proposal to the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs for an ‘in-principle’ nod to sell specific CPSEs. The NITI Aayog is expected to soon formalise its recommendations on which of the 77 public sector companies in strategic sectors should remain with the government. Public sector firms and corporations engaged in activities allied to the farm sector, such as providing seeds to farmers, or the procurement and distribution of food for public distribution, will not be privatised. Similarly, the policy excludes departments with commercial operations like Railways and Posts, firms making appliances for the physically challenged, and those providing support to vulnerable groups through financing of SCs, STs, minorities and backward classes. CPSES “maintaining critical data having a bearing on national security”, security printing and minting companies, will also be retained in the public sector.  What are the risk factors? The turmoil in the global economy could impact the valuations of firms being privatised, as many potential investors may not have the appetite for bidding in these times. The prospect of post-deal scrutiny by audit and investigating agencies, like the CAG (Comptroller and Auditor General of India) and the CBI, will be a source of worry for officials, with similar cases pertaining to the Vajpayee-era transactions still cropping up in courts. Lastly, as economist Pronab Sen has warned, privatisation is a good idea, but doing it during a recession may dampen economic recovery as investors will end up buying existing capacities instead of embarking on fresh investments.  In her Budget speech, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman promised the sale of two more public sector banks and a general insurance player, along with plans to list the Life Insurance Corporation of India on the stock markets||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-road-map-for-reducing-public-sector-role/article33892691.ece
21 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Dental clinic at Singhu border will be among first to get ACs||The free dental clinic at the Singhu border protest site, which has been running since the agitation began, is set to become one of the first facilities to instal air conditioners to beat the heat. On Saturday, the clinic started installing semi-permanent structures that will act as a waiting room for patients as well as a stall from where free medicine will be distributed. Sarabhjit Kaur, a volunteer at the dental clinic said, “We have been providing services since the very beginning. Due to the gradually changing weather, it has become very difficult to distribute medicines in the open. So we decided to build a structure out here where we will instal air conditioners. This space will also act as a waiting room for the patients and they will not be exposed to direct sunlight.” The farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s three farm laws is now a few days short of the three-month mark. The past couple of months saw the protesting farmers brave the harsh winters and remain stationed on the highway.  Other medical camps and the 24X7 hospital which is functional at the border said that there were plans to add layers of cloth above the existing tents to provide respite from the heat. Jagter Singh, a volunteer at the hospital run by Life Care Foundation said, “As of now, it is only in the afternoons that the mercury is rising so we have been able to manage well. However, once the temperature rises further, we will put another layer of fabric above the tents to bring down the temperature within the tents.” “We will not be able to put air conditioners as it is an open tent. However provisions for coolers can be made. We have another similar set-up a few kilometres away from the main stage. Even there, same arrangements will be done above the tents to ensure respite from the heat,” added Mr. Singh. Shahjahan, another staff nurse at a medical camp near the main stage said, “A week ago, we got fans installed inside the tents. As and when the need arises, similar provisions will keep getting added.” Nihang Sikhs rally Earlier in the day, Nihang Sikhs took out a march demanding the release of those arrested for the Republic Day violence, including Deep Sidhu. Gurbaaj Singh from Amritsar said, “For the last few months we have been here fighting not just for the farmers but for the labourers as well. It seems like the government is on a mission to privatise everything. There is not a shred of democracy left in this country, especially the manner in which people were arrested after the January 26 incident.” “People got arrested without any cause whatsoever. What had Deep Sidhu done? The national flag was never touched and in fact the other flag is simply our religious symbol,” said Mr. Singh. In another development, concertina wires were put up near the second barricade at the Singhu border, which is nearly a kilometre away from the main stage.  Due to the gradually changing weather, it has become very difficult to distribute medicines out in the open  Sarabhjit Kaur  Volunteer at the dental clinic||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dental-clinic-at-singhu-border-will-be-among-first-to-get-acs/article33892956.ece
21 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man bludgeons teen to death for refusing to marry him||A 17-year-old girl was bludgeoned to death at her residence in Rohini’s Begumpur on Friday night for allegedly refusing to marry the accused, the police said. DCP (Rohini) P.K. Mishra said the accused has been identified as Laik Khan (25), a factory worker in Bawana. The victim was a Class 11 dropout. “A case under Section 302 [punishment for murder] of the IPC has been registered and teams have been formed to find the accused,” Mr. Mishra said. A senior officer said the victim and her family used to earlier live in Bawana and Laik’s family used to be their neighbour. “The two families were close, but a year ago, the girl’s family moved to Begumpur and started living in Begum Vihar. They were in contact with each other,” the officer said. During dinner Laik used to often visit the girl’s house. After the shifting, he also stayed at her new house for two months. On Friday, Laik had come to the girl’s house for dinner. The incident happened when the girl’s brother and cousin had gone to the market to buy vegetables. On returning, the cousin saw Laik locking the door from outside and leaving. The cousin opened the door to find the girl lying in a pool of blood. She had suffered a serious head injury. The family rushed her to the hospital where she was declared brought dead. “The girl’s brother has informed us that Laik wanted to marry her but she refused. We will get more details once Laik is apprehended,” the officer said. The victim’s parents are also factory workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-bludgeons-teen-to-death-for-refusing-to-marry-him/article33892961.ece
21 February 2021||February 21 2021 00:00 IST,||New air travel rules||The story so far: The Central government confirmed this week the presence of three mutant variants of the SARS-CoV-2 virus — from South Africa (four cases), Brazil (one case) and the U.K. (187 cases). Following this, the government issued a fresh set of guidelines for international travel. The new rules, which will come into effect at 11.59 p.m. on February 22, were released on Wednesday and state that “based on the risk assessment, this document shall be reviewed from time to time”. Why are the new strains of concern? The World Health Organization reports that the new variants demonstrate increased transmissibility. The strains from the U.K, South Africa and Brazil have so far been detected in 86, 44 and 15 countries respectively. “While India has stabilised its active COVID-19 cases, these new strains and any laxity could prompt a surge in numbers,” said NITI Aayog member V.K. Paul. What do the new travel guidelines state? While India does not have direct flights from South Africa and Brazil, all international travellers coming from or transiting through flights originating from the U.K., Europe and West Asia are required to submit a self-declaration form online, carry a negative COVID-19 report, and mention their travel history for the past 14 days. They also need to mention whether they plan to disembark at the arrival airport or take further flights within India. Airlines are to identify travellers arriving from or transiting through the U.K., South Africa and Brazil and segregate them during the journey and while deboarding. These travellers will have to give their samples for testing before exiting the airport. If they test positive, they have to undergo treatment as per the standard health protocol, the SOP states. The guidelines specify that contacts of suspect cases are the co-passengers seated in the same row, three rows in front and three rows behind, along with identified cabin crew. Community contacts of travellers who have tested positive (during the home quarantine period) would be subjected to institutional quarantine in separate quarantine centres for 14 days and tested as per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) protocol. International travellers have to submit a self-declaration form before their travel and upload a negative COVID-19 RT-PCR report, with the test having been conducted 72 hours prior to undertaking the journey. Passengers also have to submit a declaration for the authenticity of the report, and if found otherwise, they will be liable for criminal prosecution. Only those travelling to India for emergencies, such as the death of a family member, will be allowed to arrive without a negative report. But they should seek exemption on the online portal 72 hours before boarding. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, in consultation with the Ministry of Civil Aviation, said they issued these guidelines after reviewing the situation with regard to point of entry actions and that these measures have been brought in to minimise the risk of import of mutant strains of the virus. How many cases has India recorded? The ICMR has said the South Africa variant, which first emerged independently in the country in mid-December 2020, has undergone multiple mutations, including in the receptor-binding domain of the spike protein. Currently, a majority of cases in South Africa are due to this variant. In India, the strain was detected in four different South Africa returnees in January 2021 — one each from Angola and Tanzania, and two from South Africa, said ICMR Director-General Balram Bhargava. He added that the first six cases of the U.K. strain were reported in India in the last week of December 2020. On the Brazil strain, the ICMR noted that it emerged independently in Brazil in early January 2021 and is linked to the rise in cases in Brazil, particularly in Manaus. “Mutations in the receptor-binding domain of the spike protein were detected and it has shown increased transmissibility. India detected a case of this variant strain in a Brazil returnee in the first week of February,” said Dr. Bhargava. Are existing vaccines in India effective against these strains? On the U.K. variant, the ICMR said the neutralisation potential matches other heterologous virus strains in India and the vaccines that we have. For the other two variants, research is ongoing. “The ICMR-National Institute of Virology (NIV) is attempting to isolate and culture the South Africa strain,” said Dr. Bhargava. The Brazil strain has been successfully isolated and cultured at ICMR-NIV, Pune and experiments to assess vaccine effectiveness are underway, he added. How are the variants being monitored? To monitor the genomic variations in the SARS-CoV-2 on a regular basis through a multi-laboratory network, India has set-up the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG), comprising 10 labs. “The consortium will ascertain the status of the new variant of the SARS-CoV-2 in the country, establish a sentinel surveillance for early detection of genomic variants with public health implication, and determine the genomic variants in the unusual events/trends (super-spreader events, high mortality/morbidity trend areas etc.),” said Dr. Bhargava. “Knowledge generated through this vital research consortium will also assist in developing diagnostics and potential therapeutics and vaccines in the future.”  Only those travelling to India in case of emergencies, such as the death of a family member, will be allowed to arrive without a negative report||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/new-air-travel-rules/article33892689.ece
21 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Shazia Ilmi accuses former BSP MP of misbehaviour||Delhi BJP vice-president Shazia Ilmi has accused former Bahujan Samaj Party MP Akbar Ahmad of misbehaving with her at a dinner party on February 5. The police have registered a case into the matter. In her complaint, Ms. Ilmi stated that she was invited to a dinner party by businessman Chetan Seth where ambassadors of different countries, family members and Mr. Ahmad were present. She alleged that she was discussing farm laws and trade prospects between India and South America when Mr. Ahmad allegedly passed snide remarks about the Prime Minister and the BJP. She also mentioned that she spoke about her plans to visit Chile, to shoot a film on Mapuche tribe, where “Lord Hanuman’s brother Sugriv had gone”. Ms. Ilmi alleged that she ignored him but he continued to pass “sexually filthy” remarks. Subsequently, he also threatened violence against the PM and the BJP. Later, he allegedly “charged” at her and abused her while shouting at her. She felt humiliated and insulted, she alleged. A case under Section 506 and 509 of the IPC was registered at Vasant Kunj police station on February 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/shazia-ilmi-accuses-former-bsp-mp-of-misbehaviour/article33892954.ece
21 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Two held for revenge killing||Two brothers have been arrested for allegedly killing a man in an act of revenge in north Delhi’s Sadar Bazar area, the police said on Saturday. DCP (North) Anto Alphonse said that the accused have been identified as Ram (34) and Kamal (40), residents of Basti Julhan, Sadar Bazar. The police said that complainant, Suresh Kumar, told them about noises from the street near his house on Friday night. When he reached Basti Julhan, he saw Ram was quarrelling with his brother-in-law Jai Kishan alias Jacky (34). “During the quarrel, Ram went inside his home and returned with a knife along with his elder brother Kamal. While Kamal caught Jacky, Ram stabbed him on his stomach. A local resident, Saurav, tried to save Jacky but Ram attacked him too,” Mr. Alphonse said. Jacky was rushed to the hospital where he was declared brought dead while Sourav is out of danger, the police said. “The accused claimed that Jacky used to beat Kamal. On Friday too, Jacky had a quarrel with Kamal and he beat up him due to which Kamal sustained minor head injury,” the DCP said. The police said Jacky was previously involved in four criminal cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/two-held-for-revenge-killing/article33893265.ece
21 February 2021||new delhi,||R-Day violence: police release 20 more photos||The Delhi Police on Saturday released photographs of 20 more people allegedly involved in the violence that broke out at the Red Fort on Republic Day during the farmers’ tractor parade, officials said.  Police said they are scanning videos of the incident and releasing pictures of people from them. Earlier, the police had released 200 photographs of people in connection with the Red Fort violence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/r-day-violence-police-release-20-more-photos/article33892957.ece
21 February 2021||new Delhi,||Confusion over farmers-govt. lunch meeting||Delhi government sources on Saturday said it had invited leaders of farmer unions for a dialogue at the Delhi Vidhan Sabha on Sunday. Darshan Pal of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, however, said: “We have not received any invitation from the Delhi government.” The Delhi government’s invite comes on the heels of a kisan mahapanchayat that Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal is scheduled to address in Uttar Pradesh later this month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/confusion-over-farmers-govt-lunch-meeting/article33892959.ece
