22 February 2021||New Delhi,||India waited till China pulled back its troops||India waited for China to clear the north and south banks of Pangong Tso (lake) first before reciprocating the first phase of disengagement agreement reached between the two countries in eastern Ladakh, a senior government official said. The official told The Hindu that a decision was taken to “wait and watch” and the process — removal of armaments and infantry by India — was accelerated only after the ground commanders were convinced and had verified that People’s Liberation Army (PLA) was sincere in honouring the agreement. The disengagement at Pangong Tso, where Indian and Chinese troops were in an eyeball-to-eyeball confrontation in the north and south banks since June and August last year respectively, was announced by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh in Parliament on February 11. The process got completed on February 19. The official added that though disengagement had taken place, de-escalation is yet to be implemented. “The hundreds of troops on the north and south banks have been pulled back from the friction points and moved to the depth areas. The area continues to see the presence of a large number of troops,” said the official. To avoid a repeat of the June 15 Galwan incident, when 20 soldiers were killed while implementing a disengagement plan, it was decided to move slow. “Earlier also China agreed to withdraw in meetings but the words were not matched by action. This time we decided to slow down the withdrawal and wrapped up the process only the last day. The Chinese showed alacrity though and withdrew at an enhanced pace than the daily target,” said the official. Another official added that India could afford to take it slow as the ingress by China was deep in north bank — upto Finger 4 where they had constructed semi-permanent structures and in south bank where Indian troops were in an advantageous position, the tanks were positioned at the foothills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/before-withdrawing-its-troops-india-ensured-chinese-pullback/article33898987.ece
22 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Amid surge in cases, Centre orders more RT-PCR tests||The Centre has written to six States — Kerala, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and Jammu & Kashmir — which are witnessing a surge in the number of daily COVID-19 cases, calling for an increase in the proportion of RT-PCR tests while ensuring that those testing negative with the Rapid Antigen Tests be retested by RT-PCR. The Centre has also asked the States to look into strict, comprehensive surveillance and stringent containment to curb the spread of the virus. In its release issued on Sunday, the Health Ministry said more than 74% of the active COVID-19 cases of the country are in Kerala and Maharashtra and that a spike in cases had been seen in some States. “India has been witnessing a rise in the active caseload over the past few days and its total active caseload is pegged at 1,45,634 currently,” the Ministry said.  It added that in the last four weeks in Kerala, the average weekly cases had fluctuated between a high of 42,000 to a low of 34,800 and the weekly positivity here has ranged from 13.9% to 8.9%. In the State, Alappuzha district was a cause for special concern, where the weekly positivity rate had increased to 10.7% and weekly cases had increased to 2,833, the Ministry added. In Maharashtra, in the last four weeks, the weekly cases had shown a rising trend and had increased from 18,200 to 21,300. The areas of concern were the Mumbai suburban areas, where the weekly cases had risen by 19%. In Nagpur, Amravati, Nashik, Akola and Yavatmal, the weekly cases had increased by 33%, 47%, 23%, 55% and 48% respectively. Data released by the Ministry said Punjab, too, was rapidly assuming a critical dimension with infections registering a positivity rate from 1.4% to 1.6 % in the last four weeks. The States have also been told to “regularly monitor for mutant strains through testing followed by genome sequencing, as well as monitoring the emerging cluster of cases and focusing on clinical management in districts reporting higher deaths.” The Ministry added that 22 States/UTs had not reported any COVID-19 deaths in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/amid-surge-in-cases-centre-orders-more-rt-pcr-tests/article33898995.ece
22 February 2021||New Delhi/Kolkata,||CBI serves notice on Trinamool MP’s wife||The CBI on Sunday served notices on the wife and sister-in-law of Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee — nephew of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee — to appear for questioning in connection with an illegal coal mining case, said an agency official. Mr. Banerjee described the developments as “predictable” and “desperate”. “We have full faith in the law of the land. If they think they can use these ploys to intimidate us, they are mistaken. We are not the ones who would ever be cowed down,” the Diamond Harbour MP said, tagging a copy of the notice served on his wife, Rujira Banerjee, on Twitter. The development caused an uproar in political circles in poll-bound West Bengal. Trinamool spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said the notice showed how vindictive the BJP leadership could be. “Abhishek Banerjee has filed a defamation case against Union Home Minister Amit Shah. A court has asked him [Mr. Shah] to present himself or send his representative on February 22. This development is a result of that,” Mr. Ghosh said. On Sunday, a CBI team arrived at Mr. Banerjee’s residence at Shantiniketan Building on 188, Harish Mukherjee Road. Sources say notice was served on Rujira Banerjee as witness in a case involving coal theft under Section 160 of CrPC. A CBI official said: “A team visited the residence of Mr. Banerjee’s wife, Rujira Banerjee, in Kolkata to deliver the notice for questioning on Sunday. Another notice was sent to his sister-in-law, Maneka Gambhir, in the evening.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cbi-serves-notice-on-trinamool-mps-wife/article33898996.ece
22 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Centre to help create EV charging infra in State||The Central government has offered support for development of electric vehicle (EV) charging infrastructure in the State through the Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL). Saurabh Kumar, EESL executive vice-chairman, has informed the State that the Centre has set a target of operating electric three-wheelers by 2023 and two-wheelers by 2025, according to an official release. Energy consumption The EESL has already established 80 EV charging stations in the State and supplied 300 e-cars to various government departments as part of the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Hybrid and EV (FAME) scheme. The transport sector accounts for 18% of total energy consumption in the country. In energy terms, it translates to an estimated 94 Million Tonnes of Oil Equivalent (MTOE). If India were to follow the current trends of energy consumption, it would require an estimated 200 MTOE of energy supply annually by 2030 to meet the burgeoning demand of the transport sector, the release said. It was further stated that the transport sector contributes to an estimated 142 MT of carbon dioxide emission annually, out of which 123 MT is accounted by road transport segment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-to-help-create-ev-charging-infra-in-state/article33898989.ece
22 February 2021||SANGAREDDY,||One killed, three injured in industrial oven blast||One person was killed and three others injured in an accident at an industry in IDA Bollaram of Sangareddy district on Sunday evening. According to B. Rajagopal, Director of Factories, an oven exploded in SYS Electric Mech, resulting in the accident. While Radhika (34) died three others — Vijay Yadav from Uttar Pradesh, Kamalesh Gouri and Chanuri Ram, both from West Bengal were injured and immediately shifted to a private hospital for treatment. Their condition was stated to be out of danger. The impact of blast was such that the roof was blown off. Radhika is survived by her four children. No other unit in the nearby places was impacted due to the blast. However, the incident triggered panic. It is suspected that over heating of oven and failure of controls might have resulted in the blast. Police registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/one-killed-three-injured-in-industrial-oven-blast/article33899564.ece
22 February 2021||New Delhi/Kolkata,||CBI serves notice on Trinamool MP’s wife||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Sunday served notices on the wife and sister-in-law of Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee — nephew of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee — to appear for questioning in connection with an illegal coal mining case, said an agency official. Hours after the notice was served, Mr. Banerjee described the developments as “predictable” and “desperate”. “We have full faith in the law of the land. If they think they can use these ploys to intimidate us, they are mistaken. We are not the ones who would ever be cowed down,” the Diamond Harbour Member of Parliament said, tagging a copy of the notice served on his wife, Rujira Banerjee, on Twitter. The development caused an uproar in political circles in election-bound West Bengal. Trinamool spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said the notice showed how vindictive the BJP leadership could be. “Abhishek Banerjee has filed a defamation case against Union Home Minister Amit Shah. A court has asked him [Mr. Shah] to present himself or send his representative on February 22. This development is a result of that,” Mr. Ghosh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cbi-serves-notice-on-trinamool-mps-wife/article33899740.ece
22 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||YSRCP-backed candidates ‘sweep polls’ in Jagan’s Pulivendula||The YSRCP claimed that the candidates it supported made a clean sweep of the 18 panchayats in Pulivendula, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s Assembly constituency, for which elections were conducted on Sunday. While 90 panchayats had witnessed unanimous elections in favour of the ruling party, polling in one panchayat was postponed. The YSRCP further said it won 75 seats in Kuppam constituency represented by TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu against his party’s tally of 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ysrcp-backed-candidates-sweep-polls-in-pulivendula/article33898990.ece
22 February 2021||Mangaluru,||People from Kerala can enter DK only through 4 points||As part of measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19 from Kerala into Dakshina Kannada, the Dakshina Kannada district administration said entry into the district from Kasaragod district will be only through check-posts at Talapady in Mangaluru taluk, Saradka in Bantwal taluk, Nettanige Mudnur-Menala in Puttur taluk, and Jalsoor in Sullia taluk. All those entering the district through the check-posts from Monday should produce negative RT-PCR test certificate within 72 hours before arrival. Students and others, who commute between the two districts every day, should undergo a RT-PCR test every 15 days. Rapid Antigen Test results will not be accepted, said Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra in the notification dated February 18. Dr. Rajendra further said all those entering the district from these check-posts will have to register their names. Details of persons should be sent every day to the committee comprising the tahsildar, the taluk panchayat executive officer, and the taluk health and family welfare officer. Bus operators, KSRTCs of both the States, operating services between Kasaragod and Dakshina Kannada should ensure that all commuters have the COVID-19 negative certificate at the time of boarding the bus. While there will be no restrictions on movement of ambulances, the patients and the persons accompanying them should be tested by PT-PCR method by the hospitals concerned, he said. Dr. Rajendra has asked all educational institutions to appoint a COVID-19 nodal officer and he should maintain list of students who are travelling to or from Kerala to their hostels or colleges. All these students should undergo RT-PCR tests once every 15 days. Students who have come from Kerala should also undergo RT-PCR test. The Deputy Commissioner said institutions, as far as possible, should ensure that students stay in separate rooms in the hostel. Crowding at dining areas, waiting halls and other super-spreading avenues should be avoided. No visitor should be allowed to enter the hostel. Students should avoid frequent visits to their places. Asking all the colleges to ramp up testing of students from Kerala, Dr. Rajendra said institutions will be held responsible it there is an outbreak of COVID-19 because of lapses in complying with standard operating procedure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/people-from-kerala-can-enter-dk-only-through-4-points/article33899628.ece
22 February 2021||UNNAO,||Unnao case: eight Twitter handles named in FIR||The Unnao police on Sunday lodged an FIR against eight Twitter handles for spreading “fake” stories about the alleged poisoning of three Dalit girls in Asoha, which left two dead and one in critical condition. The police said the Twitter handles spread false information that the girls had been raped, which was not found in the post-mortem report, and that the last rites of the two girls were done without the consent of their families, which also was denied by the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/unnao-case-eight-twitter-handles-named-in-fir/article33899556.ece
22 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,||Puducherry crisis deepens after two MLAs resign||A legislator each from the Congress and the DMK resigned from their posts on Sunday, leaving the Narayanasamy-led Puducherry government grasping at straws ahead of Monday’s trust vote. Shortly after K. Lakshminarayanan, Congress MLA representing Raj Bhavan and Parliamentary Secretary to the Chief Minister, submitted his resignation to Speaker V.P. Sivakolundhu, DMK’s K. Venkatesan, representing Thattanchavady, became the first MLA from the ruling party’s ally to quit his post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/puducherry-crisis-deepens-after-two-mlas-resign/article33899557.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,||China detains three bloggers||Authorities in China said they had detained three  people for “insulting” Chinese soldiers who died in the Galwan clash last year, a day after Beijing officially confirmed four deaths. Among those held was an investigative journalist who suggested that the fatalities were likely to be more.Page 12||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/china-detains-three-bloggers/article33898992.ece
22 February 2021||Chennai,||No plans to merge EPF, NPS: FinMin||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has said there is no intent to discourage higher income earners from saving with the Employees Provident Fund (EPF) and that she was open to reviewing the contribution limit of Rs. 2.5 lakh a year for tax-free interest, imposed in the recent Union Budget. Reiterating that the EPF will continue to remain in its present form, the Minister said there was no plan to merge the EPF with the National Pension Scheme. “We want to continue with the EPF. We understand that there is a certain comfort with people, particularly middle income earners when they are assured of a return,” she said in an exclusive interview with Business Line . “We have taken a call not to discourage those earning more than Rs. 15,000 from being part of EPF,” Ms. Sitharaman added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/finmin-hints-at-review-of-tax-limit-on-epf/article33898985.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Lockdown in Amravati||Owing to the jump in COVID-19 cases, Amravati district in Maharashtra’s Vidarbha region will be placed under lockdown from 8 p.m. on Monday to 8 a.m. on March 1. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray also warned of strict action against those violating pandemic norms.page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lockdown-in-amravati/article33898991.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Vaccinate more: Centre||Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan has written to the Chief Secretaries of all the States/Union Territories, asking them to accelerate the pace of COVID-19 vaccination. “A large number of healthcare and frontline workers still remain to be covered,” he said.Page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaccinate-more-centre/article33898993.ece
22 February 2021||Vijayawada,||Only 75% of revenue targets achieved||The State government has missed the revenue collection targets so far during the 2020-21 financial year if the figures under the GST, Petroleum Products, Liquor, and Professional Tax are any indication. The government had set itself a target of mopping up a revenue of Rs. 43,332.21 crore up to January 2021 of the financial year. It, however, could realise only Rs. 32,617.01 crore (75.27%) of the target.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/only-75-of-revenue-targets-achieved/article33899741.ece
22 February 2021||Puducherry,||Crisis deepens ahead of trust vote in Puducherry||A legislator each from the Congress and the DMK resigned from their posts on Sunday, leaving the Narayanasamy-led Puducherry government grasping at straws ahead of Monday’s trust vote in the Assembly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/crisis-deepens-ahead-of-trust-vote-in-puducherry/article33899115.ece
22 February 2021||Coimbatore,||Two held for beating up elephant at camp||The Forest Department on Sunday arrested the mahout of a temple elephant and his assistant on charges of beating up the animal on the premises of the camp for elephants at Thekkampatti.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-held-for-beating-up-elephant-at-camp/article33899116.ece
22 February 2021||Kolkata,||First Kolkata nearby||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday said she would not be scared of any threats and she accepted the challenge for the Assembly election. “We accept all challenges. In the year 2021, a game will be played. I will be the goalkeeper. Let us see who wins. Even if I am put behind bars, I will give call for ‘Joy Bangla’ like ‘Bangabandhu’,” Ms. Banerjee said at an event here. ‘Joy Bangla’ was the slogan used by “Bangabandhu”, the founder of Bangladesh, Mujib-ur- Rahman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/first-kolkata-nearby/article33899221.ece
22 February 2021||GUWAHATI,||Second Kolkata nearby||The All Assam Students’ Union has opposed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Assam on February 22 owing to the Centre’s failure in implementing Clause 6 of the Assam Accord. The Prime Minister is scheduled to dedicate to the nation some projects in the oil and gas sector in an event organised at Silapathar in north-eastern Assam’s Dhemaji district. He will also inaugurate and lay the foundation stone for a couple of engineering colleges during the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/second-kolkata-nearby/article33899222.ece
22 February 2021||UNNAO,||Unnao case: FIR lodged against 8 Twitter handles||The Unnao police on Sunday lodged an FIR against eight Twitter handles for spreading “fake” stories about the alleged poisoning of three Dalit girls in Asoha, which left two dead and one in hospital in critical condition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/unnao-case-fir-lodged-against-8-twitter-handles/article33899335.ece
22 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Wistron clears 6,000 contract workers||Wistron, the Taiwanese firm that makes iPhone for Apple Inc. at its Narasapura facility near Kolar, has already completed “stringent background checks” on over 6,000 of its contract workers and most have been cleared for resumption of work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/wistron-clears-6000-contract-workers/article33899496.ece
22 February 2021||Ghaziabad,||Farm laws: khaps in U.P. rebuff BJP’s olive branch||Attempts by BJP leaders to reach out to khaps in western U.P. to break the deadlock over the farm laws have met with stiff resistance. Sachin Jawla, thehead of Jawlakhapof 12 villages in Muzaffarnagar and Shamli, has said he is not interested in meeting Union Minister Sanjeev Balyan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farm-laws-khaps-in-up-rebuff-bjp-olive-branch/article33899334.ece
22 February 2021||New Delhi,||Nikita, Shantanu to join toolkit probe today||Activists Nikita Jacob and Shantanu Muluk will join the probe into the toolkit case at Delhi police’s cyber cell office on Monday. A senior police officer said they had contacted Ms. Jacob and Mr. Muluk over phone and notices had been served on them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nikita-shantanu-to-join-toolkit-probe-today/article33899336.ece
22 February 2021||Pune,||Mumbai nearby||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray in an address to the people of the State on Sunday said the surge in COVID-19 cases was worrisome and the government would know within 15 days if Maharashtra was facing a second wave of the pandemic. “Today, the State has reported nearly 7,000 cases as opposed to 15 days ago, when it was reporting just 2,000-2,500 cases daily. The State’s active case tally, which had dipped below 40,000 a week ago, has now soared to 53,000. In this week, Mumbai’s cases have doubled, so has the numbers in Pune district. This is a very bad situation. I am especially worried that the sudden rise of cases in Amravati district in Vidarbha has begun from the district’s peak that it had attained last year,” Mr. Thackeray said. The Chief Minister said all social and political activities across the State would be curtailed for the next few days in the wake of the situation. “While I understand that every political party is interested in party-building activities, we should not contribute to the spread of COVID-19 in this process,” Mr. Thackeray said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mumbai-nearby/article33899653.ece
22 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Panchamasali community flexes muscles with rally||The Panchamasali community’s demand for reservation under 2A category in the Other Backward Classes (OBC) list could turn into a vexing issue for Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa as their seer Basava Jayamruthyunjaya Swami on Sunday announced that he would not return to his mutt till the demand was met.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/panchamasali-community-flexes-muscles-with-rally/article33899146.ece
22 February 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Union govt. gradually managing fiscal deficit’||Union Minister for Finance and Corporate Affairs Nirmala Sitharaman on Sunday said that the government was conscious of managing gradually, without interrupting the pace of recovery, the fiscal deficit, Gross Domestic Product, and other important indicators of the country’s economy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/union-govt-gradually-managing-fiscal-deficit/article33899147.ece
22 February 2021||Bengaluru,||High-security licence plate to be mandatory||Motorists who registered their vehicles more than two years ago will have to change the existing number plates of their bikes, cars, and other vehicles. According to senior officials, the government is in the process of making the installation of High-Security Registration Plates mandatory for all vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/high-security-licence-plate-to-be-mandatory/article33899148.ece
22 February 2021||Chennai,||Kamal hopes to lead a third front||Makkal Needhi Maiam Madurai (MNM) founder Kamal Haasan on Sunday attacked the DMK and AIADMK, alleging that they were both “corrupt” and there was little difference between them. He said he hoped to lead a third front. He was addressing the party’s founding day celebrations at a private engineering college near Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kamal-hopes-to-lead-a-third-front/article33899731.ece
22 February 2021||Pudukottai,||CM lays foundation for river linking project||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Sunday laid the foundation stone for the first phase of the Cauvery-South Vellar-Vaigai-Gundar intra-State river-link project. At a function in Kunnathur, he also laid the foundation for work on renovation of irrigation facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-lays-foundation-for-river-linking-project/article33899052.ece
22 February 2021||Chennai,||State sees 452 COVID-19 cases, three deaths||As many as 452 persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday, taking the State’s tally to 8,48,275. Three persons died of the infection. Chennai continued to lead the case tally with 154 new patients. Another 460 persons were discharged. Chennai accounted for one of the three fatalities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-sees-452-covid-19-cases-three-deaths/article33899118.ece
22 February 2021||MYSURU,||Tigress kills 2 persons in Kodagu, caught||Forest Department personnel on Sunday evening tracked and tranquillised a tigress that killed two persons within a span of 12 hours between Saturday evening and Sunday morning. While a 60 year-old woman – Chinni – was killed by the tigress in T. Shettigeri village close to Srimangala on Sunday morning, a 14 year-old boy – Ayyappa – was found killed by the animal on Saturday evening at Kumtur village in Ponnampet taluk. Chenni’s killing took place within a distance of 2 km to 3 km from Saturday’s attack and hence the authorities suspected the involvement of the same tiger. The woman was killed when she ventured out early in the morning to answer nature’s call. Chief Conservator of Forests T. Hiralal said the focus was on capturing it alive as per the protocol and it was tracked by a battery of Forest Department personnel. He said though it was an established practice to zero in on a tiger after obtaining images from the camera traps, the operation did not prolong as the tiger was sighted not far from both the human killings. The authorities constituted different groups and used four elephants in the combing operations. But one group identified pug marks and tracked it to the spot where it was finally located near Manchalli village and managed to dart the animal. The striped cat was tranquillised about 1.5 km to 2 km from the spot where the boy was killed on Saturday evening. It turned out to be a tigress with pre-existing wounds on its right legs and unable to hunt in the wild. The tigress – said to be aged around nine – was moved to a cage and a decision was taken to shift it to the zoo in Mysuru for observation. It appeared emaciated because of its lack of ability to hunt and it is speculated that the injury could have been caused in a territorial fight with another dominant tiger. A section of the local people said both the deaths could have been avoided had the Forest Department displayed more alacrity in responding to the cattle kills that were reported from the area. The tiger reserve of Nagarahole and Brahamagiri Wildlife Sanctuary are at least 8 km to 10 km away and hence the human killings were not on the forest fringes. “It is a clear case of an injured tiger unable to sustain itself in the forest that has been ejected out and was now prowling in human habitation,” a wildlife activist from the region had speculated earlier in the day and his analysis turned out to be correct. There were tense moments earlier in the day when local villagers were engaged in a war of words with the authorities and wanted the tiger to be put down. They were placated and the operation to track and capture the tiger commenced. Senior officials of the Forest Department, veterinarians, and sharpshooters were part of the operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tigress-which-killed-2-in-kodagu-caught/article33898937.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Activists will join probe today||Activists Nikita Jacob and Shantanu Muluk will join the investigation into the toolkit case at the office of the cyber cell of the Delhi Police in Dwarka on Monday. A senior police officer said they had contacted Ms. Jacob and Mr. Muluk over phone and notices had been served on them. Ms. Jacob and Mr. Muluk had assured them that they would join the investigation at 11 a.m. on Monday, he said. “We will question them over the toolkit case as their roles need to be established with the evidence against them in the case,” the officer said. He added that there were many unanswered questions left after climate activist Disha Ravi was interrogated in the case. The three — Mr. Muluk, Ms. Jacob and Ms. Ravi — will be questioned simultaneously over allegations that they have made against each other, the officer said. The police said they had also received a reply from Google over IP addresses and locations regarding the toolkit. “The toolkit was uploaded from locations in Karnataka and Maharashtra. Details of emails provided by Google found that emails were created in the names of other persons but used by Nikita, Disha and Shantanu,” the officer said. He added that the chats of the WhatsApp group “International Farmers Strike” created by Ms. Ravi had been deleted. The police was seeking technical help to retrieve the chats. “We have found strong evidence against Mo Dhaliwal, founder of Canada-based pro-Khalistan outfit Poetic Justice Foundation. Peter Friedrich, Anita Lal, Bhajan Singh Bhinder, Shubham and several others will be made accused in the case of a conspiracy to defame India,” the officer added. Another officer said Ms. Jacob got Ms. Ravi involved in creating the toolkit because she knew her to be close to Greta Thunberg, who could help them amplify their movement or voices. “They basically wanted to approach Ms. Greta through Ms. Disha. It has also been found that Ms. Nikita was operating the e-mail account of Poetic Justice Foundation,” the officer added. The police have also sought details from Zoom regarding a call which was organised on January 11 and attended by Ms. Jacob and Mr. Muluk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/activists-to-join-probe-today/article33898949.ece
22 February 2021||New Delhi/CHENNAI,||Boost pace of vaccination, says Centre||Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan has written to the Chief Secretaries of all the States/UTs, asking them to accelerate the pace of COVID-19 vaccination with the number of days of vaccination in a week pushed up to a minimum of four days. Stating that there was a need to significantly enhance the pace of vaccination Mr. Bhushan said, “A large number of healthcare and frontline workers still remain to be covered and the progress is variable across several states/UTs. The pace of vaccination needs to be accelerated exponentially to cover all identified beneficiaries in minimum possible time.’’ In his letter, he added that the operational strategy for initiating the vaccination of the next priority group — the elderly population and persons with comorbidities — was to be taken up in March, and that this was also needed to be finalised. The States/ UTs have been instructed that in view of the anticipated high number of beneficiaries to be vaccinated at a high speed in the coming days, they should ensure that all public health facilities from tertiary-level medical colleges, hospitals and institutes should be prepared for offering COVID-19 vaccination services on all designated vaccination days, staring March 1.  As on February 20, nearly 10.1 million healthcare workers and frontline workers have been vaccinated. The target is to vaccinate 300 million people with two doses of COVID-19 vaccine by July, for which the daily vaccinations have to be over 2 million. However, the seven-day average is currently only 0.38 million vaccinations per day. “The vaccination rate will increase exponentially in the next few weeks,” said Dr. N.K. Arora, head of the Operations Research Group of the COVID-19 Task Force. “The number of vaccination sessions held each day has already increased from around 3,000 in the beginning to over 12,000 now. In the next few weeks, the number of vaccination sessions a day will cross 50,000.” Since each session can vaccinate 100 people a day, Dr. Arora is optimistic that India will be able to vaccinate around 5 million people every day. Admitting that glitches in the CoWIN platform had been slowing down the daily uptake of COVID-19 vaccines, Dr. Arora said that in a week the glitches would be fixed. When asked if more vaccines will be supplied to States such as Kerala, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir, which are seeing increased number of daily fresh cases, Dr. Arora said each State was provided with sufficient number of vaccines and it was for the respective States to increase the daily number of vaccines administered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/boost-pace-of-vaccination-says-centre/article33898956.ece
22 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala likely to review MoUs with foreign firm||The government on Sunday reportedly decided to review the proposal to allow a U.S. based fishing firm to build trawlers for deep-sea fishing off the coast of Kerala. Two public entities had signed a memorandum of understanding with the company to modernise the State's ageing fishing fleet to harvest the deep sea more. The Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation and Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation had struck the contract with the firm at a State-sponsored global investor's meet titled ASCENT. They struck a preliminary agreement to build, launch and operate a large fleet of deep-sea trawlers backed by mother ships, modern harbours and marine product processing centres. The corporations had hoped to create 25,000 new jobs in the fisheries sector. Consequently, the firm's representatives met several Ministers to get Cabinet clearance for the project. Livelihood issues Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala let out details of the MoUs. He accused the government of kowtowing to the interest of foreign trawling conglomerates. He accused the administration of imperilling the livelihood of traditional fishers. Consequently, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan ordered a full retrospect of the events that led to the inking of the MoUs and their subsequent "leak" to the Opposition. By one account, the government found the agreements were legally and politically untenable. They ran against the grain of the State's fisheries policy, it reportedly felt. Rusty fishing fleet The State must urgently replace its rusty fishing fleet with modern craft capable of operating in deep waters and preserving the catch weeks at a stretch. It also wanted to reduce overfishing in littoral waters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-likely-to-review-mous-with-foreign-firm/article33898933.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,||‘This Budget was put through the wringer to tally every number’||Fresh from presenting a Budget that represents a clean break from past policies, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman was in Chennai last weekend to receive feedback from industrialists and common citizens. The Minister explained why the government thinks it is time to recognise wealth creators, the thinking behind bank privatisation and the new DFI, while defending the proposals on cess and EPF taxation. Edited excerpts:  Recently, the PM said in Parliament that wealth creators should not be run down and that babus should not be running businesses. Your Budget also had many industry-friendly features. Does this indicate a fundamental shift in governance where the BJP government is finally coming into its own in terms of a pro-wealth creators, pro-business approach? A fundamental shift in governance was already under way between 2014 and 2019 and we are only continuing with it. Governance is now entirely focused on last-mile delivery, connectivity, simplifying regulatory and administrative compliance and keeping the government at arm’s length from institutions that had got too close. I think this kind of emphasis on governance had already started full force right from 2014. As far as the ideology is concerned, I don’t think we were far removed from the ideological core of the party, whether in Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s time or even earlier. Between 2014 and 2019, there were definitely difficulties because of the party’s numbers in the Upper House. Now, the numbers in both Houses are much improved, especially the Upper House. This smoothens the passage for reforms that we plan to undertake. Reforms are not just an activity derived from one’s ideological commitments. Reforms are a necessity because this country had gone too far in reiterating a socialist and, what I would call, an imported jugaad ideology. This so-called welfare state socialism had degenerated into a very rigid and arbitrary regime towards businesses. I believe this Budget stands out distinctly because it addresses many of those rigidities, which had come to be regarded as sacred cows, if I may call it that. There also needs to be recognition that socialism is not the only ideology that has a copyright on welfare. When the economy does not do well and wealth isn’t generated, then social good suffers and so does the welfare state. So, we have now called the bluff that wealth creation is in conflict with welfare. We are trying to reinforce that lawfully earning money is not wrong. A tax regime that is not oppressive or adversarial can generate sufficient revenues to fund welfare. The Budget stance indicates that there is nothing very sacrosanct about the fiscal deficit target of 3%. If not the fiscal deficit, what other debt indicator are you going to target? This year, I don’t have the luxury of minding ratios like debt-to-GDP too much. But I do have the comfort that interest rates are at low levels. Here, I must appreciate the role that RBI has played. We have had a running engagement with RBI that has helped bond yields remain at acceptable levels. That is why, even the GST compensation issue, we decided to arrange for back-to-back loans to the States, without the States having to go to the markets which would have led to their yields shooting up. As to what we are going to target in terms of a debt indicator, this year we would rather not be focusing too much on that. On strategic sales, going by the BPCL and Air India cases, considerable homework seems to have been done this time around before inviting bids. Why has there been a delay in the sales going through? Is it a case of too few bidders expressing interest? We have had a reasonable number of bidders in both cases. But then since the 2019 elections, there have been ground realities in terms of the state of the economy and the global economy slowing down. There are also checks and balances in the system in terms of bureaucrats cautioning about getting the process and returns right. We want to tick every box before we stand up in Parliament to defend these sales. This has resulted in the delayed timelines. Is your disinvestment projection of Rs. 1.75 lakh crore for FY22 too conservative? We have been very realistic about estimating all the numbers in this Budget — both in terms of perception and what we can realistically achieve. On disinvestment numbers, till the last moment, we were keeping our pencil and erasers ready to make changes if need be! We didn’t want even one number in this year’s Budget to appear as if we had been a little careless or over-optimistic. Every number has been repeatedly vetted for being achievable. This is a budget that has been put through the wringer repeatedly to get it closer to what is achievable. So yes, it can appear to be too cautious. But I would rather be cautious than stand up and say later that I went wrong. The vehicle scrappage policy announcement in the Budget came a few days after a Green Tax on older vehicles. What kind of outgo do you expect towards compensating manufacturers? Are you working out a subsidy sharing arrangement with States? The final details of the scheme have not been thrashed out yet. Yes, we have a gone through the broad implementation plan. The government’s approach in such matters is quite holistic. We need to consider the environmental aspects such as the pollution arising from handling this scrap. What we need on the ground is widespread infrastructure for scrapping old vehicles at the district level. There are already a number of cesses being levied such as on petroleum products. This Budget has added on a new Agricultural Infrastructure Development Cess. The feeling among States is that cesses deprive them of their rightful share in revenues. Is it fair to go on introducing new cesses that don’t devolve on States? When discussing this particular measure, we spent a lot of time working on the idea of cess itself. Yes, it goes to the Consolidated Fund and doesn’t go to the States. When we thought of this, our intent was to have a fund for improving agri-infrastructure in the States. We also wanted to bring down customs duties on necessary imports for downstream and export industries. If we had simply carved out money from customs duty itself, the funds would go into the Consolidated Fund of India and then you would then have to create a new head of expenditure or go to the Parliament for a new scheme. So we thought that given that customs duty is being reduced, a part of it could be used to improve agricultural infrastructure without going through those time-consuming steps. So this cess, after going to the Consolidated Fund would be given to States for improving agri infrastructure. This Budget must have been the first one to have used the term ‘privatisation’ with respect to public sector banks.Will you be picking the strong, large PSBs that have emerged out of the mergers of the last couple of years or the weaker smaller ones that need recapitalisation? I don’t think we are proceeding on those lines at all. We have not made any decisions on whether to sell profit-making banks, smaller banks or big ones. We want all banks to become professionally run and to come out of RBI’s Prompt Corrective Action framework. In the last six years, I think we have shown that we don’t interfere in public sector banks’ day-to-day decision-making. The drive is to help them build on their strengths. India in the next few years should have strong banks that are able to meet the needs of the economy. With the launch of Development Financial Institutions (DFIs) from the government and the private sector, we are hoping that long term infrastructure funding will be taken care of by these institutions. Banks must focus on the primary business of lending for commercial purposes, rather than getting choked by sourcing short-term deposits and lending to long-term projects. Over the years, there have been quite a few tweaks to the EPF. What is the long-term plan for the EPF? Will it be only for those earning upto Rs. 15,000 per month (basic and DA)? No, we have taken a call not to discourage those earning more than Rs. 15,000 per month from being part of EPF. But if there are instances of people putting Rs. 1 crore a month who get EEE taxation benefit and also get an assured return, I want to make sure that, without hurting those who are in the EPF, I recognise those who are getting the double benefit. How justified is this? There can always be a discussion on the Rs. 2.5 lakh limit. I can go back and review it. But it is a matter of principle. We are only touching those who are putting far more than what an average Indian’s earnings is per month - and they’re about 1% of the total. I know your question is touching on a larger issue of what we are planning for the EPF itself. Do we want to keep it going or do you want to blend it into NPS? We don’t intend doing this. We want to continue with the EPF. We understand that there is a certain comfort with people, particularly middle income earners when they are assured of a return. One expectation before this Budget was on retrospective taxation — that you will take out this offensive provision inserted in 2012. But that has not happened. Is it a signal that you are sending out? Our position has not changed. We don’t subscribe to any retrospective application of any tax. We have also very clearly said that the amendment notwithstanding, we shall never apply this ever. But with the arbitration verdicts also coming, some of the wordings of the operative part of the arbitration also indicate that there is a questioning of the sovereign right of India to tax. There is a subtlety here. But a very powerful subtlety. Can the right of a sovereign nation to tax somewhere get questioned even in an arbitration which probably says ‘No, this step is wrong’ – which is what our Supreme Court has also said much before that. This is what very many taxation experts, looking at the outcome of the arbitration, are saying. Is there a question on India’s sovereign right? Even if implied, it has to be stood up to. We are taking some time to understand this aspect. And that also justifies why we have gone for an appeal in Vodafone. On Cairn, the top Cairn leadership have met with the Finance Secretary. We have to now see what is it that they have come with as an offer and address these issues. But the larger issue of why we have not rushed to remove that amendment of 2012, the larger issue for us going on an appeal on Vodafone, is governed by this fact that India’s sovereign right to tax, even by implication or in a circuitous fashion, cannot be questioned. In personal income tax, according to experts, not too many assessees have opted for the new regime without exemptions and a lower tax rate. What’s the reason? No, these kind of changes will take time to be acceptable. Why do I say this? The old regime which exists now has not come up in one year. The entire structure has become such that it has a lifelong implication on an assessee, less than lifelong for someone else and so on. Everyone who has taken an option for an exemption and now benefits from it, will probably like to wait till he exhausts that and only then he may move to a simpler regime with a better rate. For instance, someone one who has taken a home loan and is paying EMIs. A citizen who is closer to retirement would probably no longer need that exemption as he has cleared his home loan. He can opt for new regime. So I don’t for a moment expect bulk movement from that to the newer system. It has to come in trickles. And, gradually, the new regime has to be more and more attractive so that the transition is smoother. We don’t want to upset any tax payer’s calculations. Why are you hesitant to drop duties on petrol and diesel at the Centre? You take away Rs. 30-32 per litre on petrol. The States also have a huge share — they take Rs. 19-20 per litre. I would like to say the usual platitudes — that it is not the government, it is oil market companies, it is global prices going up since November, etc. But if the one objective we want to accomplish is that the consumer should pay less, then just the Centre withdrawing is not going to help. I say this with due concern because everyone wants revenue. It’s not to look down upon States who want to have quick ways in which they want to raise revenues. The space that I vacate, there is no guarantee that it will not get filled up. So if the end result is consumer should pay less, both Centre and States should sit together and see how best to handle this. Taking into GST can be an option. .  Governance is now entirely focused on last-mile delivery, connectivity, simplifying regulatory compliance...   If the end result is consumer should pay less [for fuel], both Centre and States should sit together and see how best to handle this||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/this-budget-was-put-through-the-wringer-to-tally-every-number/article33898959.ece
22 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Go beyond power politics, PM tells BJP office-bearers||The BJP office-bearers, in their first physical meeting after the lifting of the COVID-19 lockdown, and amid the nearly three-month-long protest by farmers’ union on the agricultural laws, on Sunday adopted a political resolution lauding the Narendra Modi government for its reforms in the agriculture and labour sectors and its handling of the pandemic. The resolution also took a potshot at the Congress, saying “the Opposition, especially the Congress, is frustrated and has decided to protest against all moves by the BJP government. The BJP will nevertheless reach out to the farmers to bust the myths being spread by the Congress on farm laws”. The meeting, held in New Delhi, was addressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi who urged the newly constituted team under president J.P. Nadda to go beyond “power politics” to work for the welfare of the country. Party general secretary Bhupendra Yadav, briefing the media after the meet, said the political resolution was an omnibus that covered all aspects of recent political happenings. ‘Sense of intimacy’ “Prime Minister Modi spoke with great aatmiyata [sense of intimacy] with the team. He said the party’s goal should go beyond power politics and to Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas and the welfare of the country,” he said. “The political resolution lauded the Narendra Modi government’s reformist work in the midst of a worldwide pandemic to forge ahead with agriculture reforms and coming out with a new set of labour codes. The Direct Benefit Transfer to beneficiaries through the lockdown and post-lockdown period under the aatmanirbhar package et al was also appreciated.” Mr. Nadda, said Mr. Yadav, asked members to go among the people, the farmers produce organisations and in tribal areas where the Van Dhan programme is being implemented to demonstrate that these agriculture and other reforms are for the “benefit of the country”. “The Mahila Morcha has also been asked to carry forward the government’s nutrition programme, or Poshan Abhiyan , for children and mothers,” he said. The upcoming Assembly polls in five States figured large in the meeting, with each of the poll incharges reporting on the situation prevailing in their respective States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/go-beyond-power-politics-pm-tells-bjp-office-bearers/article33898947.ece
22 February 2021||Hassan,||Five persons killed in road accident near Hassan||Five persons died and 13 suffered injuries in an accident involving two four-wheelers on NH 75 at Kenchattahalli near Hassan early on Sunday. While four died on the spot, the other succumbed to his injuries at a hospital. The dead have been identified as Sunil Kumar, 28; Chandrashekhar, 28; Pradeek Pumar, 25; Naveen, 20, and Anil Kumar, 23. All are from Chinnakayanahalli near KGF. As many as eight persons from KGF were heading to Udupi to attend a marriage. The driver allegedly lost control and hit another vehicle, whose driver had braked as he noticed speed breakers at Kenchattahalli cross road at 3.30 a.m. Both vehicles overturned, leaving 13 injured and five dead. On way to Udupi All the dead were from KGF, heading to Udupi. Those in the second vehicle were on the way to Kukke Subramanya. Locals and other travellers informed the police and helped in shifting the injured to the Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences. The hospital staff declared four brought dead, while Arun Kumar succumbed to his injuries in the hospital. Senior police officers, including Hassan Superintendent of Police R. Srinivasa Gowda visited the spot. The Hassan traffic police have registered a case based on a complaint filed by Nagaraj, driver of the second vehicle. He said the negligence of the driver of the other vehicle was the cause. Local people blame the speed breakers at the Kenchattahalli Cross for the accident. Drivers, particularly those driving in the night, hardly notice the humps, resulting in accidents, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/five-persons-killed-in-road-accident-near-hassan/article33899239.ece
22 February 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Will welcome those who rejoin unconditionally’||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D.K. Shivakumar on Sunday said that those who have quit the Congress would be welcomed back if they wanted to rejoin the party unconditionally. “It is the year of organising the Congress party. We will happily welcome those who want to return to the party fold without any preconditions. I will travel in 100 Assembly constituencies this year to strengthen the party,” he said during the oath-taking ceremony of the newly appointed working presidents of the KPCC — seven-time legislator Ramalinga Reddy and former MP from Chamarajanagar R. Dhruvanarayan. With their induction, the number of working presidents has gone up to five. Earlier, Satish Jarkiholi, Saleem Ahmed, and Ishwar Khandre had been appointed as working presidents. Mr. Shivakumar also advised leaders to hold meetings in party offices and not at their residences, and told his supporters not to raise slogans that he would be the next Chief Minister. The Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, M. Mallikarjun Kharge, told party leaders not to promise anyone ticket to contest in elections. “The issue has to be discussed on the party platform,” he added. Mr. Kharge also blamed Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah for the violence at Red Fort on January 26. “It was their conspiracy. The person who hoisted the flag is seen in a photograph with Mr. Modi. Did the intelligence not have any information? Why did the police fail to prevent movement towards the Red Fort? Why were they silent till a religious flag was hoisted? All this shows that it was an organised conspiracy,” he said. Many leaders, including Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah and former Minister H.K. Patil, attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/will-welcome-those-who-rejoin-unconditionally/article33899181.ece
22 February 2021||Thrissur,||Red-eared turtle a threat to waterbodies||After the Pink Bloom, an alien flower that choked the Avala Pandi canal at Perambra, yet another invasive species is posing a threat to the biodiversity of waterbodies in the State. This time, it is a cute red-eared slider turtle, a huge hit with pet lovers. A few days ago, Adithyan D. Thambi, a Class 6 student of St. Vincent Pallotthi Central School, Kalathode, got a medium-sized turtle while he was fishing in a canal at Kalathode. He posted his catch on Facebook, which was noticed by Sandeep Das, a researcher at the Kerala Forest Research Institute (KFRI). Identifying the turtle, an exotic and major invasive species, he alerted the boy and cautioned him against releasing it back to the waterbody. Scientifically called Trachemys scripta elegans, is a favourite of pet lovers because of its small size and colour, noted T.V. Sajeev, Senior Principal Scientist and Research Coordinator, KFRI. “The turtle can even be kept in a matchbox. But it grows fast. Adult turtles require lots of aquatic plants. They are omnivores. Many find it difficult to keep them as they grow bigger, and release them into waterbodies. This turtle is considered one of the world’s worst invasive species,” noted Dr. Sajeev. Illegal in many places Originally from the area around the Mississippi river and the Gulf of Mexico, they live in still and warm waterbodies such as ponds, lakes, streams, and slow- running rivers. They pose a major threat to native turtle specials, as they grow large, produce more offspring, and are aggressive. They out-compete native turtles for food, nestling, and basking sites. As they eat plants and animals, they can finish off a wide range of aquatic species, including fish and rare frogs. They can also transfer diseases and parasites to native reptiles. In Australia and the European Union, it is illegal to import and keep these turtles. The turtle found in the Kalathode canal has been referred to the Nodal Centre for Biological Invasions (NCBI) at KFRI. “The KFRI has been active in alien invasive species research for over a decade now. We had started with the case of the fast spread of an alien invasive climber, Mikania micrantha — the mile-a-minute weed. We attended to the case of the Giant African Snail outbreaks, which occurred in more than 200 locations in Kerala in the past five years. Currently, the KFRI has the NCBI, which restores landscapes invaded by alien species and mounts early detection and rapid control of alien invasions,” said KFRI director Syam Viswanath. Plea to public The NCBI has started a massive survey and restoration efforts to remove the red-eared slider turtle from the wild. It is also working on discouraging pet shops from selling the species. People who spot the turtle can contact NCBI at 0487 2690222.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/red-eared-turtle-a-threat-to-waterbodies/article33898928.ece
22 February 2021||Unnao,||Accused gave pesticide-laced water to Unnao victims: police||The Unnao police on Saturday added a charge of poisoning to the FIR after one of the accused, Vinay Kumar, allegedly confessed to giving the three Dalit girls water mixed with pesticide after one of them spurned him. Two of the girls died, while the third is in hospital in a critical condition. Unnao Superintendent of Police Anand Kulkarni said on Sunday that Section 328 of the Indian Penal Code (punishment for administering a poison or unwholesome drug) was added to the FIR, which already includes Section 302 (punishment for murder) and Section 201 (removing evidence). He added that the second accused, who was believed to be a minor when the police detained him, was 19 years old, according to the Aadhaar card produced by his family. He added that the police would look into any additional age proof documents provided by the family, which claimed that the boy was 13 years old. Both the accused were on Saturday sent to judicial custody for 14 days. The mother of the accused said her son was 13 years old and would have gone to Class 5 had the COVID-19 pandemic not shut schools last year. “We didn’t know that his age was 19 as per the Aadhaar card. We only got to know when the police asked for it. We are illiterate so we gave whatever date we were advised when we had his Aadhaar card made,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/accused-gave-pesticide-laced-water-to-unnao-victims-police/article33898953.ece
22 February 2021||New Delhi,||Cairn Energy seeks swift resolution||Days after Cairn Energy CEO Simon Thomson met top Finance Ministry officials on the tax arbitration award enforcement, company officials said a number of proposals were discussed with the government to find a “mutually acceptable” swift resolution, and the company would look at investing more in India if such a resolution occurs. “We have had cordial and constructive discussions in Delhi over the last few days with officials from the Ministry of Finance. We remain hopeful that an acceptable solution can be found, in order to avoid further prolonging and exacerbating this negative issue for all parties,” said a company official privy to the meetings between top Finance Ministry official Ajay Bhushan Pandey and Mr. Thomson held over the past few days. In December 2020, a three-member tribunal in the Permanent Court of Arbitrage at The Hague had ruled unanimously against the retrospective tax levied by India on Cairn in 2015, ruling that the tax violated the bilateral investment pact. The tribunal also awarded Cairn $1.2 billion in damages. The government is considering an appeal against the tribunal’s verdict asserting its sovereign right to levy taxes, while Cairn had warned last month that it is considering taking legal recourse to attach Indian assets in different world capitals. Since then, Cairn has moved a U.S. district court to enforce the arbitration award. “The freezing of our assets in 2014 to enforce a retrospective tax measure has been extremely negative for all parties, and we are very keen to be able to put this legacy matter behind us and move forward positively... Notwithstanding and without prejudice to our rights under the international arbitration award, we have discussed a number of proposals with the aim of finding a swift resolution that could be mutually acceptable to the Government of India and the interests of Cairn’s shareholders,” the company official said. “Assuming such a resolution can be achieved, we look forward to being able to move on to further opportunities to invest in India which continues to import the majority of the energy sources it consumes,” the official added, while stressing that the company would continue to take all necessary steps to protect the interests of its shareholders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cairn-energy-hopeful-of-swift-resolution/article33898966.ece
22 February 2021||New Delhi,||Sreedharan’s impact likely to be minimal: Tharoor||With E. Sreedharan throwing his hat in the political ring bydeciding to join the BJP, senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Sunday said the technocrat is likely to have a “minimal” impact on the upcoming Kerala Assembly polls, and asserted that the BJP is not a serious contender except in a few seats in the State. Mr. Tharoor also said it will be very difficult for the BJP to improve upon its performance of winning one seat in the 2016 Assembly polls and the high point of Mr. Sreedharan’s impact on Kerala elections will turn out to be the announcement of joining the BJP itself. In an interview with PTI , Mr. Tharoor said he was surprised at the announcement that Mr. Sreedharan was going to enter the political fray and join the BJP. He said Mr. Sreedharan’s entry came as a surprise to him because the technocrat had a long innings executing engineering projects, not making or implementing policies in a fractious democracy. “It’s a very different world,” he added. Asked what kind of impact Mr. Sreedharan could have on the Kerala Assembly polls, the MP from Thiruvananthapuram said, “Since he has no political background or experience, I think his impact is likely to be minimal.” “When I joined politics at 53, I thought I had left it too late to make the kind of impact I felt I was capable of. What can I say about someone who is 88?” Mr. Tharoor said. On whether Mr. Sreedharan’s entry will make the Kerala polls a three-way contest and the BJP will emerge as a serious contender alongside the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the United Democratic Front (UDF), he said the BJP is not a serious contender at all except in a handful of seats, and it will be very difficult for the party to improve upon the one seat it won last time. “The high point of the impact (of Mr. Sreedharan) will turn out to be this announcement itself,” the 64-year-old former Union minister said. Mr. Sreedharan, who recently announced that he will enter the political fray by joining the BJP, had told PTI last week that he will contest the assembly elections if the BJP wants and will also be open to chief ministership if the party asks. Known as the ‘Metroman’ and for completing big infrastructure projects, the 88-year-old technocrat has also said his main aim is to help the BJP come to power in Kerala. Mr. Sreedharan’s entry into the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is being seen as a major boost for the party in election-bound Kerala. The state has been ruled by the LDF and the Congress-led UDF alternately for the past many years. Mr. Tharoor said the UDF has the talent, the experience and the creative energy to build a new narrative for the future of Kerala. “What I am working on is intended to be, above all, a ‘people’s manifesto’ -- not just about what the Congress will do for the people of Kerala, but what the people of Kerala want and expect the Congress to do for them,” said Mr. Tharoor. “I see our ‘Talk To Tharoor’ campaign as an opportunity for the UDF to serve the people of Kerala through creative ideas, responsible governance and the courage and confidence to rise to the aspirations of our people,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sreedharans-impact-likely-to-be-minimal-tharoor/article33899242.ece
22 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Minister urges KSRTC unions to withdraw from strike plan||Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran has urged the INTUC-affiliated Transport Democratic Federation and the BMS-affiliated Kerala State Transport Employees Sangh, two recognised unions of the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC), to withdraw from the 24-hour token strike they have announced from February 22 midnight. The two unions have served a strike notice on the KSRTC management demanding withdrawal of the move to float KSRTC-SWIFT, an independent company to operate long-distance buses using contract staff, and demanding immediate revision of salary.  ‘Inappropriate’ The token strike of February 23 was inappropriate as the KSRTC was passing through difficult times, Mr. Saseendran said on Sunday here. The KSRTC Chairman and Managing Director (CMD) had been asked to hold talks with the two recognised unions, he said. “It is regrettable that the effort to save the KSRTC and help it stand on its feet is being opposed by some organisations,” he said. The present Left Democratic Front government had pumped in Rs. 5,500 crore to the KSRTC to keep it afloat in the past five years. Despite the crisis, Mr. Saseendran said the government ensured that the employees on the rolls got salary and allowances and the retired employees got pension without delay. Salary revision soon Mr. Saseendran said steps would be initiated soon to revise the salary and give the pending DA arrears from March as announced by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Reducing expenditure was the only way before the KSRTC, he said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/minister-urges-ksrtc-unions-to-withdraw-from-strike-plan/article33899240.ece
22 February 2021||KASARaGOD,||Both fronts have fostered only corruption, says Adityanath||Both the Left Democratic Front and United Democratic Front governments in the State have only fostered corruption and instability, Uttar Pradesh (UP) Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has said. He was speaking at the inauguration of Vijaya Yatra, led by BJP State president K. Surendran, which began in Kasaragod on Sunday. “While many States have reaped the benefits of the policies implemented by the Union government, Kerala has been left behind. The government here is not keen on executing Central projects,” he said. Citing Jal Jeevan Mission, a project to provide clean drinking water to every household, he said the LDF government had failed to implement it on time. COVID comparisons On the COVID-19 situation, he said there were fewer than 2,000 active cases in UP, which had a population of 24 crore. The World Health Organisation had recognised the UP government’s efforts to check the infection spread. But Kerala had not succeeded in arresting the virus transmission. The Kerala government laughed at the infrastructure in UP, but the world was now laughing at Kerala’s failure, Mr. Adityanath said. Touching upon ‘love jihad’, he said that in 2009, the Kerala High Court had alerted the State government to the issue. However, Kerala did nothing to bring about a strong law against ‘love jihad’, while Uttar Pradesh had effectively brought out steps to stop it. Sabarimala row On the Sabarimala issue, he said the LDF government was playing with people’s emotions and openly allowing anarchy by certain organisations that attacked temples and churches. It had created division among people for political gains. On the other hand, the BJP government, led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, had laid the foundation stone for the Ram temple in Ayodhya. Mr. Adityanath termed the work on the temple an initiative at national development. The UP Chief Minister appealed to the people to bring BJP to power in Kerala for development and prosperity. “Those in Tripura and other northeastern States have accepted the NDA,” he said. Later, he flagged off the Vijaya Yatra. The inauguration was attended by the national and State leaders of the BJP and the NDA constituents. The Statewide march will highlight corruption-free governance and comprehensive development. The rally will end on March 6 in Thiruvananthapuram. Union Home Minister Amit Shah will attend the closing ceremony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/both-fronts-have-fostered-only-corruption-says-adityanath/article33898926.ece
22 February 2021||Hyderabad,||PV’s daughter Vani Devi is TRS candidate for MLC polls||In a surprise move, the Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) has announced S. Vani Devi, daughter of former Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao, as its candidate for the Hyderbad-Ranga Reddy-Mahabubnagar Graduate MLC constituency on Sunday. Since the last day for nominations is February 23, the decision comes as a surprise for the party workers and even Ministers and MLAs. The indications from the party so far was that it would stay away from the elections in this constituency and extend support to Independent candidate K. Nageshwar, which was opposed within the party quite strongly. TRS was quite clear on the contest in the other Graduate constituency, Warangal-Nalgonda-Khammam with the sitting MLC, Palla Rajeshwar Reddy vigorously campaigning for the last few months. Initially the names of former Mayor Bonthu Rammohan, Malkajgiri Parliament constituency incharge Marri Rajashekhar Reddy and Varkatam Jagannadh Reddy from Makthal were floated. But they all gave up hope with the CM not even discussing the issue seriously with the party leaders all these days. The selection of 69-year old Vani Devi has surprised the party activists since the focus of these elections is on employment-related issues mostly. This section of voters has been quite angry with the government for a variety of reasons, Moreover, her name was not even in discussion among the party leaders till Sunday. Ms. Vani Devi is the principal of Sri Venkateshwara Fine Arts College in Madhapur that she has established. The decision apparently comes in the backdrop of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao's indication during the inauguration of P.V. Narasimha Rao's Birth Centenary celebrations last year that she would be honoured with some post as a mark of respect to PV Narasimha Rao. He had indicated that she would be nominated as a MLC but under Governor's quota and not as a party candidate in the elections. The CM also wants to own PV's legacy by promoting his daughter and snatch it away from the Congress party with which the late Prime Minister was associated throughout. It would be interesting to see how she goes about in the campaigning since the opponents are way ahead and have reached out to the voters through group meetings in the city and districts. TRS has not been successful in this constituency despite best efforts with Mr Nageshwar and Mr. Ramchander Rao of BJP winning in the previous contests. The task of ensuring her win now lies on the Ministers from Mahabubnagar and Ranga Reddy districts mostly as she has little time to gear up and swing into action. The elections will be held on March 14 and the results will be declared on March 17. About 5.60 lakh registered voters will exercise their franchise in 616 polling stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pvs-daughter-is-trs-candidate-for-mlc-polls/article33899342.ece
22 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Pre-poll survey predicts LDF win in Kerala Assembly polls||A pre-poll survey has predicted a win for the Left Democratic Front (LDF) in the Assembly elections in April. C-Fore, a multi-disciplinary research organisation, had partnered with a major Malayalam television news channel to broadcast the survey results on Sunday. The pollsters predicted an LDF win with 72 to 78 seats. If so, it would be a watershed in electoral politics in Kerala. The methodology adopted by C-Fore was not immediately known. However, the news channel indicated voter profiling, and statistical inferences and mathematical projections had informed the prediction. The survey firm gave 59 to 65 seats for the UDF and between three and seven seats for the BJP. It said LDF was poised for a sweep in south Kerala with a 41% of the vote share. The survey gave 12 to 14 seats with 37% of the vote share to the UDF. The NDA was set to bag 20% of the vote share in the region. Other contenders The poll also showed a high approval rating for Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Thirty-nine per cent of the respondents said Mr. Vijayan was most suited to the post. Eighteen per cent threw in their lot with former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy. Shashi Tharoor, MP, (9%) and Health Minister K.K. Shylaja (7%) had a higher approval rating than Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala for the Chief Minister’s post (6%). Mr. Chennithala’s rating was on a par with that of BJP State president K. Surendran. Only 4% of the respondents preferred KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran as Chief Minister. The UDF had an edge in central Kerala (23 to 25 seats) over the LDF (16 to 18 seats). The coalition seemed positioned to garner 42% of the vote share compared to 39% by the LDF. The survey predicted dominance for the LDF in north Kerala with 32 to 34 seats and 43% of the vote share. It limited UDF seats between 24 and 26 despite winning a projected 39% of the votes.  39% respondents say Pinarayi most suited for CM’s post||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pre-poll-survey-predicts-ldf-win-in-kerala-assembly-polls/article33899598.ece
22 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||India, China to push for resolving remaining issues||Noting that the disengagement of frontline troops in the Pangong Tso area was a significant step forward for the resolution of issues in other areas in the Western Sector, India and China, at the 10th Corps Commander talks, agreed to push for a mutually acceptable solution for the remaining issues. “The two sides agreed to follow the important consensus of their state leaders, continue their communication and dialogue, stabilise and control the situation on the ground, push for a mutually acceptable resolution of the remaining issues in a steady and orderly manner, so as to jointly maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas,” a joint statement on the talks held on Saturday said. The Corps Commanders had a candid and in-depth exchange of views on other issues along the Line of Actual Control in the Western Sector, the statement said. The two sides positively appraised the “smooth completion” of disengagement of frontline troops in the Pangong Lake area and said that it provided a “good basis” for resolution of other remaining issues in the Western Sector. The talks began at 10 a.m. and went on till 2 a.m., a government source said. With the disengagement now complete on the north and south banks of Pangong Tso, the focus of the talks was to work out a phased disengagement plan for the other friction areas in eastern Ladakh. These include Gogra, Hot Springs, Depsang and Demchok. At the first Corps Commander talks last June, both sides had mutually agreed and identified five friction areas — Patrolling Points (PP) 14 at Galwan, PP15 and 17 at Gogra and Hotsprings, North bank of Pangong Tso and Chushul. Despite the violent clash at Galwan on June 15, the disengagement there has been completed, while partial disengagement was done at PP15 and PP17A. However, in end of August, tensions flared on the south bank of Pangong Tso, with the Army occupying several dominating peaks on the Indian side of the LAC lying vacant since 1962.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-china-to-push-for-resolving-remaining-issues/article33898943.ece
22 February 2021||Kolkata,||I am up to challenge: Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday said that she would not be scared of any threats and she accepted the challenge for the Assembly election. “We accept all challenges. In the year 2021, a game will be played. I will be the goalkeeper. Let us see who wins. Even if I am put behind bars, I will give call for ‘Joy Bangla’ like ‘Bangabandhu’,” Ms. Banerjee said at an event here. ‘Joy Bangla’ was the slogan used by “Bangabandhu”, the founder of Bangladesh, Mujib-ur- Rahman. “ Khela hobe (let the game be played)” is another slogan that is being echoed in West Bengal’s political circles, both by the Trinamool Congress and the BJP to challenge each other in the upcoming electoral contest. Fuel less by Rs. 1 The West Bengal government on Sunday reduced price of petrol and diesel by Rs. 1 a litre. The State’s Finance Minister Amit Mitra said the reduction in sales tax would come into effect from midnight to reduce the common man’s burden.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/i-am-up-to-challenge-mamata/article33898950.ece
22 February 2021||MUMBAI/DELHI,||Disengagement at LAC raises hopes for GM-GWM deal||As India and China began talks for the second phase of disengagement of troops at the Line of Actual Control, two auto majors, General Motors and China’s Great Wall Motors, say they remain hopeful of clearances to complete their deal for a car production facility in Maharashtra that has been held up due to tensions between the two countries. According to sources, the government has now “sounded out” applicants of at least 30 of the roughly 150 proposals that had been made to the Ministry of Home Affairs in the past year for Chinese investment, indicating that the government might consider lifting restrictions from all “land border countries”, which essentially affected FDI from China. “We continue to seek relevant approvals and investment clearances. The GWM is a global company which is committed to contributing to the growth of the Indian economy. We want to be a significant partner in the Make in India growth story as well as the Skill India campaign of the government,” a GWM spokesperson told The Hindu , making it clear that despite a year’s delay in the deal for the Talegaon plant, for which they signed an MoU with GM in January 2020, the Chinese company has not dropped the deal yet. Last week, Reuters had reported that the GM-GWM was among the proposals set to be given clearance in the wake of the disengagement agreement, quoting government officials who said deals would be cleared so long as they were not “sensitive national security” issues. Experts feel the lifting of restrictions could be part of a larger agreement between Delhi and Beijing to restore parts of the relationship. “If [the GM-GWM deal] is going to be cleared that seems to suggest that part of the overall deal between the two sides may also be [to] begin untangling the commercial and economic issue,” former National Security Advisory Board Chairman Shyam Saran said .  However, given a number of subsequent developments, the deal may still run into rough weather, even if the proposal were to get the green light. In addition to the Centre’s decision to block all investment proposals from China, the Maharashtra government had rejected the GM’s decision to shut down the plant in December, given that it had 1,578 workers who are not part of the MoU agreement. The workers too have stalled the GM’s exit from the country, insisting that they be employed by the new company as part of the sale, which the GM has not agreed to yet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/disengagement-at-lac-raises-hopes-for-gm-gwm-deal/article33899490.ece
22 February 2021||LUCKNOW,||‘Govt. working for industrialists’||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday accused the BJP government of working for the interests of the sand mining mafia. Addressing a gathering of Nishad men and women whose boats were recently damaged by the administration in Prayagraj during a drive against alleged illegal sand mining, Ms. Vadra vowed to fight for the community’s rights to get pattas (land grants). “The government in power is not working for you but for the mining mafia and other kinds of mafia,” Ms. Vadra said at Banswar village, where on February 4 police and administrative officials allegedly damaged the boats and lathi charged Nishad boatmen and labourers near the Yamuna river. Ms. Vadra said the three new farm laws would cause harm to farmers but benefit big industrialists. “Similarly, the laws implemented related to rivers like the Ganga and Yamuna are not for your well-being but that of the industrialists. The big companies have all permissions... laws are made in such a way. They can earn from the river but you can’t,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-working-for-industrialists/article33899227.ece
22 February 2021||GUWAHATI,||AASU to protest against PM’s visit||The All Assam Students’ Union (AASU) has opposed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Assam on February 22 owing to the Centre’s failure in implementing Clause 6 of the Assam Accord. The Prime Minister is scheduled to dedicate to the nation some projects in the oil and gas sector in an event organised at Silapathar in north-eastern Assam’s Dhemaji district. He will also inaugurate and lay the foundation stone for a couple of engineering colleges during the event. “Despite visiting Assam a few times recently, the Prime Minister has kept mum on the implementation of Clause 6 as well as that of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act,” AASU president Dipanka Kumar Nath said on Sunday. Clause 6 of the Accord, signed in August 1985, seeks to guarantee constitutional safeguards for the Assamese and other indigenous communities. Finance Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had a few days ago said the recommendations of a panel set up by the Union Home Ministry toward implementing Clause 6 were legally invalid. “The Prime Minister should announce the deadline for implementing Clause 6. Our members will wave black flags and wear black badges during his visit to register their protest,” Mr Nath said. ‘Land deal shady’ Locals around Dhemaji’s Piyang Sapori-Sitlamari, where Mr. Modi would be inaugurating or initiating work on a slew of projects, have been agitating against a “shady” deal to allegedly deprive them of about 2,000 bighas of land for industrial projects. Police said protesters blocked the highway and a bridge leading to the event venue besides attacking security personnel and stoning houses of local leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aasu-to-protest-against-pms-visit/article33899228.ece
22 February 2021||Kozhikode,||Trouble brewing for Saseendran||Fresh trouble is brewing for the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) over its Minister A.K. Saseendran entering the electoral fray for the ninth time in a row, ahead of the Election Commission of India’s (ECI) announcement of the schedule for the Assembly elections in the State. Already a section of the party, possibly with the backing of State president T.P. Peethambaran, is against giving another chance to the 76-year-old leader who successfully contested thrice from Kozhikode district. The development comes when the NCP State committee is meeting on Monday in Kochi and the Kozhikode district committee of the CPI(M) is opposed to offering the Elathur Assembly constituency for the third time to Mr. Saseendran, who had also previously won from the Balussery Assembly constituency in 2006. Generational shift Clamouring for a generational shift in the party, some local leaders in Kozhikode are at odds with Mr. Saseendran and are vehemently opposing his candidature from Elathur or elsewhere. At a meeting here recently, they pointed out that even the CPI(M) and the CPI have decided not to field those who had contested the Assembly elections twice and thrice respectively. Much to his dismay, the Nationalist Mahila Congress, the women’s wing of the party, has shot off a letter to NCP general secretary Praful Patel not to renominate Mr. Saseendran for the Assembly polls pointing out that the Opposition parties were gearing up to rake up the four-year-old sensational ‘honey trap’ case that led to his resignation as Transport Minister in March 2017. With many party leaders drifting towards the faction led by Pala legislator Mani C. Kappan, who joined the Congress-led United Democratic Front, sources said that Mr. Saseendran was optimistic about tactfully bring his detractors around even if checkmating Mr. Peethambaran who is dead set against his candidature. Final call In the event of a stand-off or otherwise, certainly the final call on his candidature would be determined by the Central leadership of the party, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trouble-brewing-for-saseendran/article33899238.ece
22 February 2021||Ghaziabad,||Khaps in U.P. rebuff BJP’s olive branch||BJP leaders attempting to reach out to the khaps (community groups) in western Uttar Pradesh to break the deadlock over the farm laws have met with stiff resistance. On Sunday, Sachin Jawla, the chaudhary (head) of the Jawla khap of 12 villages in Shamli and Muzaffarnagar district declared he was not interested in meeting Union Minister Sanjeev Balyan. “He reached out to us, but we have turned down the offer,” said Mr. Jawla, 34. “If he wants to talk to us, he should either resign from the post of Union Minister or request Tikait ji (Naresh Tikait, president of Bharatiya Kisan Union) to call a panchayat of khaps . It seems he is looking for a photo opportunity with a young khap chaudhary to tell the world that the khaps are not united in the fight for law on assured minimum support price,” he added. Mr. Jawla’s rebuff came after Mr. Balyan told a television channel that he met leaders of khaps and tried to understand their point of view. “The government had many ways to put an end to this protest, but we believe in dialogue,” the Minister said. Last week, Mr. Tikait said at a panchayat in Muzaffarnagar that farmers should refrain from inviting BJP leaders to weddings and functions. Surinder Chaudhary, the head of the Desh khap of 84 villages, said on Friday that he didn’t want to meet BJP leaders. “We are not children who need to be told the benefits of the laws. They should talk to Samyukt Kisan Morcha,” he said. On Sunday, a BJP delegation led by Mr. Balyan had to face opposition of farmers in Bhainswal village of Shamli. Sources said the delegation could not meet Battisa khap chaudhary Suraj Mal and had to make do with Udayveer Singh, an influential person in the village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/khaps-in-up-rebuff-bjps-olive-branch-over-farm-laws/article33898942.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,||India waited till China pulled back its troops||“Earlier also China agreed to withdraw in meetings but the words were not matched by action. This time we decided to slow down the withdrawal and wrapped up the process only the last day. The Chinese showed alacrity though and withdrew at an enhanced pace than the daily target,” said the official. Another official added that India could afford to take it slow as the ingress by China was deep in north bank — upto Finger 4 where they had constructed semi-permanent structures and in south bank where Indian troops were in an advantageous position, the tanks were positioned at the foothills. “China has also informally conveyed that it was not happy with the Indian media’s projection that the disengagement is a victory only for India. They conveyed that even Indian troops have gone back. In meetings, they often raise hyper-reporting and asked to control the media here. They were told that India has culture of free-press and army cannot dictate them on what to show and print,” said the official. India and China have been engaged in a face-off in various pockets in Eastern Ladakh since April last year after China stopped Indian patrols in Finger area of Pangong Tso. The north and south banks of Pangong have witnessed firing in the air on multiple occasions since August 30 last year, a first of its kind escalation since 1975. On June 15, 20 Indian soldiers were killed in violent physical clashes with the Chinese. The official said that the clause “temporary moratorium on patrolling” has been inked in the final agreement and it has been emphasised that Indian troops could resume traditional patrolling in Finger area after a final decision has been taken at political and diplomatic level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-ensured-pullback-of-chinese-troops-first/article33898919.ece
22 February 2021||KOCHI,||Jaleel named as witness in gold smuggling case||Minister for Higher Education K.T. Jaleel’s acquaintance with Jamal Husain Al Zabi, the former Consular General of the United Arab Emirates, Thiruvananthapuram, and Swapna Suresh and P.S. Sarith, accused in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case, will surface during his examination as a witness in the case. The National Investigation Agency (NIA), which has listed him as the 114th witness, had recorded his statements on September 17 last year. Dr. Jaleel’s acquaintance with Mr. Zabi as “the Minister for Minority Affairs and Waqf of Kerala and other facts,” are also likely to feature in his examination. 140 witnesses The investigation agency has indicated the roles of 140 witnesses in the case in the chargesheet, which was recently submitted to the court. However, no foreign national has been enlisted as witness. Chartered Accountant Venugopal has spoken to the NIA about his acquaintance with M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister, and the opening of a safe-deposit locker for Swapna at a bank at the instance of Mr. Sivasankar. However, Mr. Sivasankar, who was interrogated by the agency, has not been made a witness. Santhosh Eapen, managing partner of Unitac Builders, gave statements about his “acquaintance with Swapna and association with UAE Consulate Thiruvananthapuram in their projects.” Protected witnesses Some of the protected witnesses, whose identity has been kept under wraps, gave information about the duties of Sarith and Swapna at the UAE Consulate regarding the collection of diplomatic cargo from the customs and their association with Faizal Fareed, another accused. Another protected witness divulged the details of the association of Faizal Fareed with Swapna, Sarith and K.T. Ramees and the smuggling of gold. Some others opened up about their acquaintance with the other accused and the assistance they offered for transporting the smuggled gold. Besides the officials of the Income Tax Department and banks and two officials of the UAE consulate, the NIA has listed 28 Travelling Ticket Inspectors of Railways as witnesses regarding the proceedings carried out against various accused at different parts of the State. Some of the close relatives of a few accused have also been enlisted as witnesses. A jeweller has given a statement about a person, who had sold him gold ornaments 10 to 15 times in 2009 and also about an accused who accompanied the seller.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jaleel-named-as-witness-in-gold-smuggling-case/article33898924.ece
22 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||‘Govt. backed U.S. firm at the cost of fishers’||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Sunday said the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government had put the livelihood of the large coastal community on the line by manoeuvring behind the scenes to permit a U.S. deep-sea trawling conglomerate to harvest marine wealth off the coast of Kerala. Mr. Chennithala, who is on his Aishwarya Kerala Yatra’s final leg, ‘let out’ the firm’s agreement with the government to modernise the State’s marine fishing industry. He waved two ‘memoranda of understanding’ between the firm and the government. They allowed the company to build, launch, and operate a large fleet of deep-sea trawlers backed by motherships, modern harbours, and seafood processing hubs. ‘Fishers not consulted’ The government had agreed to provide ‘time-bound clearances and infrastructure support’ to the firm to commence ‘commercial operations’ without consulting the fishing community or other stakeholders. The government also allowed the company four acres of land in a mega food processing park in Alappuzha. Mr. Chennithala said the plot to deprive fishers of their livelihood by granting foreign corporates unfettered access to the State’s marine wealth was long in the making. Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan and Mr. Vijayan were the prime movers. Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty was their emissary. She had hosted the company’s representatives during her visit to the U.N. in New York in 2018, he alleged. CPI(M) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan slammed Mr. Chennithala for making a ‘mountain out of a molehill’ to raise the bogey of corruption where none existed. Two government entities had signed exploratory MoUs with an entrepreneur to weigh various options to modernise the State’s ageing deep-sea fishing fleet. They had not entered into any legal contract with the company. The Cabinet would give MoUs the go-ahead only after examining whether they were congruent with the LDF’s policy. Not every MoU became an agreement, he said. Kerala State Matsya Thozhilali Federation (CITU) general secretary P. P. Chitharanjan said the controversy was the outcome of conspiracy hatched by Mr. Chennithala. He hoped that people would reject the February 27 hartal called by fishers’ organisations. BJP stance BJP spokesperson B. Gopalakrishnan said the episode smacked of a brazen attempt by the CPI(M) to sacrifice fishers’ interests at the altar of corruption.  Cabinet gives MoUs the go-ahead only after checking whether they comply with LDF policy. Not every MoU becomes an agreement A. Vijayaraghavan CPI(M) acting State secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-backed-us-firm-at-the-cost-of-fishers/article33898930.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Amid surge in cases, govt. orders more RT-PCR tests||India has reported 101 COVID deaths in the last 24 hours. Five States — Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka — account for 80% of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (40). Kerala reported 13 deaths. Punjab has reported another 8 casualties. The Ministry added that a total of 1.06 crore (1,06,89,715) people have recovered from COVID-19 so far, while 11,667 patients have recovered and got discharged in the last 24 hours. India’s recovery rate at 97.25% is amongst the highest in the world. “Currently 81.65% of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in five States. Kerala has reported the maximum number of single day recoveries with 5,841 newly recovered cases, 2,567 people recovered in Maharashtra in the past 24 hours followed by 459 in Tamil Nadu,” said the Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amid-surge-in-cases-govt-orders-more-rt-pcr-tests/article33898938.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,||CBI serves notice on Trinamool MP’s wife||“Abhishek Banerjee has filed a defamation case against Union Home Minister Amit Shah. A court has asked him [Mr. Shah] to present himself or send his representative on February 22. This development is a result of that,” Mr. Ghosh said. On Sunday, a team of CBI officials arrived at Mr. Banerjee’s residence at Shantiniketan Building on 188, Harish Mukherjee Road. According to CBI sources, notice was served on Rujira Banerjee as a witness in a case involving coal theft under Section 160 of Code of Criminal Procedure. A CBI official said: “A team visited the residence of Mr. Banerjee’s wife, Rujira Banerjee, in Kolkata to deliver the notice for questioning on Sunday. Another notice was sent to his sister-in-law, Maneka Gambhir, in the evening.” In the notice, the CBI’s Investigating Officer stated, “You are hereby requested to remain present on 21.02.2021 at 15.00 hrs at the above-mentioned address for the purpose of answering certain questions relating to the case.” It is learnt that Ms. Rujira Banerjee was not home when the team reached there. The CBI official said the agency was yet to receive an official response from Ms. Rujira Banerjee, while Ms. Gambhir had agreed to join the probe on Monday. The agency registered a case of alleged illegal mining and theft of coal from West Bengal’s Kunustoria and Majora collieries on November 27, 2020. Among those named were the alleged mastermind, Anup Majhi, two General Managers of Eastern Coalfields Limited (ECL), and the Chief Security Officer and two other officials of ECL’s Security Department. After registering the FIR, the CBI had also carried out searches at 45 locations across West Bengal, Jharkhand, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. Mr. Majhi and his main accomplice, Binay Mishra, are allegedly absconding. Mr. Banerjee said, “We will fight it out. We are not scared. We believe people will give a befitting reply during voting.” However, former Trinamool leader Suvendu Adhikari, who recently joined the BJP, claimed he had shared details of a bank account in Bangkok where the proceeds from illegal smuggling of coal were going. “We want action in this regard. The sins committed should be brought out to public domain,” Mr. Adhikari said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-serves-notice-on-trinamool-mps-wife/article33898939.ece
22 February 2021||Pune,||Lockdown in Amravati||Remarking that Maharashtra’s sudden and steep surge in COVID-19 cases was worrisome, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Sunday that the government would come to know within 15 days whether or not the State was facing a second wave. Minister Yashomati Thakur said Amravati district in Vidarbha region would be placed under a lockdown from 8 p.m. on Monday to 8 a.m. on March 1. Mr. Thackeray further warned that the administration would be taking strict punitive action against citizens and businesses not adhering to pandemic regulations. “Today, the State reported nearly 7,000 cases as opposed to 15 days ago, when Maharashtra was reporting just 2,000-2,500 cases daily. The State’s active case tally, which had dipped below 40,000 a week ago, has now soared to 53,000. In this week, Mumbai’s cases have doubled.. I am especially worried that the sudden rise of cases in Amravati district in Vidarbha has begun from the district’s peak that it had attained last year,” he said addressing the State.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-surge-worrisome-says-cm/article33898963.ece
22 February 2021||SALEM,||One part resolved: Rajnath||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday said that following disengagement talks with China, one part had been resolved, but the Congress party was trying to malign the image of the government. Addressing a conference of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha here in Tamil Nadu, Mr. Singh said, “Following nine rounds of talks at military and diplomatic level, one part has been resolved till now. But Congress party is trying to malign our image by saying that we ceded India’s land.” The Defence Minister added that till there was life in his body, no one could take over one inch of India’s land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/one-part-resolved-rajnath/article33899487.ece
22 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||TS achieves 100% tap water connections to schools||Adding another feather in its cap, Telangana has joined the group of States which ensured tap water connections to all schools and anganwadi centres (AWCs) spread across the State. The State was the first in the country to provide tap water connections to 100% households and the achievement was acknowledged by the Centre a few days ago. Works on providing tap water connection to schools, anganwadi centres and ashramshalas was taken up under the 100-day special campaign of the Ministry of Jal Shakti under the Jal Jeevan Mission. The programme was launched by the Union Government acknowledging the need of potable piped water to children as they were more susceptible to water borne diseases as also the need for repeated hand washing to prevent the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. Telangana was among the group of States including Andhra Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Goa, Haryana and Tamil Nadu which reported provision of tap water in all schools and AWCs while Punjab reported provision of piped water supply in all schools. According to an official release, concerted efforts had been made to make provision of potable drinking water supply to schools, AWCs and ashramshalas under the campaign. So far, 1.82 lakh grey water management structures and 1.42 lakh rain water harvesting structures have been constructed in schools and AWCs. In all, 5.21 lakh schools and 4.71 lakh AWCs had been provided with piped water supply and around 8.24 lakh assets in these institutions have been geo-tagged. Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Minister E. Dayakar Rao expressed happiness over the recognition given to the State and said the credit for the achievement would go to Mission Bhagiratha, a brainchild of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. The State had already achieved the significant milestone of providing fluoride free water through piped water connections in the vulnerable areas. The Minister, at the same time, wanted the Centre to release assistance for projects like Mission Bhagiratha liberally in addition to the recognition being given to the State’s efforts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/telangana-achieves-100-tap-water-connections-to-schools/article33898922.ece
22 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Wistron clears 6,000 workers after checks||Wistron, the Taiwanese firm that makes iPhone for Apple Inc. at its Narasapura facility near Kolar, has already completed “stringent background checks” on over 6,000 of its contract workers and most have been cleared for resumption of work. Favourable response “A large number of Wistron’s 10,000 contract workers have responded favourably by furnishing required documents, including Aadhaar and police verification. Whoever has provided details has been verified and taken back to work. The company currently has an adequate number of workers to restart the plant,” Gaurav Gupta, Secretary, Industries and Commerce, told The Hindu . Mr. Gupta said all issues had been resolved and the government wants the plant to restart to safeguard the interests of everyone in the ecosystem: the employees, the industry, and the ancillary units such as transport and catering. “In all fairness, we want the plant to restart soon. Unfortunately, the fiasco sent negative signals. Later we realised that there were clear aberrations, in terms of engaging workers without even basic checks and not paying them salaries and overtime wages for many months,” he said. Wistron ramped up workforce very rapidly and its Narasapura plant, started only in July 2020, had 10,000 people by October. “When you get people in large number and so quickly, you cannot expect them to know work culture and conduct,” he added. Systems fixed Wistron had informed the government that it replaced its faulty attendance system and said they would initially operate only eight-hour shifts. The company also introduced an anonymous grievances reporting system so that workers can report their issues directly and fearlessly, said Mr. Gupta. Karnataka is an industry-focussed State and it has been working with several global corporates for decades, he added. Mr. Gupta said it was fair and legal that certain corporates engage contract workers. “But to be able to do that one has to follow certain processes,” he cautioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/wistron-clears-6000-workers-after-checks/article33898920.ece
22 February 2021||New Delhi,||Sonia writes to PM on rise in fuel prices||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Sunday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, accusing his government of profiteering from people’s miseries by “excessively” levying excise duty on petroleum products and called it “nothing short of extortion to cover up economic mismanagement”. In her three-page letter, Ms. Gandhi asked the government to “focus on solutions instead of looking for excuses as India deserves better”. The Congress chief said while India was witnessing erosion of jobs, wages and household incomes, problems for the middle class and marginal income groups have been compounded by “run away inflation and an unprecedented rise” in price of almost all household items and essential commodities. “I urge you to roll back these increases and pass on the benefit to our middle and salaried class, our farmers and poor and our fellow citizens. It is they who are battling an unprecedented economic slowdown...,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sonia-writes-to-pm-on-rise-in-fuel-prices/article33898940.ece
22 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||India and Maldives sign defence pact||India and the Maldives on Sunday signed a defence Line of Credit agreement worth $50 million during the ongoing visit by External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar. Both sides agreed to maintain peace and security in the Indian Ocean Region. The defence Line of Credit will “facilitate capability building in the maritime domain”, said Mr. Jaishankar in a social media message. The two sides agreed to strengthen coordination in enhancing regional maritime security, said a joint statement. Indicating deepening security cooperation, an agreement to develop, support and maintain a Maldives National Defence Force Coast Guard Harbour at Sifvaru was also signed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-and-maldives-sign-defence-pact/article33898944.ece
22 February 2021||Guwahati,||Anti-ULFA mood builds up in Assam||The threat to take action against two of its hostages appears to have boomeranged on the United Liberation Front of Asom (Independent). An anti-ULFA (I) mood has been building up in Assam since February 19, when the outfit issued a statement saying “final action” would be taken against two employees of a Delhi-based oil exploration firm its cadres had abducted from a drilling site in Arunachal Pradesh’s Changlang district on December 21 last year.  The abducted employees are Pranab Kumar Gogoi, a drilling superintendent from Assam, and Ram Kumar, a radio operator from Bihar. “An ideology had sired the ULFA, but it has fallen from grace because of some inhuman and unjustified decisions. Condemnation is the only word I have for them,” academician Hiren Gohain said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/anti-ulfa-mood-builds-up-in-assam/article33898945.ece
22 February 2021||New Delhi,||‘No traditional drug cleared for COVID-19’||The World Health Organization (WHO) has in a tweet clarified that it has not certified any traditional medicine for the treatment of COVID-19. The statement comes after recent claims by Patanjali Ayurved on the certification of its product, Coronil, by the global health body. “WHO has not reviewed or certified the effectiveness of any traditional medicine for the treatment COVID-19,” it stated. Coronil has received the Certificate of Pharmaceutical Product (CoPP) from the Ayush section of Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation as per the WHO certification scheme,” a statement issued by Patanjali had said. The Ministry of Ayush had recommended additional therapies, including the Coronil tablet, as a “supporting measure (immune booster) in Covid-19”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/who-says-no-traditional-drug-cleared-for-covid-19/article33898954.ece
22 February 2021||UNNAO,||Eight Twitter handles named by police in FIR||The Unnao police on Sunday lodged an FIR against eight Twitter handles for spreading “fake” stories about the alleged poisoning of three Dalit girls in Asoha, which left two dead and one in hospital in critical condition. The police said the Twitter handles spread false information that the girls had been raped, which was not found in the post-mortem report, and that the last rites of the two girls were done without the consent of their families, which also was denied by the police. An FIR was registered under Section 153 (intent to provoke rioting) of the IPC and Section 66 of the Information Technology Act against the eight handles — @NilimDutta, @themojostory, @janjagranlive, @SurajKrBaudh, @VijayAmbedkarUP, @Abhaykumarazad97, @Rahuldiwkr and @BhimSenaChief. Unnao SP Anand Kulkarni said the police were mulling similar action against Congress leader Udit Raj. Editor of Mojo Barkha Dutt said in a tweet: “On FIR against us for reporting Unnao murders — We’ve followed journalistic principles by reporting all sides of an evolving story. To use IPC Sections that are punishable with prison is pure intimidation. I am very ready to fight it and face it in court.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/eight-twitter-handles-named-by-police-in-fir/article33898951.ece
22 February 2021||Kolkata,||‘Spike in mental health issues triggered by virus’||The number of COVID-19 infections may have come down in some States but doctors across government-run health institutions are seeing a spike in patients complaining of mental health issues triggered by the virus. Among the mental health problems are depression, anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder, and trauma caused by near-death experience. “While we are trying to contain the novel coronavirus, we have to be prepared to deal with a new pandemic caused by the COVID-19 impact on mental health. Handling of such mental health cases may continue for the next few years even after vaccination is completed,” Basudeb Das, director, Central Institute of Psychiatry, said. Dr. Das, who recently took over as the director of the institute at Kanker in Ranchi, said that not only there is a rise in such cases but two in every 10 patients visiting the health facility have mental health issues triggered by COVID-19. He added that it would be crucial to train doctors and associated staff to face the new challenge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/spike-in-mental-health-issues-triggered-by-virus/article33899229.ece
22 February 2021||New Delhi,||Death toll in Chamoli disaster rises to 68||One more body was recovered on Sunday from a tunnel of the flood-ravaged Tapovan hydropower project in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand, taking the death toll to 68. Only 38 of the deceased have been identified so far. Rescue workers have so far cleared more than 160 metres of the tunnel of sludge and debris. Five bodies were recovered in the area on Saturday. In all, 28 body parts have so far been found.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/death-toll-in-chamoli-disaster-rises-to-68/article33898957.ece
22 February 2021||Pune,||Covishield supply: SII asks foreign countries to be patient||Serum Institute of India (SII) chief executive officer Adar Poonawalla on Sunday urged governments of other countries to be patient with supplies of the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covishield vaccine as the vaccine maker has been urged to prioritise Indian requirements. Mr. Poonawalla further said that the SII was doing its utmost to “balance the needs of the rest of the world” with the massive demand from the country. “Dear countries & governments, as you await COVISHIELD supplies, I humbly request you to please be patient, [Serum Institute of India] has been directed to prioritise the huge needs of India and along with that balance the needs of the rest of the world. We are trying our best,” tweeted the SII CEO. So far, the SII has supplied vaccines to a number of foreign nations, including Brazil, Mexico and Canada, while spearheading India’s anti-COVID-19 vaccination drive, which also includes Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. Following Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s call to Prime Minister Narendra Modi regarding Canada’s requirements for COVID-19 vaccines from India, Mr. Modi had assured Mr. Trudeau that Canada would be supplied with doses at the earliest and that India would do its best to help Canada’s vaccination efforts. On February 15, Mr. Poonawalla had tweeted on the issue: “Dear Hon’ble PM Justin Trudeau, I thank you for your warm words towards India and it’s [its] vaccine industry. As we await regulatory approvals from Canada, I assure you, Serum Institute of India will fly out COVISHIELD to Canada in less than a month; I’m on it!” Earlier this week, India had also announced a gift of 2 lakh doses of COVID-19 vaccines for peacekeepers of the United Nations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covishield-supply-sii-asks-foreign-countries-to-be-patient/article33898961.ece
22 February 2021||Mumbai,||E-way bill: Transporters’ body joins Bharat Bandh call||The All India Transporters’ Welfare Association (AITWA) has demanded abolition of the new E-Way Bill or scrapping of certain rules and has, in support of its demand, decided to support the Bharat Bandh call given by the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) on February 26 against the GST. The AITWA is also protesting against the fuel price hike.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/e-way-bill-transporters-body-joins-bharat-bandh-call/article33898964.ece
22 February 2021||Kasganj (Uttar Pradesh),||Kasganj murder case: Main accused shot dead in encounter by UP Police||Moti, the main accused in the Kasganj murder case, was gunned down by the police on Sunday morning, an official said. On February 9, a constable was beaten to death and a sub-inspector was seriously injured when a police team went to serve a warrant on liquor don Moti.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kasganj-murder-case-main-accused-shot-dead-in-encounter-by-up-police/article33899493.ece
22 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Beset by problems and awaiting development||The Poonamallee Assembly constituency, which has several industrial areas and is adjacent to the State capital, requires a lot of infrastructure development, including functional sewer lines and a robust drinking water supply, say residents. Babu, a resident of Kakalur, said sewer networks were yet to be laid in many areas. “Over the years, residential localities like ours have become thickly populated. Though we are only some 3 km from Tiruvallur town, we are yet to see any development or amenities. We are pinning our hopes on our becoming part of the CMDA and the Greater Chennai Corporation for things to improve,” he said. The lack of underground drainage networks has also led to many small lakes and tanks being polluted by local bodies that have been letting out untreated sewage into them. A 10-year-long fight by an industrialist at Varadharajapuram has finally led to a lake in the locality being cleaned of garbage that was dumped by the local body. However, now it is being used to dump sewage. Poonamallee town, from which the reserved segment takes its name, too, does not have a sewage network. DMK MLA A. Krishnaswamy said the proposal was made in 2006 but it had been put on hold for want of land acquisition for construction of pumping stations. Sewerage, water issues “It took me over a year just to trace the file and get the Collectorate to restart the process. We need sewage treatment plants at several places, including Kattupakkam, Nazarathpet, and Kundrathur. Hopefully, something will be done to move the Rs. 1,000 crore project forward,” he said. Though the constituency, which is part of Tiruvallur district, is home to Chembarambakkam lake, water supply, too, is an issue. “We cannot even consume a glass of water from the lake, which caters to Chennai city. A combined water supply scheme must be implemented to ensure water supply,” Mr. Krishnaswamy added. Home to thousands of small and medium scale industries scattered across Thirumazhisai, Kakkalur, Senneerkuppam, Varadharajapuram and Nemam, many industrialists talk of labour problems. “We are lucky, we haven’t had labour unrest in recent times. However, in many cases, people just walk in and demand money. Big industries pay mamool and manage. But the small ones with a few employees cannot do such things. There are also cases of thefts that are not taken seriously by the police. Any number of complaints do not seem to have any effect on such persons,” said an industrialist, who did not want to be named. With a burgeoning population and a high concentration of industries, traffic is another major problem in this constituency. Though the arterial National Highways running through the constituency witness an enormous number of vehicles, widening work is moving at a snail’s pace. “Work on three road overbridges at Veppampet, Putlur and Sevvaipettai are yet to be completed, causing jams at these locations. People are losing patience, waiting for the Highways Department to finish these works,” said Veppampet resident S. Saikumar. Roads in Poonamallee town get congested during peak hours. An upcoming terminus at Kuthambakkam has brought some hope to residents in that locality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/beset-by-problems-and-awaiting-development/article33899522.ece
22 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Decentralised waste management plants to be launched today||With the launch of major decentralised waste management projects by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday, the Greater Chennai Corporation is set to kick start a decentralisation drive for solid waste management. The earlier projects have all been small, with installed capacity of less than 10 tonnes. But the projects to be launched on Monday have capacity to process more than 100 tonnes every day. For instance, the wet waste processing plant to be inaugurated in Chetpet has the capacity to process 100 tonnes of waste every day. This bio-CNG facility has been created after the demolition of the old central asphalt plant, which was shut down following reports of pollution by residents in the area. Work on six bio-CNG facilities, each with a capacity of 100 tonnes, at different locations will be completed shortly. The dry waste incineration facility to be launched in Kodungaiyur will process 50 tonnes of waste every day. Corporation Chief Engineer N. Mahesan said the city is set to achieve 3,000 tonnes of waste processing capacity using decentralised units soon. “The original proposal was to achieve 3,000 tonnes in two years. Most of the projects will be ready by the end of this year,” he said. Over 60% of city’s waste is set to be processed after completion of the projects. “Wet waste will be sourced from hotels and other bulk waste generators,” said Mr. Mahesan. Most of the bulk waste generators have not created on site waste composting units. So, they are expected to supply wet waste to the Corporation’s bio-CNG units. After the 3,000 tonne decentralised plants are commissioned, residents’ associations are expected to play a key role in the supply of vegetable waste for wet waste processing. As a result, the dumping of waste will reduce in Kodungaiyur and Perungudi dumpyards. Currently, the 15 zones of the city generate more than 5,200 tonnes of garbage every day. Most of the segregated waste would reach the decentralised processing plants in a few months, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/decentralised-waste-management-plants-to-be-launched-today/article33899530.ece
22 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hospital calls for proactive screening for glaucoma||People who are unemployed and live in rural areas are unable to access eye care and often turn up with advanced glaucoma, a study has found. The study, done by doctors from Aravind Eye Hospital in Puducherry, assessed the treatment-seeking pattern among the south Indian population which comes to the hospital. Since people do not notice significant sight loss, unlike due to cataract, they tend to postpone the hospital visit. This leads to loss of vision ultimately. But this could be avoided if the hospitals could devise a proactive method and screen the population, the study said. The hospital, which caters to a large population in and around Puducherry, Karaikal and neighbouring districts of Tamil Nadu, saw a decline of over 80% in glaucoma surgeries in 2020 as compared to 2019. However, it is similar compared to the past five years, the hospital found. There was a significant backlog of patients requiring glaucoma surgeries. Many of them sought treatment for defective vision at an advanced stage. During COVID-19 Since glaucoma patients tend to be in the older age group with associated systemic ailments that makes them more prone to developing severe COVID-19 they may have avoided visiting hospitals, doctors surmised. Doctors say the drop in the number of surgeries has been steady in the past five years. This would mean that there is already a backlog of patients who may have lost their sight. The way out would be to target such people and conduct glaucoma awareness camps in rural areas. It would also help to make free eye camps more comprehensive and help diagnose glaucoma early. “Glaucoma being an asymptomatic condition, most cases are diagnosed by opportunistic screening,” said R. Venkatesh, chief medical officer at Aravind Eye Hospital, Puducherry. During the pandemic, people did not opt for normal eye care or regular check-up because of fear of COVID-19. Hospitals were catering only to routine emergencies. “As a result, many glaucoma patients went undiagnosed and many patients already under care also, did not come for review properly. Especially patients who need a glaucoma surgery could not get it done in time. This being a ‘silent killer’ would have resulted in visual loss affecting patients’ quality of life. So, we need to proactively strengthen opportunistic screening and find ways to get high risk patients back into system to tackle glaucoma-related blindness,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hospital-calls-for-proactive-screening-for-glaucoma/article33899523.ece
22 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro phase I extension riders wait for last-mile connectivity||After Metro Rail began running trains from Washermenpet to Wimco Nagar, nearly 8,000-10,000 commuters have used the stretch so far. This could be increased further if Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL) begins last-mile connectivity services, like share autorickshaws, in the seven stations, connecting them to nearby areas of interest like Wimco Nagar railway station, which receives hundreds of commuters every day. A.T.B. Bose, of the North Chennai People’s Rights Federation, said, “They can run share autorickshaws every half hour between the suburban and the Metro stations. There are many who may want to travel to locations not covered by suburban trains. Apart from this, they should also necessarily operate share autorickshaws within a 3-5 km distance around every station.” At present, Metro Rail has resumed last-mile connectivity services in a limited number of phase I stations for a fare of Rs. 10 but has not yet extended it to the phase I extension stations. “They should give two-wheeler parking in all stations on the phase I extension stretch to make it easier for those who want to use the system,” Mr. Bose added. According to CMRL officials, they have been mulling the operation of a shuttle or share autorickshaw services between the Wimco Nagar Metro and suburban stations. “We understand that this will help commuters and have been thinking of ways to implement the same,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metro-phase-i-extension-riders-wait-for-last-mile-connectivity/article33899525.ece
22 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Companies face many hurdles at Rail Auto Hub||Five years after its inception at Walajabad, near Kancheepuram, poor infrastructure continues to be a dampener for automobile manufacturers that want to use the Rail Auto Hub. In five years, around 29,685 vehicles have been sent through the hub till January 2021 and Hyundai Motor India Ltd. (HMIL) alone accounted for 24,838 vehicles. In 2016, the Centre, in its Railway budget, said Tamil Nadu would get the country’s first Rail Auto Hub at Walajabad and automobile firms could utilise it to send vehicles across the country. “Despite Chennai being the Detroit of India, Hyundai is the only firm which has consistently and frequently using the facility since its inception. The volume of consignments from other firms is miniscule,” said a source, who tracks the automobile industry in Tamil Nadu. The reason is “the infrastructure being provided is not up to the mark and infrastructure around the facility should be enhanced. There is a lack of marketing too. It is time that the Railways and the government promote and market this space,” he said. In terms of infrastructure, logistics firms and companies whom The Hindu spoke to said there were no proper approach roads for trailers or trucks. Another challenge was the lack of fencing in the operations area. Locals freely entered the area. “Here is where the service providers have to depute security officials to avoid freight/vehicle damages,” a spokesperson of Renault Nissan Automotive India Private Ltd. (RNAIPL) said. Single loading bay “In several areas, there is a single loading bay, which results in trains waiting for unloading and loading. This leads to delayed schedules,” the spokesperson said. A HMIL spokesperson said, “Considering the increased interest that not just Hyundai but other auto OEMs are evincing in this mode, a significant enhancement of the infrastructure in the hubs — increased storage space for cars, more lines for loading/unloading multiple rakes simultaneously, surveillance towers for increased security and amenities for the workers can help facilitate greater utilisation of this significant mode of transportation.” The HMIL spokesperson said the Railways had responded favourably to such representations and had assured that these would be looked into. Railway officials said work was on to extend the line. The 478 m line would be extended by another 200m. The yard can accommodate 16 NMG wagons and there was a proposal to extend it up to 25 NMG wagons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/companies-face-many-hurdles-at-rail-auto-hub/article33899689.ece
22 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Widows’ federation seeks separate welfare board||The Widows’ Livelihood Rights Federation has requested political parties to include in their Assembly election manifesto the promise to set up a welfare board for the benefit of 40 lakh widows in the State. Releasing a charter of demands, Kasturi, the convenor of the federation, said there was a need to collect comprehensive data about the living conditions of widows and bring it into the 2021 Census. “We demand the legislation ‘Prevention of Discrimination and Atrocities against Widows’ to establish the equal rights for widows in socio-economic and political areas (as the Prevention of Atrocities Act, 1989),” she said. Another demand, she said, was to increase the widows’ pension to Rs. 3,000 from Rs. 1,000 per month. Besides seeking free house-site title deeds to those who have been living on the temple lands for many generations, she said as there were hundreds of hectares of cultivable temple and government lands available in Tamil Nadu, two acres of land could be given on lease to self-help groups for natural collective farming. “Ensure reservation not only in government sectors but also in private sectors since more and more PSUs are being privatised. Guarantee job opportunities to one member of every widow’s family and priority in government jobs to the dependents of widows,” she said. The federation also sought an increase in marriage assistance under the E.V.R. Mani Ammaiyar Memorial Marriage Assistance Scheme and Dr. Dharmambal Ammaiyar Ninaivu Widow Remarriage Assistance Scheme. “Increase the marriage assistance from Rs. 25,000 to Rs. 50,000 and from Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 75,000 in the case of daughters who have completed a degree,” the federation said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/widows-federation-seeks-welfare-board/article33899536.ece
22 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kamal hopes to lead a third front||Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) founder Kamal Haasan on Sunday attacked the DMK and the AIADMK, alleging that they were both “corrupt” and there was little difference between them. He said he hoped to lead a third front. Addressing the party’s founding day celebrations at a private engineering college near Chennai, he said DMK president M.K. Stalin kept stating that Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami was only doing what he had said. “Please tell him to do good things as well,” said Mr. Haasan, adding, “Tell him to reduce the number of liquor shops.” He said the DMK and the AIADMK would never reduce the number of outlets as members of the parties owned liquor factories. In what appeared to be a veiled criticism of former DMK president M. Karunanidhi, he said he would not continue to be in politics whilst sitting on a wheel-chair. Defending his statement, he said he was talking only about himself and that he respected Karunanidhi. An audio-visual that sought to portray the party’s journey so far featured not just criticism of the State government regarding its handling of the Thoothukudi Sterlite protest, the NEET issue and so on, but also Mr. Stalin’s comment dismissing Mr. Haasan and his party, MNM. Mr. Stalin had once said that he was “talking about serious politics”, responding to a question. Mr. Haasan later told journalists that he did not invite Mr. Rajinikanth to be a part of his political journey. “Two friends spoke. We did not speak politics. He had said that he was not going to enter politics due to his health. How can I call him to work with me as a good friend?” asked Mr. Haasan. He hoped that the MNM would head the third front. ‘Digital party’ After stating that the party would strive to create a “Green Channel” government, Mr. Haasan said the party had become “fully digital”. Former IAS officer Santhosh Babu, instrumental in creating the party’s digital infrastructure, said private blockchain infrastructure had been implemented on the party website that has enabled them to fully make their application process for candidates online. “We have eliminated paper completely in the party — decisions on postings and appointments and changes within the party will be done online through an ERP [enterprise resource planning] software,” said Dr. Babu. The ‘Maiam Connect’ mobile app and Maiam whistle application have also been revamped for communication purposes. The party had been made paper-free to show that it does not just make empty promises, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kamal-hopes-to-lead-a-third-front/article33899076.ece
22 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bodies protest clubbing of SC communities||Several caste associations representing the interest of various communities such as Pillais, Mudaliyars and Chettiars on Sunday held a hunger strike near Valluvar Kottam, Chennai, against the proposal by the Centre and the State government to categorise seven Scheduled Caste (SC) communities as Devendrakula Velalars. The Union Cabinet recently approved the categorisation of seven communities as Devendrakula Velalars and a Bill to give effect to the same was introduced in the Lok Sabha. The Centre also clarified that the seven communities would continue to remain in the SC List. Speaking on the sidelines of the protest, A.R.A. Annadurai, president, All-India Velalar, Vellalar Kootamaippu-cum-Name Protection Committee argued that the ‘Velalar’ or ‘Vellalar’ appendage was used to collectively represent communities like Pillais, Mudaliyars and Chettiars, which have been in existence for long. “It is unfair to include other communities now. The Centre and State government must withdraw the decision. And we will not stop unless the decision and the Bill are withdrawn,” he said. He said this was an attempt to destroy their identity and the AIADMK, DMK and BJP had betrayed them. “Our population is around 1.75 crore in Tamil Nadu. We are also thinking of fielding our own independent candidates in the upcoming polls by boycotting the major parties,” he said. He also dismissed arguments that the decision to include the seven SC communities was taken after holding a study and looking at a recommendation made by the committee appointed to look into the issue. Film producer Ishari K. Ganesh took part in the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bodies-protest-clubbing-of-sc-communities/article33899074.ece
22 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State records 452 new cases; 3 more succumb to infection||As many as 452 persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday, taking the State’s tally to 8,48,275. Tamil Nadu recorded three deaths due to the infection. Chennai recorded 154 new cases. A total of 45 persons tested positive in Coimbatore, while Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur saw 40 and 30 cases respectively. Except Perambalur, which saw no case, the remaining districts reported under 20 cases each. Of these, Dharmapuri, Kallakurichi, Tenkasi and Thoothukudi saw just one case each. Those testing positive included two returnees from Karnataka. Chennai accounted for one of the three fatalities. The other two deaths were recorded in Dindigul and Tiruppur. Two of the deceased did not have co-morbidities — a 54-year-old man from Tiruppur died at the Erode Medical College Hospital on February 19, a day after admission, due to COVID-19 pneumonia and respiratory failure and a 40-year-old man from Chennai died within three hours of admission at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on February 18 due to COVID-19 pneumonia and respiratory failure. The toll stood at 12,460. Another 460 persons were discharged, taking the total figure to 8,31,706. As many as 4,109 persons are presently under treatment in the State. A total of 50,148 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, taking the total figure to 1,71,20,745.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-records-452-new-cases-3-more-succumb-to-infection/article33899083.ece
22 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Veeramani releases book on farm laws||Dravidar Kazhagam president K. Veeramani on Saturday released a book,Agriculture Acts 2020, written by Justice A.K. Rajan, former judge of the Madras High Court. The book is about the three controversial Central farm laws, which triggered massive protests by farmers in New Delhi. Justice Rajan said the book was a concise work on the farm laws and batted for federalism. Speaking about the book, Vijoo Krishnan, joint secretary, All India Kisan Sabha, said, “Justice Rajan’s book has shown how the laws hit at the federal structure of our country. The BJP, which professes the Hindutva ideology and has done away with our diverse culture, is now talking about ‘one nation, one market’.”  “This should not be seen as just the farmers’ issue. It goes beyond that. The States’ rights and our Constitution have to be defended,” Mr. Veeramani said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/veeramani-releases-book-on-farm-laws/article33899538.ece
22 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruvallur police launch child welfare campaign||In an initiative aimed at stopping child marriages, preventing children from dropping out of school and increasing the enrolment rate in higher education, the Tiruvallur district police, along with two NGOs, is organising a month-long public awareness campaign called ‘Breaking Gender Barriers’. “We stopped around 10 child marriages in Tiruvallur each month during the COVID-19 pandemic. Last week alone, we stopped four such events. So, there is a need to increase awareness among children about child marriages and the importance of education. To this end, we are making the Village Level Child Protection Committee play an active role,” said M. Nishandhini, District Child Protection Officer (DCPO). The campaign began with a sports meet for girls aged between 6 and 18 from remote villages in Tiruvallur district. “A total of 173 girls from tribal communities in Tiruvallur district took part in events like running, kabaddi, long jump and high jump,” said M. Meenakshi, ADSP, Crime Against Women and Children wing, Tiruvallur district. As part of the campaign, competitions for art and crafts activities, role play, elocution and essays would be held at Creative Learning Centres run by the NGOs — Integrated Rural Community Development Society (IRCDS) and Children Believe — in Tiruvallur district. “The children would also do wall paintings of images and slogans on gender equality at police stations across the district. Street plays and a campaign on wheels, with a pre-recorded message from Tiruvallur SP P. Aravindhan on the importance of preventing child marriages and promoting gender equality, would be conducted in all villages,” said P. Stephen, programme manager, IRCDS. (ChildLine operates a toll-free helpline for children in distress: 1098.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruvallur-police-launch-child-welfare-campaign/article33899528.ece
22 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Milk producers ask CM to clear payment dues||Milk producers in the State have urged Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to help clear their payment dues of Rs. 325 crore. They have submitted a petition to his office seeking the formation of a revolving fund of Rs. 350 crore, which the Tamil Nadu Cooperative Milk Producers’ Federation owes them. “The Federation owes the 4.5 lakh pouring farmers this money and several district unions, of which we are members, have taken bank loans to repay the dues. If the government steps in, it will help us in a big way,” said M.G. Rajendran, of the Tamil Nadu Milk Producers Welfare Association. He pointed out that the Chief Minister had recently waived Rs. 12,000 crore of agricultural loans. “The dues to milk producers is not much in comparison. If the unions are to repay the loans themselves, they will have to pay the interest and this will be a burden,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/milk-producers-ask-cm-to-clear-payment-dues/article33899526.ece
22 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TMC invites applications||The Tamil Maanila Congress (TMC) has invited applications from aspirants looking to contest in the upcoming Assembly election in Tamil Nadu. In a statement, party president G.K. Vasan said the applications should be submitted from Feburary 25 to 27. The application fee is Rs. 5,000 for general constituencies and Rs. 2,500 for women candidates and for reserved constituencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tmc-invites-applications/article33899535.ece
22 February 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Gold, cash stolen||Gold and diamond jewellery worth Rs. 40 lakh and Rs. 1 lakh were reported stolen from a businessman's house in Chennai recently. According to police, Viswanathan had gone out of town with his family and on his return found the valuables missing. The back door was found open.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-cash-stolen/article33899700.ece
22 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||943 bulls, 640 tamers take part in Coimbatore jallikattu||The fourth edition of Coimbatore jallikattu, organised by the district administration and Kovai Jallikattu Sangam was held here on Sunday with Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani flagging off the event in the presence of senior officials, police officers, elected representatives and the Sangam members. Earlier, the Minister showered petals on bulls and administered pledge to the players that they would neither harm the animals nor violate rules. The Kovai Jallikattu Sangam representatives had organised the sport dividing the play time – from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. into one-hour slots. For each of the slots, they let in a group of players with unique uniforms. As each bull was released into the arena through the vaadi vaasal, the players jumped onto the bulls to grip the hump. The player who held on to the hump until the bull made three rounds or crossed the finish line won a prize. If not, the bull owner won the prize. The Animal Husbandry Department in the presence of representatives from the Animal Welfare Board of India checked all the bulls for fitness before they were taken to the arena. A department officer said veterinarians checked each bull for its height and fitness and if it was drugged. Jallikattu player S. Prabhakaran, 25, of Pothumbu, Madurai, said he was returning to Coimbatore for the fourth year after having won prizes in Palamedu. To be in the arena and play with the bulls gave him a sense of pride, for it was the youth that protested against the ban on the sport. D. Madurai Veeran, 24, a B.Sc. Botany graduate, said this year he had participated in a few jallikattu events in Madurai district and had come to Coimbatore because embracing bulls gave him a bliss, which was nonpareil. The administration said of the 948 bulls registered, the veterinarians permitted 943 animals. Of those seven suffered injuries – six bruises and one had a major injury and was referred for veterinary care. As for the number of players, the administration screened the 750 registered and permitted only 640. Of those, 28 suffered minor injuries and 14 had to be referred for medical attention. Five police personnel who were on duty regulating crowd and keeping away persons other than players in the area were injured. No animal or player died during the event, the administration added. And, at the end of the event, the Sangam announced that Santhosh of Vaviripatti, Pudukottai, won the first prize by holding onto 15 bulls. Karthi of Karuppayioorani, Madurai, was next with 13 bulls to his credit and Karthi of Natham, Dindigul, came third with 11 bulls. The first prize for the bull owners went to Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar. The second prize went to Rajasekaran of Tamil Nadu Jallikattu Peravai and third prize to Anbu of Pazhanganatham, Madurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/943-bulls-640-tamers-take-part-in-jallikattu/article33899120.ece
22 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Mahout, assistant arrested for beating up elephant||The Forest Department on Sunday arrested the mahout of a temple elephant and his assistant on charges of beating up the animal on the premises of the annual rejuvenation camp for temple and mutt elephants at Thekkampatti, near Mettupalayam. On Sunday afternoon, a clip recorded on a smartphone showed the mahout Vinil Kumar (45) and his assistant Sivaprasad hitting the legs of the 19-year-old female elephant Jayamalyatha of Andal Temple, Srivilliputhur, with sticks. The elephant was seen trumpeting in pain as the duo repeatedly attacked it for about 20 seconds. With the clip being widely shared on social media platforms, the HR&CE Department officials confirmed to The Hindu that the Andal temple administration suspended Kumar as per the directions of the HR&CE Department Commissioner S. Prabhakar. A third-generation mahout, he was appointed by the temple as the mahout for Jayamalyatha in 2011. However, Sivaprasad was not appointed by the temple administration and was the mahout’s relative, the officials said. The HR&CE Department will provide alternative arrangements for the elephant at the earliest and HR&CE Joint Commissioner for Coimbatore Zone R. Senthilvelavan will further investigate into the matter, according to the officials. Following this, the Forest Department officials said that the duo was picked up from the Thekkampatti camp and booked under sections of the Wildlife Protection Act. According to preliminary investigations, the incident occurred on Saturday evening when the elephant was allegedly not obeying the mahout’s commands. Irked by its insubordinate behaviour, Kumar and Sivaprasad chained the elephant to a tree and attacked it, the officials said. The video drew sharp criticisms from wildlife conservationists and activists in Coimbatore. S. Chandrasekar, founder of Vanam Trust of India, whose volunteers are claimed to have recorded the video of the incident, said the elephant Jayamalyatha must be shifted from the rejuvenation camp to an elephant camp run by the Forest Department. President of Nature Conservation Society N.I. Jalaluddin said that various NGOs focussing on wildlife conservation visited the Thekkampatti elephant camp on Sunday and conducted a field inspection on how the elephants are being treated. Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam general secretary K. Ramakrishnan announced a protest near Mettupalayam bus terminus on Monday condemning this incident. In a statement, he demanded that the State government must ensure proper treatment for the injured elephant. The 13th annual rejuvenation camp for 23 temple and three mutt elephants from Tamil Nadu and Puducherry began on February 8. Organised by the HR&CE Department, the 48-day-long camp will conclude on March 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mahout-held-for-beating-up-elephant-at-camp/article33899112.ece
22 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Pandemic has led to growth of technology industries’||The pandemic has accelerated the growth of several technology industries in sectors such as education, healthcare, food, and finance, said Murugavel Janakiraman, founder and CEO ofmatrimony.com. Mr. Janakiraman said at the annual Management Day programme, organised by the Coimbatore Management Association here recently, that before the pandemic, the digital eco-system was driven by advent of 4G, availability of smart phones, etc. The lockdown led to people buying their basic needs such as grocery and medicines online. “The digital wave has impacted the industry, particularly in three ways: disturbance, disruption, and destruction,” he said. Despite disturbances, some industries continue to exist by adopting to the changes or due to strong fundamentals. The disruption has led to reasonable impact on some sectors, he added. Jayakumar Ramdass, president of Coimbatore Management Association, said the industries face several challenges because of digital disruption. The association is conducting programmes for the industry and academia to help them face the changes. During the function, awards were presented to Rajkumar Ramasamy, Managing Director of Best Corporation, Tiruppur (CMA-Roots Best Entrepreneur Award), J. Ramprakash, Managing Director of Unique Shell Mould, Coimbatore (CMA-Mahendra Best SME Entrepreneur Award), Swati Rohit, Chief Operating Officer of Sri Ramakrishna Group (CMA-GRG Best Women Entrepreneur Award), Sharmila Selvakumar, Co-founder of Layman Agro Ventures (CMA-Quadra Best Start-up Award), Jayamurali Balaguruswamy, Director and CEO of KG Information Systems (CMA-DJ Best Professional Corporate Leader Award) and S. Jaisankar, Associate Professor at KCT Business School (CMA-GRD Best Management Faculty Award).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pandemic-has-led-to-growth-of-technology-industries/article33899544.ece
22 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||DMK will pay special attention to industrial growth, says Stalin||The DMK will pay special attention to industrial growth and revival of micro, small and medium enterprises after forming the government, said party president M.K. Stalin in Tiruppur on Sunday. He addressed voters in four Assembly constituencies — Tiruppur North, Tiruppur South, Avinashi and Palladam — as part of the ‘ Ungal Thogudhiyil Stalin ’  (Stalin in your constituency) campaign. Saying that industries in Tiruppur had been adversely affected in the last five years due to the “wrong economic policies of the Central government” such as demonetisation and the introduction of the Goods and Services Tax (GST), he accused Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami of not meeting industrialists from the region, affected by the COVID-19-induced lockdown. The city of Tiruppur, once known as “dollar city” due to the foreign exchange generated through exports, had now turned into a “dull city”, Mr. Stalin said. He further accused Mr. Palaniswami of taking credit for inaugurating the Athikadavu-Avinashi Groundwater Recharge and Drinking Water Supply Scheme, when preliminary works were carried out by former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi during the previous DMK regimes. Saying that the scheme in its present form was incomplete, he assured voters that the DMK would implement the scheme in a full-fledged manner, once voted to power. Questioning the AIADMK government for not submitting a white paper on the number of investments attracted and jobs created for the State, Mr. Stalin said Mr. Palaniswami had converted the State into a “sanctuary of corruption”. ‘Will scrutinise tenders’ Mr. Stalin also questioned the motive behind the AIADMK government floating major tenders ahead of the Assembly election and reiterated that all tenders would be subjected to scrutiny when the DMK returns to power. Addressing people from the constituencies of Perundurai, Modakurichi, Erode East and Erode West in Kadappamadai village, Perundurai, he said major tenders would usually not be floated from six months before elections, as works cannot be completed. “Despite knowing it, rules are being altered,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-will-pay-special-attention-to-industrial-growth-says-stalin/article33899081.ece
22 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||CMA inspects model road project||Commissioner of Municipal Administration (CMA) K. Baskaran on Saturday inspected the model road and multilevel car parking projects that the Coimbatore Corporation was executing on D.B. Road in R.S. Puram. A release said that Mr. Baskaran was accompanied by Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian, Coimbatore Smart City Ltd. CEO N. Rajakumar, Deputy Commissioner S. Madhuranthagi and other senior officials. The Corporation was executing the project at Rs. 24.36 crore under the Smart Cities Mission. He then went to the multilevel car parking site, where the Corporation was executing the work for Rs. 43.40 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cma-inspects-model-road-project/article33899550.ece
22 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Loan mela||The District Industries Centre will conduct a loan mela and awareness camp at Tamil Nadu Agricultural University on February 23 from 10 a.m .to 4 p.m. The camp will create awareness about NEEDS, UYEGP and PMEGP schemes and receive applications for loans under the schemes. Entrepreneurs who want to avail of loans under the government programmes should bring to the event a passport size photograph, Aadhaar card, education certificate, community certificate, quotation, and project report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/loan-mela/article33899129.ece
22 February 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Three killed in accident||Three persons including a 14-year-old student were killed when a car rammed a bus stop near Aroor here. According to the police, the deceased were identified as Srinath (14), Venamani from S.Patti, and Alagammal (22). Two others, Thangamani and Pushpa, suffered injuries and were admitted to the Dharmapuri Medical College Hospital. The police said that close to 10 persons were waiting for bus at S.Patti bus stop on Aroor-Uthankarai road when a speeding car rammed the bus stop.  Road roko Following the accident, local people staged a road roko demanding measures to place caution signs to prevent accidents on the stretch. The police arrested two persons and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-killed-in-accident/article33899108.ece
22 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Village librarians seek time scale pay, promotion||Seeking time scale pay and promotion, librarians from public libraries functioning in villages submitted petition to School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan in Gobichettipalayam here on Sunday. The librarians said 1,514 persons with a qualification of Plus Two pass were recruited for a monthly salary of Rs. 4,500. Later, their salary was hiked to Rs. 10,000. In 2016, former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa had under Rule 110 in the Assembly announced that they would be given time scale pay. But the announcement remained only in papers, they claimed. On Sunday, they gathered in front of a marriage hall in Gobichettipalayam where the Minister was participating in a function. Police personnel held talks with them and later representatives were allowed to submit petitions to the Minister. The members said the Minister had assured them to take up the issue with the Chief Minister for action. They also said they had completed Class XII and Certification in Library and Information Science degree and were paid poorly for the last 13 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/village-librarians-seek-time-scale-pay-promotion/article33899125.ece
22 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Farmers to stage protest on March 7||Urging the State government to cancel concrete-lining of Lower Bhavani Project (LBP) canal, farmers have decided to stage a protest at Vaikalmedu in Perundurai on March 7. A meeting was held at Chennimalai on Sunday to chart out the next course of action over the issue in which former Murungatholuvu Panchayat president M. Ravi, Keel Bhavani Vivasaigal Nala Sangam president C. Nallasamy and farmers participated. It was decided in the meeting to stage a protest at Vaikalmedu on Perundurai – Erode Road in which farmers from Erode and Tiruppur district are expected to participate. They said the project was proposed by the AIADMK-government in 2013 and was cancelled after opposition from the farmers. “The main objective of establishing the canal is to recharge groundwater. If concrete-lining is done, the objective will be defeated,” they said and wanted the project dropped.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-to-stage-protest-on-march-7/article33899123.ece
22 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Youth found murdered||The body of a youth with his head smashed with a stone was found on the Varasakthi Vinayagar temple premises in Sathyamangalam here on Sunday. The police said the temple was located along River Bhavani and the priest who came to perform puja in the morning found the body in front of the main temple door and alerted them.  The victim was from North India and the police were in the process of identifying his details. The body was sent to Government Hospital at Sathyamangalam. Also, footage from surveillance cameras in the area is being verified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-found-murdered/article33899126.ece
22 February 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||‘Farmers’ ownership of land will be ensured during DMK rule’||Farmers’ ownership of land and livelihood will be ensured during the DMK rule, its president M.K. Stalin said at the West Zone Farmers’ Conference, organised by various farmers’ associations at Perundurai on Sunday. Protests in Delhi by farmers against the three central farm laws had entered 88th day, he said and blamed Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami for terming them as middlemen . “Just to escape from corruption cases and to be in power, he is saying so,” he alleged. Ridiculing the Chief Minister’s charges that Stalin is not a farmer, the Opposition leader said that, “I don’t know farming, but I have affection towards people and land.” Assembly session Mr. Stalin said that land ownership and livelihood of farmers will be ensured and said that the DMK, after coming to power, will pass resolution in the first Assembly session recommending to revoke the three farm laws.  I don’t know farming, but I have affection towards people and land M.K. Stalin DMK President||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-ownership-of-land-will-be-ensured-during-dmk-rule/article33899142.ece
22 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Over 3,700 Class VIII students take scholarship test||A total of 3,770 Class VIII students from the government and government aided schools in the district appeared for the written test under the National Means cum Merit Scholarship Scheme (NMMSS) held here on Sunday. To prevent drop-outs To award scholarships to meritorious students of economically weaker sections and to prevent drop-outs in Class VIII, the Department of School Education and Literacy of the Government of India is conducting the exam every year. Students, who clear the exam, will get a scholarship of Rs. 12,000 per annum starting from Class IX to Plus Two. A total of 4,016 students applied for the exam in the five educational districts of Erode, Bhavani, Perundurai, Gobichettipalayam and Sathyamangalam. While 3,770 took the test, 246 students were absent. The Mental Ability Test was held from 9.30 a.m. to 11 p.m., and the Scholastic Aptitude Test from 11.30 a.m. to 1 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-3700-class-viii-students-take-scholarship-test/article33899128.ece
22 February 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Tenders will be scrutinised, says Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Sunday yet again questioned the motive behind the AIADMK government floating major tenders ahead of the Assembly election and reiterated that all tenders will be subject to scrutiny when the DMK returns to power. Addressing people from the Assembly constituencies of Perundurai, Modakurichi, Erode East and Erode West at Kadappamadai village in Perundurai, as part of the Ungal Thogudhiyil Stalin (Stalin in your constituency) campaign, he said that usually major tenders will not be floated six months before elections as works cannot be completed. “Despite knowing it, rules are altered and tenders are floated in an urgent manner,” he said. He said that contractors are unwilling to apply for the tenders and claimed that Ministers are telephoning the contractors and forcing them to apply. “I am warning the contractors that when the DMK is back to power, all the tenders will be scrutinised”, he said. Taking a dig at Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, he said that the former disliked him receiving petitions from the people. “The Chief Minister said people can submit petitions even from home. But he did not assure to solve their grievances,” he claimed. According to Mr Stalin, then Chief Minister Jayalalithaa had in 2016 launched the toll free number 1100 to solve the grievance of the people. The present Chief Minister has re-launched it. “Can they say how many petitions were received and solved in the last five years”, he questioned. The Opposition leader blamed the AIADMK government for not creating jobs as promised and charged that people from other States are given jobs in various departments in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tenders-will-be-scrutinised-when-dmk-returns-to-power-says-stalin/article33899114.ece
22 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Medical students withdraw strike||Students of the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital in Perundurai here withdrew their indefinite strike after a government order to reduce the fee structure was issued on Saturday. The erstwhile IRT Perundurai Medical College and Hospital was run by the Institute of Road Transport and was in 2019 handed over to the Health and Family Welfare Department. However, the students continued to pay the earlier fee of Rs. 3.85 lakh a year and had been demanding reduction in fees as prevalent in other government medical colleges in the State. They were on indefinite strike for 16 days. A team of students on February 8 met Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan and put forth their demand who assured them that a government order would be issued. The student’s team waited in Chennai until the order was issued and finally it became a reality on Saturday. The government order said that fees for the School of Nursing attached to the college would also be reduced and MBBS students need to pay Rs. 13,160 a year. The students announced withdrawal of their strike and said they would attend classes from Monday.  The students need to pay Rs. 13,160 a year. Earlier, the fee was Rs. 3.85 lakh a year||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medical-students-withdraw-strike/article33899105.ece
22 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Owing to works in the Karungalpalayam electric line, power supply will be disrupted from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on February 22 at Karungalpalayam, Ganapathipuram, Chinna Mariamman Kovil Street, KAS Nagar, Kuyilaan Thoppu, Kamatchi Amman Kovil Street, Ponnusamy Street, Vetri Nagar, Sai Guru Nagar, Kongu Nagar, Cauvery Road and Muniyappan Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article33899127.ece
22 February 2021||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK government protects interest of farmers, says CM||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Sunday said that the AIADMK government had protected the interests of farmers whenever they faced trying times. Heeding the pleas of the farmers, who were affected by cyclone, heavy rains, floods and drought, the AIADMK government had waived loans they had availed from cooperative institutions, benefiting over 14 lakh farmers, he said. Addressing a conference of farmers at Theneerpandalpalayam, the AIADMK co-coordinator said his government had the distinction of having waived farm loans twice in the last five years. Besides, drought relief was given to about 32 lakh farmers to the tune of Rs. 2,247 crore. The kudimaramathu scheme was implemented in the interests of farmers and general public. Stating that the AIADMK government would implement the Cauvery - Godavari river link project, Mr. Palaniswami said Tamil Nadu would not face drinking water problem thereafter. The Chief Ministers of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana had expressed their willingness to help Tamil Nadu in this project. Dredging of waterbodies in the delta region had resulted in smooth water flow to the tail-end areas on Sunday, he said. The government had created a “historical record” by procuring 32.4 lakh tonnes of paddy through purchase centres last year and won national awards in food grains production. Earlier, campaigning at Kulithalai and Krishnarayapuram areas in Karur district, Mr. Palaniswami accused DMK leader M.K. Stalin of indulging in false propaganda against the AIADMK government and the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-government-protects-interest-of-farmers-says-cm/article33899066.ece
22 February 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Statue of poet Kanakadasa unveiled||Former Karnataka Chief Minister Siddaramaiah unveiled a 21-ft statue of poet Kanakadasa at Shoolagiri here on Sunday as part of his birth anniversary celebrations. Addressing at the event, Mr. Siddaramaiah said Kuruba community should unite irrespective of their political affiliations. He said the Bharatiya Janata Party was against the underprivileged in society and the hike in fuel and domestic gas prices had severely affected commoners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/statue-of-poet-kanakadasa-unveiled/article33899130.ece
22 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Corporation has failed to allot us houses: residents||The Chairperson of the National Commission for Safai Karamcharis M. Venkatesan on Sunday visited the conservancy workers residing at Subramaniyapuram and Avaniapuram. He collected petitions from the conservancy workers at Subramaniyapuram and guaranteed to take action regarding the issues. He said that the conservancy workers alleged that many were not allotted houses by Madurai Corporation. A resident alleged police torture during an interrogation. “While three police personnel were involved in the interrogation, only one personnel was suspended. Hence, the residents submitted a petition urging that action must be taken against the remaining personnel. They also demanded that a case must be registered under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act,” he added. He also inspected the condition of the public toilet and insisted to ensure proper cleanliness, according to a press release from the Corporation. Later, he visited the residence of the contract conservancy worker of the Corporation at Avaniapuram whose eye was injured due to the blast of a disinfectant spraying can. “I have instructed the corporation to take charge of his medical expenses and provide salary until his recovery,” he said. Corporation officials were present during the inspection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-has-failed-to-allot-us-houses-residents/article33899624.ece
22 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Silent rally in memory of a dog||Nandri Maravel, a unit of SPARK Trust, organised a silent rally in Madurai on Sunday, in memory of a community dog that was beaten to death last month. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) R. Shiva Prasad flagged off the rally. The participants started the rally from Raja Muthiah Mandram and it ended at the District Collectorate. K.P. Mari Kumar, Chief Coordinator of Nandri Maravel, said that a community dog- Lucky- was beaten to death by a resident of Sellur last month. “Through the rally we also wanted to sensitise the public that community dogs are part of the society and it is our duty to take care of them,” he said. The participants took an oath emphasising that all brutal human attacks against community dogs will be prevented. Every household will help nurture a dog. The practice of nurturing a foreign breed should be discouraged and local breeds must be promoted. They also took an oath saying that they will feed the community dogs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/silent-rally-in-memory-of-a-dog/article33899626.ece
22 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Ensure that conservancy workers are made permanent employees, says rights activist||The moral duty of the local bodies that implement the smart city projects is to ensure that the conservancy workers who work hard to make the city clean are made permanent employees, said Executive Director of People’s Watch Henri Tiphagne. He was speaking during a conference organised by Madurai Legal Awareness Coordination Committee to discuss the problems faced by conservancy workers in village panchayats. Mr. Tiphagne said that most of the conservancy workers were engaged as contract workers and were not regularised despite working for several years. He also stressed that the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act 2013 was being poorly implemented in the State. On many occasions, the government had violated the Act and employed manual scavengers, he added. He also thanked the contribution of the conservancy workers during the COVID-19 pandemic. Communist Party of India (Marxist) District Secretary (urban) R. Vijayarajan said that conservancy workers, who start work from the early morning, are unable to take care of their school going children. Many of their houses are in a deteriorating state, which needs to be addressed, he added. Sahaya Philomin Raj, who heads Madurai Legal Awareness Coordination Committee, said that these workers faced social stigma and were considered as untouchables. “Although they work hard to keep the city clean, they are considered unclean. Their children also face traumatic experiences, especially at schools, because of the social stigma,” he added. Conservancy workers from village panchayats of Madurai and Virudhunagar districts participated. District Coordinator of Madurai Legal Awareness Coordination Committee T. Sasikumar had made arrangements for the event.  Although they work hard to keep the city clean, they are considered unclean Sahaya Philomin RajMadurai Legal Awareness Coordination Committee||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-that-conservancy-workers-are-made-permanent-employees/article33899621.ece
22 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Centre for abandoned persons ready||An Emergency Care and Recovery Centre where rescued, abandoned and elderly persons would be given medical treatment and rehabilitation is ready for inauguration at the Government Hospital for Thoracic Medicine at Thoppur. Madurai is one of the ten districts in the State where the Emergency Care and Recovery Centres are being set up under the National Health Mission (NHM). Under this project, a Memorandum of Understanding had been signed between the Chairman of NHM, Director of Institute of Mental Health, Chennai, and Director of The Banyan, a non- governmental organisation (NGO) from Chennai. In each of the districts, the government authorities, in collaboration with the local NGOs, will run the centres. Government Rajaji Hospital Dean J. Sangumani said that a block inside the premises of the Government Hospital for Thoracic Medicine has been allocated for the Centre. Sources from the health department say that the centre is likely to be inaugurated within the next few weeks. A team comprising Collector T. Anbalagan, Joint Director (Health) P. Venkatachalam, police personnel, and members of NGOs will work together in rescue and rehabilitation of the homeless elderly. P. Santhosh Raj, district psychiatrist under the District Mental Health programme who will lead the Centre, said that there will be 30 beds in the centre - 15 each for male and female. The centre will have four staff nurses, two social workers and three caretakers. Under this project, the social workers will identify and rescue abandoned elderly from across the district. After evaluation, medical, psychiatric, psychological and social care will be provided to the inmates. “Once the patients recover, we will try to reintegrate them with their family members,” said Dr. Santhosh Raj. In cases where it is not possible for the patients to reintegrate with their families, the government is planning to have separate homes to rehabilitate them, said K. S. P. Janardhan Babu, Director (Programmes) of M. S. Chellamuthu Trust and Research Foundation - the NGO which has been engaged in the project for Madurai. “This is a pilot project initiated by the State government. As part of the extension activities of the project, the government is also planning to have separate homes to accommodate those abandoned elderly who are unable to reunite with their families,” he added. Currently, the social workers are identifying the homeless and abandoned elderly across the district, said Usilampatti Revenue Divisional Officer K. V. Rajkumar. Although NGOs have been working in rescuing and rehabilitating the abandoned elderly, the introduction of this centre will help to provide better medical services to the abandoned, said Mr. Babu. “Private NGOs are plagued by fund and human resource crunch. But, this centre will improve accessibility to mental health for the abandoned,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-for-abandoned-persons-ready/article33899098.ece
22 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Technology development centre to offer free skill training programme||MSME Technology Development Centre(PPDC), Extension Centre, Madurai, is going to conduct two skill development programmes exclusively for Scheduled Caste candidates free of cost. According to a press release, MSME Technology Development Centre(PPDC), Extension Centre, Madurai is functioning under the Union Ministry of MSME. Two courses will be offered to the candidates as part of the programme- Computer hardware and networking; and 3ds Max. The duration of both the courses is one month. Those aged above 18 and have cleared Class 12 examinations are eligible to apply for the courses. Certificates issued by the Union government will be issued to candidates at the end of the programme. Interested candidates can contact 8667065048 or 8870990816, added the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/development-centre-to-offer-free-skill-training-programme/article33899100.ece
22 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court dismisses film producer’s plea||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court dismissed the petition filed by Tamil film producer K.E. Gnanavel Raja who had sought the quashing of the First Information Report registered against him by the Economic Offences Wing, Madurai, in connection with the Ramanathapuram chit fund scam. The investigation was at the initial stage, the court said. Justice R. Hemalatha observed that it could be found that a large network had been involved in the financial racket and many gullible investors were taken for a ride. It was only the tip of the iceberg and unless a freehand was given to the law enforcement agency, the truth will never get exposed especially when the amount involved was running to crores of rupees. Therefore, there was no reason to quash the entire proceedings especially when the investigation is at the initial stage and may reveal the truth or otherwise of the complainants, the judge said. The defacto complainant Thulasimanikandan had invested in the company of one Anand called the Bullion Fintech LLP. The financial institution was said to be operated by Anand, Neethimani and Neethimani’s wife Menaga. Others in Ramanathapuram district were also lured into investing in the chit fund. A total of Rs. 3 crore was mobilised. The investors became anxious when the monthly payments suddenly stopped. When the trio were approached, it was alleged that the defacto complainant Thulasimanikandan was threatened. It was also alleged that the three accused had financed film producers Muruganandam, 7G Siva and Studio Green Gnanavel Raja. A complaint was lodged in this regard and an FIR was registered by the Ramanathapuram police. Similarly, a school teacher in Karaikudi also lodged a complaint that she deposited in the Bullion Fintech LLP and was deceived. An FIR was registered by District Crime Branch Ramanathapuram which was transferred to the Economic Offences Wing, Madurai. In his petition, K.E. Gnanavel Raja said that he was in no way connected with the financial dealings between the accused and the defacto complainant. Also the inclusion of the name of the film producer in the FIR was not based on any concrete evidence, he said and sought the quash of the FIR registered against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-dismisses-film-producers-plea/article33899087.ece
22 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Interim stay on regularisation of guest faculty||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has ordered an interim stay on the regularisation of guest faculty in government arts and science colleges. The court passed the order in a writ petition filed by an aspirant to the post of assistant professor. The apprehension of the petitioner, S. Pandiammal, was that the State had been attempting to regularise the services of guest lecturers, who had put in more than five years of services in various arts and science colleges. Therefore, the number of vacancies called for to the post of assistant professor in the Tamil Nadu Collegiate Department Services would be considerably reduced and the possibility of the petitioner being selected too would come down.  Justice M.S. Ramesh observed that on a comparison of the vast number of guest faculties with the vacancies of 2,331, the apprehension of the petitioner seems plausible. Since the apprehension is that regularisation may happen soon, it would be appropriate to put on hold the order calling for details of guest faculties for the time being, the judge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/interim-stay-on-regularisation-of-guest-faculty/article33899077.ece
22 February 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Rahul Gandhi to campaign in T.N.||AICC leader Rahul Gandhi will visit Kanniyakumari on March 1 as a part of electioneering in Tamil Nadu, said TNCC president K S Alagiri here on Sunday. Speaking to reporters, he said to a query that just because the AIADMK government withdrew cases against minorities, who participated in anti-CAA protests, it did not give them the votes. The AIADMK, which was in the company of the BJP, would face a humiliating defeat in the election as people were frustrated. In no way, the decisions of the governments at the Centre and State were people- friendly. The petrol/diesel price hike was just one classic example, wherein the failure of the government to contain the price had been exposed. BSNL was closed down by the Centre with the sole objective of giving it to private players, who were friends of the BJP. Beyond the foundation laying ceremony, AIIMS in Madurai, had not seen any progress over the last 30 months. When this was the reality, the AIADMK claimed to have achieved the project. To a query, he said Kamal Hassan and Rajinikanth were long-time friends. The meeting might not have any impact in T.N. politics. The DMK-Congress combine was intact and there would be no issues in seat-sharing. The TNCC executive committee meeting would be held on February 24. Earlier, he held discussions with party functionaries on arrangements for Mr. Gandhi’s visit. MLAs Prince, Vijayadharani and Rajesh Kumar participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rahul-gandhi-to-visit-kanniyakumari-on-march-1/article33899090.ece
22 February 2021||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||No inflation in AIADMK regime: CM||AIADMK co-coordinator and Chief Minister Edappadi K.Palaniswami on Sunday claimed that price inflation did not occur during his party’s regime and people from all walks of life are living peacefully. Speaking at an election campaign at Kabilarmalai in Namakkal, Mr. Palaniswami said, “we ensured that inflation did not occur during our regime.” He said that under Kudimaramathu scheme, the government rejuvenated 6,511 lakes at a tune of Rs. 1,417 crore. Following requests from farmers, farm loans in co-operative banks have been waived and they are being provided with three-phase power supply. Mr. Palaniswami said that due to good governance of the State government, spread of COVID-19 disease has been contained. Mr. Palaniswami said that the State government would provide concrete housing for the public without houses. He said that land and house would be provided in rural areas and flats would be provided in urban areas. He said the Prime Minister has assured to allot how many ever houses required. Criticising Opposition leader M.K. Stalin’s Ungal Thokuthiyil Stalin petition receiving programme, the Chief Minister said that Mr. Stalin is reminded of stage (Thinai) during elections. “DMK came to power five times and Stalin has served as Deputy Chief Minister and Local Administration Minister. Why was no action taken then?”, he said. “He did the same thing during 2019 elections, they collected petitions, but it was never given to me”, he said. He said that he launched Chief Minister’s special grievance redressal scheme in 2019 itself.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-inflation-in-aiadmk-regime-says-cm/article33899141.ece
22 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Pondicherry Heritage Festival draws to a close after a month||The month-long seventh edition of the Pondicherry Heritage Festival 2021, which was marked by a diverse set of online and offline events showcasing the city’s Franco-Tamil cultural confluence, concluded on Saturday. A high point of the valedictory programme at the French Institute of Pondicherry (IFP) was the conferment of the Guardian of Pondicherry’s Heritage award on David Annoussamy, former Madras High Court judge. The award is presented annually to a citizen or institution to honour outstanding contributions in preserving the city’s heritage. According to the citation, presented by Kakoli Banerjee from People for Pondicherry’s Heritage, the 93-year-old Mr. Annoussamy has been a champion for all civic movements and has supported preservation of the city’s heritage in all its aspects. In addition to his significant contribution in the legal arena, especially the smooth transition to the Indian system of law from the French-modelled judicial system in erstwhile Pondicherry, he continues to guide and inspire the heritage conservation cause. Music concert The award ceremony was preceded by a music concert by Auroville-based pianist-composer Pushkar Carlotto, who presented excerpts from compositions by Bach, Schumann and Schubert. In the process, the almost 100-year-old piano at the IFP got a new lease of life as the musician tuned it to play classical symphonies. Mr. Carolotto, who has had the privilege of studying at Arnold Schoenberg’s home in Vienna under the tutelage of Richard Hoffmann, was also instrumental in setting up music maestro A. R. Rahman’s K.M. Music Conservatory in Chennai. The PHF, a brainchild of the People for Pondicherry’s Heritage, was the result of a host of collaborators, such as the Tourism Department, IFP, Alliance Francaise, INTACH, PondyCan and local businesses. ‘Talking streets’ The PHF theme for the year was “Talking Streets of Pondicherry”, with several events designed to tap into the rich vernacular architecture of the Tamil Quarter and bring the focus to the need for preservation of this built heritage. The month-long fete hosted online conversations featuring urban planning experts on the path for Puducherry to attain the UNESCO World Heritage City status, a workshop on local food systems, an exhibition of the work of historian Jean Deloche, a Wetlands Photography contest and a Made in Pondy segment to celebrate the creativity of local craftsmen. Overwhelming response Sunaina Mandeen, one of the co-organisers, said in spite of the festival edition held under the shadow of COVID-19, with almost all events online, the response was quite overwhelming. The festival, she said, was getting noticed nationally as well as internationally and this online platform allowed those outside to become a part of it. Satish Nallam, president of the Alliance Francaise, felicitated Mr. Annoussamy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pondicherry-heritage-festival-draws-to-a-close-after-a-month/article33899698.ece
22 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Ministry of MSME setting up technology centre in Puducherry||The Ministry of MSME is establishing a world-class technology centre in Puducherry to technically promote, aid and foster the growth of local MSMEs and start-ups, Arjun Ram Meghwal, Union Minister for Water Resources and River Development has said. The Minister, who undertook a visit to the MSME Technology Centre here on Saturday, said the State-of-the-art centre would generate world-leading multinational enterprises in this part of the country. Mr. Meghwal noted that the Technology Centre set up on an investment of about Rs. 120 crore from the MSME Ministry was equipped with modern facilities. He inspected the mechanical training and production facilities, forthcoming Printed Circuit Board (PCB) manufacturing facilities, electronic testing and calibration facilities and mechanical – testing and metrology and the CAD/CAM Lab. Mr. Meghwal singled out for commendation, the new start-up in incubation, “Caruna Assessibility” of the Technology Centre, for prototyping import substitution products which ties in with Atma Nirbhar Bharat Campaign. Amit Nain, Deputy General Manager of Technology Centre briefed the Minister on the available and upcoming facilities and the skill development courses run by the centre.  It was pointed out that the centre was offering several skill development programmes. The National Scheduled Caste Finance and Development Corporation is sponsoring Skill Development Training Programme for SC/ ST candidate with Rs. 3000 stipend for ITI/diploma holders/BE/B.Tech candidates. The courses, included CNC programming, AutoCAD, Pro-E, Catia, Ansys, Unigraphics, Master cam and Autodesk Ultimate. These courses are available for general category students for full fee.  The State-of-the-art centre will generate world-leading multinational enterprises in this part of the country||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ministry-of-msme-establishing-technology-centre-in-puducherry/article33899696.ece
22 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Congress-DMK alliance to meet again before floor test, says CM||The Congress-DMK alliance will announce its course of action when the special session of the Assembly convenes for a floor test to prove the government’s majority on Monday, Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said on Sunday. Addressing a press conference, after nearly two hours of consultation among V. Vaithilingam, MP, Ministers, legislators, PCC president A. V. Subramanian, Deputy Speaker MNR Balan and DMK legislature party leader R. Siva on the strategy to be adopted in the Assembly, Mr. Narayanasamy said several suggestions had come up during the meeting and they would be factored in before taking a final decision. “These (ideas) were discussed at length and it was decided that we will hold another meeting before the floor vote scheduled at 10 a.m. tomorrow and announce our final decision in the Assembly,” Mr. Narayanasamy said. L-G ordered trust vote The Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararjan had earlier in the week directed the Assembly Secretariat to convene for a trust vote on Monday after Opposition leaders called on her seeking a floor test to prove majority of the ruling Congress as per rules. According to the directions, the voting of agenda will be done by show of hands. The entire proceedings should be completed by 5 p.m. The proceedings will be videographed and it should not be adjourned, delayed or suspended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-dmk-alliance-to-meet-again-before-floor-test-says-cm/article33899107.ece
22 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry crisis deepens as two MLAs quit ahead of trust vote||A legislator each from the Congress and the DMK resigned from their posts on Sunday, leaving the Narayanasamy-led Puducherry government grasping at straws ahead of Monday’s trust vote in the Assembly. Shortly after K. Lakshminarayanan, Congress legislator representing Raj Bhavan and Parliamentary Secretary to the Chief Minister, submitted his resignation to Speaker V.P. Sivakolundhu at his residence, K. Venkatesan, representing Thattanchavady, became the first legislator from the ruling party’s ally, the DMK, to quit his post. In total, six MLAs, including five from the Congress, have quit, while a legislator from the national party was disqualified earlier. The resignations have brought down the House strength to 26, with the ruling combine — the Congress (9), the DMK (2) and an Independent — having only 12 legislators, including the Speaker, who could vote in a floor test only if there is a tie. In the Opposition, the AINRC has seven legislators, the AIADMK four and the BJP three (all nominated MLAs). ‘No impact on floor test’ After tendering his resignation, Mr. Lakshminarayanan said his move would have no impact on the floor test, as the government had already been reduced to a minority. He said he resigned because he had not been given due importance in the ruling party. He hinted that other parties had approached him, but he was yet to take a call. In the space of a month, Ministers A. Namassivayam (who joined the BJP) and Malladi Krishna Rao and legislators Theepainthan, A. John Kumar and Lakshminarayanan quit their posts. Last year, the Congress suspended N. Dhanavelou for anti-party activities. As a result of Sunday’s developments, the ruling dispensation’s position in the House has become all the more vulnerable. A defeat in the floor test is now a certainty, unless the votes of the three BJP nominated MLAs in a trust motion are disallowed on technical grounds, as is being demanded by the Congress. The Chief Minister earlier claimed that the three nominated MLAs could not be considered as BJP members. Though the three legislators — V. Saminathan, K.G. Shankar and S. Selvaganapathy — had earlier submitted a request to then Speaker V. Vaithilingam to recognise them as BJP members, no decision was taken on the matter. Following the death of Mr. Shankar, T. Vikraman was sworn in as a nominated MLA, and he, along with the other two legislators, was not recognised as a BJP member in the Assembly, Mr. Narayanasamy contended. Sign papers The Chief Minister said that for recognising a nominated MLA as a party member, he/she would have to sign several papers. But no papers were signed by the three. If a nominated member wanted to join a party, he/she should do so within six months of his/her appointment, he noted. In the space of a month, Ministers A. Namassivayam (who joined the BJP) and Malladi Krishna Rao and legislators Theepainthan, A. John Kumar and Lakshminarayanan quit their posts. Last year, the Congress suspended N. Dhanavelou for anti-party activities. As a result of Sunday’s developments, the ruling dispensation’s position in the House has become all the more vulnerable. A defeat in the floor test is now a certainty, unless the votes of the three BJP nominated MLAs in a trust motion are disallowed on technical grounds, as is being demanded by the Congress. The Chief Minister earlier claimed that the three nominated MLAs could not be considered as BJP members. Though the three legislators — V. Saminathan, K.G. Shankar and S. Selvaganapathy — had earlier submitted a request to then Speaker V. Vaithilingam to recognise them as BJP members, no decision was taken on the matter. Following the death of Mr. Shankar, T. Vikraman was sworn in as a nominated MLA, and he, along with the other two legislators, was not recognised as a BJP member in the Assembly, Mr. Narayanasamy contended. The Chief Minister said that for recognising a nominated MLA as a party member, he/she would have to sign several papers. But no papers were signed by the three. If a nominated member wanted to join a party, he/she should do so within six months of his/her appointment, he noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-crisis-deepens-after-two-mlas-quit-ahead-of-trust-vote/article33899055.ece
22 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||With one more death, toll in U.T. touches 663||Puducherry recorded one more COVID-19 death, taking the toll to 663 on Sunday. A 50-year-old woman died at the MGMCRI in the capital. The patient had no co-morbidity. With this, the toll stood at 541 in Puducherry, followed by Karaikal (67), Yanam (45) and Mahe (10). The Union Territory also saw 23 new cases and 18 recoveries in the last 24 hours. The test positivity rate was 1.8%, the case fatality rate 1.67% and the recovery rate 97.84%. Of the new cases, 11 were in Puducherry, seven in Mahe and three in Karaikal. Yanam did not report any new case. The active cases stood at 192 — 105 in hospitals and 87 under home isolation. The Union Territory has to date recorded 39,592 cases, with 38,737 patients recovered. Of an estimated 6.18 lakh tests conducted so far, about 5.74 lakh samples returned negative. Meanwhile, 758 healthcare workers and 31 frontline staff took the first shot of COVID vaccine. To date, 9,247 personnel, including 8,809 healthcare workers, have taken the vaccine in the Union Territory. Three test positive Cuddalore district reported three fresh cases of COVID-19 on Sunday, taking the total number of cases in the district to 25,110. While 24,760 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 30. In Villupuram district, two persons tested positive, taking the total tally of positive cases in the district to 15,247. Kallakurichi district reported one positive case, taking the overall count to 10,905.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/toll-in-union-territory-goes-up-to-663/article33899699.ece
22 February 2021||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rain disrupts normal life in Puducherry, Cuddalore||Heavy rain lashed Puducherry and Cuddalore, leaving a majority of the roads battered and throwing normal life out of gear. Several localities were inundated in Puducherry town, including Murungapakkam, Mettupalayam, Bussy Street, Rainbow Nagar, Krishna Nagar, Kamaraj Nagar, Boomianpet, Indira Gandhi Square, Rajiv Gandhi Square and Saram. Puducherry recorded an average rainfall of 192 mm in the 24-hour period ending at 8.30 a.m. on Sunday — the highest in 20 years. Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan inspected the affected areas in Sonampalayam, Murungapakkam and Rainbow Nagar, and reviewed measures to clear the inundated areas. According to a press note from the Raj Nivas, Ms. Soundararajan also held discussions on disaster management with Collector Purva Garg. The Lt. Governor directed the officials to alert the people during heavy downpour and accommodate them in shelters. Ms. Soundararajan directed the authorities to immediately bale out stagnant water from low-lying areas and publicise the toll-free numbers of the control room to enable the public to contact them during emergencies. Holiday declared Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy inspected affected areas, including Kamaraj Nagar, Vengatta Nagar and Rainbow Nagar, and directed the authorities to drain out the excess water. The authorities declared a holiday for Classes I to XII on Monday. The Department of Higher Education postponed the counselling for admissions to arts and commerce courses through the Centralised Procedure for Arts and Science Courses to February 24. Cuddalore district recorded an average rainfall of 44.9 mm during the 24-hour period ending at 8.30 a.m. on Sunday. The area-wise average rainfall is as follows: Cuddalore 185.6 mm, Collectorate 163.4 mm, Vanamadevi 135 mm, Kurunjipadi 100 mm, Kudithangi 75.2 mm, Parangipettai 70.6 mm and Bhuvanagiri 70 mm. Officials of the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) attributed the heavy rain to a “westerly trough in the middle level of the atmosphere and its interaction with the easterly winds in the lower level”. Bharathi Road, one of the arterial stretches in Cuddalore town, was waterlogged. Residents of Manali Estate, Thangaraj Nagar and Cuddalore town struggled as the rain left streets inundated. Rainwater entered several homes. Woman washed away A 35-year-old woman was washed away in flash floods near Shanmugapuram in Puducherry. S. Haseena Begum was taking her two-wheeler through a waterlogged road when she was swept away by floodwaters. A search is on.  Meteorological Department officials attributed the heavy rain to a westerly trough||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-rain-disrupts-normal-life-in-puducherry-cuddalore/article33899057.ece
22 February 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||CM lays foundation for river-link project||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Sunday laid the foundation stone for the first phase of the Cauvery-South Vellar-Vaigai-Gundar intra-State river-link project. He also laid the foundation for the renovation of irrigation infrastructures under the Extension, Renovation and Modernisation of Cauvery Sub-basin Project, at a function in Kunnathur, near Viralimalai. Terming the Cauvery-Gundar river linking a momentous project, he said it would be implemented at a cost of Rs. 14,400 crore. No other project had been implemented by the Public Works Department at such a huge cost, he said. “Several people were skeptical about the project. It is a century-old dream of the people. We have started work. It is the happiest day of my life. I have achieved the goal of my birth,” Mr. Palaniswami said, adding that surplus water from the Cauvery would be diverted via the canal to South Vellar, Vaigai and Gundar. The people of Tiruchi, Pudukottai, Sivaganga, Virudhunagar and Ramanathapuram districts would benefit. Under the first phase of the intra-State river-link project, a canal will be built from the Mayanur barrage on Cauvery river to the South Vellar — a distance of about 118.45 km — at an estimated cost of Rs. 6,941 crore. The Rs. 3,384 crore project for the renovation and modernisation of the Cauvery sub-basin is aimed at ensuring irrigation for over 4.6 lakh acres of land in Thanjavur, Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur and Mayiladuthurai districts, served by the Cauvery, and 21 of its tributaries falling in the lower Cauvery sub-basin.  Attack on Stalin On the occasion, Mr. Palaniswami accused DMK president M.K. Stalin of indulging in malicious and false propaganda against his government, but said the people would not believe it. Mr. Stalin has been spreading falsehoods against the AIADMK with an ulterior motive of damaging its reputation, he said. But the people will never believe his false propaganda. They will continue to support “our people and farmer-friendly government,” he said. Rejecting the criticism levelled by Mr. Stalin that the Narendra Modi-led government had not sanctioned any scheme for the State or listened to its demands, Mr. Palaniswami said his government had urged the Prime Minister to announce a special programme, called ‘ Nadanthai Vazhi Cauvery’, to rejuvenate and protect the river from urban pollution. Mr. Modi had accepted the demand and included it in the President’s address to the Parliament. This shows that the Centre supports the development of the State and listens to its demands, he said. Recalling the protests by farmers and the people of Naduvasal in Pudukottai district against the hydrocarbon project, Mr. Palaniswami said it was Mr. Stalin who had approved the project. But the AIAIDMK government had not only halted the project but had also declared the entire delta a protected agricultural zone. Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam said Mr. Stalin had been criticising the AIADMK government without any substance. The AIADMK government had implemented innumerable schemes in 10 years and had a long list of achievements to seek a fresh mandate. But Mr. Stalin could not project any notable scheme implemented during the DMK regime and he could never become the Chief Minister of the State, he said. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar, Principal Secretary of the Public Works Department K. Manivasan and Collector P. Uma Maheswari also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-lays-foundation-for-river-link-project/article33899072.ece
22 February 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘DMK-Congress model based on corruption’||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday said the DMK-Congress model was based on “corruption and appeasement” [of minorities]. This, according to him, would affect the social fabric of Tamil Nadu. Addressing a conference of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha in Salem, Mr. Singh said the “success” of the BJP’s ‘Vetrivel Yatra’ had shaken the DMK and the Congress. The people of Tamil Nadu will only like a combination between “lotus” and “two leaves”, and only they can bring prosperity to the State, he said. Mr. Singh said Narendra Modi was the first Prime Minister to visit Jaffna and 27,000 houses had been constructed for displaced Tamils. The Centre is committed to ensuring that Tamils in Sri Lanka live with peace, equality and dignity. He said the Congress and the DMK tried to create controversy on procurement of Rafale jets but the CAG had given a clean chit. Two States had been chosen by the Centre for the Defence Corridor project — Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. The Centre had increased the State’s share in Central resources to 42%, and Tamil Nadu had received Rs. 5.42 lakh crore. However, during the last UPA regime, Tamil Nadu got just Rs. 94,540 crore. The construction of the Salem-Chennai expressway would begin in 2021-22, he said. IMF projections Despite the pandemic, the IMF has said that India’s GDP growth will be in double digits the next fiscal and it will be more than 11.5%. “We are going to write the next growth history and foreign investment is also increasing day by day,” he said. He said a jallikattu event was happening in the stock market now. He said Tamil was the Amma of all languages and decisions taken by the NDA government had been inspired by the ideals in Tirukkural . Yuva Morcha president Tejasvi Surya said the DMK did not represent Tamil Nadu’s youth or its spirit in any way. The party was “anti-Tamil”, and family politics must be rejected, he said. Dubbing the DMK “anti-Hindu”, he said if that Tamil has to survive, Hindutva had to win.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-congress-model-based-on-corruption/article33899079.ece
22 February 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Wall painting competition held||A wall painting competition was organised for government school students under the Samagra Siksha programme here recently. A release said the competition was held on the themes girls education, protection of girls child, self hygiene and sanitation for students from Class 1 to VIII. The finalists drew paintings on the walls of Panchayat Union Middle School in Kannankuruchi and the winners were given prizes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wall-painting-competition-held/article33899132.ece
22 February 2021||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Where is fund for river project, asks Chidambaram||When the State government has no money or sources, from where would they earmark Rs. 14,120 crore funds for the Cauvery-Vaigai-Gundar river linking project, asked former Union Finance Minister and Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram here on Sunday. Speaking at a booth-level workers meeting in Tirupuvanam, he said that at least if the TN government had completed a portion of the project by now, the people may have welcomed and appreciated the rulers. Sitting idle for the last nine years, the government appeared to have woken up now. The Congress leader said that the project cost was around Rs. 14,120 crore. “Where is the money.” When are they going to start? When is the project going to see the light," he went on shooting questions. The people of Tamil Nadu shall wait and watch, from where they are going to earmark funds for the Cauvery project in the interim budget to be tabled in the Assembly in the next few days. He said that for the same project, the late Chief Minister Kamaraj, in 1958, had announced an outlay of Rs. 189 crore then. Subsequently, in 2002, the then CM Karunanidhi had laid a stone, according to DMK president M K Stalin. In that case, why is the AIADMK government again laying foundation stone, Mr. Chidambaram asked.  Mr. Chidambaram said that when the country was reeling under severe financial crisis, the Centre and State governments indulged in wasteful expenditure. Charging that in COVID-19 times, instead of giving financial support to the needy workers, the government was announcing to operate bullet trains. Spending Rs. 1,000 crore or more on such a project between Mumbai and Ahmedabad was not required for a country like India. “Why should the people go in a train at 130 km speed...Why not travel in a 80 km speed train,” he asked. When even cities like New Delhi and Mumbai did not have eight lanes, why should there be an eight lane between Salem and Chennai. Six lanes would be sufficient. The State government should not take over fertile lands by force from the farmers for such projects. The TN government here was acting to the diktats of the BJP government at Centre, he alleged and went on saying that the AIADMK was " benami" of the BJP. The people would throw them out of power soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/where-is-the-fund-for-river-project-asks-chidambaram/article33899099.ece
22 February 2021||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Burns ward in Sivakasi needs better amenities and specialists||A constant complaint has been that critically injured workers die on the way while being taken from here to Government Rajaji Hospital or to private hospitals in distant Madurai. The State government finally brought in a Centre of Excellence for Burns Ward on Sivakasi Government Hospital premises in 2015 after 40 lives were lost in Muthalipatti fire accident in 2012. “Even now, many injured workers are being admitted to private hospitals in and around Sivakasi,” said Mr. Arjunan, district secretary, Communist Party of India (Marxist). Though a building with air-conditioned facilities like operation theatre and post-operative ward were provided, the post of plastic surgeon that was sanctioned then for Sivakasi GH has remained vacant for long. “After the plastic surgeon got transferred, the post has remained vacant. However, when one post was sanctioned for Virudhunagar Government Medical College Hospital (under construction), I immediately posted him in Sivakasi, where there is a need,” said Virudhunagar district Joint Director (Medical Services) R. Manoharan. Successful surgery After the specialist doctor arrived, 18 patients with burn injuries have been successfully operated upon since January, said Sivakasi GH Chief Medical Officer Ayyanar. “A female patient who sustained 60% burns was one of the beneficiaries,” he said. Dr. Manoharan said efforts were being made to provide a skin bank at the Centre for Excellence to provide timely treatment for the injured. “Skin grafted from cadavers can be temporarily used for patients having superficial burn injuries even up to 60%. It will help expeditious healing,” a doctor said. While basic medical instruments for skin grafting were available, the hospital could be better placed if it got advanced instruments for grafting. Similarly, the lack of CT scan facility is forcing doctors to refer patients with fracture or head injuries to GRH Madurai. “Since these [fire accidents] are legal cases, we have to ensure proper diagnosis. Without CT scan, we cannot treat compounded fractures and head injuries,” a doctor said. Plastic surgeon A permanent plastic surgeon will be of great support in treating firework accident victims who suffer contraction of skin due to burns. Congress MP B. Manickam Tagore says the State government should act fast to fulfill the crucial needs of one of the biggest industries of the south.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-better-burns-ward-in-sivakasi-need-of-the-hour/article33899084.ece
22 February 2021||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||‘All 8 lakh workers should be brought under social security schemes’||Virudhunagar District Fireworks-Match Workers Association has sought efforts from government machinery to prevent the practices of leasing out fireworks units and allowing workers to work on contract basis. At a seminar organised by the association affiliated to Centre of Indian Trade Unions here on Sunday, resolution to this effect was passed. The seminar was attended by workers, owners, trade union leaders and MPs T.K. Rengarajan (Communist Party of India – Marxist) and B. Manickam Tagore (Congress). The resolution added that adequate awareness would be created among the workers so that they refrain from working in units that are leased out and under contract system. The State Government should include representatives of trade unions in the committees formed to inspect fireworks units for violation of safety norms. Upon finding violations, the officials instead of suspending their license, should give ample time for the operators to set right things. Suspension of license leads to job loss for employees and those employees should be provided relief by the Government. Welfare board The Welfare Board for Fireworks units that was recently announced by the State Government was yet to come into force. The Government should announced simplified procedures allowing workers to join the welfare board. The workers should be given education assistance, marriage assistance and pension of Rs. 3,000 and Rs. 30 lakh for deaths due to accident and Rs.1 lakh for natural death. While 8 lakh employees were involved in the fireworks industry, only 1.20 lakh workers were under the social security schemes like ESI and PF. Government officials should take steps to include all the workers under the social security schemes, another resolution said. The State and Centre should bail out the industry that was facing severe crisis in the last five years due to Government’s wrong policies and individual persons wrong understanding. The industry should be provided permanent relief from Environmental Protection Act. Sivakasi Fireworks Manufacturers’ Association, K. Mariappan, CITU district secretary, P.N. Deva, association president, S. Mahalakshmi, took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-8-lakh-workers-should-be-brought-under-social-security-schemes/article33899095.ece
22 February 2021||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Welfare assistance worth Rs. 7.50 crore distributed||Tamil Nadu Adi-Dravida Welfare Minister V.M. Rajalakshmi on Sunday distributed welfare assistance worth Rs. 7.50 crore to 7,038 beneficiaries. Addressing the gathering, she said the government had been taking care of the needs of the downtrodden and the working class in all possible ways. Irrespective of the rise in price of gold, the ambitious project, Thaaliku Thangam, had been successfully implemented across the State by the government. The Minister said 527 women received 4.2 kg of gold worth Rs. 2.03 crore on Sunday. The objective of was to ensure that even those families below poverty line (BPL) were able to give their daughters gold as the mangal sutra at the time of marriage. The late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa had devised the scheme by giving four gm and eight gm to girls who had completed plus two and undergraduate. Apart from the thaaliku thangam , Ms. Rajalakshmi gave away two-wheelers to 162 women, who received a subsidy component to the tune of Rs. 40.50 lakh. She explained that many working women from the lower class in the economy spent a major part of their earnings on transport. Hence, in a bid to help them save money, the government offered one-third sum as subsidy that would enable womenfolk to purchase a new two-wheeler on easy loan terms and repay without hassles. She also gave away free house site pattas and cycles, among others, to the beneficiaries. Collector G.S. Sameeran presided over the function in which DRO Janani Soundarya, Mahalir Thittam Project Director Vijayalakshmi and other officials from Revenue, Mahalir Thittam, Rural Development, Health and Family Welfare and other departments participated. Later, the Minister participated in the bhoomi puja for construction of the Tahsildar office at Sankarankoil, which would be built at a cost of Rs. 2.77 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/welfare-assistance-worth-rs-750-crore-distributed/article33899104.ece
22 February 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Bull dies in jallikattu||A bull died in a jallikattu organised at Thirukanurpatti near Vallam in Thanjavur district on Sunday due to the impact of a hit from another bull at the collection point. Besides, 25 persons were injured in the event that went on for over eight hours. Police sources said the bull that died belonged to E. Richard of Maraneri in Budalur. A total of 583 bulls were released one after the other during the event in which more than 350 tamers participated. Nine among the injured, including a Sub Inspector of Police, were referred to hospital for treatment, while the remaining 16 injured were treated as out-patients. 15 injured Meanwhile, 15 persons were injured in a jallikattu organised at Avarampatti near Vaiyampatti in Tiruchi district on Sunday. As many as 801 bulls were released in the event in which 181 tamers participated. Four among the injured were referred to hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bull-dies-at-collection-point-in-jallikattu/article33899067.ece
22 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Wall paintings expand knowledge of students||With a view to providing a wholesome learning environment for students, the walls of Kendriya Vidyalaya in Perambalur have been painted with educational content to engage students even while they are not in classrooms. The work on the paintings, which began in October 2019, was nearing completion when the COVID-19 lockdown was announced. Now that the schools have reopened, the teachers hope the students will benefit from it. “Over and above what is learnt in classrooms, learning for transformation as better human beings is also imbibed from friends and environment the students are in,” said Principal V. Kalyanaraman. “Visual stimuli is powerful. This is the root cause of addiction to social media, but this attention could be diverted towards such positive stimuli,” he said. Schools are not just buildings made of brick and mortar but symbols of learning, he added. Every morning, the students are asked what they learnt from the various wall paintings. This is to ensure that they are paying attention to them. “We do not force them to give answers. If they do not know, they are encouraged to pay more attention to it,” Mr. Kalyanaraman said. The walls are full of information on every subject, including general knowledge, current affairs, English language, physical education and science. “The teachers have also begun using them as a learning method. Students attending online classes can also view the walls virtually,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wall-paintings-expand-knowledge-of-students/article33899061.ece
22 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Four railway stations get surveillance system||Minister of Railways Piyush Goyal on Sunday dedicated to the nation video surveillance system at Kumbakonam, Mayiladuthurai, Thanjavur and Villupuram railway stations through video conference from New Delhi. Surveillance cameras have been installed in these stations that come under Tiruchi railway division to serve as a manpower multiplier even while facilitating round-the-clock surveillance. Forty cameras each have been installed in Villupuram and Thanjavur junctions, 41 in Mayiladuthurai junction and 30 in Kumbakonam station. They have been installed at the entry points, foyers, platforms, circulating area and passenger reservation centres and connected to the monitors in each station. Railway Protection Force personnel will monitor movements from a separate room provided at these stations. The internet protocol cameras have been installed under Nirbhaya Fund and have a backup facility. The RPF personnel, using the video footage, can identify those involved in crimes in railway stations and its vicinity. Mr. Goyal also commissioned an escalator at Thanjavur junction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-railway-stations-get-surveillance-system/article33899063.ece
22 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||37 fresh COVID-19 cases, no death||The central region on Sunday accounted for 40 fresh cases of COVID-19. No death was reported in the region, according to a bulletin issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. Thanjavur reported 18 fresh cases and Tiruchi reported seven. Five patients, who were undergoing treatment at Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, were discharged after recovering from the viral infection on Sunday. Meanwhile, four patients each tested positive in Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur districts. Ariyalur reported three fresh cases while Karur and Pudukottai reported two each. Perambalur reported no fresh cases for the second consecutive day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/37-fresh-covid-19-cases-no-death/article33899062.ece
22 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 103.85 feet on Sunday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 411 cusecs and the discharge 1,499 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article33899065.ece
22 February 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Traffic marshals inducted to ease congestion||Tiruppur City Police inducted four traffic marshals in an effort to ease traffic congestion at various points in the city. City Police Commissioner G. Karthikeyan flagged off the initiative at the Commissioner’s office on Saturday, police sources said. Traffic snarls It was necessitated due to the frequent traffic snarls experienced by commuters at spots such as Tiruppur-Avinashi Road, P.N. Road and Palladam Road. Two marshals each have been allocated to the Tiruppur North range and the Tiruppur South range of the city police, sources said. While there are four police stations under each of these ranges, the traffic marshals will not be bound by any police station limits and they will be sent immediately to any location experiencing traffic congestions in their respective ranges, according to the sources. Four traffic constables have been inducted as traffic marshals as a preliminary step. They will come under the control of Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic) K. Sureshkumar. More marshals will be inducted in the future, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traffic-marshals-inducted-to-ease-congestion/article33899546.ece
22 February 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Collector comes to the aid of impoverished daughter, mother||The district administration in Vellore has come forward to provide housing and other facilities to an impoverished woman and her elderly mother, whose plight was highlighted in a video circulated by a voluntary organisation. In the video, the impoverished woman, in her mid-forties, from Mel Kavanur village in Vellore district, sought help for her day-to-day survival. The video shot by Gopala Rajendran, Vellore district secretary, The Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of All Types of Differently Abled and Caregivers (TARATDAC), shows Kalaivani, stating that she was initially keeping well but suffered from an ailment and went to a hospital for treatment. “She is mentally ill and requires all help,” said S. Namburajan, general secretary, (TARATDAC). Sitting in a dilapidated building and wearing tattered clothes, she was heard saying that her mother gets Rs. 1,000 as elderly pension and they purchase idli or some food from the hotel and eat once a day. “She told me that on some days she used to just survive on biscuits and groundnuts,” Mr. Gopala Rajendran added. However, her mother fell down and fractured her legs a year ago. Since then they have been struggling without food. “They need help desperately. They should be provided food regularly and proper shelter. The house they live is in a bad condition,” Mr. Gopala Rajendran said. When The Hindu shared the video with Vellore Collector A Shanmuga Sundaram, he said the administration would render all necessary assistance. “We will be providing a patta for a house site worth Rs. 2 lakh and construct a greenhouse worth Rs. three lakh for them,” he said. Mr. Sundaram added that through Red Cross, the administration would facilitate one-month dry ration and kitchen utensils. “She will be provided a cash dole of Rs. 15,000 from the Collector’s Discretionary Fund and Rs. 10,000 from the Red Cross. Rotary Club Gudiyatham will help in house construction. For Kalaivani, also, we will give a pension of Rs. 1,000 as a special case,” the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-comes-to-the-aid-of-impoverished-daughter-mother/article33899739.ece
22 February 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Seven test positive in Vellore||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 20,929 with seven new cases being reported on Sunday. While a total of 20,525 have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 54. The district's death toll is 350. In Ranipet district, two persons were reported positive and the total stood at 16,204. In Tirupattur district, two cases were reported on Sunday and the total number of positive cases stood at 7,626. In Tiruvannamalai district, two new cases were reported, taking the total number of cases to 19,461. Out of this, 19,136 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 41.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seven-persons-test-positive-in-vellore/article33899694.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Long wait for families to get relief||Eleven months after 14 lives perished following a fire accident at Rajammal Fireworks near Sattur, the family members of the victims have been running from pillar to post to get compensation from the State government. Besides, they have been battling it out in the Madras High Court after cheques issued by two owners of the unit, Rs. 4 lakh to each family, as compensation have bounced. The fire accident on March 20 last near Sippiparai had victims from Thoothukudi and Tenkasi districts. While eight of them died on the spot, six others succumbed to injuries subsequently. The family members were given Rs. 50,000 each by the owner/contractor for the final rites, as per the fireworks industry norms. However, the two cheques of Rs. 2 lakh each given to all the 14 families as compensation have bounced. “Revenue and police officials handed over cheques given by the factory owner Ganesan and a contractor to the families. But, the cheques returned due to want of sufficient funds,” said V. Devadoss (53) of Tyagi Immanuel Sekaran Peravai of Tiruvengadam taluk in Tenkasi district. “Initially, the owner and contractor had sought three months’ time to disburse the money and the cheques were dated June 21, 2020. However, the cheques bounced and under the then prevailing stringent COVID-19 lockdown conditions, we could not even stage any protest,” said M. Chinnarasu, younger brother of Ponnuthai, 48, who was killed. Ponnuthai’s daughter, Mohanaselvi, who has married Chinnarasu, said her family had to move from Namakkal for the funeral. But, after lockdown was imposed within a few days, the family got stuck at Mukkoottumalai in Tenkasi district. Same is the plight of T. Krishnaveni, 34, daughter of another deceased, Petchimmal, 49. Krishnaveni, who was running a small eatery at Chennai, also got stuck in Sippiparai when she came for the funeral. Both families are finding it difficult to make ends meet with no proper job. She claimed that she was tired of giving multiple petitions to the Tahsildar, Sattur Revenue Divisional Office and Collectorate. Mr. Chinnarasu said his family would have travelled over 20 times to Vembakottai Taluk office. “The officials show no sympathy for us and just ignore us,” complained Ms. Mohanaselvi. In a letter, the then Vembakottai Tahsildar advised the family members of the deceased to take legal action against the owner/contractor for the bounced cheques. However, promising to get them relief from the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund, he asked them to produce 12 documents including death certificate, legal heir certificate, Aadhar, bank account details. The present Tahsildar of Vembakottai, Raja Hussain, who assumed charge recently, claimed that he was unaware of the issue. A senior revenue official said the contractor had issued “stop payment” instructions claiming that he was forced by the police to issue cheques. He said no file regarding the compensation from CM Relief Fund had been processed from Vembakottai Taluk office for Rajammal Fireworks accident victims. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/long-wait-for-families-to-get-relief/article33899089.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Teachers anticipate reduction of portions for upper primary classes||School Education Department has started sanitisation of classrooms to be in a readiness to conduct offline classes for upper primary grades - from VI to VIII, towards the possible culmination of the pandemic lockdown, though a formal communication from the State government is awaited. The teachers seem to be convinced that the portions will be reduced to the extent of just 30% of the original content, in view of the meagre number of days left in the academic year. “The possibility for the government to resume offline classes for upper primary grades seems bleak against the backdrop of a new threat perception on the spread of the virus in some States,” a teachers’ welfare association office-bearer said. In January, the State government permitted reopening of schools for Classes 10 and 12 and issued an elaborate Standard Operating Procedure (SOP). As per the order, online classes will continue to be an alternate mode of teaching; students can opt for online education by submitting a letter of consent from the parents. The schools will also function for six days in order to cover the syllabus in the remaining time. Those attending offline classes were also required to submit a written consent from parents. The authorities had given an assurance that attendance will not be made compulsory. The same pre-conditions were laid when the offline classes were resumed for students of IX and XI. “The all-pass policy is already prevalent till grade VIII. This being the case, there is likely to be only one exam based on the truncated portions which the students can get through easily,” a Headmaster of a government-aided school said. The teachers are confused as to whether the government will be serious about resuming offline classes for upper primary level, citing the coming Assembly election, he said. The scope for the government to resume offline classes for upper primary after the elections and extending this academic year till July cannot be ruled out, the Headmaster said.  The teachers are confused about resumption of classes due to the coming Assembly election Headmaster||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teachers-anticipate-reduction-of-portions-for-upper-primary-classes/article33899054.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Mahout, assistant arrested for beating up elephant at rejuvenation camp||With the clip being widely shared on social media platforms, the HR&CE Department officials confirmed to The Hindu that the Andal temple administration suspended Kumar as per the directions of the HR&CE Department Commissioner S. Prabhakar. A third-generation mahout, he was appointed by the temple as the mahout for Jayamalyatha in 2011. However, Sivaprasad was not appointed by the temple administration and was the mahout’s relative, the officials said. The HR&CE Department will provide alternative arrangements for the elephant at the earliest and HR&CE Joint Commissioner for Coimbatore Zone R. Senthilvelavan will further investigate into the matter, according to the officials. Following this, the Forest Department officials said that the duo was picked up from the Thekkampatti camp and booked under sections of the Wildlife Protection Act. According to preliminary investigations, the incident occurred on Saturday evening when the elephant was allegedly not obeying the mahout’s commands. Irked by its insubordinate behaviour, Kumar and Sivaprasad chained the elephant to a tree and attacked it, the officials said. The video drew sharp criticisms from wildlife conservationists and activists in Coimbatore. S. Chandrasekar, founder of Vanam Trust of India, whose volunteers are claimed to have recorded the video of the incident, said the elephant Jayamalyatha must be shifted from the rejuvenation camp to an elephant camp run by the Forest Department. President of Nature Conservation Society N.I. Jalaluddin said that various NGOs focussing on wildlife conservation visited the Thekkampatti elephant camp on Sunday and conducted a field inspection on how the elephants are being treated. Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam general secretary K. Ramakrishnan announced a protest near Mettupalayam bus terminus on Monday condemning this incident. In a statement, he demanded that the State government must ensure proper treatment for the injured elephant. The 13th annual rejuvenation camp for 23 temple and three mutt elephants from Tamil Nadu and Puducherry began on February 8. Organised by the HR&CE Department, the 48-day-long camp will conclude on March 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mahout-assistant-arrested-for-beating-up-elephant-at-rejuvenation-camp/article33899551.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK carrying BJP on its back, says TNCC president||The ruling AIADMK may get fewer votes in the Assembly polls and is all set to lose the privilege, thanks to the huge bag of dirty linen, the BJP, on its back, Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri has said. Speaking to reporters here on Saturday, Mr. Alagiri, who had come here to attend the party workers’ meeting at Kuththukkkalvalasai, said the BJP, which had earned the nauseating distinction of the country’s ‘most disliked political party’ by taking the country to unsalvageable depths through its policies, had become a huge bag of dirty linen for the AIADMK in Tamil Nadu. The ruling party of Tamil Nadu, which would have otherwise polled decent votes in the Assembly election, was also going to be trashed by the voters because its association with the BJP. He said the AIADMK, though it had allied with the BJP, could not get any special package from the Centre for the development of Tamil Nadu over the past 10 years, leading to closure of industries and ailing farming sector even as Andhra Pradesh and Telengana had managed to get huge sum from the Union Government. Even during the cyclones and floods, the Edappadi K. Palaniswami-led government could not get its due assistance from the Centre. He said the Manomohan Singh-led Congress Government could sell petrol at Rs. 71 a litre even the crude oil price in the international market stood at 108 USD a barrel. While it is just 54 USD now, the BJP’s Narendra Modi-led Government was selling the fuel at Rs. 100 a litre. “Even as our neighbours like Pakistan, Sri Lanka and other countries are selling the fuel at lesser price, India’s fuel price has breached past century mark, which shows the difference in handling of the nation’s economy by the Congress and the BJP. While the knowledgeable Mr. Manmohan Singh could control the fuel price emphatically even though crude oil pricing was not favourable, Mr. Modi’s knowledge of economy has taken the country beyond salvage even after Rs. 20 lakh crore has been collected in the last six years to excise duty. Where did the money go?,” Mr. Alagiri asked. He said the TNCC would decide on February 24 on the number of Assembly seats to be obtained from the DMK. Mr. Alagiri also attended a party workers’ meeting in Tirunelveli on Saturday night to discuss the preparations to be made ahead of party leader Rahul Gandhi’s visit to southern districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-carrying-bjp-on-its-back-says-tncc-president/article33899735.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 45 new cases||Coimbatore district reported 45 new cases on Sunday, taking the tally to 55,460 cases. The Health Department did not report any deaths and the toll remained at 679. The district saw 54,375 recoveries and 406 patients were active cases. A total of 47 patients from Coimbatore district were discharged from various treatment centres on Sunday. Tiruppur district reported one death and 14 fresh cases, which took the tally to 18,245 cases. The death of a 54-year-old man from the district took the death toll to 224. As many as 17,898 patients have recovered and 123 were active cases. On Sunday, nine patients from the district were discharged from various treatment centres. In the Nilgiris, eight people tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 8,326.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-45-new-cases/article33899548.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||14 COVID-19 cases in Erode district||Erode reported 14 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking the district’s tally to 14,719. While 15 persons were discharged, 131 persons continue to be under treatment. In Salem, 15 persons tested positive. In Namakkal, five fresh cases were reported. One indigenous case was reported in Dharmapuri and two cases in Krishnagiri. Coimbatore district reported 45 new cases on Sunday, taking the tally to 55,460 cases. No deaths were reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/14-covid-19-cases-in-erode-district/article33899121.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Joint effort||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/joint-effort/article33899134.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Road accident||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/road-accident/article33899102.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Showcasing art||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/showcasing-art/article33899693.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two MLAs quit ahead of trust vote||In the space of a month, Ministers A. Namassivayam (who joined the BJP) and Malladi Krishna Rao and legislators Theepainthan, A. John Kumar and Lakshminarayanan quit their posts. Last year, the Congress suspended N. Dhanavelou for anti-party activities. As a result of Sunday’s developments, the ruling dispensation’s position in the House has become all the more vulnerable. A defeat in the floor test is now a certainty, unless the votes of the three BJP nominated MLAs in a trust motion are disallowed on technical grounds, as is being demanded by the Congress. The Chief Minister earlier said the three nominated MLAs could not be considered as BJP members. Though the three legislators — V. Saminathan, K.G. Shankar and S. Selvaganapathy — had earlier submitted a request to then Speaker V. Vaithilingam to recognise them as BJP members, no decision was taken on the matter. Following the death of Mr. Shankar, T. Vikraman was sworn in as a nominated MLA, and he, along with the other two legislators, was not recognised as a BJP member in the Assembly, Mr. Narayanasamy contended. The Chief Minister said for recognising a nominated MLA as a party member, he/she would have to sign several papers. But no papers were signed by the three. If a nominated member wanted to join a party, he/she should do so within six months of his/her appointment, he noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-mlas-quit-ahead-of-trust-vote/article33899070.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||On the right track||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/on-the-right-track/article33899737.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Science magazine released||Madurai Kamaraj University Vice-Chancellor M. Krishnan released a science magazine of the District Tamil Nadu Science Forum hon Saturday. The science magazine was jointly received from the University Vice-Chancellor by H. Shakila, professor and Head of the Department of Molecular Microbiology, MKU, and P. Rajamanickam, General Secretary of All India People's Science Network.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/science-magazine-released/article33899091.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||mail dgl||Periyapattinam in Ramanathapuram district is a beautiful seaside village endowed with sweet groundwater. Almost all houses have their own wells though the village panchayat supplies adequate water all days of the week. Water from our village is supplied to more than 20 villages. So we do not need borewells and big tanks as planned through the Centre’s Jal Jeevan Mission scheme. If it is implemented, our future generations will be deprived of good drinking water. Our people have been staging protests to exclude our village from the scheme and instead implement it in dry villages. Though the Collector has assured that it will not be taken up, some vested interests try to bring in the scheme. The scheme will not only spoil the drinking water but also the coconut groves, as it happened because of a shrimp unit which was forced to close down. The authorities must ensure that the unwelcome JJ scheme is taken away from us. S. Kader Ibrahim Periyapattinam    The stretch of Melur-Tirupattur highway that passes through Veerakaliammankoilpatti and Keelavalavu is full of pot holes, resulting in accidents. Though this road remains in such a bad state for the past one year, the highways authorities have not done anything despite people making many representations to relay the road. Hence, I request the Highways authorities to do at least patch work immediately. M. Sundararajan Melur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mail-dgl/article33899092.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail||The roadside of the Thuraiyur-Perambalur highway has turned untidy over the last few months. Garbage is being dumped by grocery shops, restaurants, pharmacy outlets and other business establishments, despite the presence of a board cautioning people people not to dump waste there. Thuraiyur municipality must prevail upon the business establishments not to dump waste on the roadside. M. Periyamalaiyan,  Karattampatti    The problem of garbage accumulation in the city warrants a two-pronged strategy: reducing waste generation at the level of households, and stronger waste disposal mechanism by the civic corporation. Waste management, which is essential to maintain a healthy life, needs to be carried out through correct techniques keeping in mind the nned to protect the environment. Proper disposal of waste is a responsibility of each individual. A proper attitude at the individual level will pave way for creation of clean environment at workplace as well. M.A. Aleem,  Tiruchi    Incidents of trees being felled and discarded on the roadside is quite prevalent in Mangamma Nagar. Now that apartment complexes with 100-odd flats are required to establish composting units, the living condition of the residents could be made better. It is time new residential dwellings are built with proper sewage and waste treatment T.M. Ranganathan,  Srirangam    The size of roundabout in Ponmalai Railway Township close to a CBSE school should be smaller, as that vehicle users can reach the school with ease. Ponmalai Railway Workshop authorities must do the needful. R. Gurunathan,  Varaganeri    Re-introduction of biometric verification of ration card holders from the start of this month has caused anxiety and discomfort to consumers. The medical fraternity is of the view that the biometric verification method could be kept in abeyance until there is no more threat of COVID-19. One wonders why the machines/scanners that are safe to use are not maintained well. Moreover, the biometric verification is cumbersome and time consuming. The State government should be reasonable and fair while imposing new restrictions and procedures like this when there are many other better and easier methods for verification such as sending OTP to registered mobile number as is done for supply of cooking gas cylinders.  J. Eden Alexander,  Thanjavur    While classes are being opened gradually for students at schools, keeping public libraries locked does not seem reasonable. The public libraries could be opened with adherence to safety protocol.  S. Sethuraman,  Thanjavur    The monthly solatium offered by the State government for physically challenged people would hardly suffice for survival if not for the free mid-day meals offered in temples and other religious institutions. Likewise, the State government must also permit the differently abled people to travel in city buses free of cost by producing the Unique Disability ID Smart Card issued by the Central government.  V. Srinivasan, Thiruppanandal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article33899059.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||ERODE||Kongu Arts and Science College: National Cadet Corps, Combined Annual Training Camp III, 10 a.m.  Erode Sengunthar Engineering College: Ganapathi Homam, Temple premises, 9 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode/article33899122.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements||Viralimalai   Subramaniya Swami Temple: Yagasala for Mahakumbabishekam, 4 p.m.   Mayiladuthurai   A.V.C. College: National Science Day celebration, lecture on ‘Science and tools for weather forecasting’ and workshop on ‘Make your own weather station from trash’ by R. Venkatesan, Scientist, Department of Atomic Energy, IGCAR, Kalpakkam, 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article33899053.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||22-02-21-City Cinema||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA  SHRI PURANDARADAASAR TRUST (Ph: 24845684) Sri Purandara Gaana Manjari-III at Srinivasa Sastri Hall, Luz. 5.30 p.m. Anjana Prahalad Rao - P.Akshaya - Aduthurai G. Guru- prasad, 7.10 p.m. Varalakshmi Anandakumar - V. L. Kumar - Melakkaveri K. Balaji - A.S. Kri- shnan.  Kalakshetra Foundation Presents Remembering Rukmini Devi Festival: 25th February -1st March 2021 @ 6 p.m. Tickets available at tikkl.com/kalakshetra 25 Feb: Meenakshi Vijayam dance drama by Kalakshetra; 26 Feb: Carnatic Vocal by Trichur Brothers; 27 Feb: Rukmini Kalyanam dance drama by Kalakshetra; 28 Feb: Violin concert by Akkarai Sisters; 1 Mar: Paduka Pattabishekam dance drama by Kalakshetra; Govt. SOP and guidelines will be adhered. Phone: 044-24521844/0836/3418 (Mon - Fri: between 10 a.m. - 5 p.m.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/22-02-21-city-cinema/article33899534.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||In Tiruchi Today||RELIGION  Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple: Thirupallioda Thiruvizha, Sri Namperumal Purappadu along with Ubayanachiyargal, 3 p.m.; reaching Teppakulam Asthana Mandapam, 5 p.m.; purappadu from Asthana Mandapam, 7.15 p.m.; Teppam Kandarullal, 7.30 p.m. to 9 p.m.; reaching Maiya Mandapam, 9.45 p.m.; purappadu from Maiya Mandapam, 9.45 p.m.; reaching Moolasthanam, 11.15 pm.  GENERAL  Jamal Mohamed College: Entrepreneurial skills in food processing and preservation', 11 a.m.; technology transfer programme, 9.45 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/in-tiruchi-today/article33899730.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Pleasure ride on the edge||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pleasure-ride-on-the-edge/article33899110.ece
22 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||High-security licence plate to be mandatory for all vehicles||Motorists who registered their vehicles more than two years ago will have to change the existing number plates of their bikes, cars, and other vehicles. According to senior officials, the State government is in the process of making the installation of High-Security Registration Plates (HSRP) mandatory for all vehicles. As per the Transport Department’s data, 2.1 crore vehicles were registered till March 2019, of which 80.49 lakh were registered in Bengaluru alone. Vehicle owners will have to pay out of their own pockets to replace the plates. The rule for installing HSRPs is already applicable for vehicles registered after April 1, 2019. The State government had initiated the implementation of HSRP in 2010-11. However, the tender process was embroiled in controversies and the matter also reached the courts. The government has already cancelled a tender it had floated in 2013 for the installation of HSRPs, and the Transport Department is in the process of issuing a fresh tender. After selecting the agency to install the new registration plates as per the specifications fixed by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, the government is likely to give motorists a two-year window to replace the old registration plates. Anjum Parvez, Principal Secretary to the Transport Department, confirmed the developments and said, “Vehicles registered after April 1, 2019 are fitted with HSRPs. The installation of HSRPs has to be done for vehicles registered prior to that, and we are in the process of floating a tender.” Features HSRPs have several features such as a chromium-based hologram with a chakra in blue colour (of size 20 mm x 20 mm) on the top left-hand corner in the front and rear end of the vehicle, and a permanent identification number of a minimum of 10 digits on the bottom left-hand side. A ‘hot stamping film’ technique will be applied to bear the inscription ‘INDIA’ on the letters and numerals of the licence number. A senior official working with the Transport Department said that HSRPs have various security features that cannot be tampered with. “The new registration plates are reflective and are clearly visible at night, while the permanent identification numbers help us know how many vehicles are actually plying on the road. There will be uniformity in the number plates. Now one can see cars displaying number plates of different sizes, writing names, and other such elements. These things will not be there in the future.” The official added that the rates for installation of the new registration plates would be known after the competitive bidding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/high-security-licence-plate-to-be-mandatory-for-all-vehicles/article33899165.ece
22 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Panchamasali community flexes its muscles with massive rally||The Panchamasali community’s demand for reservation under 2A category in the Other Backward Classes (OBC) list could turn into a vexing issue for Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa as their seer Basava Jayamruthyunjaya Swami on Sunday announced that he would not return to his mutt till the demand was met. He made the announcement at a rally attended by thousands from the community, a Lingayat-Veerashaiva subsect, in Bengaluru. A march to the Vidhana Soudha, taken out after the rally, saw some tense moments but things were brought under control as the agitators were diverted to Freedom Park. The seer insisted that the community would not settle for anything less than 2A status. “If the government does not agree to the demand, I will sit on a dharna till March 4. If the demand is not by then, I will start a hunger strike,” he said, addressing a massive rally at Palace Grounds. On Monday, Ministers Murugesh Nirani and C.C. Patil (both belonging to the community), along with other BJP legislators from the community, are scheduled to address a press conference, where the BJP’s and the government’s stand on the demand is expected to be spelt out. The rally was the culmination of a padayatra by Basava Jayamruthyunjaya Swami, of Koodala Sangama Panchamasali Peetha, and Vachananda Swami, the Harihara PanchamsaliPeetha seer. Speaking at the rally, the latter said that while they were confident of the Chief Minister accepting the demand, they had the “power to secure it” if he did not. At the rally, Mr. Nirani and Mr. Patil urged the community and seers to temporarily drop the demand, but this cut no ice. They tried to convince the seer to postpone the dharna, this too to no avail. Later, Mr. Nirani, in his speech, vowed to include the Panchamsali community in the 2A category. He said the demand has been there for more than three decades and the community was socially, educationally, and economically backward. As the procession taken out after the rally reached the Cauvery theatre junction, hundreds broke the barricade and tried to move forward. However, after the leaders were convinced, the seers agreed to shift their dharna to Freedom Park. Earlier in the day, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said the reservation issue was discussed with Mr. Yediyurappa. The backward classes commission is set to hold a consultation meeting in this regard. As per the Constitution, a recommendation for change in status of reservation has to come from the commission. “We have invited the seer to a meeting,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/panchamasali-community-flexes-its-muscles-with-massive-rally/article33899185.ece
22 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. gradually managing fiscal deficit, says Finance Minister||Union Minister for Finance and Corporate Affairs Nirmala Sitharaman on Sunday said that the government was conscious of managing gradually, without interrupting the pace of recovery, the fiscal deficit, Gross Domestic Product, and other important indicators of the country’s economy. “We funded the stimulus package with borrowed money. The package is largely aiming at sectors that provide the multiplier effect. Important indicators of the economy have to be carefully managed,” the Finance Minister told a gathering of industry captains at an interactive session organised by Bangalore Chamber of Commerce and Industry here on Sunday. “In a reasonable amount of time, the fiscal deficit will also be kept at a healthy level and [will] not be left unchecked,” she added. She said that the government wanted the country’s growth to be uninterrupted and sustainable. “Yet, we will bring fiscal deficit to a reasonable level,” she said. Ms. Sitharaman also said that this year’s Budget aimed to bring about a directional change for the country since the Indian economy required a different kind of an approach and support in post-pandemic times. “India’s growth and aspirations across various sectors, and needs and demands cannot be served by the governments. The private sector needs to be energised and the government needs to become a facilitator. Otherwise, India will lose a big opportunity to be a world leader,” the Union Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-gradually-managing-fiscal-deficit-says-finance-minister/article33899183.ece
22 February 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||City boy is fastest to recite periodic table without reading||A class VIII cadet of the Rashtriya Military School Bangalore made best use of the holidays during the pandemic to train and break a world record. His hard work has paid off and 13-year-old Ujjwal Sharma now is the “fastest to recite the periodic table without reading”, a feat that has entered the International Book of Records. Ujjwal sequentially named all the 118 elements of the periodic table in just 33 seconds. The earlier record stood at 35.23 seconds. His trainer Gopal Singh, an alumnus of IIT Kanpur and now working in the U.S., taught Ujjwal to overcome the difficulties in remembering the names of elements. “All names have more than six letters and several names are tongue-twisters such as dysprosium, tantalum, oganesson, darmstadtium, meitnerium, and gadolinium. I learnt the whole periodic table and recited it several times in a day,” Ujjwal said. After he was confident that he would be able to break the world record, Ujjwal uploaded his attempt on IBR website a week ago. On Saturday, after due process, he received confirmation from IBR that his feat was now a world record. “I am extremely excited and happy that I am a world record-holder now. Tears of happiness rolled down my cheeks. It was an emotional moment for my parents. I shared the happy news with my grandparents and my teachers,” Ujjwal said. He aspires to become an astrophysicist and unravel some mysteries of the universe. His other ambition is to join the Indian Air Force as a fighter pilot and serve the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/city-boy-is-fastest-to-recite-periodic-table-without-reading/article33899506.ece
22 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Many doctors get ‘confusing’ messages on vaccination date||Many doctors who have got vaccinated are reporting that they are getting “confusing” messages about another vaccination date. While they assume that it may be the date for the second vaccination, they say that it is too close to their first dose, leaving very little gap between the two doses. A gap of 28 days is recommended between the first and second dose. A doctor, who runs a private clinic in Bengaluru, who received her first dose of vaccination on February 5, said she got a message earlier this week asking to report to the Urban Primary Health Centre (UPHC). “It has been just two weeks after the first dose, but we received a message stating that our vaccination is scheduled and to report to the UPHC on Thursday. We did not go as we wanted to wait for two more weeks for the second dose,” she said. Another doctor, who works in a private clinic, said the same thing happened to him. “We were confused whether the message was for the first dose or second. After we got the first dose, it should have been registered in the COWIN app. We do not know why there is a confusion,” he said. Prasanna H.M., president, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA), said this was happening to a majority of the doctors. “I got three messages from three different healthcare centres asking me to get vaccinated. There is perhaps duplication in the data entry or a glitch in the COWIN app,” he said. Officials of the Department of Health and Family Welfare stated that the doctors could ignore the message if they were already vaccinated or if the message came within 28 days of their first dose. “We will ensure that there is a gap of 28 days between the first and second dose,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/many-doctors-get-confusing-messages-on-vaccination-date/article33899170.ece
22 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Audit to help make Malleswaram more pedestrian friendly||Missing kerbs, missing barricades on portions of roads dug up, broken pavements, low hanging cables, unmarked speed breakers… These were just some of the many issues recorded by citizens during the ‘walking audit’ on Saturday and Sunday at Malleswaram. The ‘walking audit’ is an initiative taken up by Malleswaram Urban Living Lab, a collaboration between Malleswaram Social and Sensing Local. This is aimed at creating a safe pedestrian network in Malleswaram and involves assessing the existing infrastructure and identifying problem areas. Based on the data collected, complete with photographs, a plan will be drawn up to make locality more pedestrian friendly. In three wards Nishitha from Sensing Local said around 70 citizens belonging to different age groups were part of the audit of roads in Aramane Nagar, Malleswaram and Kadu Malleswara wards, all coming under Malleswaram Assembly constituency. Suchitra Deep from Malleswaram Social said the audit was taken up under the Directorate of Urban Land Transport’s ‘Sustainable Urban Mobility Accord’ (SUMA). Malleswaram is among the nine neighbourhoods in the city to have bagged SUMA, she pointed out. Another session “Two sessions of the audit have been completed. Another session will be taken up next week in the evening hours to ascertain the status of street lighting,” she said and added that the audit would help them locate, quantify the issues, and present to the authorities concerned the problems that persist. Aparna Desraj Urs, a resident and member of Malleswaram Social, was part of the audit. “As residents, we know of the issues. However, by being part of the audit, we looked at these issues with a different lens… this is quite an eye-opener,” she said. With many roads in Malleswaram dug up for various works, she said pedestrians and motorists have it tough. Many simple issues, such as barricading stretches that have been dug up, can be solved. “However, it is clear that the different agencies that are executing these works are not talking to each other!, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/audit-to-help-make-malleswaram-more-pedestrian-friendly/article33899503.ece
22 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: BBMP prepares for Kerala, Maharashtra spike impact on city||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s (BBMP) health officials have been directed to identify and report “as rapidly as possible” any new cases and clusters, apart from including the data in relevant epidemiological analyses within 24 hours of diagnosis. This was one of the main action points put forth by BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad to the health officials during a review meeting to discuss the effect of spike in COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra and Kerala and its subsequent impact on the city. The State government has already issued directions on measures to be initiated to screen travellers from the two neighbouring States. The number of COVID-19 positive cases had also seen a spike in Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, and Chhattisgarh. The Commissioner stressed on the need for comprehensive contact tracing and cluster investigations. He said health officials could seek support of personnel from revenue and engineering departments, apart from roping in residents’ welfare associations and community members for the same. He said rapid data reporting and analysis were critical to detect new cases and clusters, and to initiate contact tracing. Even if no cases are detected, PHCs should submit zero reports, which will help verify functioning of the surveillance system and also to monitor virus circulation in the city. Hospitals and long-term care facilities have been directed to report COVID-19 deaths and others, which will be reviewed weekly at the zonal and headquarters levels. Mr. Prasad pressed for enhanced surveillance of closed settings, such as marriage halls, and facilities, including colleges and schools, prisons, care homes, and retirement communities. Planned and random visits should be undertaken to ensure compliance of protocols and prompt detection of cases and clusters in these settings. Health officials have been directed to visit schools and colleges and collect the list of students and staff. Supportive supervision To prevent further outbreak, several layers of supportive supervision is needed and objective indicators should be developed and reviewed by the surveillance units. The zonal in-charge officials have been instructed to submit reports on compliance to both the Commissioner and Special Commissioner (Health).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-bbmp-prepares-for-kerala-maharashtra-spike-impact-on-city/article33899508.ece
22 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Involve pvt. sector in vaccine administration, says Premji||Wipro Ltd. chairman Azim Premji urged the Centre to involve private parties in the administration of vaccine for COVID-19. “The government is doing its best. Administering vaccine to a large population is the key requirement. There is a possibility that with the involvement of private parties vaccine can be administered at a cost of around Rs. 400 per shot. About 500 million population can be covered in 60 days,” he added. He was speaking at an interaction with Union Finance and Corporate Affairs Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Sunday. Mr. Premji said the current hybrid model of a large workforce working from home and a small workforce in office could go well beyond the pandemic times.  Working model “The hybrid model has brought inclusive growth, driving better participation and greater flexibility to women. About 90% of the IT workforce continues to work from home even today,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/involve-pvt-sector-in-vaccine-administration-says-premji/article33899167.ece
22 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State to host Khelo India University Games||The second edition of Khelo India University Games (KIUG) will be held in Karnataka later this year. The dates of the nine-day event are expected to be finalised soon. The announcement was made on Sunday by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Union Minister of Youth Affairs and Sports Kiren Rijiju. As many as 150 universities from across India are expected to take part in the event for women and men aged under 25. It will feature 19 sports. Bengaluru’s Jain University’s global campus and other venues in the State, in partnership with the Association of Indian Universities, will host the event. This year, yogasana and mallakhamb have been added to the games in a bid to preserve and promote these native sports. Mr. Yediyurappa said the State was privileged to host the KIUG and the government would make all efforts to ensure its success. Around 6,000 people, including sportspersons and officials, are expected to arrive for the event. Mr. Rijiju underlined the importance of university-level athletes to nurture talent. “We need a sustained, focussed plan to identify talent from universities, and I am happy that we have been able to do that with the KIUG,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-to-host-khelo-india-university-games/article33899179.ece
22 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||All-party meeting to discuss Tamil Nadu’s Cauvery basin project||The State government will convene an all-party meeting shortly to discuss and decide on the future course of action to protect Karnataka’s interests in inter-State water sharing disputes, especially in light of the Tamil Nadu government’s move to utilise excess water in the Cauvery basin. The announcement was made by Medium and Major Irrigation Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi on Sunday in New Delhi after he held elaborate consultations with senior officials of the Water Resources Department, technical advisers, and the legal team that looks after inter-State river disputes involving Karnataka. The Tamil Nadu government laid the foundation stone to the Cauvery-Vellaru-Vaigai-GundarLink scheme on Sunday to utilise the excess water in the river Cauvery and supply it to its southern region. “With the legislature session commencing shortly, we will ask for dates from Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and the meeting will be convened shortly. The meeting, to be chaired by the Chief Minister, will also have legal experts apart from the Leader of the Opposition and others,” Mr. Jarkiholi said. The Minister said that the unilateral decision of the Tamil Nadu government to use the water would harm Karnataka’s interest. Karnataka has right over any water in excess of the 177.25 tmcft that is Tamil Nadu’s share, he argued. He also said the all-party meeting would see discussions on other water-related issues, including the notification of the Krishna tribunal award, which is yet to be done, the Mahadayi issue, and the utilisation of water in the Cauvery basin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/all-party-meeting-to-discuss-tamil-nadus-cauvery-basin-project/article33899180.ece
22 February 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown today||There will be no power supply on Monday in the areas serviced from Jayadeva and St. John service stations in view of taking up of conversion and cable works. According to a Bescom press release, the areas to be affected are (Jayadeva MUSS, F1) 16th Main, BTM 2nd Stage, near post office, and (St. John F1) 20th Main, 1st Cross, BTM Layout Ist Stage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown-today/article33899501.ece
22 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Private firm employee cheated of Rs. 49,000||A 24-year-old private firm employee was allegedly cheated of Rs. 49,000 by online fraudsters who lured her to get a card. Based on a complaint by Jeevitha K., a resident of Banashankari, the south division cybercrime police took up a case on Saturday. In her complaint, Jeevitha told the police that she received an email from a person claiming that he is part of a U.K.-based NGO and said that they were looking to set up a foundation in India. Jeevitha confirmed in her response that she is interested for which they offered to send her a card so that she could get some financial support to set up the foundation. A few days later, she got a call from a person informing her that she has a courier from the U.K. and asked her to complete the formalities by paying a processing fee to get the card. Jeevitha followed the instructions and in the process, she transferred Rs. 49,000 towards the processing fee the person asked her to pay. She soon realised that she had been duped when the person started demanding more money.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/private-firm-employee-cheated-of-rs-49000/article33899504.ece
22 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Gokak award presentation today||The Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, Bengaluru, jointly with Vinayak Gokak Vangmaya Trust has selected thinker Lakshmisha Tollpadi Puttur for the Gokak Award -2020. The award will be presented by the general secretary of the trust Anil Gokak at a function to be held on the BVB premises on Racecourse Road, Bengaluru, at 11 a.m. on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gokak-award-presentation-today/article33899507.ece
22 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Fake currency case: Two more convicted||The NIA Special Court, Bengaluru, on Saturday, convicted two persons in a fake currency case and sentenced them to six years of imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs. 15,000 on each. The convicts, Gangadhar Kholkar and Sabiruddin, were among the five persons convicted in the case so far. The NIA busted the racket in September 2018 in Madanayakanahalli police station limits. The officials raided a house and recovered fake currency notes of Rs. 2,000 denomination with a face value of Rs. 6,84,000. Investigations revealed the involvement of four more persons, including three fake currency suppliers in Malda, West Bengal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fake-currency-case-two-more-convicted/article33899509.ece
22 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||413 new cases of COVID-19 reported||As many as 413 new cases of COVID-19 were reported in the State on Sunday. With this, the total number of positive cases in the State stood at 9.48 lakh. Meanwhile, as many as 353 were discharged, taking the total number of recoveries to 9.29 lakh. A press release issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare said there were two COVID-19 deaths, taking the total number of deaths to 12,294. Out of the total 6,036 active cases in the State, 127 of them were admitted in the intensive care unit. The positivity rate stood at 0.74%, while the case fatality rate was 0.48%. Only 55,234 COVID-19 tests were conducted. As of Sunday, 52% of healthcare workers and 42% frontline workers were vaccinated. As many as 1.13 lakh healthcare workers received the second dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/413-new-cases/article33899168.ece
22 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rs. 1 crore to CM’s Relief Fund||Marketing Communication and Advertising Ltd. (MC and A), a State government enterprise providing advertising and other communication-related services, has donated Rs. 1 crore from its profits for the year 2019-20 to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. C. Munikrishna, chairman of MC and A, presented a cheque to this end to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, in the presence of Jagadish Shettar, Minister for Large and Medium-Scale Industries, Gaurav Gupta, Additional Chief Secretary, Commerce and Industries Department, and Siddalingappa B. Pujari, MD, and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-1-crore-to-cms-relief-fund/article33899174.ece
22 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two arrested||The Anti-Narcotics wing of the CCB arrested two Nigerian nationals and allegedly recovered synthetic drugs worth Rs. 5 lakh from them on Sunday. The accused, identified as Augustine Okafor, 38, and Achunike Nwafor, 36, were caught in R.T. Nagar while waiting in a car for their clients, the police said. The officials recovered 20 grams of cocaine, 13 grams of ecstasy pills along with six mobile phones from them. The accused are in custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-held/article33899510.ece
22 February 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Centre for improving sports facilities’||Union Minister for Youth Affairs and Sports Kiran Rijiju has said the Centre was committed to strengthening sports infrastructure facilities and the country would aim to be one among the top 10 highest medal-winning countries in the 2028 Olympics. He was speaking after laying the foundation stone for an indoor stadium at Sahyadri College in Shivamogga on Sunday. The stadium is coming up at a cost of Rs. 5 crore. The Centre has been providing sports infrastructure to all States. “We are improving facilities so that we can host the Olympics in the coming years. India stands first in the world in terms of the youth population. The youth have many opportunities and they should make use of them,” he said. “We have launched Fit India programme to encourage fitness among people,” he said. Further, the Minister said the government had fulfilled many demands of the State government. Shivamogga would become a major sports hub in the country in a few years. “I hope sports personalities from Karnataka win gold medals in future Olympic events,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/centre-for-improving-sports-facilities/article33899291.ece
22 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Mop-up inoculation drive’ in Dharwad district from today||Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil has said that the administration will be conducting a ‘mop-up inoculation drive’ from Monday to Wednesday [February 22 to 24] for those COVID-19 warriors who had registered for the vaccination but had not received the shots yet. Speaking to presspersons after getting the Covishield vaccine at the District Civil Hospital in Dharwad on Sunday, Mr. Patil said that during these three days, those people, who had registered, could straight away visit centres to get the vaccine even if they do not receive an SMS. Mr. Patil said that in the first phase of the vaccination drive, out of the 28,750 health workers who had registered, so far 14,191 had received the first dose of the vaccine and 4,156 had received the second dose. “As many as 8,775 employees of the municipal corporation, local bodies, the Departments of Revenue and Rural Development had registered for the vaccination and of them 3,292 (37.5%) have already been inoculated. The remaining could get the vaccine shots on the stipulated dates,” he said. The Deputy Commissioner clarified that even those who had received the SMS, but were unable to visit the centres for getting inoculated on the stipulated dates, could visit the centres now along with those who had not received the SMS so far. On the developments pertaining to COVID-19 in some States, he said that the pandemic had not been eradicated and there was need to be careful and take all necessary precautions as before. The wearing of masks, washing of hands properly, using sanitiser, and maintaining social distancing should be continued for some more time, he said. Subsequently, Mr. Patil interacted with the hospital staff and the patients and checked the facilities available. He said that a separate ward had been set up to treat malnutrition among the children where over a dozen children could be treated at a time. During the inspection, Mr. Patil took the contractor and the officials to task for the slow pace work on the 100-bed hospital coming up on the same premises. He told the contractor and the officials to ensure the completion of work by March 31. Giving strict warnings, he said that in case the construction firm (SR Construction) failed to meet the deadline, it would be blacklisted. Action would also be taken against engineer of the Health Department S.N. Suresh who was monitoring the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mop-up-inoculation-drive-in-dharwad-district-from-today/article33899162.ece
22 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||UAS-Dharwad adapts e-office||Vice-Chancellor of University of Agricultural Sciences (UAS), Dharwad, M.B. Chetti said that implementation of e-office was needed to promote the concept of paperless office and to save nature. He was inaugurating the ‘Induction Training on e-Office’ organised under the National Agricultural Higher Education Project (NAHEP) - Institutional Development Plan (IDP) at UAS, Dharwad, recently. Prof. Chetti said implementation of e-office was necessary for ensuring transparency and efficiency in administration and called on everyone to make use of the opportunity to achieve success. With the university being one of the largest employers, handling of office documents manually was hindering the pace of the administrative process and hence the university had decided to adapt digital culture, he said. Registrar of UAS-D V.R. Kiresur said that soon the benefits of the transformation would be visible once the manual handling of files was stopped and digitalisation completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/uas-dharwad-adapts-e-office/article33899160.ece
22 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Increase SC quota to 35%’||Members of various Scheduled Castes in the State have demanded increase in the reservation to the 101 SCs from the present 15% to 35% based on population. Addressing presspersons in Hubballi recently, one of the convenors of the “Karnataka Rajya Parishista Jati Meesalati Hecchala Horata Samiti” Gurunath Ullikashi said they were not opposing agitations seeking reservation for their respective communities, but wanted the government to release the caste census report and increase the reservation. He alleged that those communities considered forward were now seeking reservation claiming themselves as backward. “We are not opposing any demand for reservation by any community but we want the government to increase reservation for the 101 SCs,” he said. He said division-wise meetings were being conducted by the members various communities under the SC category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/increase-sc-quota-to-35/article33899173.ece
22 February 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||100 PHCs will be set up this year across State: Sudhakar||To expand health services in rural areas, the State government has planned to establish 100 new primary health centres (PHCs) across Karnataka this year, Minister for Medical Education and Health K. Sudhakar has said. “All the PHCs will be upgraded into 24/7 facilities with full-fledged staff to offer better healthcare facilities. The aim of the government is to build a robust healthcare system in the State by concentrating on primary and secondary healthcare instead of tertiary care,” Dr. Sudhakar stated. Speaking after inaugurating the Kalaburagi regional centre of Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) here on Sunday, Dr. Sudhakar said that the government is revitalising the health sector to address the medical emergency in rural areas. Besides establishing new PHCs, the government is also focusing on upgrading the existing PHCs and on assigning more doctors to provide effective healthcare to rural people. To address the dearth of doctors at government medical facilities in rural areas, the government had recently issued special rules for the direct recruitment of 2158 doctors, including specialists, medical officers, duty medical officers, and dental health officers. The government has also introduced a compulsory rural service scheme for medical graduates and postgraduates from the current year. After completion of their course, they will be posted in rural areas for a minimum period of one year. He also added that the Union government’s Budget outlay for healthcare has been increased by 137%. “The outlay in the 2020-21 Union Budget for the health sector was Rs. 94,452 crore and it has been increased to Rs. 2,23,846 crore in the 2021-22 Budget.” he said. Dr. Sudhakar also announced that the State government would establish four new medical colleges at Chikkamagaluru, Chickballapur, Haveri, and Yadgir. “With this, we will have 21 government medical colleges in the State. All the 21 government medical colleges will be upgraded as per the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) standards,” he reiterated. Referring to recent developments with the Centre preferring Hubballi-Dharwad over Kalaburagi for establishing an AIIMS, Dr. Sudhakar tried to convince the people of the reason for the change. The Minister also appealed to all healthcare and frontline workers to get vaccinated against COVID-19. Over 1.08 crore people have been vaccinated across the country in the last 35 days. In Karnataka, around 6 lakh healthworkers and frontline workers received the vaccine. Dr. Sudhakar also lauded the efforts by the then RGUHS senate and syndicate member H. Veerabharappa, former Medical Education Minister A.B. Maalakaraddy, G.R.Thammagonda, K.S. Ravindranath, and Sharad M. Tanga for their efforts in bringing the regional centre to Kalaburagi. Umesh Jadhav, Kalaburagi MP, hailed former Minister Sharanprakash Patil’s efforts also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/100-phcs-will-be-set-up-this-year-across-state-sudhakar/article33899156.ece
22 February 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Agriculture Minister keen on farmers getting genuine seeds and fertilizers||Taking note of spurious fertilizers and seed rocket active in the district, Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil directed the officials concerned to keep a vigil on the offenders to ensure that farmers get genuine seed and pesticides. “If you look at the spurious seed and pesticide transactions last year, as much as 45% of the seeds and fertilizers sold in the district was sub-standard. You should not forget that the vigilance officers had seized the sub-standard or spurious agro-inputs worth Rs. 17 crore last year. I don’t want the reputation this year. The district administration should make all preparations well before the onset of monsoon and put a mechanism in place to check the menace of spurious agro-inputs this year,” Mr. Patil told the officers. He also directed the officials concerned to keep a watch on the traders who tend to create artificial scarcity of fertilizers, especially the urea, considering the fact that as many as 158 trade licenses were cancelled last year for such offences. He was speaking at a meeting held at the district administrative complex here on Sunday to review the progress and preparations of his department’s tasks. When the issue of compensation to the flood-hit farmers was taken up for discussion, the officials told the Minister that crops, mainly red gram, green gram, black gram and soybean on 4,42,686 hectares were destroyed in the floods and a sum of Rs. 97.07 crore was disbursed among 1,39,158 farmers as compensation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/agriculture-minister-keen-on-farmers-getting-genuine-seeds-and-fertilizers/article33899159.ece
22 February 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Four arrested for cheating woman||The Kalaburagi police on Sunday arrested four inter-State conmen from Madhya Pradesh on the charge of cheating a woman of Rs. 4.6 lakh on the pretext of performing a puja to solve family issues. The arrested have been identified as Sonu Singh Gound Dubre, Barsa Bai Dubre, Rahul Singh Dubre, and Ajay Singh Basant Dubre, from Sahighad in Madhya Pradesh, and they have been sent to judicial custody. Based on a complaint lodged by the victim on February 19 at Madan Hipparaga police station, police officers searched for the accused and they were arrested near Aland Dargah on Sunday. The police have also recovered Rs. 3.6 lakh from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-arrested-for-cheating-woman/article33899157.ece
22 February 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Health camp evokes good response||The free health check-up camp organised by United Hospital, a super speciality surgical centre for accident trauma and critical care, as part of its 9th foundation day celebrations recently, received good response from the public. As per information provided by the hospital authorities, 1,350 people benefited from the camp. After inaugurating the camp, Rahul Pandve, MD of Gulbarga Electricity Supply Company Ltd., lauded United Hospital for its efforts to offer high-quality healthcare services at affordable costs to people of Kalyana Karnataka. Senior doctors including Vikram Siddareddy, chairman and MD of the hospital, senior surgeon Mohammad Abdul Basheer, Neurosurgeon Vinay Sharma, physicians Veeresh Salagar and Dayanand Reddy, orthopaedic surgeons Raju Kulkarni and Amar, Oral and maxillofacial surgeon U.K. Joshi, ophthalmologist Veena Siddareddy, ENT surgeons Kedarnath Ratkal and Dinesh Valse, urologist Kailash Banale, gynaecologist Priyan Sharma, plastic surgeons Anil Malhari and Pavan Patil, nephrologist Vivek Patil, gastroenterologist Shivanand Patil, paediatrician Prashanth Kulkarni, radiologists Ramacharya and Athar Sultan examined patients. Free health camps has been part of our practice since establishment of the hospital in 2012,” Dr. Vikram Siddareddy told The Hindu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/health-camp-evokes-good-response/article33899163.ece
22 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘U.P. govt. to facilitate 9-day Ram Navami celebrations’||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has agreed to make all arrangements for conducting a nine-day Ram Navami celebrations at Ayodhya, said Vishwa Prasanna Tirtha Swami of Udupi Pejawar Mutt, who is a trustee of Shri Ram Janmbhoomi Teerth Kshetra .  Talking to reporters after interacting with Mr. Adityanath during the latter’s brief stay at Jogi Mutt (Kadali Yogeshwara Mutt) here, the seer said that trust members intended to have Ram Navami celebrations akin to Navaratri celebrations at Ayodhya this year. “There has been good support in the form of donations for building the Ram temple in Ayodhya. The trustees wanted to have Navaratri-type utsav during Ram Navami at Ayodhya. I came here to convey the same to the Chief Minister. He readily agreed to make all necessary arrangements,” the seer said. While refusing to comment on the call by the Popular Front of India national secretary not to give any donation for the temple construction, the seer said the collection was being done in a transparent manner. On former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah’s statement that he will construct a Ram temple in his village, the seer said more such temples of the deity should be constructed. Earlier, soon after Mr. Adityanath landed at the Mangaluru International Airport around 3.30 p.m., Minister for Backward Classes and Muzrai Kota Srinivas Poojary met him and submitted memorandum seeking land in Ayodhya for the Karnataka government to construct a yatri nivas for pilgrims visiting Ayodhya from Karnataka. Mr. Adityanath proceeded by road to take part in the inauguration of Bharatiya Janata Party’s ‘Vijaya Yatra’ in Kasaragod. On his return he had a brief halt at the Jogi Mutt in Mangaluru. Mr. Adityanath, who heads the Mahamandala of Natha Pantha seers who head Jogi and other mutts spread across the country, came to the Jogi Mutt at 6.45 p.m. After finishing his rituals, he had discussion with Swami Nirmalanatha Maharaj of Jogi Mutt, Vishwa Prasanna Tirtha Swami, and a few other religious heads. He inaugurated Bhojana Shala at the mutt and then had dinner. He left the mutt at 7.40 p.m. to catch a flight to Lucknow. Security had been beefed up with police stopping all vehicles from entering the Kadri Park, which is near Jogi Mutt. Only few persons holding passes were allowed entry to the mutt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/up-govt-to-facilitate-9-day-ram-navami-celebrations/article33899640.ece
22 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Rare birds sighted on varsity campus during count||A team of birdwatchers spotted 108 species of birds in the sprawling campus of Mangalore University during the campus bird count (CBC), which is a part of Great Backyard Bird Count organised by the Bird Count of India, a few days ago. The count was conducted from February 12 to February 15 on the 353-acre campus. According to Sreepada K.S., chairman, Department of Applied Zoology in the university, the Yellow-Billed Babbler, the Green Sandpiper, and the Grey-Necked Bunting are the new additions to the avian list of the campus. With this, the CBC of the university has so far recorded a total of 146 species in the campus in six years. Some of the birds recorded this year included the Black Drongo, the Black Kite, the Brahminy Kite, the Common Iora, the Green Wabler, the Purple-Rumped Sunbird, the Red-Whiskered Bulbul, the White-Cheeked Barbet, the Jungle Babbler, and the Plum-Headed Parakeets. The Ashy Drongo, the Booted Eagle, the Grey Wagtail, and the Indian Pitta are the migratory birds. The Grey-Headed Bulbul (near threatened bird), the Rufous Babbler, and the Flame-Throated Bulbul are the endemic birds of the Western Ghats and the Barn Owl, the Spotted Owlet, the Nightjars (Savanna, Indian and Jerdon’s), and the Sri Lanka Frogmouth, the nocturnal birds, were recorded. However, some of the species like the Jerdon's Leafbird, the Thick-Billed Flowerpecker, the Coppersmith Barbet, the Stork-billed Kingfisher etc., sighted in the previous years were not seen in the present survey. The observation also included nest and nestlings of the House Crow, prey catching by the Shikra and the Indian Nightjar (nocturnal bird) activity during the day time. The CBC of the university recorded 77 species in 2016. Subsequently, 95 species were recorded in 2017, 110 in 2018, 107 in 2019, and 103 were recorded in 2020. This year, the event was co-ordinated by Vivek Hasyagar, a research scholar in the Department of Applied Zoology in the university, and Maxim Rodrigues, a bird watcher, from Kasaragod. Survey trails were carried out by 54 participants including students, research scholars and faculty members from various departments of the university. Some of the bird enthusiast from St. Aloysius College, Mangaluru, Manipal Institute of Technology, Manipal and some local people also participated in the CBC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rare-birds-sighted-on-varsity-campus-during-count/article33899635.ece
22 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Power supply to be hit in Udupi district tomorrow||Power supply will be affected in almost all parts of Udupi district except Karkala taluk on Tuesday. Areas fed by 11 kV Vandse and Bandya feeders served by Tallur sub-station will not have power supply between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. All parts of Kundapura and Byndoor taluks, served through 110 kV Madhuvana-Kundapura-Navunda power station and 33 kV Tallur, Byndoor and Gangolli sub-stations will not get power supply between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. Power supply will be affected between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. in areas fed by 11 kV Shankaranarayana, Bidkalkatte, Haikadi, Varahi, Belve, and Avarse feeders. Areas fed by 11 kV Yalajith, Golihole and Kollur feeders will not get power supply between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. Power supply will be affected between 9.30 a.m. and 6 p.m. in areas fed by 11 kV Siddapura and Jansale feeders. In Udupi Areas fed by 11 kV Ambalapady feeder will not get power supply between 9.30 a.m. and 5.30 p.m. Areas fed by 11 kV Barkur Express and Mandarthi feeders will see disruption in power supply between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. Power supply will be affected between 9.30 a.m. and 5.30 p.m. in areas fed by 11 kV Chantharu, Matapady and Kokkarne feeders. Areas fed by 11 kV Manipal Town, Hirebettu, Udyavara-1 and Chitpady feeders will not get power supply from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Power supply will be affected in areas fed by 11 kV Shirva, Shankarapura and Mudarangadi feeders between 9 a.m. and 5.30 p.m., according a release from Mescom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-supply-to-be-hit-in-udupi-district-tomorrow/article33899647.ece
22 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Three persons convicted of pledging fake gold at cooperative banks||A local court in Udupi convicted three persons in three cases related to getting a gold loan from three cooperative banks by pledging fake gold ornaments and one case of attempting to pledge fake gold in a cooperative bank. K.P. Suresh from Someshwara-Kotekar near Mangaluru was convicted in one case, while P.V. Raju from HBR Layout in Bengaluru and Rajesh from Ramanagaram were convicted in two case of pledging and one case of attempt to pledge fake gold. Suresh was accused of pledging four fake gold bangles and availing a Rs. 41,500 loan from the Udupi-based Narayana Guru Urban Cooperative Bank on July 17, 2010.  The First Additional Civil Judge and JMFC M.N. Manjunath sentenced Suresh to undergo two years imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs. 1,000. Raju and Rajesh were accused of pledging six fake gold bangles to get a loan of Rs. 68,000 from the Udupi branch of South Canara District Central Cooperative Bank on August 12, 2010. The two were accused of pledging fake gold ornaments and taking loan of Rs. 45,000 from Padubidri Cooperative Bank’s branch in Nadsalu village of Udupi taluk on September 30, 2010. The two were also accused of attempting to get gold loan by pledging fake gold ornaments at the Udupi-based Badagubettu Credit Cooperative Society. On finding guilty of defrauding the SCDCC Bank, the court sentenced Raju and Rajesh to undergo two years imprisonment and pay a fine of Rs. 1,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-persons-convicted-of-pledging-fake-gold-at-cooperative-banks/article33899641.ece
22 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||NHAI restores battered stretches of NH75||Those travelling on National Highway 75 now can heave a sigh of relief as the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has completely relaid the battered highway in some stretches and filled potholes at other wherever they existed along the 63-km road. It has been nightmarish experience to drive along the highway for over a year as the pothole-filled road in 2019 again developed potholes and craters even before the 2020 monsoon. The condition only got worsened after the rain that lasted till November. Though the NHAI undertook pothole-filling exercise in December, road users had said that it was haphazardly executed. NHAI’s Karnataka Regional Officer R.K. Suryavanshi told The Hindu that the authority responded to the ground situation and got the entire stretch between BC Road and Adda Hole in Dakshina Kannada repaired. While some worst-affected stretches were completely relaid for a couple of kilometres, other affected portions were restored through scientific patchwork. The authority has spent close to Rs. 15 crore to restore the affected stretches, he said. Mani Gopal Pai, a native of Mani village working in Bengaluru, said that highly battered stretches of the highway between Mani and Uppinangady have been relaid. Similarly, about a 5-km stretch between Panemangaluru and Kalladka that too was in a pathetic condition has completely been restored. But, the absence of road markings, including the median and shoulder lines, make driving difficult during nights, he regretted. Roshan Sequeira, who recently drove from Mangaluru to Bengaluru, said that driving through NH 75 is not tiresome as it was earlier. The condition of the highway has improved, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nhai-restores-battered-stretches-of-nh75/article33899645.ece
22 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Selvamani given warm farewell||The Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat on Sunday gave a warm farewell to R. Selvamani, who was its Chief Executive Officer till Friday. Mr. Selvamani has been transferred as the Deputy Commissioner of Kolar district. Meenakshi Shanthigod and others, who felicitated the official, described him as a pro-people officer who responded immediately to the concerns of residents of the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/selvamani-given-warm-farewell/article33899636.ece
22 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||PFI decries police action||Dakshina Kannada district president of Popular Front of India Ejaz Ahmed on Sunday said the police registering suo motu cases against PFI office-bearers was the continuation of political vendetta by the BJP government. In a statement, Mr. Ahmed said there were several instances of Sangh Parivar leaders delivering provocative speeches across the district. The latest example was RSS leader Kalladka Prabhakar Bhat referring to Ullal as Pakistan. Sharan Pumpwell, Pramod Mutalik, and others had given repeated statements that could trigger communal strife in the district, he said. He noted Nalin Kumar Kateel, MP, had earlier talked about setting fire in the district. The police did not even register an FIR against Sangh Parivar leaders for their alleged provocative speech recently in Thokkottu. This was despite the speeches being delivered in the presence of the police and the complaint was given with documents. The police, who did not take any action against Sangh Parivar leaders, have now registered suo motu cases against PFI leaders at the instance of the BJP government though the programme was conducted lawfully, Mr. Ahmed said. He said there were several instances of denying permission to hold programmes organised by PFI. Such action was against the fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution, he said, and urged the police to act without fear or favour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pfi-decries-police-action/article33899646.ece
22 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||21 new cases in Udupi, Dakshina Kannada||With 11 new COVID-19 cases and 28 patients being discharged, the number of active cases in Dakshina Kannada stood at 220 on Sunday. A fine of Rs. 34.54 lakh has so far been collected in 33,429 cases of people not wearing masks. As many as 28,639 health workers and 4,204 frontline workers have so far received first dose of COVID-19 vaccine, while 4,812 health workers have received the second dose in Dakshina Kannada. In Udupi, 10 new COVID-19 cases were reported and six patients discharged on Sunday. The number of active cases stood at 51.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/21-new-cases-in-udupi-dakshina-kannada/article33899649.ece
22 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||briefly||The Karnataka Beary Sahitya Academy and the Beary Study Chair of Mangalore University on Sunday hosted ‘International Mother Language Day’ at the University College, Mangaluru. Kuvempu Bhasha Bharathi Pradhikara chairman Girish Bhat Ajakkala inaugurated the programme by watering a plant. He said importance should be given to language studies as languages transmit culture of the region.    Mangalore University, in association with Bharatiya Shikshan Mandal and NITI Aayog, has organised a webinar on ‘Teacher’s Role in NEP Implementation- Awareness, Orientation, Challenges and Responses’, at Dr. U R Rao Hall, Science Block, Mangalagangothri, on February 26 from 10 am.    The third ordinary meeting for 2020-21 of the academic council of Mangalore University will be held on February 25. It will be conducted from 11 a.m. at Rani Abbakka Auditorium (new senate hall) at Mangalagangothri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article33899638.ece
22 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Roadwork delay turns political flashpoint in N.R. constituency||The delay in executing the development work of the pothole-filled Azeez Sait Double Road also known as Mahadevapura Main Road has emerged as a flashpoint between Congress and Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) leaders in Narasimharaja Assembly constituency in Mysuru. The road, which cuts through thickly populated areas of Narasimharaja Assembly constituencies including Shantinagar and Ghousianagar while connecting Udayagiri Circle to Sathgalli bus depot, has become a picture of neglect with potholes dotting the uneven stretch. Commuting on the road, which has also witnessed a substantial spurt in traffic in the last few years, is becoming increasingly challenging to motorists. After SDPI called for a protest against the delay by the authorities in taking up repair works last week, protesters gathered on the road and displayed their anger against MCC corporators of the adjoining localities, mostly belonging to the Congress, and area MLA Tanveer Sait. They shouted slogans against the authorities and threatened to stage a demonstration in front of the houses of the elected representatives if the works were not taken up in a months’ time. SDPI leader Abdul Majeed, who led the protest, the said the authorities had neither asphalted nor repaired the road for the last eight years. However, within two days of the SDPI protest, a counter demonstration was organised by Congress leaders on the road, attended by most of the corporators of the area including former Mayor Ayub Khan and corporator Ayaz Pasha, who not only claimed that that a Rs. 2.5 crore project to widen the road into a 30 metre one by building roadside drains had been scuttled by SDPI during the last few years, but also clarified that the MCC had already approved a tender for taking up filling up potholes at a cost of Rs. 29.5 lakh. Mr. Pasha said the filling of potholes would start in the next month and alleged that the SDPI had timed their protest to claim political brownie points. Land acquisition However, the vexed issue of land acquisition for widening the road to 30 m is facing hurdles. The authorities said a total of 103 structures on the road should yield about 4.5 m of land for widening to be taken up. Meanwhile, a section of land owners even moved the court seeking compensation if they are to give up land for widening. Mr. Khan, citing officials, said the authorities are finding it difficult to award compensation as the land that is sought to be acquired is revenue land. However, Mr. Majeed of the SDPI said the authorities should provide compensation to land losers as per the provisions of the law. But, till the issue is resolved, the authorities should atleast make the road motorable. Meanwhile, MCC officials said the work on repair of the road at a cost of Rs. 29.5 lakh would begin in a month, but the project relating to widening of the road would be taken up only after the land acquisition issue was settled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/roadwork-delay-turns-political-flashpoint-in-nr-constituency/article33899296.ece
22 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Dhruvanarayan is party observer for mayoral polls||Newly-appointed Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee’s (KPCC) working president R. Dhruvanarayan has been appointed party observer for the mayoral polls to be held at the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) premises on February 24. Mr. Dhruvanarayan, who officially took charge as the KPCC working president at a function in Bengaluru on Sunday, will be in Mysuru as the party’s observer, said Mysuru City Congress Committee president R. Murthy. The Congress corporators, who were hoping to continue the party’s alliance with JD(S) received a fillip on Saturday when former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah gave the green signal for the secular partnership on the condition that the party’s nominee secures the Mayor’s post. After a meeting with Congress corporators in Mysuru during his recent visit to the city, Mr. Siddaramaiah said the Congress was ready to go with JD(S) in the coming mayoral polls, provided the Congress nominee was given the post of Mayor as per the understanding arrived at between the two parties earlier. In the 65-member MCC Council, the Congress has 19 members while the JD(S) has 18. The BJP has 22 members while one BSP and five Independents make up the rest of the MCC Council. The government has reserved for the post of Mayor for a woman from the general category while the Deputy Mayor’s post has been set aside for the general category. The JD(S) has not responded to the Congress party’s offer. Former Mayor R. Lingappa said that a decision in the matter will be taken by party leaders in Bengaluru. Already, former Minister S.R. Mahesh held a meeting of the party corporators and communicated their views to the party leadership in Bengaluru. Meanwhile, the BJP too has pitched for the post of Mayor and sought the support of JD(S) in the regard. BJP’s city unit president T.S. Srivatsa said the party’s State unit president Nalin Kumar Kateel and Chief Minister B.S Yediyurappa are expected to discuss the matter with the party leadership in Bengaluru. But, the BJP will settle for nothing less than the post of Mayor. If the post of Mayor is given to the party, a common minimum programme for the development of the city can be chalked out with JD(S). However, Mr. Srivatsa said the party would not be interested in the Deputy Mayor’s post. Meanwhile, leaders of all the three mainstream parties ruled out any possibility of shifting their corporators to resorts ahead of the Mayoral polls.  The Congress corporators, who were hoping to continue the party’s alliance with JD(S) received a fillip on Saturday when former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah gave the green signal for the secular partnership on the condition that the party’s nominee secures the Mayor’s post||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dhruvanarayan-is-party-observer-for-mayoral-polls/article33899294.ece
22 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Theatre progress in Maharashtra good’||A one-day symposium on S.L. Bhyrappa’s novel Parva was held here on Sunday. The symposium “Parva Virat Darshana” was held as a precursor to the staging of the play at Kalamandira from March 12 to 14. The novel, adapted to theatre form, has been directed by Prakash Belwadi and the tickets for the 7.5-hour long show were on sale from Sunday. The occasion also marked the release of the Russian and Mandarin version of Parva , regarded by critics as Bhyrappa’s magnum opus. At the inauguration of the symposium, Mr. Bhyrappa remarked that theatre in Karnataka had not notched the kind of progress made in Maharasthra. There were hundreds of theatre groups in Maharasthra and people tend to make a beeline to watch the plays though there is a entry fee through tickets for the show. This helped theatre flourish in Maharasthra, he added. Mr. Bhyrappa said art and culture should not depend on government grant or patronisation for growth and should be patronised by public. In this context, he mentioned the functioning of music academies and organisations none of which receive government funding and yet thrive on the basis of the patronisation of the music lovers. On adapting his novel for theatre, Mr. Bhyrappa said Mr. Belwadi held elaborate discussions with him and having witnessed a few rehearsals, he could say that cinematic effects too have been introduced in the play. ‘Shatavadhani’ R. Ganesh delivered a special lecture on Parva .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/theatre-progress-in-maharashtra-good/article33899172.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Tigress, which killed two in Kodagu, captured||The authorities constituted different groups and used four elephants in the combing operations. But one group identified pug marks and tracked it to the spot where it was finally located near Manchalli village and managed to dart the animal. The striped cat was tranquillised about 1.5 km to 2 km from the spot where the boy was killed on Saturday evening. It turned out to be a tigress with pre-existing wounds on its right legs and unable to hunt in the wild. The tigress – said to be aged around nine – was moved to a cage. It will be shifted to the Animal Rescue Centre at Koorgalli on the outskirts of Mysuru city. It appeared emaciated because of its lack of ability to hunt and it is speculated that the injury could have been caused in a territorial fight with another dominant tiger. Cattle kills A section of the local people said both the deaths could have been avoided had the Forest Department displayed more alacrity in responding to the cattle kills that were reported from the area. The tiger reserve of Nagarahole and Brahamagiri Wildlife Sanctuary are at least 8 km to 10 km away and hence the human killings were not on the forest fringes. “It is a clear case of an injured tiger unable to sustain itself in the forest that has been ejected out and was now prowling in human habitation,” a wildlife activist from the region had speculated earlier in the day and his analysis turned out to be correct. There were tense moments earlier in the day when local villagers were engaged in a war of words with the authorities and wanted the tiger to be put down. Part of team They were placated and the operation to track and capture the tiger commenced. Senior officials of the Forest Department, veterinarians, and sharpshooters were part of the operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tigress-which-killed-two-in-kodagu-captured/article33899299.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||People from Kerala can enter DK only through 4 points||While there will be no restrictions on movement of ambulances, the patients and the persons accompanying them should be tested by PT-PCR method by the hospitals concerned, he said. Dr. Rajendra has asked all educational institutions to appoint a COVID-19 nodal officer and he should maintain list of students who are travelling to or from Kerala to their hostels or colleges. All these students should undergo RT-PCR tests once every 15 days. Students who have come from Kerala should also undergo RT-PCR test. The Deputy Commissioner said institutions, as far as possible, should ensure that students stay in separate rooms in the hostel. Crowding at dining areas, waiting halls and other super-spreading avenues should be avoided. No visitor should be allowed to enter the hostel. Students should avoid frequent visits to their places. Asking all the colleges to ramp up testing of students from Kerala, Dr. Rajendra said institutions will be held responsible it there is an outbreak of COVID-19 because of lapses in complying with standard operating procedure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/people-from-kerala-can-enter-dk-only-through-4-points/article33899643.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Yatnal’s presence||The Panchamasali rally had several legislators from the community also lending their voice to the demand. Prominent among them was Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, a constant critic of ChiefMinister B.S. Yediyurappa and his family. He accused Mr. Yediyurappa of not showing any interest in providing the community with 2A status and also said that he was “misleading the community”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yatnals-presence/article33899186.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CoP||The people of Sakleshpur in Hassan district have been facing conflicts with elephants for the past two or three decades. Innumerable meetings have been held by Ministers and senior officials of the Forest Department, but there has been no permanent remedy to the problem. Villagers affected by the problem have often expressed their ire at JD(S) leaders for their failure to solve the problem, since they have largely held sway in the region. Former MLA H.M. Vishwanath expressed this view at a meeting attended by Forest Minister Arvind Limbavali. When Prajwal Revanna(in picture), MP and son of JD(S) leader H.D. Revanna, proceeded to address the gathering, Mr. Vishwanath intervened and said that if at least 10 elephants roaming in Sakleshpur were taken to Holenarsipur, the problem would be resolved. “Why don’t you take elephants to your place?” he asked in a lighter vein. The MP replied, “I would have taken care of the elephants in Holenarsipur, but my father is forcing me to get married and look after my wife!” His response left the audience in splits. No one, of course, objected to the rather open misogyny of the comment.   So which of the two Jarkiholi brothers was involved with the Sangh Parivar in their childhood? This seems to be an endless debate. Ramesh Jarkiholi(in picture), Irrigation Minister and the eldest of the Jarkiholis, created a flutter by claiming that his family was an “original” Sangh Parivar family and that his father, siblings and other relatives were actively involved with Sangh Parivar outfits since his childhood. “As a schoolboy, I wore the black cap of the RSS,” he said. He said that the family was actively involved in the Jan Sangh in the 1960s and that his father had been jailed in connection with the Goa liberation, under the leadership of Jagannathrao Joshi, the veteran. His younger brother and Congress leader Satish Jarkiholi(in picture)countered this by saying that his father had friends from all sections of society, but that did not reflect his father’s political views. No one has seen Mr. Ramesh wearing the black cap of the RSS, but everyone has seen him wearing the white cap usually worn by Muslims, Mr. Satish said. In response, Mr. Ramesh said Mr. Satish had forgotten that he was a president of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad when he was a young man. The latter did not deny this. “It is true. But that was over 40 years ago. How does that matter now? Times have changed. The RSS, ABVP, and the BJP have not remained the same,” Mr. Satish said. We might not have heard the last of this saga yet.   Frequent breakdown of servers, outdated computers, and agents in the offices of sub-registrars of the Stamps and Registration Department in Karnataka have been causing a lot of inconvenience to people. Although tenders have been floated for appointing a new agency for providing IT service, nothing has moved. At present, all registration-related works are being performed by data entry operators (DEOs) in the offices of the sub-registrars. The department has no control over these DEOs. Some of the DEOs are engaged in “unethical practices” with the connivance of middlemen and are partially responsible for the operation of touts on the office premises, according to a complaint filed with the Karnataka Lokayukta by B.H. Veeresha, an RTI activist. He said that with the DEOs not wearing ID cards, members of the public were unable to distinguish between the employees and middlemen operating within the premises of the offices. He has also alleged that some DEOs have installed printers and scanners and have been found collecting cash. People are patiently waiting for this to be remedied, while the government continues to suffer loss of revenue.  Sathish G.T.   Rishikesh Bahadur Desai   Nagesh Prabhu||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cop/article33899178.ece
22 February 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Coir expo lands big orders||Orders for coir products worth Rs. 616.73 crore have been received in the Coir Kerala 2021, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac has said. He was speaking to reporters here on Sunday. Dr. Isaac said that of the Rs. 616.73 crore, orders worth Rs. 168 crore were received by people who participated in Coir Kerala from other States. Firms from Kerala received orders worth Rs. 448.73 crore including export order for Rs. 211.45 crore. Dr. Isaac said local bodies would buy coir geotextiles worth Rs. 121.28 crore. The ninth edition of Coir Kerala, which was organised on a virtual platform due to COVID-19 restrictions, concluded on Sunday. The valedictory function was inaugurated by Governor Arif Mohammed Khan. Mr. Khan said that the modernisation of the coir sector would help improve the lives of coir workers here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/coir-expo-lands-big-orders/article33899256.ece
22 February 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Isaac rules out fuel tax cut||Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac on Sunday ruled out a cut in taxes on petrol and diesel in the State. Speaking to reporters here, Dr. Isaac said the State government had not increased taxes on fuel. “Excise duty on petrol and diesel was increased by the Centre. When the global crude oil prices declined, the Centre raised duty on diesel by fivefold and petrol by threefold. The Centre is fully responsible for fuel price hikes and they should take responsibility. The State is facing financial constraints and it is not possible to cut taxes on fuel,” the Minister told reporters here. On Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s suggestion to bring petroleum into the Goods and Services Tax (GST) net, Dr. Isaac said that the State was not opposed to the idea. Fuel taxes were one of the largest revenue sources for Kerala and including it in the GST ambit would hit the State’s finances. The Centre should provide compensation to the State for five years, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/isaac-rules-out-fuel-tax-cut/article33899281.ece
22 February 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Taking the reverse route to farming||There is less of a market for vegetables now at Neidiyasala in Purappuzha grama panchayat in Idukki. Most houses here have their own gardens that grow vegetables that are organically nourished with the manure produced within their confines. The ward in Purappuzha grama panchayat had taken a reverse route to get into the farming mode. Generally, the need to nourish the farming ventures is what fuels compost-making. But here, compost-making entered first, and farming followed. 240 families The result was all the 240 families in the ward have their own manure-making units now and a small garden where they cultivate the vegetables they require for their use. Such a system is seen even in those households that have space constraints where terraces and grow bags have compensated for the lack of space. “If you produce bio-manure in your household, you are also prompted to turn to farming though in a small scale. The household unit of bio-manure production was the result of the source-level waste management adopted there. The farming here is mostly vegetable cultivation to meet their own needs and some houses have terrace cultivation and a few others do it in grow bags,” says ward member Siny Justin. Project The bio-manure, produced from kitchen wastes and dried leaves, was coordinated by a project started nearly a year ago by Gandhiji Study Centre, an NGO, for making compost units in all the families in the ward. The compost unit is either a movable pot or a concrete structure depending on the need and available space of the families. The NGO supplied the units to all the families as part of a scheme by the district unit of Haritha Keralam Mission to get bio-wastes treated at the source itself. One concrete unit, worth Rs. 1,000 is supplied free of cost to all the families, Ms Justin, who also represented the ward in the last term, says. Second unit The families will have to pay for the second unit that is needed to collect kitchen wastes when the first unit turns the vegetable wastes into manure in 15 days after ‘innakkam’, a white powder solution for compost making, is poured into the unit. Some colonies, such as Chellal and Laksham, in the ward have also been also supplied with public compost units. So, start treating waste first and farming and food self-sufficiency are sure to follow, so the Neidiyasala instance proves.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/taking-the-reverse-route-to-farming/article33899250.ece
22 February 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Survey finds 84 odonate species in WWS||A four-month dragonfly survey that concluded at the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary (WWS) recently spotted 84 species of odonates (order of insects comprising dragonflies and damselflies) belonging to 59 genera under 11 families. The survey was jointly conducted by the Forest Department and Ferns Nature Conservation Society (FNCS). Of the 84 species, 49 were dragonflies and 35 damselflies. Muneer Tholpetty, secretary, FNCS, told The Hindu . A previous survey by the Malabar Natural History Society (MNHS) in the sanctuary in 2016 had identified 75 species of odonates belonging to 50 genera under 11 families. “Since odonates are amphibiotic insects, the study focused on waterbodies in the sanctuary. Ponds were the richest in terms of species, but streams had the most number of endemic species,” Mr. Muneer, who coordinated the survey, said. The four-month-long study was held from August to November 2020 when waterbodies in the sanctuary were full after the southwest monsoon. “This is the time when large number of adult odonates can be seen flying around, jostling, mating, and laying eggs in water. They live as aquatic nymphs for a few months and later emerge out as aerial predators we commonly see,” he said. The team covered 33 ponds, 28 streams, and 12 swamps of the 344.44-sq.km sanctuary spread over four forest ranges. “The spotting of Coorg False Spreadwing [Indolestes pulcherrimus] in the sanctuary is a first for the State. The rare damselfly was earlier thought to be restricted to the Coorg region of Karnataka,” Mr. Muneer said. “Restless Demon (Indothemis limbata) and Azure Dartlet (Amphiallagma parvum) were the other rare odonates we were able to record,” Vivek Chandran of the Society for Odonate Studies, who extended technical assistance for the study, said. Odonates are good bio indicators and help the scientific community assess the health of freshwater ecosystems, he added. “The Forest Department has plans to extend the study on odonates across all seasons to document their diversity in the sanctuary and give training sessions to field staff and students on odonates,” WWS warden S. Narendra Babu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/study-finds-84-odonate-species-in-wws/article33899194.ece
22 February 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||KVK to adopt tribal hamlet||The Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), Ambalavayal, under the Kerala Agricultural University (KAU), is preparing to adopt a tribal hamlet at Thirunelly in the district to ensure the comprehensive development of the hamlet through the execution of sustainable development strategies. O.R. Kelu, MLA, will inaugurate the programme at the SNDP Auditorium at Kattikulam in the district at 11 a.m. on Monday. KAU Vice Chancellor R. Chandra Babu will announce the adoption. National Seeds Corporation Chairman V.K. Gaur would inaugurate the seed distribution programme for tribal farmers, said KVK Wayanad head Allan Thomas in a release here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kvk-to-adopt-tribal-hamlet/article33899199.ece
22 February 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Floods affected fish population in Aralam rivers, finds study||A survey on the freshwater fishes in the rivers flowing through the Aralam Wildlife Sanctuary has found that the floods in the previous years had a drastic impact on a few species of fish, which were found in abundance here earlier. The two-day survey was conducted as part of the wildlife survey, organised jointly by the Aralam Wildlife Sanctuary and Malabar Nature History Society and carried out by students, environmentalists, and led by Jaffer Palot, scientist, Zoological Survey of India, and C.P. Shaji, fish biologist. The study, which focussed on the Urutty and Cheenkani rivers flowing through the sanctuary, found that there had been a drastic reduction of fishes including loaches, Malabar Spiny eel and Travancore Batasio in the rivers, Mr. Shaji told The Hindu . He said the first survey in the sanctuary was conducted in 1995 and later in 2019. While both the surveys had found that the rivers were teeming with loaches, this time they could find only two or three fish of the species, indicating a drastic reduction in their population. It was concluded that the such a drastic fall in the population had occurred due to the floods, which changed the river beds. However, compared with the previous surveys, three more varieties of fish were found in the river, which took the tally of fishes found in the rivers here to 48, Mr. Shaji said. While during the 2019 survey, only 32 species of fish were found, this increased to 45 species in 2019 and to 48 species this year. The Malabar Sucker Cat fish, which is endemic to the Western Ghats and was found in 2010 by the Zoological Survey of India, was sighted here during this survey, he said. The other species of fish, including Malabar Barl, Flamentous Barl, Malabar Dino, and Malabar Killu have maintained their population levels and were found in abundance. Overfishing Most of the fish varieties are edible but no socio-economic survey had been done here to understand whether overfishing was another reason for the reduction of fish varieties here, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/floods-affected-fish-population-in-aralam-rivers-finds-study/article33899190.ece
22 February 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Rare bird spotted in Kasaragod||Birdwatchers have spotted a rare migratory bird of the bustard species, Lesser Florican, in the wetlands of Chattanchal in Kasaragod. This is the first time that the bird is spotted in the district. It is the fifth reporting of the bird in Kerala —Lesser Florican was earlier spotted at Karunagappally in Kollam in 1990 and Parassinikadavu in Kannur in 1996. In 2012, it was found in Thrissur. The bird was spotted in Kozhikode in 2017. ‘Chattakozhi’ Birdwatchers Shyamkumar Purvankara and Harish Babu, who spotted the bird, said in Kerala, the species is called ‘Chattakozhi’ owing to the way it walks. Mr. Shyamkumar said the bird was endemic to the Indian subcontinent, and that it was largely found in southern and eastern Gujarat, southern Rajasthan, and eastern Madhya Pradesh. The birds have also been spotted at Sindh and Pakistan. Mr. Shyamkumar said the bird was critically endangered. On the decline According to the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), their numbers have declined since 1982. While the birds were numbered 4,374 then, it came down to 1,672 in 1989. However, they went up to 3,530 in 1999 and declined to 1,500 in 2020. The birds migrate from the south and central parts of the Indian subcontinent to northwestern India from March to August. Habitat loss Mr. Shyamkumar said habitat loss due to dwindling grassland, invasive species, pesticide pollution, indiscriminate development activity, and hunting had affected the population of the species. Even those birds spotted in the State earlier were found injured or dead. But the one spotted at Chattanchal was healthy and was found along with other birds, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rare-bird-spotted-in-kasaragod/article33899196.ece
22 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Kochi Corporation to deal firmly with illegal parking||With 2021 being declared as ‘The Year of Green Mobility in Kochi’ and projects being rolled out by Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) and other agencies to promote non-motorised transport and walking, the Kochi Corporation has joined hands with key stakeholders to prevent parking and encroachments on bicycle lanes, footpaths, and walkways. This comes in the wake of two-wheelers and other vehicles being parked in newly readied bicycle lanes, including near the corporation office on Park Avenue Road, although the lanes are discernible by their green colour and road markings. “Bicycle riders and enthusiasts recently aired their concern to us and sought steps to ensure safe transit, especially through dedicated cycle lanes that have been readied [by CSML] on the Rajendra Maidan-Goshree Bridge arterial stretch,” said Mayor M. Anilkumar. This was followed by a meeting with officials of the Motor Vehicles Department, police, CSML, and Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL), to chalk out a plan of action. An awareness programme among motorists has been envisaged, followed by enforcement and penalising of those posing hurdles to safe movement of bicycles and pedestrians. An enforcement drive will be held on the stretch once work is completed to convert it into a smart road, he added. Focus will then shift to creation of such dedicated spaces on other roads in the city, in keeping with the global trends, Mr. Anilkumar added. On whether bollards or railings will demarcate cycle lanes from the rest of the carrigeway, sources in CSML said the traffic police had doubts whether that would be feasible, especially when the entire width of the road might have to be used during heavy traffic. “Else, a policy-level decision ought to be taken by the agencies concerned,” they added. A Road Safety Month campaign, jointly organised by the corporation, Transport Department, State government, and the Kochi Metropolitan Transport Authority (KMTA) was launched on 17 February, under the ‘Integrated Sustainable Urban Transport Systems for Smart Cities’ (SMART-SUT) project, implemented by German agency GIZ and the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA), under the umbrella of Green Urban Mobility Partnership between India and Germany. Road safety Speakers at the function were of the view that the city ought to improve road safety, by improving public transport, walking, and cycling. These projects and plans promote the concept of locally inclusive, affordable, clean, green and safe mobility and include actionable measures to support areas like safe walking and cycling, road re-development work to improve their aesthetics and to make them inclusive for all road user groups, last-mile connectivity through electric autorickshaws, reviving public spaces and local heritage, making streets safer and navigable by providing way-finding maps, bus route rationalisation, and better urban freight management. The corridor that is on the anvil between Ernakulam Junction and Town railway stations for pedestrians and non-motorised transport, is an example. That Kochi will in October host ‘Urban Mobility India Conference’, India’s biggest annual event on urban mobility, has given impetus to projects being developed by various agencies towards achieving green mobility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kochi-corporation-to-deal-firmly-with-illegal-parking/article33899601.ece
22 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Focus on completion of long-pending projects||The Kochi Corporation budget for the upcoming financial year allocates a sizeable amount of funds for the completion of long-pending projects. Corpn. building An amount of Rs. 30 crore was set aside for the construction of the corporation’s new main office building, on which work began in 2005 and is yet to be complete. The remaining work will be completed on a war footing, and the building will be ready before the civic body’s next budget is presented, Deputy Mayor K.A. Ansiya promised in the budget presentation made on Saturday. The office will be designed as a ‘green building’. Green buildings are eco-friendly in their construction and functioning. The controversial Padmasarovaram project also found a mention in the budget. Including funds from State and Union governments, Rs. 9 crore has been set aside to revive the project. While the idea for the project was conceived when C.M. Dinesh Mani was the Mayor, the councils that took charge later failed to implement it and redesigned it in a manner that reclaimed parts of the backwaters, the budget document notes. The project had entailed construction of a walkway and cycle track near the Chilavannoor lake. The council will proceed with preparing a fresh design and implementing the project in an environmentally sound way. For the memorial to poet G. Sankara Kurup that is set to come up near the Goshree bridge, Rs. 1 crore was allocated in the budget to initiate work. Kaloor slaughterhouse A sum of Rs. 1 crore was also allotted for the modernisation of the slaughterhouse at Kaloor. Further, the budget makes a mention of constituting a special purpose vehicle to manage the roll-on roll-off (ro-ro) service between Fort Kochi and Vypeen. Cultural spaces The budget also makes a push towards setting up more cultural spaces and facilitating cultural performances and festivals. To set up cultural centres, a sum of Rs. 1 crore was allocated. The Mattancherry Town Hall will be converted into a cultural centre to facilitate performances. People’s committees headed by councillors will be formed to run such cultural spaces. Arts Space Kochi, a project that the civic agency launched recently to encourage performances in public spaces, received an allocation of Rs. 20 lakh. The corporation will also prepare a ‘cultural policy’ for the city to protect its culture and heritage, and a draft of this policy is to be presented before the council in two months. An amount of Rs. 5 crore was set aside for the maintenance and renovation of parks. A calendar of cultural events that can take place at these parks will be organised. A memorial at Mattancherry commemorating the protest in 1953 against the chappa system was suggested in the budget, but with no specific allocation. “Details of these projects will be worked out during the discussion on the budget on Monday,” Deputy Mayor K.A. Ansiya said. The functioning of the Centre for Heritage, Environment and Development (C-HED), which works as a research wing of the corporation, is to be strengthened. The centre will create an accessible repository of data on the city, collating information from studies and field surveys conducted by various agencies. The data is expected to provide a basis for planning and execution of projects. An amount of Rs. 40 lakh has been allocated for C-HED.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/focus-on-completion-of-long-pending-projects/article33899605.ece
22 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||VMHS to be registered as company||With focus shifting to registering a company to spearhead the second phase development work of the Vyttila Mobility Hub, the VMH Society (VMHS) hopes to ready a revised detailed project report (DPR) by the end of March. It had been decided in November 2020 to revise the DPR prepared by Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) to include, among other components, a CNG-refuelling station on 50 cents on the 25-acre premises of the hub. The revised DPR was slated to be ready in February 2021. VMHS Managing Director Snehil Kumar Singh said that the State government was focused on forming a company, since the Society had many constraints, including for availing of loan to execute the second phase work. “The formalities for the registration of the company are in final stages. We hope to arrive at a solid plan of action by the end of March. The plan is to implement the second-phase work on public-private partnership [PPP] mode,” he added. French lending agency AFD had offered a soft loan for the work, and a society like VMHS has constraints in availing it. It is thus imperative that a special purpose vehicle (SPV) or a company be formed for the purpose, said KMRL sources. The clamour to commence the second-phase work gains relevance, as over a year has passed since trains began calling at the metro station on the hub premises. Ferries are slated to begin operation from the nearby Water Metro terminal in March, following which the Water Metro’s command and control centre will be commissioned here. Apart from the CNG station, the hub is also expected to have provision to recharge e-vehicles. The revised design in the DPR will include elements from similar multi-modal hubs in countries like Singapore and South Korea. Besides, emphasis will be laid on widening roads leading to the hub from Vyttila Junction and providing pedestrians with their their rightful due, since the existing roads and footpaths are in a dilapidated state, official sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vmhs-to-be-registered-as-company/article33899599.ece
22 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Chendamangalam weavers draw up survival strategies||Handloom weavers in Chendamangalam have drawn up plans to sell stock held up due to the COVID-19 lockdown and subsequent market slowdown. The North Pravur Cooperative Circle, which includes hundreds of weavers in the cooperative sector, has around 24 weaving societies, of which 13 continue to be on the rolls, and eight are active. The floods of 2018 and 2019 exposed the weaving societies to great travails and just as they were coming out of their troubles, with support from various agencies, the COVID-19 lockdown and slowdown in the market caused almost irreparable damage to their business. However, the societies, with help from the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD), and by garnering their own resources, have decided to find a way out of their troubles. Sources in the weaving industry said the weavers had stock worth around Rs. 3.2 crore, and their plans to sell them include an exhibition of products to be organised in Kochi later this month. Despite holding such large stocks, the weavers have continued to work at their looms because it is their only source of income. The Chendamangalam weaving society is run mostly by women, who account for nearly 95% of the weavers. Even workers in allied areas are mostly women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/weavers-draw-up-strategies-for-survival/article33899268.ece
22 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Curtains down on Kochi IFFK||The Kochi leg of the 25th International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK) concluded here on Sunday. The five-day festival held in compliance with COVID protocol witnessed the screening of about 80 films and enthusiastic participation of delegates. Malayalam films such as Lijo Jose Pellissery’s Churuli , Jayaraj’s Hasyam , Biriyaani , and Santhoshathinte Onnam Rahasyam were well-received by the audience. The festival screened films by 10 debutant directors from different languages. Thirty-three films that were screened in the festival were fully or partially made during the pandemic period. While the festival started with the movie Quo Vadis, Ida? , the story of the Bosnian genocide, the curtains came down after the screening of the Belgian film Summer of 85 .  The Man Who Sold His Skin , Wife of a Spy , Never Gonna Snow Again , The Waste Land , Kosa , and 9,75 Santimetrekare were among the popular films at the fest. In the Kaleidoscope category, Malayalam films such as Biryani , Vasanthi, and 1956, Central Travancore stood out, according to a press release.  Laila in Haifa , a 2020 Israeli-French drama directed by Amos Gitai, received audience’s applause when it was screened as part of the World Cinema category at the festival on Sunday. The movie portrays women who are totally dissatisfied with their family lives, and go in search of other pleasures. However, even as they look for pleasure, they fail to find out a better world where they can be happier. The third leg of the IFFK will begin on February 23 at Thalassery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/curtains-down-on-kochi-iffk/article33899217.ece
22 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Exotic journey of a young filmmaker||For someone who had left home in his late teens with the sole dream of becoming a filmmaker, young Sajin Baabu’s journey since then has all the trappings of a movie. His debut movie Asthamayam Vare won him Rajatha Chakoram for the best debutant director at the International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK) that year. Now, the young filmmaker originally from Thiruvananthapuram but settled in Kochi is on another even bigger dream run with his third movie Biriyaani creating waves in festival circuits across the world and winning awards and audiences’ hearts. The movie was screened to packed houses at the Kochi leg of the IFFK and its all the more sweet for the youngster, as the movie was initially rejected by the jury whereafter it went to close to 50 fests across the globe and won several awards, forcing its way back to IFFK. But Mr. Baabu has no complaints whatsoever and admits that IFFK is what inspired him to become a filmmaker. “IFFK is growing and along with it Malayalam cinema should also grow and reach wider audience. There should be a system at IFFK to pitch promising Malayalam movies before foreign delegates thus paving way for its exposure globally,” he said.   A self-taught filmmaker, he continues to learn different facets of filmmaking. Only recently, he did a course in editing and then did sound designing forBiriyaaniafter learning that art.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/an-exotic-journey/article33899611.ece
22 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Puthenvelikkara takes steps to address climate change issues||Even as the world is looking at transformative action to combat the climate crisis, Puthenvelikkara panchayat in North Paravur taluk of Ernakulam district is pioneering action by modifying local-level responses. With the help of a technology start-up, the people of Puthenvelikkara are working on a long-term, inclusive action plan for understanding, documenting and addressing the challenges of climate change faced by the coastal village located at the confluence of the Periyar and Chalakudy rivers. The village was one of the worst affected by the floods of 2018. The activities to contain future flooding are being spearheaded by a group of young people from the village. Unlike other community initiatives after the floods, the Puthenvelikkara model is based on the understanding that long-term action to combat climate change impact requires scientific base-line assessments, data gathering and generation, and monitoring at the local level. The community roped in EQUINOCT Community Sourced Modelling Solutions, a technology start-up launched by the alumni of IIT Bombay and NIT Calicut, for technical consultations. One of initiatives launched was the forming of a network of school students, homemakers, fishers,Ñ and youth for monitoring rainfall and groundwater levels to build a community-sourced early warning system for floods and droughts. A flood and inundation mapping of the village is under way based on a topographic survey of the locality to generate a community-based disaster management plan. A benchmark survey was undertaken prior to the flood mapping. The historical benchmark of elevation flagged during the Great Indian Trigonometric Survey of 1802 was found to be at the Cheraman Juma Masjid at Kodungallur. The benchmark elevation was then surveyed back to Puthenvelikkara to form the basis of the flood mapping exercise. Students from nearby colleges have been involved in many of the activities through public engagement and consultation. A flood impact survey was also conducted to assess the region’s vulnerability with the help of NSS volunteers of St. Xavier’s College, Aluva. The flood mapping is being carried out by the civil engineering students of SNM Institute of Management and Technology, North Paravur, as part of their final semester projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/puthenvelikkara-takes-steps-to-address-climate-change-issues/article33899606.ece
22 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||CITU sees a conspiracy||The controversy over the government’s reported signing of a contract with a U.S.-based company for trawling off the Kerala coast was the outcome of conspiracy hatched by Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, alleged Kerala State Matsya Thozhilali Federation (CITU) general secretary P. P. Chitharanjan. He hoped that people would reject the February 27 coastal hartal called by fishers’ organisations. It was the Congress-led UPA regime that surrendered the seas of the country to foreign vessels and trawlers. The State government opposed such moves, he said at a press conference. The trade union leader said the Memorandum of Understanding prepared by the officials for a project cannot be treated as an agreement, as such agreements can be signed only with the concurrence of the Cabinet. The Chief Minister and the Fisheries Minister had clarified that the government would not water down its fisheries policy. If some officials had initiated steps that went against the policies of the State government, those cannot be considered as State policy, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/citu-sees-a-conspiracy/article33899271.ece
22 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||SIT formed to probe fire at cinema set||A special investigation team (SIT) headed by Puthen Cruz Deputy Superintendent of Police (DySP) Ajay Nath has been constituted to probe the incident in which a cinema set caught fire at Kadamattom on Saturday. The team members visited the site on Sunday, while a police guard has been set up in the area. A scientific team will inspect the premises on Monday, said a press release from District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik. The set was erected for a movie titled “Maranaveettile Thoonu” directed by Eldo George. Vehicle theft The Edathala police arrested members of an inter-State vehicle theft gang who have been charged with stealing two vehicles from near Aluva, altering and selling them in Tamil Nadu. Mahin, 36, and Ijas, 26, of Muthalamada, Palakkad, were arrested from Kollencode in Palakkad. Yet another person wanted in connection with the theft — Ravi Manickan from Tamil Nadu — had been arrested from that State. Mahin was charged with 20 theft cases in Kerala, while Ijas has a case pending against him at the Kollencode police station.  Tobacco seized A joint raid by personnel of Excise, police and health wing of the Perumbavoor Municipality led to the seizure of huge quantities of banned tobacco products from shops in Bhai Colony which had remained closed for several months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sit-formed-to-probe-fire-at-cinema-set/article33899608.ece
22 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||514 fresh COVID-19 cases in Ernakulam||As many as 514 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Sunday, and five health workers were among them. Thuravoor recorded 34 new cases, Karukutty 27, and Angamaly 17. Thrikkakara, Payipra, and Rayamangalam saw 16 cases each. A total of 500 people tested negative on Sunday, leaving the active caseload at 9,728. Of those recovering from the infection, 8,187 are recuperating at home. For testing, 6,966 samples were sent. Vaccination The drive to administer the first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine for health workers and frontline workers ended on Sunday. From Monday onwards, the second dose will be administered to health workers. Fifty vaccination centres have been readied in the district. A total of 58,539 health workers in the district have taken the first shot. Among frontline workers (police officers, officials of the Revenue Department and local self-governments), 10,768 people took the first dose. A mop-up round for the remaining frontline workers will take place between February 24 and March 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/514-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-ernakulam/article33899607.ece
22 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||KRFB to widen and extend road||The Kerala Road Fund Board (KRFB) has taken over from the Public Works Department (PWD) the project to develop Thammanam-Pullepady road as a four-lane road and to extend it to M.G. Road and the NH Bypass on either side. The PWD (Roads wing) handed over files related to the project to KRFB earlier this month. This makes it the second road widening project in the district that the agency has taken over from the PWD. The first was the one to widen the 13-km-long Thripunithura S.N. Junction-Poothotta road at a cost of Rs. 628 crore, for which the detailed project report (DPR) is ready, and land acquisition is set to begin in May. Need for overbridge The PWD had completed survey to develop the Thammanam-Pullepady road in the third quarter of 2020. “The DPR preparation is in the final stage, following which it will be handed over to KIIFB for its permission. The land acquisition process can begin once it gives the go ahead. The DPR will focus mainly on bridges that have to be widened and the design of junctions at Thammanam, Karnakodam, and Kathrikadavu. It will also shed light on whether an overbridge is needed to streamline traffic flow at the congested Kathrikadavu Junction,” official sources said. The junction already has a bottlenecked two-lane bridge on the four-lane Kaloor-Kadavanthra road, perpendicular to the Thammanam-Pullepady road. The permission of Railways ought to be sought to build a bridge parallel to Pullepady overbridge and the portion over the rails would have to be built under their supervision. Cycle tracks? The widening of the 3-km Thammanam-Pullepady road, its extension to Padma Junction on M.G. Road and to Chakkaraparambu on the NH Bypass are together estimated to cost around Rs. 300 crore, including the cost of land acquisition and bridges. The road will be 22 metres wide, having a 14-metre carriageway and a metre-wide median. It will be flanked by footpaths and utility ducts. Earmarking space for cycle tracks can be considered, sources said. The list of people who surrendered their land free of cost had been handed over to the PWD by the Kochi Corporation. The KIIFB is expected to take a call on whether to provide them compensation or to offer them relaxations while constructing buildings. The four-km road can be developed within a year of commencement of works, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/krfb-to-widen-and-extend-thammanam-pullepady-road/article33899616.ece
22 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Super-specialty block inaugurated||A new super specialty block at the Ernakulam General Hospital was inaugurated by Health Minister K.K. Shylaja on Sunday. The block was constructed at a cost of Rs. 57.95 crore and was funded by the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). The Bhabhatron telecobalt unit for radiotherapy at the hospital was upgraded at a cost of Rs. 1.10 crore with help from the Rotary Club of Cochin. The super specialty block will house departments including cardiology, cardio-thoracic wing, neurology, neurosurgery, and paediatric surgery. A kiosk was also inaugurated for the Karunya health scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/super-specialty-block-inaugurated/article33899612.ece
22 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Ro-ro mooted on Fort Kochi-Marine Drive route||One of the two container roll-on roll-off (ro-ro) ferries of the Inland Waterways Authority of India (IWAI) that were handed over to the Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation (KSINC) to ferry container lorries and motorists on the Willingdon Island-Bolgatty Island route, might operate in the Fort Kochi-Marine Drive corridor if everything goes well, official sources said. This is because patronage for the ro-ro vessel that began operation a month ago is just picking up. Its sister vessel could thus be used to ferry commuters in the Fort Kochi-Marine Drive corridor, for which terminal facilities ought to be improved, KSINC sources said. For a start, the Kochi Corporation-owned ferry, Fort Queen , which too was operated by KSINC and was lying idle for over a year after a pair of ro-ro vessels began service on the Fort Kochi-Vypeen route, could operate in the passenger-dense sector, using the existing infrastructure, they added.  Fort Queen , which was built at the KSINC yard in Thopumpady, is the biggest ferry in operation in Kochi and has seating capacity for 150 passengers. It was recently returned to the Kochi Corporation, after being dry docked at the KSINC yard. It can safely negotiate the Fort Kochi seamouth, since it was built as per specifications of a similar vessel that ferries commuters through the sea from the Kanyakumari beach to Vivekananda Rock Memorial, sources said. Operating it in the Fort Kochi-Marine Drive sector did not materialise earlier, although the Kochi Corporation had probed the possibility. KSINC used to transport vehicles in the Marine Drive-Vypeen corridor in its junkar ferry service, an older version of the ro-ro vessels, till the trio of Goshree bridges were built 15 years ago. Mayor keen The ruling LDF had in its election manifesto promised that a ro-ro service would be introduced in the Fort Kochi-Marine Drive corridor. Mayor M. Anilkumar said the civic body was open to deploy the ferry on the route. “Water transport is one among our priority areas. Introducing a ro-ro vessel in the corridor might take more time, since funds and other facilities ought to be readied,” he added. Sources in KSINC said the need for ro-ro terminals on either end could be taken up with IWAI, which has funds to promote water transport. The pair of new container ro-ros of IWAI are bigger than their counterparts which operate in the Fort Kochi-Vypeen sector. Sources in IWAI said they were okay with the proposal, provided KSINC did a traffic study on the corridor. The MoU between the two agencies will have to be amended for the purpose, they said. Benefits Meanwhile, West Kochi Passengers Association secretary Padmanabha Mallaya said introducing a pair of ro-ro vessels in the sector would considerably lessen commuting time with the mainland, expenses, congestion, and pollution on the 15-km road route. “In contrast, the waterway route is just over 3 km, and commuters will have to pay much lesser than over Rs. 15 that is charged by buses. In addition, the route can be covered in 20 minutes, as compared to over an hour by road,” he added. A ferry or ro-ro service operated by KSINC will be Godsend, since SWTD services are irregular, and they do not carry vehicles on board, said Ayoob M.M., a regular commuter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ro-ro-mooted-on-fort-kochi-marine-drive-route/article33899610.ece
22 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||A plea against maligning politicians’ kin||Ninitha Kanichery, wife of CPI(M) leader M.B. Rajesh, has urged M.T. Sulekha, wife of the late Congress leader G. Karthikeyan, to dismiss the recent controversy regarding her appointment as assistant professor at the Sree Sankaracharya University for Sanskrit. The name of Ms. Sulekha too was dragged into the row, referring to her earlier appointment as the Controller of Exams of the University of Kerala. Defending her appointment, Ms. Sulekha had posted on social media that political activists should spare family members of their opponents, while settling political scores. Replying to Ms. Sulekha, Ms. Kanichery said a malicious and a baseless campaign was unleashed against her regarding her appointment. “Despite being amply qualified for the job, I was subjected to a vicious campaign. I agree with your opinion that family members of politicians should not be subjected to smear campaigns,” she noted. “I consider your social media post as one which upholds the right of every woman to lead an independent and dignified life. Hence, I believe you would dismiss the campaigns against me,” said Ms. Kanichery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-plea-against-maligning-politicians-kin/article33899282.ece
22 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Film festival to revive MICE tourism||MICE (meetings, incentives, conferences, and exhibitions) tourism in the city will soon be revived thanks to the successful conduct of the Kochi leg of the 25th International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK). Tourism industry stakeholders hoped that MICE tourism, stalled for a year, would be revived, as it had now become clear that events such as film festivals could be safely organised if the COVID protocol was strictly adhered to. Kochi used to be one of the most important destinations in India for MICE tourism till the pandemic outbreak. In a bid to maximise the potential of MICE tourism, several entrepreneurs had invested heavily in the region by building hotels and conference halls with five-star facilities, according to a government communication. National and international conferences with attendance of up to 1,000 people each were held in Kochi a year till COVID-19 struck. It was estimated that a conference tourist spends $1,400 to $1,500, while a regular tourist spends $500 per day. In fact, booking hotel rooms and hailing taxis had been a tough proposition whenever such conference were organised in the city and its suburbs. Most players in MICE tourism had become frustrated, as they thought that it could take years for the pandemic situation to end and conferences to return. The success of events such as IFFK seems to have instilled confidence among Kochi’s tourism industry stakeholders. They are unanimous that tourism could be revived fully though not immediately. Though there is a long way to go before normalcy returns to the tourism sector in Kochi, the successful conduct of the IFFK in the city will trigger growth, said experts. Incidentally, the film festival was the largest conference-exhibition event organised in the State during the past one year. Kerala State Chalachithra Academy Chairman Kamal pointed out that no participants in the film festival in Thiruvananthapuram had reported contracting COVID-19. The festival, in fact, gave a boost to the State’s efforts to bring normal life back on track.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/film-festival-to-trigger-mice-tourism-revival-in-kochi/article33899613.ece
22 February 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Drop in test positivity rate in Kollam||The district has reported a drop in test positivity rate after revising the criteria to conduct RT-PCR test for 70% of the swabs. The Department has limited antigen tests to those with symptoms like fever and cough, residents of containment zones, and sympathetic contacts. “The test positivity rate has remained below 10 since February 12 while it was 14.10% on February 3. Apart from testing domestic and international travellers, we have been conducting random tests at schools, colleges, cashew factories, and shelter homes,” said District Medical Officer Dr. R. Sreelatha. Persons who test positive for SARS-CoV-2 will have to take antigen test on the 10th day and, if they require to be tested again, within three months after testing negative. If sympathetic domestic and international travellers test negative in antigen, they will have to undergo RT-PCR. All other asymptomatic travellers and those who come in the contact list of positive cases will also have to take RT-PCR test. “TrueNat test will be conducted for persons undergoing surgeries including emergency surgical procedures. The public should follow the new guidelines and stop insisting on taking the antigen test. If your sample tests positive at an Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) accredited lab, you cannot take it to another lab to get a different report,” said the DMO. Meanwhile, the district administration will ensure that all officials on election duty will be administered two doses of the vaccine. The number and details of the staff deployed on various duties will be handed over to the Health Department, and National Health Mission will upload the data in the portal. Being given vaccine At present, front-line workers from various departments including Health, Police, Revenue, Local Self Government, Fire and Rescue, and Jail have been receiving vaccine. The department has already started administering the second dose to Health officials and arrangements will be made for persons on election duty to receive both doses of the vaccine 14 days before the election.  District administration to ensure officials on election duty will be administered two doses of vaccine||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/drop-in-test-positivity-rate-in-kollam/article33899251.ece
22 February 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Training in milk production||Indigenous Milk Products Training and Development Centre, Oachira, is conducting an online training in milk production. The training session will be conducted through Google meet on February 23 from 11 a.m. to 12 p.m. Farmers who want to attend the programme could contact 0476-2698550 for more details and registration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/training-in-milk-production/article33899257.ece
22 February 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Olympian Suresh Babu indoor stadium opened||Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan inaugurated the construction of Olympian Suresh Babu indoor stadium through videoconferencing on Saturday. M. Naushad, MLA, presided over the function and unveiled the plaque on the occasion. Mayor Prasanna Earnest honoured athletic talents at the event while District Collector B. Abdul Nasar, District Sports Council president X. Earnest, and Deputy Mayor Kollam Madhu were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/olympian-suresh-babu-indoor-stadium-opened/article33899258.ece
22 February 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Survey to map riparian vegetation of Meenachil||Diagnosing the impact of threats on the fading magical green spectacle along the banks of the Meenachil has remained a mission incomplete. To address this lacuna, a group of river advocates under the Kottayam Nature Society (KNS) has now set out to map the vegetation cover that dot the banks of this water body, which has been lashed by floods for two years in a row. The study, a first of its kind for the Meenachil, is being carried out in association with the Social Forestry Division and aims at mapping the riparian vegetation of the water body right from its beginning at the Vagamon hills to the point where it meets the Vembanad lake. N. Unnikrishnan, a naturalist who leads the study, says the study is being carried out by dividing the water body into three zones—the upper reaches between 71- 1156 msl (Mean Sea Level), middle reach between 10-70 msl, and lower reach below 10 msl. Ten points from each stretch have been selected as study areas for carrying out the survey and documentation. “Despite being the lifeline of Kottayam, Meenachil does not possess a pre-flood scientific data on the riparian vegetation, and this has made things difficult for the government agencies to assess the flood’s impact on its biodiversity,” explains Mr. Unnikrishnan. First phase Significantly, the first phase of the study has spotted different varieties of riparian plant species from a nearly two-km-long riverine forest near Peroor, Ettumanur. The plant species spotted also includes Ochreinauclea missionis ( Attuvanji ) and Mallotus atrovirens ( Ezhanjil ), which has been classified as ‘vulnerable’ by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources. “The authorities should intervene to declare and protect this area as a local bio-diversity heritage site,” urges B. Sreekumar, president of the KNS. G. Prasad, Assistant Conservator of Forests, Social Forestry Division, says the rampant floods being witnessed in the Meenachil was causing damages to its fora and fauna. “The siltation and uprooting of plants caused by the heavy gush of water is indeed leading to a local extinction of sorts to many species such as Ixora Malabarica. A pre-flood and post-flood analysis of riparian vegetation is essential,” he says. Meanwhile, the survey along the upstream area has confirmed the presence of several other species that are endemic to the southern Western Ghats. The team will now be heading to the banks on the upstream, where the water body is experiencing severe stresses in the form of encroachment. The survey, according to the KNS, will be completed in phases. Based on the study, a comprehensive report will be brought out by April.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/survey-to-map-riparian-vegetation-of-meenachil/article33899260.ece
22 February 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||440 new cases reported in Kottayam||As many as 440 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Sunday. Of the fresh cases, all but three persons contracted the virus through local contact. The fresh cases also included 42 children and 77 persons aged above 60. With 58 cases, Kottayam municipality led the tally, followed by Pala with 18 cases. With 212 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 4,878 active cases. Pathanamthitta As many as 391 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Sunday. Of the fresh cases, 368 persons contracted the virus through local contact and among these, the contact source of 20 cases were yet to be identified. Among the local bodies, Pathanamthitta reported 25 cases, followed by Adoor with 24 cases. The disease claimed three more lives in the district and the victims were identified as a 91-year-old Kunnanthanam native and two men from Thannithodu, aged 62 and 64 respectively. With 488 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 5,602 active cases. Alappuzha The district reported 290 COVID-19 cases and 375 recoveries on Sunday. It also recorded one COVID-19-related death. Of the fresh cases 288 patients contracted the disease through local contact. The source of infection of two persons remains unknown. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 4,570.  (With inputs from Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/440-new-cases-reported-in-kottayam/article33899248.ece
22 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Hi-tech cameras to aid Kozhikode City police||The Kozhikode city police have stepped up their surveillance camera network for real-time monitoring of vehicles for speedy enforcement. The control room squad can now closely monitor suspicious vehicles or activities with Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) cameras. According to officials, tracking of vehicles involved in hit-and-run cases, kidnapping, smuggling, drug trafficking, thefts, and other criminal activities can easily be done using the new surveillance system. Digital evidence from the cameras will be valid proof during trials in courts, they said. They pointed out that the utilisation of human resources for on-road enforcement could be minimised with the introduction of the system. For now, all major entries and exits under the city police limits are under camera surveillance. It can be further improved with the linking of local surveillance cameras to the control room. Kozhikode is the first city in Kerala to be brought under such a wide camera network using ANPR system. The modernised control room in the city has special facilities and squads to monitor multiple cameras and give instant reports to the authorities for prompt action. Similar camera-based surveillance is under consideration in Kannur and Malappuram districts. Meanwhile, independent monitoring systems for various local police stations are also being considered. The Kunnamangalam police station has already opened its own hi-tech control room with a wide surveillance camera network. Accordingly, Kunnamangalam town is fully covered by the network. An official attached to the station said the facility was introduced in the wake of recurring thefts and anti-social activities. “All cameras have high zooming capacity and ANPR features. The project was completed at a cost of Rs. 64 lakh,” he added. According to police sources, the possibility of linking surveillance cameras in residential areas with the control room is under consideration. Though there was a proposal to fast-track the process, a few residents and traders opposed it citing privacy issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hi-tech-cameras-to-aid-kozhikode-city-police/article33899207.ece
22 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||University accused of violating quota norms||A United Democratic Front-backed Syndicate member has urged the Governor to seek a report from the Calicut University Vice Chancellor on the execution of reservation norms for differently abled persons in the appointment of faculty members of various departments. In a letter to Governor Arif Mohammed Khan, who is also the Chancellor of the university, P. Rasheed Ahammed said four backlog vacancies existed as per university records for the differently abled in the cadre of assistant professors. The backlog in the posts of associate professor and professor had not been identified as yet. Mr. Ahammed alleged that the university took a unilateral decision to issue a notification for recruitment overlooking the backlog vacancies, in violation of the provisions of the Kerala State and Subordinate Service Rules and the directions of the University Grants Commission. He alleged that the authorities went ahead with the recruitment despite being alerted about the denial of natural justice to the differently abled people. ‘Numbers tampered’  Mr. Ahammed also claimed that the university had toppled the turn of differently abled people in appointments. The one fixed is not in conformity with the system followed by the Kerala Public Service Commission or the turn submitted by the university in an affidavit before a Division Bench of the Kerala High Court. The affidavit said that a reservation roster had been prepared and serial numbers 1, 33, 66, and 99 had been earmarked for the differently abled. This fact was included in the court order issued on January 28 as well. However, going by the media reports on the selected candidates, it had come to light that their serial numbers were different. Mr. Ahammed alleged that the tampering of the numbers was to appoint people who were close to the authorities. The university had refused to publicise the reservation roster as well, he added.  The university took a unilateral decision to issue a notification for recruitment overlooking the backlog vacancies, in violation of the provisions of the Kerala State and Subordinate Service Rules and the directions of the University Grants Commission P. Rasheed Ahammed Syndicate member||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/varsity-violated-quota-norms-for-differently-abled/article33899205.ece
22 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||He ‘pedals’ his bike against fuel price hike||P.K. Harshad, a resident of Puthiyangadi, has launched a novel protest against the rising fuel prices. He “pedals” his Royal Enfield or his Chetak along the city streets, drawing curious glances from people. Using plastic pipes and parts of dismantled Royal Enfield motorbike and Chetak scooter, this martial arts trainer-electrician has given shape to two bicycles. Though both the “hybrid” vehicles look quite similar to the actual vehicles, the attached pedals and riding style have drawn attention. “It took almost two weeks to make the ‘pedalling bullet’. My intention was to come up with a different kind of protest which can attract people in a creative way. Nearly Rs. 15,000 was spent to make this ‘bullet cycle’,” says Mr. Harshad. “The ‘scooter cycle’ was the first vehicle that I completed at a cost of Rs. 13,000 and it evoked good response from the public,” he adds. What makes the 35-year-old happy is people asking him the actual reason for crafting such vehicles. It gives him an opportunity to highlight the frequent rise in fuel prices. Everyday, he rides about 20 to 30 km in the city, interacting with people. Mr. Harshad is also keen on displaying the cycles in crowded places as it attracts attention and helps him convey his message. Many have also enjoyed test rides on the bicycles. Some police officers, who stopped the vehicle for checking without knowing about the alteration, too support his campaign, he says. More enquiries The hybrid cycles are also turning into a source of income for Mr. Harshad to overcome the financial crisis caused by the COVID-19 outbreak. He has received orders to make three such “pedalling bikes”. There have also been enquiries about product features and other customisation options. “I am ready to explore this as people are frantic over the fuel price hike. Having this kind of a cycle at home is fun, and it is affordable,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/he-pedals-his-bike-against-fuel-price-hike/article33899216.ece
22 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Museum for tribal freedom fighters on KIRTADS campus||The foundation stone has been laid for a museum in memory of freedom fighters from tribal communities at the Kozhikode-based Kerala Institute for Research, Training, and Development Studies of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (KIRTADS), even though activists and academics had opposed it in the past. The project is part of a Central scheme to shed light on the heritage of freedom fighters among Scheduled Tribes and highlight their contribution. The Union government had asked States to submit proposals and the one given by KIRTADS got the approval around three years ago. KIRTADS functions under a separate directorate under the Department for the Welfare of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. The ethnological museum and cultural centre already functioning on the KIRTADS campus are being developed using the Rs. 16-crore Central grant. Interactive Museum of Cultural History of Kerala (Keralam Museum) is the nodal agency. A.K. Balan, Minister for Welfare of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes, who laid the foundation stone for the project on Sunday, said that tribal communities had played a remarkable role in the freedom struggle. The efforts of people like Thalakkal Chanthu, who fought alongside Pazhassi Raja against the British East India Company, were a class apart. Activists, however, had objected to the idea of the museum from the beginning, pointing out that the attempt was to reduce tribespeople to only “museum pieces”. They had claimed that it was part of an upper class mindset that saw tribal communities as “relics of the past” without addressing their current needs such as land, education and representation in governance. They had also highlighted the apparent lack of sincerity in protecting the interests of the community. A similar museum was already functioning in Kochi at a time when their students were finding it difficult to get accommodation in that city, the activists had said. A note from the Directorate of KIRTADS said the museum had been conceived both as a memorial for freedom fighters from the community as well as a place for the conservation of their culture. Along with the normal concept of a museum, the centre would also strive to enrich tribal languages, music, culinary practices, and skill development. The note said the participation of community members would be ensured in the construction of the museum and the research.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/museum-for-tribal-freedom-fighters-on-kirtads-campus/article33899214.ece
22 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Canal clean-up drive gets under way||V.K.C. Mammad Koya, MLA, inaugurated the third phase of the Haritha Keralam Mission’s ‘Ini Njan Ozhukatte’ project at Beypore on Sunday. Mundakanthodu, which passes through wards 48, 49, 50 and 53 of the Kozhikode Corporation, is one of the first to be cleaned and revived under the project in the district. To begin with, the process of removing water hyacinths and other weeds, besides accumulated silt in the canal, started on Sunday. Notices on the need to revive the canal will be distributed to households in the neighbourhood soon, and awareness programmes will be organised by NSS volunteers. The canal will be divided into several sectors, and the cleaning of each sector will be entrusted to a committee. “Several government projects will be combined to ensure that all waste is removed from the canal to convert it into a free flowing body of clear water,” said Haritha Keralam Mission (HKM) district coordinator P. Prakashan. He added that a massive cleaning drive would be held on February 25 with the help of local people. Ini Njan Ozhukatte is being undertaken by local bodies under HKM guidance. Over 600 rivulets, canals, and streams in the district have been already revived under the first two phases of the project. ‘Revival of the water networks’ is the campaign theme of the third phase held from February 12 to 28. The campaign will be organised with the help of employment guarantee scheme workers, Kudumbashree groups, and youth clubs, besides students, during the months of February and March. Mayor Beena Philip presided over the inaugural function, while District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao delivered the keynote address.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/canal-clean-up-drive-gets-under-way/article33899202.ece
22 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||CBSE council seeks govt. grant||The Council of CBSE Schools, Kerala, has sought financial grant from the State government to tide over the crisis induced by COVID-19. This demand was raised by Indira Rajan, secretary general, National Council of CBSE Schools, during a meeting of the northern regional chapter of the council here on Thursday. She pointed out that the schools affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) had to slash their fees in view of the pandemic and this had led to a difficult situation. Ms. Rajan also claimed that though government employees were getting salary hike and other benefits, the staff of self-financing institutions were in dire straits now. This was painful. ‘Unscientific’  Ms. Rajan also said that it was unscientific to discriminate against students who study in unaided schools. There had been attempts to divide students between those in the unaided sector and in government and aided sectors. Both are children of tax-paying citizens. The government should take steps to utilise the money from tax payers for their children studying in the self-financing sector as well. Ms. Rajan also sought to end the perceived discrimination in admissions to higher education courses by differentiating between students from government and unaided schools. Fr. Johny Kanjirathingal was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cbse-council-seeks-govt-grant/article33899212.ece
22 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||552 fresh COVID-19 cases, 652 recoveries recorded||A total of 552 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Sunday, while 652 others recovered from the infection. According to a release, there were 540 locally acquired infections, and the source of seven others was not known. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 139 cases of local transmission, Eramala had 26 cases, Koyilandy 23 and Vadakara 20. As many as 6,653 samples were tested and the daily test positivity rate in Kozhikode is 8.29%. The active case pool in the district is 5,683.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/552-fresh-covid-19-cases-652-recoveries-recorded/article33899204.ece
22 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Mega camp for diagnosis of disabilities begins||H. Vekateshwarlu, Vice Chancellor, Central University of Kerala, Kasargod, has said that disability is nothing but a negative attitude, not doing the right thing and not serving the cause of humanity. “It is not a physical state,” he said while inaugurating a mega camp for free diagnosis of disabilities, hearing aid fitment, and awareness programmes, organised by Sparsam Charitable Trust in association with the Institute of Research in Learning Disabilities (IRLD) of Mahatma Gandhi University, in Kozhikode on Sunday. Mr. Venkateshwarlu said that the Central University campus in Kasaragod would soon be one of the first in the State to be completely disabled friendly. Hearing aids are being distributed to 200 persons who have registered in advance. Mr. Venkateshwarlu distributed aids to two children at the event on Sunday. The mega camp, held over three days, is part of the extension activities of the trust focused on individuals with hearing impairment. The camp was organised in collaboration with Ali Yavar Jung Institute for Speech and Hearing Disabilities (AYJNISHD), Mumbai. R.P. Sharma, (Outreach and Extension Service), AYJNISHD; M.T. Ramesh, chairman, Sparsam, and K.M. Mustafa, Honorary Director, IRLD, were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mega-camp-for-diagnosis-of-disabilities-begins/article33899203.ece
22 February 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Fire load of buildings alarmingly high||The fire load of houses and commercial buildings in the State has increased many times in recent years, and fire safety has increasingly been compromised. Most fires being reported from the State throw light on how building owners compromise on fire safety by adopting newer ideas of beautification. Fire safety officers in the State are sounding a warning against an increased craving for interior decoration and panelling among building owners. While beautifying the interiors, ventilations are invariably plugged. “This is a trend widely seen across the State. People are giving priority to beautification by heavily compromising on safety,” said Palakkad District Fire Officer Arun Bhaskar. Mr. Bhaskar was quick to react on the reason for the fast spread of fire at Palakkad’s popular restaurant Noor Jehan Open Grill on Friday. His team found that it was the interior and exterior panelling of the restaurant that made the first floor of the three-storey building reduce to ashes in less than half-an-hour. “The case is almost similar in most modern business establishments and commercial buildings. They are using highly flammable light materials for ceiling and wall panelling, thus taking a huge risk on fire safety. None can vouch against a potential fire. But we should be vigilant and safety measures should be adopted,” he said. Plywood and ACP When plywood and other thin sheets used for interior work add fuel in case of a fire, the aluminium compound panels (ACP) widely used for external cladding or facades of buildings not only increase the blaze but also prevent the smoke from escaping. “Various modern materials are being used for interior and external beautification. They not only put the building on added fire risk, but also cause to release extra-poisonous fumes in the event of a fire,” said Vadakkethil Moosa, Malappuram District Fire Officer. He said the fire load of houses and commercial buildings was growing higher in tune with people’s craze for decoration. “We often blindly adopt ideas from abroad without adopting the safety norms and measures implemented there,” he said. Fire officers pointed out that houses too were being converted increasingly into closed spaces with more areas being airconditioned. Safety norms in smaller buildings were insufficient while those in larger buildings were often violated. “The interior decoration and closing of ventilations often take place after we issue fire safety certifications. The local bodies have to play a proactive role to ensure fire safety,” said Mr. Bhaksar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fire-load-of-buildings-alarmingly-high/article33899685.ece
22 February 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Two killed as car rams motorcycle||Two motorcycle riders, including a policeman, were killed when they were hit by a speeding car that lost control at a curve on the National Highway 966 at Mailampully, near Mundur, on Sunday. A car passenger was seriously injured. Husain Babu, 38, from Parali and Suresh Babu alias Kannan, 48, from Mannoor were travelling on a motorcycle towards Mundur when the crash took place. The car was heading towards Mannarkkad. Husain is a policeman from Kerala Armed Battalion II, Muttikkulangara. Both died on the way to hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-killed-as-car-rams-bike/article33899200.ece
22 February 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Maramon convention draws to close||The 126th Maramon Convention, an annual Christian religious meet organised by the Mar Thoma Evangelistic Association (MTEA) attached to Mar Thoma Church, came to a close at Maramon, near Kozhencherry, on Sunday. Theodosius Mar Thoma, metropolitan of the Malankara Mar Thoma Syrian Church, delivered the main message at the valedictory session. Euyakim Mar Coorilos Episcopa chaired the session while bishop K. Reuben Mark delivered the concluding message. Growth of alternatives Speaking on the occasion, the metropolitan stressed the need to evolve a new sense of family spirituality in the post-COVID-19 period. “The growth of alternatives to the traditional establishment called family and the legal validity that these models receive should be viewed in due seriousness,” he said. Earlier, a worship led by the Malankara metropolitan was held at the venue. Joseph Mar Barnabas Episcopa led the session that began at 10 a.m. The eight-day event, held in strict compliance with COVID-19 guidelines, had begun on February 14. Around 200 persons participated in each session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/maramon-convention-draws-to-close/article33899284.ece
22 February 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Konni medical college expansion to begin||The second phase expansion of the Government Medical College in Konni is all set to begin with a Rajasthan-based company taking up the work contract for Rs. 199 crore. The Ajmer-based company, which has also been entrusted with the construction of a new hospital building at Kottayam Medical College, is scheduled to complete the works here in two years. The project envisages construction of a three-storey building as an extension to its existing academic block, student hostels, and another 11-storey building for the staff. The staff quarters will be classified into four separate division with each comprising 40 accommodation units. This is in addition to an auditorium with a capacity of 1000 seats, an autopsy block, and a laundry block. On completion of the project, the total number of beds for patients at the hospital will rise to 500.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/konni-medical-college-expansion-to-begin/article33899261.ece
22 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Eligibility norms set for employees||Unqualified employees of self-financing colleges in the State will be required to meet the eligibility norms laid down by regulatory bodies such as the University Grants Commission (UGC) within a stipulated time-frame decided by the government. The requirement has come into effect with the promulgation of the Kerala Self-Financing College Teaching and Non-Teaching Employees (Appointment and Conditions of Service) Ordinance, 2021, by Governor Arif Mohammed Khan on Sunday. While the law guaranteed service conditions of employees in self-financing colleges, it also establishes norms for appointments. Working days, hours The law also required educational agencies (or managements) of self-financing colleges to fix working days and working hours and provide public holidays, casual leave and maternity leave for teaching and non-teaching employees on par with government and aided colleges. Appointees and educational agencies will have to enter into agreements that state conditions of service including post, scale of pay, increment, grade, promotion, period of appointment, salary, allowance and overtime duty. The age limit for appointments and the age of retirement will be as determined by the regulatory bodies. While college managements will hereafter be required to enrol each appointee for Provident Fund and insurance schemes, they will be required to comply with the norm within six months in the case of those employees who were yet to be brought under the ambit of such schemes thus far. Educational agencies will continue to be the disciplinary authority of their employees. However, any aggrieved person can appeal against disciplinary actions before the university. Colleges will also have to constitute various panels, including internal quality assurance cell, parent-teacher association, students grievance redressal cell, college council and internal committee under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013. The provisions of the ordinance will be applicable for Kerala University, Calicut University, Mahatma Gandhi University, Cochin University of Science and Technology, Kannur University and A.P.J. Abdul Kalam Technological University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/eligibility-norms-set-for-employees/article33899286.ece
22 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KITE’s operating system likey to benefit millions||On International Mother Language Day on Sunday, the Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE) released a new, customised free and open source software (FOSS)-based operating system — KITE GNU-Linux Lite 2020. The operating system, expected to benefit millions of computer users in the State, will feature on the thousands of student laptops being provided as part of the Vidyashree scheme by the State government. Based on the Ubuntu free software platform, the new version of the operating system (OS) comes preloaded with a bunch of software, ranging from office packages, language input tools, database applications, DTP-graphics image editing software, sound recording and video editing packages, programming IDEs (integrated development environment), scratch visual programming, and so on.  Utility packages The OS suite also features several utility packages such as gImage Reader that provides image-to-text conversion. To boost Malayalam computing, a vast collection of Malayalam Unicode fonts and a dedicated English-Malayalam dictionary have been included. Free download “The new Lite version OS has been developed in such a way that it can be installed even on computers with less computing power by effectively utilising its storage space and thereby providing all integrated packages. The KITE GNU-Linux Lite 2020 can be downloaded for free from the KITE websitewww.kite.kerala.gov.in, K. Anvar Sadath, CEO, KITE, said in a statement here. Necessary support mechanisms for providing installation assistance will be arranged through the Little KITEs student clubs units in schools, established by KITE as part of the Hi-Tech School project. The availability of educational and utility-based software in the OS will come in handy for DTP centers, common service centres (CSC), software developers, and the public. It can be downloaded for free and can be shared without any restrictions. There is an option of using the Lite version software through a pen drive without the need for actual installation. First Bell All the First Bell digital classes being broadcast through the KITE Victers channel in recent months in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic use the FOSS-based video-editing applications, even at KITE’s district offices as part of regional content development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kite-releases-foss-based-operating-system/article33899218.ece
22 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Waste plant need of the hour: Minister||The development seminar of the Thiruvananthapuram city Corporation, ahead of the preparation of the civic body's annual plan for the 2021-22 financial year, was held on Sunday. The draft plan presented at the seminar listed out 174 small and big projects, including multi-year projects and new initiatives. Working groups of various sectors put the draft to discussion through the day, and put forward suggestions and amendments. Inaugurating the seminar at the Girideepam convention centre, Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran said that the People's Plan programme has become an agent of social change in the State. Touching upon the various aspects of the proposed plan, he said that the Corporation should aim towards providing the necessary basic infrastructure for the public. He said that though the civic body has adapted decentralised methods to handle waste, there is a need to create awareness among the public on the necessity of a centralised waste treatment plant. “The idea for a centralised plant has become impossible now. We have reached a state where we cannot even install a plastic shredding machine due to public opposition. Can we close our eyes to the need for a centralised treatment plant in a city which is growing day by day? An awareness has to be created among the public regarding this. There is also the need for more scientific decentralised waste management methods,” he said. He said that the Corporation should also look towards creating more open spaces in the city, for the children and the elders to unwind. He also pointed at the need to focus on improving drinking water supply in the city, providing more houses for the poor and upgrading infrastructural facilities in schools and hospitals, for all of which there are State Government projects, which the civic body can augment for its purposes. Enough funds Finance Minister T.M.Thomas Isaac, who addressed the seminar through video conferencing, said that the Corporation should prioritise the projects that it can take up, as it will not have enough funds to implement all projects together. “The main aim of the Corporation should be to address the issue of joblessness. You should discuss and decide as to how many jobs can be provided in the Corporation area within one year. This can be in any sector, be it services or agricultural sector. The Kerala bank, Industries Department or other financial institutions are ready to disburse loans to entrepreneurs. The civic body should devise a scheme through which it can pay the interest rates of the loans availed by these entrepreneurs,” he said. Mayor Arya Rajendran, who presided over the function, said that the Corporation’s aim is to ensure that its developmental initiatives reach all city residents in each of the hundred wards. V.K.Prasanth, MLA, former Mayor of the Corporation, spoke on the major initiatives in various sectors during his tenure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/waste-plant-need-of-the-hour-minister/article33899719.ece
22 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Aishwarya Kerala Yatra in final leg||The Aishwarya Kerala Yatra led by Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, entered its final leg on Sunday. It would formally conclude with a massive rally in Thiruvananthapuram on February 23. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, MP, would address the marchers alongside a galaxy of national and State level party leaders. Mr. Chennithala capped his State-wide marshalling of party workers with an explosive charge against the government. He accused the LDF of kowtowing to the interests of foreign trawlers at the risk of imperilling the livelihood of fisherfolk. Mr. Chennithala's move was seen as a political gambit to shore-up the Congress's traditional base among the fishing community. Coastal folk reckoned to be steadfast Congress voters had shown signs of wavering in coastal districts in the local body polls. Mr. Chennithala's allegations appeared to have touched the government on the raw, prompting Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to order a review of the preliminary agreements struck by two State corporations with the foreign fishing company. It also drew angry denials from Ministers and the CPI(M) leadership. The defection of the National Congress Party (NCP) legislator Mani. C. Kappan from the LDF to the UDF was reckoned as a coup for Mr. Chennithala. He rounded off the ‘win’ by persuading Mr. Kappan to join the Yatra when it entered Pala. Some sections in the Congress had blamed Mr. Chennithala for Kerala Congress (M) leader Jose. K. Mani's exit from the UDF., The Leader of the Opposition, appeared to have redeemed himself of the charge by pitting Mr. Kappan against Mr. Mani in the prestigious Pala constituency. Mr. Chennithala also raised the issue of backdoor appointments and non-appointment of PSC rankers to put the government on the backfoot. The yatra also took a battering from the LDF for towing a soft Hindutva line, pandering to the interests of Islamist outfits and capitulating to the IUML's diktats. It also drew for flak for ‘struggling’ to present a UDF policy declaration and aims to counter the LDF's election manifesto. Litmus test The yatra was also a litmus test of Mr. Chennithala's popularity as a mass leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aishwarya-kerala-yatra-in-final-leg/article33899265.ece
22 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Folk art fest ‘Utsavam 2021’ begins||Showcasing the best of the vibrant folk and ritualistic art traditions, the seven-day cultural festival ‘Utsavam 2021’ got off to a colourful start featuring hundreds of artistes in 30 venues across the State. The highlight of the State-level roll-out of the annual event on Saturday evening in the capital was the launch of ‘Utsavam’ signature song, rendered by noted singer Kavalam Sreekumar. Written by B. S Biju, music to the song is set by Mathew Itty. Inaugurating the event at Nishagandhi auditorium, Minister for Tourism Kadakampally Surendran said the festival was aimed at preserving the rich and diverse art forms of Kerala. Facing threat “Many of them are now facing threat of sliding into oblivion. The government considers it as its responsibility to preserve them by extending all support to artists, many of whom are struggling to keep these traditions alive,” the Minister said. The festival is being organised by Kerala Tourism together with Kerala Folklore Academy, Bharat Bhavan and District Tourism Promotion Councils. The inaugural function, attended by V. K. Prasanth, MLA; Reena K. S., Councillor, Kerala Folklore Academy, Chairman C. J. Kuttappan, Principal Secretary, Tourism, Rani George and Director of Tourism P. Bala Kiran, was followed by a performance led by folk artist Kuttappan. Leading folklore artists representing various traditions were honoured at the function with the Utsavam Puraskaram. The artists selected for the honour are T. K. Baby (Onamkali Pattu), Pramod T. A. (Pattu & Kaalakali), Padmanabhan T. R. (Ambatheeradikalari), Sudarshanakumar T. (Padayani), Bindu Pazhur (Mudiyettu), Malathi Balan (Uralikoothu), Rajamma A (Pooppada Thullal), K. Kunhi Koran (Poorakkali), Dineshan Thekkankooran Peruvannan (Theyyam) and Umbichi K (Mangalam kali). The festival offers a venue for scores of performers representing a wide variety of folk, tribal and ethnic traditions that flourished in different parts of the state. This year, the event assumes added significance as it has come as a big support to artists hit by sweeping disruptions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, which has had its grim impact on the cultural domain as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/folk-art-fest-utsavam-2021-begins/article33899253.ece
22 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State registers 4,070 new cases, 4,345 recoveries||Kerala reported 4,070 new cases of COVID-19 on Sunday when 57,241 samples were tested in 24 hours. The State’s cumulative case burden, ever since the pandemic began, rose to 10,30,587 cases. The test positivity rate, which has been remaining steady, showed a slight increase to 7.11% on the day. Active cases Of the 57,241 tests done by the State, 31,180 were rapid antigen assay while RT-PCR tests numbered 24,219. Other molecular diagnostic tests like Truenat and CBNAAT, constituted the remaining tests. The active case pool dipped to 58,313 with the State reporting 4,345 recoveries on the day. The good number of recoveries reported on a daily basis has been helping the State bring down and stabilise its active case pool, which never crossed the health system’s surge capacity even when the State went through the peak of the epidemic. The cumulative recoveries reported by the State ever since the pandemic began thus rose to 9, 71,975. 15 deaths The addition of 15 new deaths which took place in the past few days to the official list of COVID-19 fatalities has taken the State’s cumulative toll till date to 4,089. Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode reported four deaths each, Kollam and Thrissur two each while Alappuzha, Pathanamthitta and Wayanad reported one death each. The number of critically ill COVID-19 patients who are currently being treated in ICUs in various hospitals in the State is 747 as on Saturday, according to official reports, with 223 of them requiring ventilator assistance. Kozhikode tops chart Among districts, Kozhikode reported the maximum number of new cases at 552, Ernakulam 514, Kottayam 440, Pathanamthitta 391, Thrissur 361, Malappuram 346, Kollam 334, Alappuzha 290, Thiruvananthapuram 266, Kannur 167, Palakkad 129, Kasaragod 100, Idukki 97 and Wayanad 83 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-registers-4070-new-cases-4345-recoveries/article33899278.ece
22 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘Ailing’ blackboard tree being nursed back to health||Tree Walk, a city-based citizens’ collective that works for green city, organised the second of its ‘tree healing’ events on the Museum-Nandavanam road on Sunday. The focus was a ‘blackboard’ tree ( Alstonia scholaris ) the base of which was the site for wanton waste disposal by the public. The bark of the tree was burnt and damaged. On Saturday, Tree Walk had sought the help of the Mayor, ward councillor, and health inspector to clean the base of the tree. More than 10 sacks of plastic waste, bottles, and soiled toilet articles were collected. The treatment was done by a team of experts in Vriksha Ayurveda, the ancient science of understanding and knowing trees. Binu K., a primary schoolteacher from Uzhavoor, and his team members Sunil Vazhoor, Gopakumar Kangazha, and Vijayakumar Ithikkanam worked at the site for more than three hours to make a medicine mix. The mixture is a selection of 20 ingredients that include cow’s milk, dung, ghee, soil from paddy field and from under the tree, kadalipazham, lotus plant, and so on. The treatment schedule is a series of meticulously executed steps that include cleaning the bark and removing nails (26 nails and one advertisement were removed from the tree). The process will find fruition when milk will be sprayed on the affected part for the next one week. The tree will then go into a resting phase for six months after which marked changes that indicate rejuvenation will be visible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ailing-blackboard-tree-being-nursed-back-to-health/article33899724.ece
22 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State gets a big lift in railway infra||Union Minister for Railways Piyush Goyal has said the Centre has given a “big lift” to the infrastructure development of the railway network in Kerala. Mr. Goyal was speaking after dedicating to the nation 88 infra projects related to passenger amenities and facilities in railway stations worth more than Rs. 1,000 crore in Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka via video conferencing from New Delhi on Sunday. “We have given a boost to the facilities to connect Kerala with the rest of the country. We have taken steps to ignite more economic activity in the area and transform the railway network through the State of Kerala. The budget being allocated for Kerala is continuously increasing year on year,’’ he said. In Kerala, foot over bridges have been provided three locations at a total cost of Rs. 9.56 crore at Kollam, Kundara and Kochuveli. Lifts have been provided at Kanhangad and Aluva at a cost of Rs. 1.60 crore. In order to reinforce safety of passengers at railway stations, state-of-the-art video surveillance systems have been installed at 15 locations a cost of Rs. 9.45 crore. With Central monitoring system at Chennai, railway stations such as Alappuzha, Aluva, Chengannur, Ernakulam Town, Kayankulam, Tiruvalla, Kottayam, Badagara, Kannur, Kasaragod, Palakkad Junction, Tirur, Thalassery, Kanhangad and Payyanur will be equipped with video surveillance systems. At two stations in Kerala, Thiruvananthapuram Central and Thrissur, airport type illumination of covered platforms have been provided at a total cost of Rs. 42 lakh to enhance the passenger experience and will help make the journey a memorable one. Platform raising Platform raising works have been completed at Tanur at a cost of Rs. 1.39 crore for ease of boarding and deboarding of passengers, especially the elderly and divyangjan passengers. As an energy-efficient and power-saving measure, 100 KWp solar plants have been commissioned in Thrissur and Thiruvananthapuram Central at a cost of Rs. 42 lakh. The Railway Minister said the completion of the works demonstrate speed of execution of various service-oriented passenger and freight projects that was being carried out across the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-gets-a-big-lift-in-railway-infra/article33899285.ece
22 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kuthiyottam ritual held||Start of the Kuthiyottam penance marked the third day of the 10-day annual festival at the Attukal Bhagavathy temple here on Sunday. In the wake of the COVID-19 guidelines, nearly 1,000 young boys, said to represent the wounded soldiers of the goddess Bhagavathy, who usually undertake the seven-day penance before Pongala day were kept away. The ritual was instead limited to the temple ‘pandara ottam’ by a single boy. Usually boys below the age of 12 observe the Kuthiyottam penance. They have to prostrate 1,008 times before the deity. The boys have to observe strict discipline and stay inside the temple for seven days. The rigours include sleeping on the floor, strict diet restrictions, and bathing three times a day. The fourth day of the festival on Monday will see Thottamapattu, besides the usual rituals such as Palliunarthal, Nirmalya darshanam, Deeparadhana, and so on. Cultural programmes will be held on two stages in the evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kuthiyottam-ritual-held/article33899715.ece
22 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Koodathil case: report points to murder||The probe by the District Crime Branch into the deaths of seven members of a family in Karamana has taken a crucial turn with a forensic report strengthening the possibility of murder behind the last death. The deaths of the members of the Koodathil family in Kalady over a period of 26 years from 1991 had piqued interest with certain sections flagging its eerie resemblance with the Koodathayi serial murder case in which a woman had allegedly murdered six people in Kozhikode over a span of 14 years. Following the complaint of a relative of the last deceased Jayamadhavan Nair, who had died on April 2, 2017, the police had registered a case into the allegations of land grabbing. Besides, the investigation team had opened inquiry into Jayamadhavan’s death who, the family’s former caretaker Raveendran Nair had claimed, was found lying unconscious in his room. Contradictions However, the police had found several contradictions in Mr. Nair’s statement especially the time when he took Jayamadhavan Nair to the hospital. Moreover, an autorickshaw driver Sumesh, who initially claimed that his vehicle was hired to transport them, purportedly revealed he was coerced by Mr. Nair into giving a false statement. This prompted the police to launch a comprehensive probe into the death. A forensic team had also collected various evidences including blood-stained wood logs from the compound of the Uma Mandiram house. Official sources said findings of the forensic examination had now strengthened the possibility of murder. This led the investigation team to seek permission to alter charge from unnatural death to murder. A report has been submitted in the Thiruvananthapuram Chief Judicial Magistrate Court in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/murder-theory-gains-strength-in-koodathil-case/article33899267.ece
22 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Francophonies festival to be held in capital||The annual Francophonies festival, organised by the French embassy in Pondicherry, will be organised in Thiruvananthapuram this year, Consul General Lise Talbot Barré said. Following a discussion with Bharat Bhavan member secretary Pramod Payyannur, she said that the Francophonies festival would be held in the capital as well as in Mahe, as part of an attempt to strengthen the cultural bond between France and Kerala. The programmes would include a production combining drama and Tholpavakkoothu based on M. Mukundan’s Daivathinte Vikrithikal . This is expected to be ready by June. The ‘King Lear Kathakali’, conceived by Bharat Bhavan and Alliance Francaise in 2018, will be staged in various parts of the country after the pandemic situation eases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/francophonies-festival-to-be-held-in-capital/article33899255.ece
22 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Earth Hour to go digital||Earth Hour (EH), the 14-year-old lights-off global grassroots movement, conducted on the last Saturday of March, uniting people to take action on climate change and protect the planet, will be digital this year. The WWF has asked citizens to raise awareness and create the same unmissable sight online and to get people to #Switch Off and #Speak Up for Nature. Poetry competition WWF-India, Kerala State Office will be conducting a poetry competition on the theme “We Need a New Deal for People and the Planet” focusing on the forests, mountains, rivers, coasts, wetlands, plant and animal species, natural calamities, climate change and conservation efforts among other things. The winning poems will be shared on social media pages and newsletters. Word limit The word limit is 100-150 and can be in English or Malayalam. Entries with the full contact details should be mailed toasivanandan@ wwfindia.netbefore March 5. Further details can be had from Project Officer, WWF-India, Kerala State Office on mobile 9446484573, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/earth-hour-to-go-digital/article33899208.ece
22 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||4,164 booths in capital for Assembly polls||Elaborate arrangements are being made in the district for the smooth conduct of the upcoming Assembly polls. The district will have 4,164 polling booths and special teams will be formed for monitoring the enforcement of COVID-19 protocols during the elections, according to District Collector Navjot Khosa. The number of booths have been increased due to an Election Commission of India decision to restrict the number of voters per polling booth to 1,000 given the COVID-19 situation. Ms. Khosa, who chaired a meeting of political parties and police officials on Friday in the run-up to the elections, said a special team will be formed in the district to ensure the enforcement of COVID-19 protocols. Only two persons can accompany the candidate for submitting the nominations. Only five persons are permitted for door-to-door campaigning. A maximum of five vehicles will be allowed for road shows.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/4164-booths-in-capital-for-assembly-polls/article33899713.ece
22 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||266 cases in capital||The district recorded 266 COVID-19 cases and 370 recoveries as the active caseload continued its downward slide to touch 3,750 on Sunday. The death toll stood at 811. The district administration placed 1,856 people under quarantine, while 2,035 others were permitted to conclude quarantine after completing the mandated period in self-isolation without developing any COVID-19 symptom. There are currently 25,357 people who are quarantined in their houses and 54 in various institutions in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/266-cases-in-capital/article33899716.ece
22 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Follow COVID norms, police tell devotees||Taking a stern view of crowding in the Attukal Bhagavathy Temple premises and its vicinity during the initial days of the Attukal Pongala festival, the City police have reiterated their instructions on adhering to the COVID-19 protocol. City Police Commissioner and Inspector General Balram Kumar Upadhyay urged devotees to comply with the pandemic norms and refrain from gathering in the temple premises and elsewhere. Besides maintaining physical distancing, masks will have to be worn and hands sanitised regularly. The officer added that devotees must offer pongala within the compounds of their house and refrain from inviting their relatives or any others in view of the pandemic situation. Devotees will also not be permitted to undertake the ritual on road sides or any other public areas. The sale of bricks, dry palm fronds (‘choottu’) and coconut spathe (‘kothumbu’) for the specific purpose will also not be permitted. The use of microphone and sound boxes at junctions and the distribution of food packets have been prohibited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/follow-covid-norms-police-tell-devotees/article33899717.ece
22 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt orders probe into working of child panel||The government has ordered a comprehensive inquiry by the Pathanamthitta District Collector into complaints of irregularities in the functioning of the district child welfare committee (CWC). The probe is in the wake of preliminary inquiry by the Women and Child Development Department that found that there were allegations against many members of the CWC. No consensus They were functioning without any mutual understanding or consensus, and this was affecting the overall functioning of the committee. One member had, a few months ago, complained that another member’s conduct did not behove a member of the CWC. The member had also sought legal action against the other member, alleging a bid to malign her reputation. The other member had alleged that the district CWC was not conducting sittings regularly. The then chairperson used to take files, including those related to POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act) cases, outside, while the officiating chairperson did not have enough attendance. A member was also alleged to have behaved badly with the superintendent and other employees of Government Children’s Home there. As all these issues were coming in the way of protection of best interests of children, the department found an investigation was necessary. The High Court of Kerala too had in December last sought a report while investigating complaints against some members of the CWC, a government order on the probe by the Collector said. The issues in the Pathanamthitta CWC were a manifestation of appointments made on political considerations, officials said on the condition of anonymity. The CWCs in a few districts have drawn criticism for their handling of cases in recent months.  The CWCs in a few districts have drawn criticism for their handling of cases in recent months||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-orders-probe-into-working-of-child-panel/article33899266.ece
22 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Biodegradable tableware||Scientists at the CSIR-National Institute for Interdisciplinary Science and Technology (NIIST) at Pappanamcode have developed a technology for manufacturing 100% biodegradable tableware, including dishes and cups, from wheat bran. Billed as an eco-friendly alternative to single-use plastics, the use of which are on the rise, wheat-bran tableware is affordable and has a long shelf life and is resistant to fungus and bacteria, NIIST officials said. It can also be safely used in microwave ovens and is capable of holding water content for a reasonable amount of time, the CSIR institute said. NIIST has transferred the technical knowhow to Aura Exim, a Kochi-based company, for immediate commercial production. Apart from the manufacture of disposable plates, soup bowls and cups, the technology can also be used to make take-away boxes for food delivery. The products can be customised with different colours and flavours, NIIST said. An added advantage is that these products also find application as feed for cattle, poultry and fish or as organic manure. “To make the product more attractive for the market, it is also possible to incorporate natural immunity boosters, nutritional supplements and organic edible flavours,” NIIST officials said. With the use of single-use plastics being discouraged, there is a huge potential demand for alternatives that are biodegradable in nature.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/niist-develops-biodegradable-tableware/article33899712.ece
22 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Women’s hostel opened||The first working women’s hostel for women from the Scheduled Castes and Tribes in the State has opened in the city. The P.K. Rosy working women’s hostel is located at Peroorkada. Women working in government, quasi government, and private institutions will get accommodation here at low monthly rents. The Scheduled Caste Development Department has built the hostel building at a cost of Rs. 5.46 crore. The two-storey hostel will be able to accommodate 60 women. Women reaching the city for tests, interviews, and other official needs will be able to stay temporarily at the hostel, named after P.K. Rosy, the lead actress of the first silent movie in Malayalam who had to face discrimination in the name of caste, Minister for Welfare of Scheduled Castes and Tribes A.K. Balan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/womens-hostel-opened/article33899683.ece
22 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||One held for attacking health worker||The Vizhinjam police arrested a habitual offender for attacking a health worker during a field visit. According to the police, Habeeb, 24, of Vizhinjam township colony was arrested for allegedly assaulting a woman field staff member of district vector control unit of the Health Department on Saturday. The accused was subsequently arrested from near the Poovar bus station later in the day. While he attacked the police to evade arrest, he was overpowered by the police. Accused in several criminal cases in Vizhinjam, the accused was remanded to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-held-for-attacking-health-worker/article33899263.ece
22 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Vamanapuram: council plea to begin project||The Vamanapuram drinking water dam project, which would beneficial to Nedumangad, Varkala, Chirayinkeezh and Kazhakuttam areas, should be begun immediately, the Vamanapuram Drinking Water Dam All Party Action Council has demanded. In a press release issued here on Sunday, action council Chairman G.Sugunan said that these regions are now experiencing acute water scarcity. Due to the low level of water in the Vamanapuram river the check dams, which had solved some of the water scarcity issues, are no longer effective, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vamanapuram-council-plea-to-begin-project/article33899725.ece
22 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Withdraw from ASEAN pact: farmers’ forum||India should withdraw from the ASEAN trade agreement which has proven detrimental to the interests of farmers, the Kerala Karshaka Sangham (KKS) has said. The trade agreement had led to the collapse of the plantation sector in Kerala, which had accounted for 82% of the State’s agricultural revenue, KKS secretary K.N. Balagopal said. The price of rubber had crashed from Rs. 240 per kg to less than Rs. 100. The agreement adversely affects coffee, tea and pepper farmers, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/withdraw-from-asean-pact-farmers-forum/article33899275.ece
22 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Hotels’ forum to stage protest||The Kerala Hotel and Restaurant Association (KHRA) said it would stage protests outside local body institutions which refuse to issue trade licences despite the State government simplifying the procedures. As per the relaxed policy, traders can apply online and obtain the licence valid for up to five years. However, many local bodies are even refusing to accept online applications, KHRA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hotels-forum-to-stage-protest/article33899276.ece
22 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Arrest 1||Two youths were arrested by the Sreekaryam police on Sunday for alleged attempt to murder a person on New Year’s day. The police arrested Sujith, 25, and Subeesh, 32, of Cheruvakkal in connection with the alleged attack on 31-year old Vishnu at 2 a.m. on January 1. The victim had sustained head injuries after being attacked with a rock. He had purportedly come under attack after criticising the accused for engaging in revelry outside his house. Following the incident, the duo had gone into hiding, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/arrest-1/article33899262.ece
22 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||IOC launches high performance fuel||Oil major Indian Oil has launched a world-class premium grade Petrol with 100 Octane in the State capital. At a function held at its retail outlet in Anayara on Saturday, Chief General Manager and State Head of the IOC, Kerala, V. C. Asokan and Aditya Varma jointly launched the high-performance fuel. The premium brand is available in IOC’s retail outlet at Pattom also, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ioc-launches-high-performance-fuel/article33899721.ece
22 February 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||361 new cases, 450 recoveries in Thrissur||A total of 361 COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Sunday while 450 people recovered from the disease. There are 4,052 active cases in the district and 85 people from the district are undergoing treatment at hospitals in other districts. So far, 96,477 COVID-19 cases have been reported from the district and 91,769 people have recovered. According to official statistics, 355 people, including two health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Sunday. Of them, 57 people are above the age of 60 and 9 are below the age of 10. In all, 2,836 people are in home care. As many as 133 people were admitted to hospitals for treatment on Sunday. A total of 6,332 samples were collected for tests on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/361-new-cases-450-recoveries-in-thrissur/article33899681.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Govt. may review MoUs with foreign firms||Consequently, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan ordered a full retrospect of the events that led to the inking of the MoUs and their subsequent ‘leak’ to the Opposition. By one account, the government found the agreements legally and politically untenable. They ran against the grain of the State’s fisheries policy, it reportedly felt. The State must urgently replace its rusty fishing fleet with modern craft capable of operating in deep waters and preserving the catch weeks at a stretch. The rider to the policy was the government would only allow traditional fishers to operate or own the new boats. Only traditional fishers would receive boat permits. The State signatories to the MoU appeared to have missed the critical proviso. The political executive felt their ‘overlook’ had precipitated an avoidable controversy in the election season. Moreover, the nascent firm lacked the expertise or financial capacity to build a deep-sea fishing fleet. Its seed money was less than Rs. 10 lakh. The government saw a political plot to tarnish its image and cause disaffection among fishers with the ruling front.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-may-review-mous-with-foreign-firms/article33899617.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Kites for a cause||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kites-for-a-cause/article33899211.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Show of support||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/show-of-support/article33899220.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Rustic charm||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rustic-charm/article33899603.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Pursuit of solution||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pursuit-of-solution/article33899280.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Honouring living legend||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/honouring-living-legend/article33899687.ece
22 February 2021||AMALAPURAM (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Konaseema region sees 80.29% voting in fourth phase||Konaseema region, comprising 16 mandals on Sunday, recorded 80.29% of polling amid deployment of huge police personnel and vigil by the election officials. Above 6.3 lakh voters exercised their franchise in the fourth phase of gram panchayat elections on Sunday.  Highest percentage Atreyapuram mandal registered the highest polling percentage of 85.34 and the lowest of 74.05% was recorded in Katrenkona mandal. As many as six mandals recorded less than 80 per cent polling: Katrenikona (74.05%), Kothapeta (79.85%), Malkipuram (79.23%), Ravulapalem (78.56%), Razole (76.93%) and Sakhinetipalli (75.90%), according to an official release. East Godavari SP Adnan Nayeem Asmi said that the final phase of elections has been completed peacefully without any untoward incident in any corner of the region on Sunday. District Election Observer B.R. Ambedkar, East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy and Amalapuram Sub Collector Himanshu Kaushik monitored the polling process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/konaseema-region-sees-8029-voting/article33899702.ece
22 February 2021||ANANTAPUR / KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Polling percentage comes down below 80% in Kurnool district||The polling percentage in Adoni Revenue Division of Kurnool district dipped below 80 in the fourth phase of panchayat election, while Penukonda Division in Anantapur district recorded 84.49%. The polls remained peaceful in both the districts with no incidents of violence being reported on Sunday. The counting process began immediately after the voters exercised their franchise. The overall poll percentage in all the four phases put together in Anantapur district was put at 82.64%, while the turnout was 80.83% in Kurnool district. The polling remained brisk in the morning with 49% of the votes were polled by 10.30 a.m. in Adoni Division. It slowed down in the afternoon. The arrangements made by the district administration was appreciated as the differently-abled and elderly voters were carried in wheelchairs or by physically lifting them wherever ramps were not available. No untoward incident Some effective steps taken by Superintendents of Police B. Satya Yesu Babu and Fakkeerappa Kaginelli in their respective districts ensured that there were no untoward incidents . District Collectors Gandham Chandrudu and G. Veerapandian supervised the polling process from the control rooms. Anantapur SP Yesu Babu went around polling stations in Penukonda division and kept in touch with the other officers in the 13 mandals of the district. The Kurnool SP visited the polling stations in Kappatrala following instructions from the Director-General of Police. Elections were held in 14 mandals of Adoni Division in Kurnool district. “The high voter turnout in the early hours was an indication of a conducive atmosphere for free and fair elections. The honorarium and daily allowances were transferred directly to the bank accounts of the polling officials by the end of the polling hours,” said Mr. Gandham Chandrudu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/polling-percentage-comes-down-below-80-in-kurnool-district/article33898999.ece
22 February 2021||B. Madhu Gopal,ANDHRA PRADESH||Taking up terrace gardening for green future||Have a penchant for gardening, but lack of space around your home is worrying you? Go for a terrace garden. A little space on your roof is enough to grow vegetables, fruits and flowers, and literally turn it into a nature lover’s paradise. “I used to raise plants in the open plot, when this house was not there. I was living in the house adjacent to my plot (Sector-1, MVP Colony) and used to enjoy nurturing the plants before going to office in the mornings and after returning home in the evenings,” says D. Naresh Kumar, vice president – HR and Administration, Visakha Container Terminal. About two decades ago, he was forced to remove the plants on his plot for construction of his house. He, however, ensured that a huge neem tree, which was growing on the plot was not axed. The basement of one of the main walls of the house was slightly moved backwards for this purpose, and it looks as though the tree has surfaced from the base of the wall. Mr. Naresh could not contain his enthusiasm for long. He thought of alternatives to raise plants and soon decided on terrace gardening. He joined the Organic Terrace Gardening (OTG) on Facebook and started gathering scientific information on it. He cut plastic drums vertically and filled them with coco peat, red soil, natural manure and neem powder to prevent pests. A metal structure was run around the terrace to allow creepers to support themselves. “I use the soil to grow flowering plants from August to February-end. After which I use the drums to grow leafy vegetables, and vegetables like brinjal, ladies finger and tomatoes for the remaining six months,” he says. Radish, purple turnip, broccoli, cauliflower, violet cabbage, pudina (mint), long beans, snake gourd, ivy gourd are some of the vegetables which adorn his terrace. A guava plant, bearing big fruits, pomegranate and a drumstick plant in drums are some of the trees on his terrace. He has procured an Alphonso mango sapling and is growing it in his terrace garden. Mr. Naresh Kumar bagged the first prize in the ‘individual home garden/terrace garden’ category in the AP Green Awards 2017 given by the AP Greening and Beautification Corporation. “One can work wonders by growing plants on their terrace,” says Mr. Naresh, who has retired as a secretary in Visakhapatnam Port Trust(VPT), before taking up his new assignment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/taking-up-terrace-gardening-for-green-future/article33899753.ece
22 February 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Showers slow down polling in Nellore dist.||Fourth phase of the gram panchayat elections were held in a peaceful manner in the two districts of South Coastal Andhra Pradesh on Sunday. However, intermittent showers due to depression in the Bay of Bengal and overcast sky all through the day brought down the voting percentage in Nellore district to 76% in the elections held in 12 mandals in Nellore Revenue Division for the 181 sarpanch and 1,527 ward member seats. Volunteers of the Indian Red Cross Society rendered a yeomen service bringing old people and differently-abled persons on wheel chairs to the rain-soaked polling stations. Over 3.36 lakh voters voted by 3.30 p.m. when polling came to a close. District Collector K.V.N.Chakradhar Babu along with Superintendent of Police Bharat Bhushan oversaw the polling process in, among other places, Buchireddypalem and Kodavalur mandals, while Joint Collector N. Prabhakar Reddy observed the polling process in Devarapalem, South Mopur and Pottipalem. One counting table for every 500 votes had been arranged to expedite declaration of the results, the Collector said. Adhering to COVID-19 protocol, people waited in long queues to exercise their franchise in Markapur Revenue Division in Prakasam district for 168 sarpanch and 1,261 ward member seats for which 472 sarpanch candidates and 2,664 ward member candidates are contesting. Polling started on a dull note initially but picked up later as an impressive voter turnout of 82.04% was registered in the district. It was 85.67% in Ardhaveedu mandal and 72 % in the villages in Kumarole mandal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/intermittent-showers-hamper-polling-in-nellore-district/article33899663.ece
22 February 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prakasam police win over voters||Prakasam police endeared themselves to voters by extending all possible assistance to exercise their franchise in the fourth and last phase of gram panchayat elections held in Markapur revenue division in Prakasam district on Sunday. Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal took the lead by visiting remote villages like Rayavaram, Devarajugattu, Jangamguntla and Thaticherla and helped create a conducive atmosphere for people to elect their representatives of their choice at the grassroots-level. Penugonda Vengamma (87) from Devarajagattu village was overwhelmed by emotions while interacting with the SP as a group of police personnel brought her in a wheelchair to the polling station. The elderly woman affectionately addressed the SP as her ‘grandson’ as the latter squatted, greeted her warmly and reciprocated her gesture. The SP responded by describing her as his favourite voter for the year 2021. “We will be always be at the service of people and extend assistance, especially to elderly people, to cast their vote,” he said. A Dalit woman S. Bala Nagamma (50) in Jangamguntla village thanked the police. “Unlike in the past, when I used to fear coming out to vote, I came out boldly this time to cast my vote shedding my fear thanks to the confidence instilled by the police,” she said. Similar was the experience of Katta Mariamma (54) from a Dalit colony in Taticherla village, near Kumarole. “I voted without fear now thanks to Prakasam police.” Dr. Sheikh Mohammad Rafi of Kanche Palli village in Prakasam district, who is the Chairman of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana Human Rights Commission, appreciated the Prakasam police for making foolproof arrangements for ensuring peaceful elections in the revenue division, an erstwhile Maoist stronghold. He noted that the services rendered by the police during the COVID-19 pandemic was laudable. He also commended the decision to postpone the vaccination programme for the personnel, despite many on the force contracting the dreaded disease while enforcing the lockdown to ensure safety of people. Some of them had even succumbed to the disease. Special forces like Andhra Pradesh Special Police (APSP) and Quick Reaction Teams were deployed to ensure smooth conduct of elections especially in the sensitive and hyper-sensitive villages, Mr. Kaushal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prakasam-police-win-over-voters/article33899661.ece
22 February 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rescued leopard cat died of internal injuries: DFO||The sub-adult leopard cat ( Prionailurus bengalensis) that had been rescued by the villagers and wildlife management authorities in the Rampa Agency in East Godavari district on February 11, died two days later due to major internal injuries while undergoing treatment offered by a team led by veterinarian Andra Phaneendra in Rajamahendravaram. After rescuing the animal, the villagers of Pandiri Maamidkota had informed the authorities concerned, who immediately shifted it to Rajamahendravaram for further treatment. “The leopard cat was subjected to some physical attack. Medical examination had revealed some internal injuries. It died after battling for life for two days,” C. Selvam, Divisional Forest Officer (Wildlife - Rajamahendravaram), told The Hindu . “The animal had suffered paralytic stroke in its hind legs due to internal injuries. Though it initially showed symptoms of recovery and was able to take food, it did not sustain it in the later stage of the treatment,” said Dr. Phaneendra, who was one of the doctors who carried out post-mortem. Dr. Phaneendra further said the animal, aged below one, had suffered some major physical injuries before it entered the village. “After conducting post-mortem on the Nagaravanam campus of the wildlife wing in Rajamahendravaram, it was buried on February 13 as the species falls under Schedule 1 of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. The is no possibility to preserve the carcass as a specimen for future reference,” Mr. Selvam said. As per records available with the Forest Department, the Papikonda National Park is home to the leopard cat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rescued-leopard-cat-dies-of-internal-injuries-dfo/article33899659.ece
22 February 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||78.7% polling in Chittoor||With the final phase of elections coming to a peaceful end, barring sporadic minor skirmishes, it was curtains for the voting process in Chittoor and Kadapa districts on Sunday. In Chittoor district, Collector M. Hari Narayanan announced that polling was conducted in a free and fair manner in 13 mandals in the fourth phase, wherein 2.95 lakh out of the 3.75 lakh voters came out to exercise their franchise, taking the poll percentage to 78.7%. Beyond the temple city of Tirupati, the Tirupati Urban police district is spread across 10 mandals including Renigunta, Yerpedu, Srikalahasti, Thottambedu, B.N. Kandriga, Chandragiri and Ramachandrapuram, where polling was held on Sunday. Superintendent of Police (Tirupati Urban) Ch. Venkata Appala Naidu, who visited some of the sensitive booths, also monitored the poll-related developments throughout the day from the Central Command Control Unit. While announcing measures for the counting process, he said additional forces would be deployed to ensure order on the day of counting. Kadapa district registered 85.13% turnout for polling 114 panchayats in eleven mandals of Jammalamadugu and Pulivendula divisions. Collector Ch. Hari Kiran said the voters of all 540 panchayats in 48 mandals exercised their franchise in a free and fair environment in the district in the four phases. However, in Bramhamgari Matham mandal, a person died in clashes between two groups, while another was attacked by rivals in Joukupalle when he was preparing to file nomination for the ZPTC polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/787-polling-in-chittoor/article33899002.ece
22 February 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Kumbh Sandesh Yatra’ flagged off from Tirupati||‘Kumbh Sandesh Yatra’, a nation-wide tour aimed at rekindling interest towards spirituality and ancient practices among people, was flagged off from Tirupati on Sunday. Bridging gap between cultures As part of the yatra, the vehicle will touch Kanyakumari and Haridwar, in a bid to bridge the gap between northern and southern India. “Confluence of Ganga and Yamuna at Prayagraj is the essence of Kumbh and in this context, we aim to achieve confluence of cultures and thoughts,” said M. Srinivasulu Reddy, Executive Chairman of the yatra and Gramodaya Chamber of Commerce and Technology (GCOT). GCOT national committee member and Andhra Pradesh In-charge Jalli Madhusudhan said the vehicle that arrived from Hyderabad to Tirupati, would further cover Chennai, Chidambaram, Madurai and Tiruchirapalli before reaching Kanyakumari. Padayatra planned The vehicle will touch the four major spiritual centres where Kumbh Mela is conducted, viz., Nashik, Ujjain, Prayagraj and finally Haridwar. A padayatra has been planned from Delhi to Haridwar ahead of the ensuing Kumbh Mela. ‘Delhi’ Vasanth, who shot to fame a decade back by taking out a padayatra from Zaheerabad (Telangana) to Delhi in support of farmers, said the event also involved reinvigorating ancient Indian practices and shunning the ‘imported’ western practices. Acharya Anvesh, a member of the Kumbh Mela committee, said the ideas gathered from cultural nerve centres across the country would be tabled before the meet of Sadhus and religious heads to prepare a road map for future. The apolitical event was attended by leaders of the BJP and Congress parties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kumbh-sandesh-yatra-flagged-off-from-tirupati/article33899004.ece
22 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||85.64% voting in fourth phase in Krishna dist.||Krishna district witnessed a voter turnout of 84.97% in the gram panchayat elections conducted in the four phases. In the fourth phase conducted in the Nuzvid revenue division on Sunday, a turnout of 85.64%, the highest among the four, was registered. The voter turnout in the first phase (Vijayawada division) was 85.06%, which was the highest in the State. In the second phase (Gudivada division), it was 84.24%. It was 84.9% in the third phase (Bandar division). 115-year-old Nani Bee was the oldest voter to exercise her franchise in the elections at Davajigudem of Gannavaram mandal, the district officials said. Collector A.Md. Imtiaz appreciated the woman and her family for setting an example. Elections were conducted in 275 villages of 14 mandals in Nuzvid division. As of 8.30 p.m., results for 77 sarpanch elections and 1,724 ward member elections were announced by polling officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/8564-voting-in-fourth-phase-in-krishna-dist/article33899745.ece
22 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||At 88, single-day COVID tally hits a new peak in a fortnight||The State reported 88 new infections, the highest in the last 15 days, in the 24 hours ending Sunday morning. Chittoor and Krishna districts saw a spike in the new infections. There were, however, no fatalities during the period. With the new cases, the tally increased to 8,89,298, while the death toll remained at 7,167. The mortality rate with put at 0.81%. The number of recoveries increased to 8,81,511 as 72 more patients recovered during the period. The recovery rate stood at 99.12%. As of Sunday morning, there were 620 active cases in the State. Positivity rate In the past one day, 31,680 samples were tested and 0.28% of them turned positive. The overall positivity rate came down to 6.48% and the tests per million ratio stood at 2.57 lakh. Chittoor once again reported the highest single-day tally of 21. In the last one week, the district had reported 107 of the total 429 infections. While Krishna district reported 52 cases in the last one week, Prakasam and Vizianagaram reported five and three cases respectively. The tally of new infections in other districts was as follows: Krishna (19), Visakhapatnam (11), Srikakulam (8), Guntur (8), Nellore (7), Kadapa (7), East Godavari (3), Anantapur (3) and Prakasam (1). There were no new cases in West Godavari, Vizianagaram and Kurnool. The overall district-wise tallies were as follows: East Godavari (1,24,397), West Godavari (94,306), Chittoor (87,316), Guntur (75,662), Anantapur (67,721), Nellore (62, 434), Prakasam (62,198), Kurnool (60,858), Visakhapatnam (59,970), Kadapa (55,341), Krishna (48,872), Srikakulam (46,176), Vizianagaram (41,152).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/at-88-single-day-covid-19-tally-hits-a-new-peak-in-a-fortnight/article33899152.ece
22 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Panchayat elections sealed Naidu’s fate, says YSRCP leader||The ongoing panchayat elections in the State sealed the political fate of TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu, YSRCP general secretary T. Raghuram said on Sunday. In a statement, Mr. Raghuram said that in all the four phases of the elections, the voters’ verdict reflected their satisfaction with what Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had done ever since his party came to power in the State. He said the verdict proved that Mr. Naidu had mislead people saying that the YSRCP had won the general elections by manipulating the EVMs. “The panchayat elections were all about the welfare programmes launched by the government versus the conspiracy theories unleashed by the TDP. Good won over evil. The elections proved that the TDP has no future. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy will march ahead with his welfare and development agenda,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/panchayat-elections-sealed-naidus-fate-says-ysrcp-leader/article33899747.ece
22 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. misses revenue collection targets||The State government has apparently missed the revenue collection targets so far during the 2020-21 financial year if the figures under the GST, Petroleum Products, Liquor, and Professional Tax are any indication. The government had set itself a target of mopping up a revenue of Rs. 43,332.21 crore up to January 2021 during the financial year. It, however, could realise only Rs. 32,617.01 crore (75.27%). In contrast, the revenue realised during the corresponding period in 2019-20 was Rs. 36,204.02 crore. Also, there was a negative growth of 9.91% when compared with the previous financial year. According to sources, a growth in the Goods and Services Tax (GST) collections offers a respite. The collections during the current fiscal so far have registered a growth of 2.44% compared to the previous year. The government had set itself a target of collecting a GST of Rs. 22,553.06 crore up to January 2021. Of this, it could realise Rs. 18,968.20 crore (84.10%). Though the government has missed the target, the revenue realisation has surpassed that of the previous financial year when it mobilised Rs. 18,515.69 crore. When it comes to realising the Commercial Taxes target, all the 13 divisions of the department are lagging as they have registered a negative growth when compared with the previous financial year. The negative growth is in the range of 1.14% and 45.32%, sources say. Vijayawada - II division of the department stood first by collecting Rs. 3,127.33 crore (62.25%) against the target of Rs. 5,024 crore, while Vizianagaram district stood last with a collection of Rs. 292.95 crore against the target of Rs. 432.61 crore (67.72%). The percentage of target (Rs. 1,595 crore) achieved by Anantapur division was 38.49. In Narsaraopet division, while the target was to achieve Rs. 653 crore, the amount realised was Rs. 463 crore (70.93%). There was a loss of 75% revenue during the initial months of lockdown. It, however, was brought down to 25% by July 2020. The situation improved thereafter. The department could achieve 80.46% of the GST target for July 2020. The special drives yielded positive results and the achieved 84.10% of the GST target by January 2021, said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-misses-revenue-collection-targets/article33899669.ece
22 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Now, SEC to focus on municipal elections||State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar will be holding a video-conference with the District Collectors, the Superintendents of Police, and the Municipal Commissioners on February 22 to take stock of the arrangements for resuming the elections to the Urban Local Bodies (12 Municipal Corporations and 75 Municipalities / Nagar Panchayats) scheduled to be conducted on March 10. By March 14 last, the process of elections had been completed up to the stage of scrutiny of nominations. It had to be stopped later due to the looming COVID-19 threat. In his recent orders, the SEC had stipulated that the last day for withdrawal of nominations was March 3, and that the list of contestants be published the same day after 3 p.m. Re-poll, if necessary, would have to be conducted on March 13. Counting of votes would be done on March 14. The recognised political parties, whose candidates (numbering 56) had died in the last 10 months, were instructed to nominate candidates as their replacement by February 28. Having ensured successful conduct of the gram panchayat elections, in which the YSRCP has claimed to have dealt yet another severe blow to the TDP, Mr. Ramesh Kumar has turned his attention to the elections for the ULBs, wherein the stakes are high due to the direct involvement of the political parties. In Monday’s video-conference, Mr. Ramesh Kumar will discuss the arrangements for the smooth conduct of the elections, for which the parties have already begun campaigning. The YSRCP’s claim that it has won over 80% of the sarpanch and ward member posts will be put to litmus test by the voters in the cities and towns where the government has aggressively implemented a slew of welfare schemes. Mr. Ramesh Kumar, who was happy that the panchayat elections passed off peacefully, hopes that the officers and staff, and all stakeholders will ensure that the ULB elections too are devoid of any major trouble.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-sec-to-focus-on-local-body-elections/article33898934.ece
22 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Automobile dealers see rise in demand for e-vehicles||The State is eager to usher in green energy on roads by introducing electric vehicles (EVs) in the fleet of the AP State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC). These battery-charged EVs may soon become a common sight on the roads with private automobile dealers too realising the significance of the cost-effective and clean and green mode of transport. From MG Motors stable “Rising costs of petrol and diesel have forced people to look for alternative options to cater to their transport needs. There is a significant rise in demand for EVs,” concedes Gautham Sai, Director, MG Motors, Vijayawada, which is all set to launch sale of the country's first electric SUV – MG ZS EV, on February 26. The e-SUV can be charged using both home AC socket and a DC fast charger. “The battery requires 60 minutes to be charged via a fast charger, which will be available at the showroom, or 6-8 hours through portable charger that the buyer will get along with the car,” said Mr. Sai. With the fuel cost of only Rs. 1 per km in EVs, the demand for e-cars is bound to rise, says Mr. Sai, informing that he has already received 18 bookings for the SUVs priced at Rs. 22.38 lakh (basic model) to Rs. 25.57 lakh (top end). Electric cars and scooters run on electrical batteries that can be recharged by plugging the vehicle into a charging station. By using electricity rather than gas, the e-vehicles cut down on dangerous emissions and air pollution. While e-vehicles are a major benefit, the viability of setting up charging stations is seen as a hurdle. Tricky situation It’s a tricky situation. Those considering foray into the e-charging business feel that the number of EVs running on the road do not provide adequate numbers to put up charging stations, while the manufacturers see lack of stations as a dampener for sale of these low-emission automobiles. To address this issue, Chandana Corporation, a city-based firm, which rolled out e-scooters under the brand of Avera Energy, has established a solar-powered electric vehicle charging station with Energy Storage System (ESS) on Ramavarappadu Ring Road. “This is a scalable model developed to demonstrate how e-vehicles can be driven relying on sunshine,” says founder and CEO, Avera Energy, Ramana Ave. The charging station, independent of the grid, can already generate 20 kW of power (another 30 kW under process). As a back-up, the plant is also equipped with lithium iron phosphate batteries with a storage capacity of 10 kW. From the time of its launch in 2019, the company has sold 1,400 e-scooters. “The pandemic slowed the process, but from Ugadi, I see a rise in demand again,” says Mr. Ramana, who is targeting a sale of 5,000 - 7,000 e-scooters as part of business expansion in seven States. “To begin with, the charging station will serve only two and three-wheelers,” he says, informing that the new facility will be formally launched in the first week of March.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/automobile-dealers-see-rise-in-demand-for-e-vehicles/article33899672.ece
22 February 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||83.76% polling registered in West Godavari||The fourth and final phase of the gram panchayat elections passed off peacefully in West Godavari district on Sunday. Polling was incident-free in all the 12 mandals in Eluru division. About 83.76% polling was recorded, said District Collector. More than 80% electors exercised their franchise at Tadepalligudem, Unguturu, Pedavegi, Pentapadu, Ganapavaram, Nallajarla, Nidamarru and other mandals in the district. Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik visited the hypersensitive villages in Tadepalligudem, Eluru and other mandals. He said the elections were conducted peacefully in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/8376-polling-registered-in-west-godavari/article33899667.ece
22 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Issue fresh notification for MPTC, ZPTC polls’||Jana Sena Party (JSP) president Pawan Kalyan has requested the State Election Commissioner (SEC) N. Ramesh Kumar to issue a fresh notification for MPTC and ZPTC elections on the ground that the process that happened before the pandemic was fraught with irregularities. Mr. Kalyan said many JSP candidates were prevented from filing nominations. He welcomed the SEC’s decision to give another chance for such candidates to file their nominations subject to submission of proof of attacks and intimidation. He assleged that complaints were not being taken seriously. “JSP leaders were sent to meet the Collectors with valid proofs, but to no avail,” he said. . He said justice would be done only if a fresh notification is issued, and expressed his resolve to make an appeal in the High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/issue-fresh-notification-for-mptc-zptc-polls/article33899675.ece
22 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Photo journalist honoured||Senior photo journalist Ch.V.S.Vijaya Bhaskara Rao was honoured with the title ‘Master of Federation of Indian Photography (MIFP)’ by the Federation of Indian Photography. The distinction for the year 2020 has been awarded to him for his work on tribal women and their lifestyle. Mr. Rao said MFIP was one of the highest honours in the field of photography in the country. Previously, Mr. Rao worked with The Hindu as the Chief Photographer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/photo-journalist-honoured/article33899746.ece
22 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spreading awareness on COVID through dance||Visitors at the Punnami Ghat on the Krishna river banks were in for a pleasant surprise on Sunday morning. A group of students of the Lawrence Dance Institute in the city performed with a message that urged people to strictly adhere to the COVID-appropriate behaviour. Institute choreographer Kumar said it is very disturbing that people neglecting when it comes to taking precautions after the lockdown was lifted. “Many people are seen not wearing masks and not maintaining social distance in public places. There is every likelihood of the resurgence of the infection,” he said and appealed to the people not to lower guards. He said the performance by the students was aimed at spreading awareness. “We are planning to organise such programmes at public places with huge crowds,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spreading-awareness-on-covid-through-dance/article33899748.ece
22 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Radha-Ranga’ organisation formed||Followers and admirers of Vangaveeti Mohana Ranga Rao and Vangaveeti Radha Krishna Rao from across the State announced formation of ‘Radha-Ranga Organisation’, aimed at rendering social service. Representatives of the organisation including Gade Balaji, Konda Harikrishna, Peddireddy Pradeep and others addressed media here on Saturday. Mr. Harikrishna said the organisation’s only aim is to serve the society in the name of Ranga and Radha and it has no affiliation with any political party. Mr. Harikrishna said that soon the organisation will be formally launched, and State, district and village-level committees in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana would be formed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/radha-ranga-organisation-formed/article33898997.ece
22 February 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||192 girders erected at Polavaram in record time||The Megha Engineering Infrastructure Limited (MEIL) has completed the spillway work, which was claimed to be the largest operation in the world, by installing 192 girders on the spillway at the Polavaram project on Sunday. The work was completed in 60 days. Each girder, weighing about 62 tonnes, was 23 metres long.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/192-girders-erected-at-polavaram-in-record-time/article33899670.ece
22 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Panchayat elections see 86.94% turnout||The fourth phase of gram panchayat elections, which were held in six mandals in the Visakhapatnam district, recorded 86.94 % polling here on Sunday. The fourth and final phase of elections reported the highest polling percentage compared to those in the earlier three phases, according to the officials. The first three phases recorded polling percentages of 84.23, 84.06 and 69.38 in Anakapalle, Narsipatnam and Paderu revenue divisions respectively. All the four phases of panchayat polls reported a voter turnout of 81.15 % in the district. The elections were conducted in Anandapuram, Bheemili, Padmanabham, Parawada, Sabbavaram and Pendurthi mandals on Sunday. A large number of voters, especially youth and elderly persons, were seen coming to the polling booths to cast their votes. Though the voting percentage was just 17 in the first two hours, it gradually increased in all the mandals. Out of total 2.26 lakh voters, 1.96 lakh voters cast their vote. Pendurthi mandal recorded the highest polling percentage of 90.69, followed by Anandapuram mandal with 88.80. A total of 279 candidates contested for 103 sarpanch posts and 1,965 candidates contested for 904 ward members posts. As many as 117 sarpanch offices were notified for elections, of which 14 were unanimously elected. Similarly, 295 of 1,200 ward members were elected unanimously. More than 1,500 police officials, including five ACP/DCP rank officers, 10 Circle Inspectors and 1,174 police constables, were deployed and control rooms were opened. District Collector V. Vinay Chand said that the elections were conducted in a peaceful manner. He inspected the polling centre at ZP High School at Vellanki village of Anandapuram mandal on Sunday evening. According to the district officials, out of 103 sarpanch posts, 97 panchayat results were declared by 10.30 p.m. Results of all the 904 ward member candidates were declared by the polling officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/8694-turnout-in-visakhapatnam/article33899666.ece
22 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP changing stand on privatisation of steel plant, alleges Ganta||Former Minister Ganta Srinivasa Rao has taken strong exception to the BJP leaders’ alleged change of stand on privatisation of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) during the past few days. Addressing a media conference here on Sunday, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that all parties were opposed to the privatisation of the VSP and had fought against the decision of the Centre. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi opposing the decision and so did former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu. Jana Sena Party (JSP) and State BJP and the Left parties had all organised protests against the move, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said. The former Minister said that during the last two days, the BJP leaders had changed their stand alleging that the Opposition parties were raising a hue and cry though the nothing has happened to the VSP. He wondered what more clarity was needed after Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced in the Budget that VSP would be fully privatised. Union Steel Minister Dharmendra Pradhan had replied to a query raised by Rajya Sabha Member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy that an agreement was made with POSCO in October, 2019, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said. Mr. Pradhan had also said that discussions were held with POSCO representatives thrice, he added. Mr. Srinivasa Rao ridiculed the BJP leaders for saying that the VSP would not be moved out of the city. Once the plant was privatised, the fate of the plant and its employees would be in the hands of the private investor, the former Minister said. He recalled that Hindustan Zinc Limited (HZL) plant in Visakhapatnam was run for two years after it was privatised and later shut down by the investor. He demanded that the BJP leaders come out with an assurance that they would not allow privatisation of the VSP. JSP Chief Pawan Kalyan has greater responsibility as his party was an ally of the BJP, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said. He recalled that former MP K. Yerrannaidu had sought allocation of captive mines for the VSP in 2006. He called for collective efforts to prevent privatisation of the steel plant. He also called upon films stars, intellectuals, sports persons and poets to oppose the move. He alleged that while people were agitated on the issue, the BJP was trying to divert their attention.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-changing-stand-on-vsp-privatisation-ganta/article33899749.ece
22 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ready proposals for development of Dwaraka bus station: RTC MD||APSRTC Vice Chairman and Managing Director R.P. Thakur has asked the officials to ready proposals for development of the five-storeyed Dwaraka Bus Station (DBS) Complex building . Mr. Thakur inspected the DBS Complex, popularly known as RTC Complex, and Maddilapalem RTC Depot on Sunday. He observed that a few parts of the bus complex were under utilised and suggested their development and utilisation for commercial purposes. He presented cash awards to Depot Managers Udaya Sree (Madhurawada) and Dilleswara Rao (Visakhapatnam), and Supervisors Suryanarayana, Soma Raju and Rakesh of Madhurawada Depot and to Supervisors Sreenivasa Rao, Satyavathi and Ramana of Visakhapatnam Depot. Madhurawada Depot stood first and Visakhapatnam Depot stood fourth in the State for achieving 100% target volume with Earning Per Kilometre (EPK) of corresponding month of previous year. Mr. Thakur interacted with RTC associations, delegates and members and appealed to them to improve their performance by reducing the expenditure and by operating buses keeping in view the needs of passengers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ready-proposals-for-development-of-dwaraka-bus-station-rtc-md/article33899677.ece
22 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police geared up for polls, says DGP||Director General of Police Gautam Sawang has said that the Police Department is geared up to ensure incident-free elections for the municipal corporations and municipalities scheduled to be held on March 10. The DGP inspected the polling centre of gram panchayat election at Saripalle village in Pendurthi mandal in the district on Sunday. He interacted with a few voters and staff working at the centre and enquired about the arrangements. Speaking to the media, Mr. Sawang lauded the police personnel in conducting the gram panchayat polls in a peaceful manner. The State witnessed a very few incidents of disturbances during the panchayat polls, he said and attributed it to the prompt response of the police personnel. Mr. Sawang said the police handled stray incidents professionally and brought the situation under control. Action was initiated against the troublemakers, he added. Describing voting as a fundamental right of citizens in a democracy, he expressed satisfaction at the huge turnout of voters, especially women, elderly persons and differently-abled, in North Andhra districts. Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha and DCP (Zone I) Aishwarya Rastogi accompanied the DGP during his visit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-geared-up-for-polls-says-dgp/article33899678.ece
22 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC organising street plays to create awareness on plastic pollution||The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC), as part of Swachh Survekshan(SS) survey, has been organising street plays at various areas to create awareness among people on the growing plastic pollution in the city. Members of the Rasagna Seva Cultural Association has been staging ‘Plastic Penubhootham’ street play at various areas. The artistes are also explaining about various components of SS-2021 during their play. Chief Medical Officer K.S.L.G. Sastry said that apart from imposing fines on those vendors, who are using plastic covers of less than 50 microns thickness, the GVMC was also conducting awareness campaigns. The response to the street plays was good, he added. “Even though there are no manufacturers of such plastic covers, we found that many vendors are procuring the banned products from Odisha. Through the street play, we are sending a clear message to the citizens that there are many alternatives to plastics. The artists are doing a good job explaining the environmental hazard being caused due to plastic pollution,” he added. The GVMC is also organising some plays to create awareness on source segregation, cleanliness and a few components of the SS-2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvmc-organising-street-plays-to-create-awareness-on-plastic-pollution/article33899758.ece
22 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man held for ‘stealing’ bag containing gold jewellery||The city police arrested a 35-year-old man for allegedly stealing a bag containing gold ornaments worth about Rs. 1.50 lakh from a visitor at Rama Krishna Beach, here on Sunday. The arrested was identified as S. Narasimha (35), a resident of Gollalapalem area in the city and native of Srikakulam district. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crimes) V. Suresh Babu said that Narasimha is working as a mason. On February 19, a man from Chennai had visited R.K Beach along with his family members. Keeping their bag containing gold ornaments on the sand, Narasimha went for swimming. After returning, he found the bag missing. Based on the complaint, the police registered a case and arrested the accused. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-held-for-stealing-bag-containing-gold-jewellery/article33899706.ece
22 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSET results today||Member Secretary of Andhra Pradesh State Eligibility Test (APSET) K. Srinivas Rao has said that the APSET 2020 results will be uploaded on the official websitehttps://apset.net.inon Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apset-results-today/article33899679.ece
22 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Historic struggle for VSP recalled||The South Central Zone Insurance Employees’ Federation vice president P. Satish has recalled the historic struggle for the achievement of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) and 32 persons losing their lives for the sake of the plant. At a seminar organised by the Insurance Corporation Employees’ Union(ICEU), Visakhapatnam, here on Sunday, Mr. Satish said that the Centre was dismantling the VSP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/historic-struggle-for-vsp-recalled/article33899754.ece
22 February 2021||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Polling goes off peacefully in Vizianagaram, Srikakulam||The final phase of election process went off peacefully in Maoist-dominated areas of Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts. Voter turnout was also significant in all 238 panchayats of Vizianagaram district which recorded 87.09% polling. The panchayats which come under 11 mandals such as Dattirajeru, Gajapthinagaram, Mentada, Bondapalli, Gantyada, Jami, L.Kota, S. Kota, Kothavalasa, Vepada and Nellimarla witnessed a flurry of electoral activity from 6.30 a.m. itself.  Massive turnout Lakkavarapukota mandal registered 90.99%, the highest in the State. Kothavalasa mandal, which mostly comprises urban and industrial areas, registered 82.87%, the lowest in the district in the final phase. Out of 3,88,650 votes, 3,38,477 votes were polled in the final phase. Vizinagaram Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal expressed happiness over the massive turnout at polling booths while thanking people for participating in the poll process peacefully. Srikakulam Collector J. Nivas and Superintendent of Police Amit Bardar expressed satisfaction over the completion of elections without any untoward incidents. “There were no untoward incidents in 259 panchayats although the some of them are very sensitive. We are thankful to the oters who cooperated with the district administration for the completion of all phases in a peaceful manner,” said Mr. Nivas while speaking to reporters after visiting Faridpet, D. Matyalesham and J.R. Puram of Etcherla Assembly constituency. The election was conducted in nine mandals including Etcherla, G. Sigadam, Ranasthalam, Gara, Srikakulam, Narasannapeta, Jalumuru and Polaki mandas. Deputy Chief Minister Dharmana Krishnadas personally monitored the election process in his native village Mubagam of Narasannapeta. Srikakulam MLA Dharmana Prasada Rao focused on Srikakulam and Gara mandals which are part of his constituency. Former MLA of Srikakulam Gunda Lakshmi Devi has also toured several villages to assess the ground-level situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/polling-peaceful-in-vizianagaram-srikakulam/article33899665.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP to renominate candidate for Kadiri Municipality elections||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has been allowed to nominate another person for the post of corporator from Ward no. 2 in the Kadiri municipal elections as its candidate Ramakrishna died last year after filing his nomination last year.  SEC order The Kadiri Municipal Commissioner said that the State Election Commission permitted only the BJP to nominate another person in the place of Ramakrishna if they so desired. The SEC had issued orders providing for the replacement of candidates in case of such a situation with regard to recognised political parties. The party can nominate another candidate by 3 p.m. on February 28, according to the municipal commissioner’s notification. Other political parties, however, cannot replace their existing candidates now. Poll schedule Withdrawal of nominations for the municipal elections will begin on March 2 and end at 3 p.m. on March 3, after which the final list of candidates will be announced and polling will be held wherever needed on March 10. Repolling will be held (if necessary) on March 13 and counting of votes will be on March 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-to-renominate-candidate-for-kadiri-municipality-elections/article33899000.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bumpy ride ahead!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bumpy-ride-ahead/article33899751.ece
22 February 2021||HARIDASPUR (SANGAREDDY DISTRICT),TELANGANA||Girl children get pride of place in Haridaspur||In rare gesture, some girl children were honoured in this village by applying turmeric and parani to their feet -- thus treating them as Goddesses. This was performed by C.S. Rangarajan, chief priest of Chilkur Balaji temple. All the girls were called on the dias and ‘parani’ was offered to their feet by Mr. Rangarajan, while priests chanted hymns. “Jatayu Sainyam should be there to protect women. This is festival of Mahalakshmi. A girl is nothing short of Goddess Durga. Even during kanyadanam , bridegroom’s father takes bride from her father. This shows how the system accorded priority to woman,” said Mr. Rangarajan, adding that people of Haridaspur are doing a great job. He urged people to honour and protect women. District Rural Development Officer Ch. Srinivas Rao, Zilla Parishad Chief Executive Officer Ellaiah, Revenue Divisional Officer M. Nagesh and other officials were present. Earlier in the day, Mr. Rangarajan visited temples in the village and offered prayers, even as children played kolatam . The village has been in the headlines since January last year after villagers started celebrating the birth of girl children. During the last one year, eight girls were born in the village and each time it was celebrated like a festival. Not only that, all the girl children in the village got Sukanya Samrudhi Yojana (SSY) accounts with the help of panchayat and philanthropists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/girl-children-get-pride-of-place-in-haridaspur/article33899500.ece
22 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Heart health revealed at diagnostic mini hubs||At least 35 people, whose heart condition is in a critical stage, came to know about it when they were examined at Telangana Diagnostic Mini Hubs. These patients were given the options of either going to a tertiary care government hospital in an ‘108 ambulance’ or use their own transport to get admitted to a hospital of their choice. Apart from Electrocardiogram (ECG), Ultrasonography (USG) and X-Ray tests too, are offered free of cost at the eight mini hubs in Hyderabad. Since people have to spend anywhere between Rs. 800-1,200 for USG, around Rs. 400 for ECG, Rs. 200-400 for X-Ray tests at private establishments, there is high demand for the services at the mini hubs. Senior officials in the Commissioner of Health and Family Welfare division said that some of the days, the mini hubs were packed to capacity. From January 22 this year, when doors of the eight labs were opened, to February 16, 4,411 people opted for the services. Of them, the highest of 2,179 were for ultrasound tests. As the word spread, even patients who were prescribed tests at a private hospital, opted for the government service. “A few patients visited with reference from private practitioners. But, we need reference from a government health centre doctor to initiate the process,” said K. Mounika, a lab manager in Seetaphalmandi. Since only two radiologists are available for all the mini hubs, they work on rotation basis. Lab managers said that there is heavy rush on the days the radiologists conduct ultrasound tests. Prescription To avail the service, a person needs prescription from an Urban Primary Healthcare Centre (UPHC), Urban Community Healthcare Centre (UCHC), or Basti Dawakhanas. A referral slip with bar code will be generated and the patient will be referred to a mini hub. There are eight mini hubs located in Barkas, Jangamet, Amberpet, Puranapul, Panipura, Seetaphalmandi, Sriramnagar and Lalapet. Currently, patients are handed over hard copies of the test reports, and there are plans to make the reports accessible online. In case of ECG, the readings are analysed by Artificial Intelligence and observations categorised as normal, abnormal or critical. If a patient is detected with a critical heart condition, he or she will be informed about it and will be given an option to rush to a tertiary care government hospital such as Gandhi Hospital in an ‘108 ambulance’ or use their own mode of transport to get admitted at a hospital of their choice. “The process of analysing the reports will be completed in a span of 10 minutes to 15 minutes. The patient will be asked to wait for sometime and the findings will be informed to them,” said M. Srinivas, a radiographer at the mini hub in Seetaphalmandi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/heart-health-alert-at-diagnostic-mini-hubs/article33899568.ece
22 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hypermarket told to refund Rs. 3 for carry bag, pay Rs. 15k damages||A consumer disputes redressal commission directed a hypermarket to give carry bags printed with company logo free of charge to customers, refund Rs. 3 which the company had charged for a carry bag printed with its logo, and pay Rs. 15,000 as compensation. The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission – II at Hyderabad bench comprising president Vakkanti Narasimha Rao, and members P.V.T.R. Jawahar Babu and R.S. Rajashree was dealing with a complaint filed by Baglekar Akash Kumar (21), a student, against More Megastore Retail Limited in Errumanzil. The complainant stated that on June 1, 2019, he bought a product and paid Rs. 118 which included the price of a plastic carry bag. He stated that by charging Rs. 3 for the carry bag with its logo printed on it, the company had used the customer as an ‘advertising agent’, which is an unfair trade practice. He cited a Chandigarh Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission order. The opposite party denied all allegations and contended that it did not force the complainant to buy the carry bag, and that no regulation mandates supplying free carry bags to customers. The complainant is free to bring his own carry bag to to purchase one and cited an order of the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission in Ernakulam. It also contended that by providing plastic carry bags of 50 microns thickness, as mandated by Plastic Waste Management Rules, it is neither advertising itself, nor using the consumer as an advertising agent. It underscored that signboards are prominently placed at locations in their stores which encourage customers to bring their own carry bags, and that purchasing them is an optional. Taking all evidence and arguments placed on record, the bench noted that the issue is whether the opposite parties have their customers as advertising agents by selling them carry bags with the company’s logo printed on them without prior notice so that they may choose. The commission ordered the opposite party to not charge customers for carry bags with their logo. In case carry bags without logo are available, these could be chargeable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hypermarket-told-to-refund-rs-3-for-carry-bag-pay-rs-15k-damages/article33899565.ece
22 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rohingya refugees issued passports, alleges Aravind||The Bharatiya Janata Party has alleged a nexus between the ruling Telangana Rastra Samiti (TRS) and “certain officers” in the police department in issuing passports to Rohingyas refugees. “About 32 passports have been issued from a single address in Nizamabad constituency and another 40 from Bodhan -- but the government is silent about this. This is a matter of national security,” claimed Member of Parliament D. Aravind on Sunday. The MP charged that the refugees moved to Bangladesh from Myanmar first and then to West Bengal. He accused the Mamata Banerjee government of issuing Aadhaar cards. The passports have been issued after they migrated to Telangana with the “active connivance” of the government here, he claimed at a press conference. Mr. Aravind read out, what was purported to be a police investigation report into the activities of the Rohingya refugees which said that they have been involved in many criminal activities. The extent of the illegally obtained passports came into the open only when alert customs personal at the international airport quizzed them on noticing their “peculiar accent” whereas the police department, which actually verifies the addresses, had been clueless, he alleged. The TRS government had not reacted to the passport scam so far despite the “grave threat” to national security. “What is the Home Minister doing? What has his government done to the minority community so far? Is there any change in their living standards except for perpetuating vote bank politics?,” he questioned. Rally Meanwhile, earlier in the morning, the legal cell of the party took out a rally at the Secunderabad courts demanding justice to the slain lawyer couple near Manthani and arrest of the culprits responsible. Slogans of - we want Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to respond, we want justice, we condemn the government murders, it is a shame critics of this regime are being silenced - were raised and a delegation also proceeded towards Gunjapadugu village of Manthani constituency to meet the family of Vaman Rao. Party MLA T. Raja Singh demanded the government unravel the conspirators behind the murders as the lawyer couple had also filed public interest litigation against the Kaleshwaram irrigation project. “The police did not react even when the couple informed about the threats to their lives. Those who had benefitted from the corrupt deals in the project have decided to kill them so we need to investigate deep. We are for a CB-CID probe. We do not have confidence in the local police as the pace of investigation is too slow,” he said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rohingya-refugees-issued-passports/article33899498.ece
22 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Medchal DCC president joins BJP||Former MLA and Medchal District Congress Committee president Kuna Srisailam Goud resigned from the Congress and joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the presence of its national president J.P. Nadda in New Delhi. Mr. Goud was elected as an independent MLA from Qutbullapur constituency in 2009 after the Congress denied him ticket but later returned to the party fold. He also held the post of chairman of Andhra Pradesh Police Housing Corporation during the Chief Ministership of Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy. In a video message released here, he said his decision comes in the wake of pressure from his followers and supporters. He said only the BJP has the strength and the courage to defeat the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) and his intention is to get on to a strong platform to fight against the ‘anti-people’ policies of the TRS government. Mr. Goud also took a dig at the Congress leadership in the State saying they were busy targeting each other rather than the government. If a leader takes up a programme against the government, others follow their own path defeating the very purpose of it. He said it is strange that despite the resignation of the TPCC chief N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, the Congress leadership in Delhi has failed to appoint a new PCC president so far indicating the internal differences in the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/medchal-dcc-chief-joins-bjp/article33899584.ece
22 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘ICAR changing curriculum to meet present, future needs’||The Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) has been modifying the curriculum of agricultural courses frequently, based on the present and future demands of the farm sector, Deputy Director General (Education) of ICAR R.C. Agarwal has said. Speaking at the virtual launch of the two-day 6th national youth convention on innovation and agricultural reforms for farmer prosperity, jointly organised by Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University(PJTSAU) and All India Agricultural Students Association (AIASA) on Saturday, he said ICAR had been trying to make students self-dependent and entrepreneurs. ICAR was funding establishment of incubation centres and experiential learning units in agricultural universities across the country, Mr. Agarwal said. He suggested the universities to maintain database of experimental learning units of various universities and also establish as many incubation centres in campuses. The Deputy Director General of ICAR asked the youth to remain in the agriculture sector after completing their education by showing their innovative farming methods and establishing profit-oriented business units. Chief Executive Officer of the National Rain-fed Authority Ashok Dalawai also spoke||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/icar-changing-curriculum-to-meet-present-future-needs/article33899590.ece
22 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KCR skipped NITI Aayog meet unable to confront Modi: Uttam||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) chief N. Uttam Kumar Reddy found fault with Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for skipping the meeting of NITI Aayog held on Saturday under the chairmanship of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. This is as good as surrendering and giving a free hand to the Modi government, he alleged. “As the Chief Minister of Telangana, Mr. Rao should have participated in the meeting to raise issues concerning the State. By skipping the meeting, he sent a clear message that either he is not interested in the development of Telangana or he has completely surrendered before the Modi government, giving it a free hand to do whatever it wants to,” he said adding that while the other Chief Ministers presented a wishlist for their respective States, Mr. Rao decided to take rest by assigning the job to Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar. Mr. Reddy was addressing a meeting at Tripuraram on Sunday in support of the Khammam-Warangal-Nalgonda Graduates constituency MLC candidate Ramulu Naik and K. Jana Reddy for the ensuing Nagarjunasagar bypoll. Besides Jana Reddy and Ramulu Naik, other Congress senior leaders including Shankar Naik, Madhavi and Karnati Linga Reddy also addressed the meeting. The TPCC chief said that neither the BJP government at the Centre nor the TRS government in the State, did anything for the people of Telangana, especially the voters of Nagarjunasagar constituency. He said it was Jana Reddy who brought immense development in Nagarjunasagar when he represented the constituency as MLA till 2018. Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy also alleged that the TRS and BJP are enacting a drama of rivalry by targeting each other. But in reality, they are shielding each other's failures and scams. He also challenged Telangana BJP president Bandi Sanjay to write a formal letter to his party's government at the Centre seeking probe into the corruption charges against Mr. Rao.  By skipping the meeting, Mr. Rao has completely surrendered before the Modi government, thus giving it a free hand to do whatever it wants to. N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, TPCC chief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-skipped-niti-aayog-meet-unable-to-confront-modi-uttam/article33899583.ece
22 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Most govt. hospitals lack equipment for tests||Hopeful patients coming to government hospitals for tests are facing a tough time as these hospitals either do not have the equipment or the devices are defunct. As a result, they are referred to other government hospitals that have the necessary equipment. However, in some cases, patients are forced to shell out Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 5,000 for tests at private hospitals. Since poor patients across the State visit hospitals in Hyderabad, doctors said that there is an urgent need to address the issue. Some of the hospitals, which specifically attend to organ issues, too, lack crucial equipment. The Government General and Chest Hospital does not have CT scan, and Ultrasound equipment. “CT scan is used to detect cancer or any early tumour in lungs, and tuberculosis. Since the Chest Hospital do not have the machine, patients are referred to MNJ Institute of Oncology Regional Cancer Centre. However, the institute did not take the referral patients during the pandemic. So some patients were forced to spend money at private hospitals. CT scan in private hospitals cost around Rs. 5,000,” sources in the hospital said. The sources added that they have only one machine each for Bronchoscopy and Thoracoscopy. Also, Electroretinogram (ERG), Electrooculogram (EOG), and Visual Evoked Potential (VEP) are not there at Sarojini Devi Eye Hospital. “ERG is used to detect retinopathy. Since no government hospital has the equipment, patients have no other option but private hospital where the test costs around Rs. 2,000. Apart from ERG, we do not have EOG, and VEP for at least 20 years,” sources in the hospital said. At Gandhi Hospital, Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) machine is defunct. Senior officials from the State Health department said that orders to provide MRI machines at Gandhi Hospital and Osmania General Hospital (OGH) were issued long back. Besides, they said that plans are afoot to provide CT scan machines to all the teaching hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/most-govt-hospitals-lack-equipment-for-tests/article33899569.ece
22 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||163 more test COVID positive in TS||Telangana recorded 163 COVID cases on Saturday, taking the total to 2,97,598. While 23,607 people were examined, results of 692 were awaited. One more patient has died. The new cases include 29 from GHMC, 12 from RR,11 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, and 10 from Karimnagar. From March 2, 2020, to February 20, 84,56,940 people were tested and 2,97,598 were detected with COVID. Of the total cases, 1,731 were active, 2,94,243 recovered, and 1,624 people died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/163-more-test-covid-positive-in-state/article33899570.ece
22 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Minister’s directive on KCR birthday saplings||Minister for Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Errabelli Dayakar Rao has asked the people’s representatives, particularly the representatives of rural local bodies (RLBs), and officials who have planted one-crore saplings on Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s birthday on February 17 to protect them till reached a safe stage to grow on their own. In a review meeting held here on Saturday with Secretary (PR&RD) Sandeep Kumar Sultania and Commissioner Rural Development and Commissioner Panchayat Raj M. Raghunandan Rao, the Minister asked the sarpanches, upa-sarpanches, MPTC and ZPTC members, Mandal Parishad presidents and Zilla Parishad chairpersons to take the responsibility of protecting the saplings planted as part of the ‘Green Challenge’ (one-crore planatation) on the CM’s birthday along with those planted as part of Harita Haaram. On the ongoing exercise of promotions in the department, the Minister asked the officials to complete it at the earliest and prepare a list of vacant posts after the promotions. He also told them to complete the construction of Rythu Vedika buildings as only 9% of them were pending now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ministers-directive-on-kcr-birthday-saplings/article33899708.ece
22 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Karimnagar Dairy to go for milk fortification||The Karimnagar Milk Producer Company Limited, also known as the Karimnagar Dairy, is all set for milk fortification with Vitamin A and Vitamin D as per the standards of the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) very soon. In the wake of FSSAI making it mandatory for the milk fortification, the Office of the Commissioner of Food Safety, Telangana State had organised a technical session titled ‘Addressing micro-nutrient deficiencies through edible oil, milk and wheat flour fortification’ in association with the Karnataka Health Promoters Trust (KHPT) and the GAIN (Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition) with the dairy and quality control officials of the Karimnagar Dairy in Karimnagar town on Friday. Speaking on the occasion, Karimnagar Dairy chairman Ch Rajeshwara Rao said that they are going in for milk fortification as per the FSSAI norms to protect the vital Vitamin A and Vitamin D in all variants of the milk. Stating that the National Dairy Development Board (NDDB) was also spearheading milk fortification throughout the country, he said Karimnagar Dairy would be in the forefront in upholding its motto of maintaining purity and quality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/karimnagar-dairy-to-go-for-milk-fortification/article33899709.ece
22 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Contributors to growth of Telugu felicitated||Speakers at a meeting organised to mark the International Day for Mother Language underscored the contribution of women as carriers of language to younger generations. The meeting was organised by Aksharyaan Telugu Women Writers Forum. About 130 of them attended Sunday’s meeting where five people who contributed immensely to the development of Telugu were felicitated. They included a Dalit poet from Mahbubabad Yakamma, Bade Saheb, Sheikh Haseena from Tirupati, Dr. Tirumala Srinivasa Arya and Dr. Praveen Sharma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/contributors-to-growth-of-telugu-felicitated/article33899594.ece
22 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Techie found dead||A techie was found dead at his residence in Ameerpet here on Sunday morning. According to SR Nagar police, the victim, Bala Sridhar Narishetty (44), a team leader at Tata Consultancy Services, ended his life by hanging himself from a ceiling fan in his bedroom at around 11 a.m. His wife Padma, who returned home from a nearby hypermarket, found him hanging and fell unconscious. Bala Sridhar resorted to the extreme step allegedly due to financial issues, Sub-Inspector B. Bhaskar Rao said on Sunday. ‘No foul play’ He said that even six months ago, the victim attempted to end his life. “There is no foul play behind the incident,” the police officer said, adding that a case was registered and the body was shifted to the Gandhi Hospital for autopsy.  (Roshni suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/techie-found-hanging-at-his-residence/article33899573.ece
22 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No water supply||The Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) has informed that there will be no water supply in the following areas from February 24 (6 a.m.) to February 25 (6 a.m.) due to repairs for the Krishna Drinking Water Supply Phase-II for facilitating construction of an underpass: Balapur, Maisaram, Barkas, Mekalamandi and Bholakpur, Tarnaka, Lalapet, Boudhanagar, Marredpally, Control Room, Railways, MES, Contonment, Prakashnagar and Patigadda, Hasmathpet, Vaishalinagar, BN Reddy Nagar, Vanasthalipuram, Autonagar, Maruthinagar, Elugutta, Ramanthapur, Uppal, Nacharan, Habsiguda, Chilkanagar, Berrappagadda, Boduppal, Badangpet and Meerpet reservoir areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-water-supply-in-some-areas-of-city/article33899571.ece
22 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ramana to file papers tomorrow||Telugu Desam Party - Telangana president L. Ramana will file his nomination for election to Legislative Council from Hyderabad - Rangareddy - Mahbubnagar graduates constituency on Tuesday. He will go in a procession with party activists from Old MLA Quarters at Himayatnagar to the GHMC office to submit his papers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ramana-to-file-papers-tomorrow/article33899580.ece
22 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Dental student falls off scooter, crushed to death by lorry||A 20-year-old dental student was crushed to death by a lorry at KPHB Colony late on Saturday. Victim from AP The victim, M. Adhi Reshma, student of S. Nijalingappa Institute of Dental Science and Research, Gulbarga in Karnataka, came to Hyderabad on February 19 to meet her friends. She hailed from Badvel in YSR Kadapa district of AP. No helmet On Saturday night, she along with her friends, Sreeja, Mamatha, Ajay Singh and Sravan Kumar, went to GSM Mall at Madinaguda to watch a movie. While returning home at around 11.40 p.m., Reshma was riding Ajay’s scooter without a headgear and had no driving licence. When she reached metro rail pillar number 660 and 661 at KPHB Colony, the scooter skidded and fell off on the road. A speeding lorry moving in the same direction ran over her, police said. As a result, she suffered severe injuries and died on the spot. A case under Section 304-II (Punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against Ajay for lending his scooter to the victim despite knowing that she had no driving licence. Lorry driver B. Krishna, who fled from the spot, was booked under Section 304 A (Causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/student-falls-off-scooter-crushed-to-death-by-lorry/article33899575.ece
22 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP candidates to file MLC nominations today||BJP MLC candidates - N. Ramchander Rao for Hyderabad-Ranga Reddy-Mahabubnagar Graduates constituency, and G. Premender Reddy for Warangal Khammam-Nalgonda Graduates constituency, will be filing their respective nomination papers on Monday. While Mr. Rao accompanied by senior leaders including Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy, National OBC president K. Laxman, P. Muralidhar Rao and others will go in a rally from the city office to the GHMC head office at Liberty, Mr. Premender Reddy will file nomination papers at the district collectorate office in Nalgonda following a rally where party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar, vice president Vivek Venkatswamy, P. Sudhakar Reddy and others will participate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-candidates-to-file-mlc-nominations-today/article33899579.ece
22 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Prof. CNR Rao biography in Hindi released||Former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda released the biography of ‘Bharat Ratna’ Prof. C.N.R. Rao written in Hindi by Hyderabad based journalist and author Arvind Yadav in Bengaluru on Sunday. Mr. Yadav said that Prof. Rao’s family members, especially his wife, and students narrated many incidents which define his great personality. Mr. Arvind Yadav, who is currently serving as OSD (Media) with the Government of A.P., said the biography will soon be released in Telugu, Kannada, and other languages. He has earlier written biographies of Padma Vibhushan Dr. Padmavathi, Padma Shri Phoolbasan Yadav, and entrepreneur Sardar Jodh Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/prof-cnr-rao-biography-in-hindi-released/article33899499.ece
22 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Bomb blast (with photo)||Members of the Anti-Terrorism Forum (ATF) paid tributes to the victims of the twin bomb blasts that ripped off a few places at Dilsukhnagar in 2013. The tributes were paid at the spots where they laid down their lives on this day in 2013. The programme was attended by the injured in the incident, including forum convenor Ravinuthala Shashidhar, Naveen, Ram Reddy and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bomb-blast-with-photo/article33899577.ece
22 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Home guard held for raping minor tenant||A 40-year-old Home Guard with Hyderabad city police was arrested on Saturday for allegedly sexually assaulting a minor girl and impregnating her. The 16-year-old victim lives with her parents in a rented house owned by the accused at Addagutta under Tukaramgate police station limit. He repeatedly sexually assaulted the girl and the offence came to light only a few days ago when she fell sick and narrated the whole episode to her parents. Based on their complaint, a case was registered and the Home Guard, who works as a driver at Central Crime Station (CCS), was remanded to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/home-guard-held-for-raping-tenant/article33899572.ece
22 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Engg. student booked for ‘rape’||A 23-year-old engineering graduate was booked by Jubilee Hills police on Sunday for allegedly sexually assaulting his school classmate. The victim, a resident of Karmika Nagar, told police that the accused raped her in March 2018 after a promise of marriage. Based on her complaint, a case under Section 376 (punishment for rape) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the accused and a probe is on, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/engg-student-booked-for-rape/article33899574.ece
22 February 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Horse rescued||The timely intervention of Annam Srinivasa Rao, the town-based social worker cum para-legal volunteer, helped an injured horse get timely veterinary care and shelter here on Sunday. A mason of Thallampadu in Khammam rural mandal spotted a horse struggling to move due to leg and eye injuries on the outskirts of the village in the afternoon. He alerted the volunteers of the Annam Seva Foundation, who in turn led by Mr Srinivasa Rao reached the spot, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/horse-rescued/article33899588.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||‘Kotivruksharchana’ is fine, but the follow-up?||Leaders and cadre of the ruling party, the entire administrative machinery and representatives of local bodies vied with one another to plant saplings to mark the birthday of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on February 17. Christened as ‘Kotivruskharchana’ by TRS MP J. Santhosh Kumar, the programme saw plantation of around one crore saplings on a single day. But the main challenge of protection of the saplings and ensuring the growth of trees lies ahead for the organisers of the programme. Questions as to whether the government, public/elected representatives or respective local bodies should take the responsibility of ensuring the survival of these saplings are cropping up already. It is time the government fixes responsibility at some levels, failing which the programme could become another “publicity sake” programme.       After lying dormant for the past couple of weeks, the threat of spread of COVID-19 pandemic has resurfaced yet again. Officials were alerted with reports of over 30 people testing positive for the virus after attending a funeral procession in Karimnagar. Coupled with this were the alerts from the Central government over the possible recurrence of COVID-19 incidence following reports of steep rise in the number of cases in adjoining Maharashtra and other States. People appeared a bit relaxed since the past few days and a few were seen ignoring the protocols like use of masks and sanitisers while moving in public and not washing hands frequently. The old adage, self-regulation is the best regulation, continues to be of relevance during the COVID-19 times.   The conduct of Indian Premier League matches of Sun Risers Hyderabad on its home turf here came under a cloud as Khairatabad MLA of TRS Danam Nagender threatened to obstruct them as the team did not have a single player from Hyderabad. He based his argument going by other teams accommodating some local players while hiring national and international stars. He also questioned how the SRH team could be complete without a single local player. This being so, there were at least two players from Hyderabad -- Md Siraj and Ambati Rayudu — who are playing IPL for Bengaluru and Chennai teams respectively. A couple of other Hyderabad players were picked up by the franchisees for their squads but never got an opportunity to play matches. Mr. Nagender’s resentment seemed to be justified because the absence of local colour to SRH is bound to rob the audience the thrill for their money when they turn up to watch the matches at Uppal stadium. M. Rajeev and N. Rahul||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kotivruksharchana-is-fine-but-the-follow-up/article33899581.ece
22 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||A riot of emotions||“ Main jab mar jaun to meri alag se pehchan likh dena… mere lahu se meri peshani par Hindustan likh dena (After I die, write my identity differently… with my blood, write India on my forehead)”, reads a message on a sidewall facing the main market in north-east Delhi’s Brijpuri Road – one of the main areas where communal riots broke out in February last year following the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests. The messages – No NRC, No NPR, Inquilab – have faded and at some places, been overwritten but they exist, like an aching memory which the victims of the riots wish to forget but say is impossible. Last year, starting February 23, the shops were shut – most of them burnt and vandalised. People walking the roads were visibly traumatised. All that is gone. The hustle and bustle of the area has returned. It is as if nothing had happened, except some cracks in the walls, a black smoke patch on the door, a few burnt utensils and a pile of photographs remind the victims of the days and nights they lived in “terror”. Muted voices Khushnaz’s daughter Alfiza was six days old on February 25 when the riots broke out near her house. She recalled pressing her palm against the infant’s mouth to prevent her voice from being heard as she cried. “All the women of our street were in our house that night and we could hear glass breaking and the sound of sticks and loud voices. I remember we had left our house at 4 a.m. – before sunrise. My newborn was in her inners and it was fairly cold at the time,” she recalled. She came back home in mid-March. Initially, they would find it tough to walk on the streets or even inside their house. Shawra Begum’s single-storey residence near Medina Masjid has still not been repaired. Looking at the broken and burnt taps of her washroom, Shawra said, “That time reminds me of death.” Basso, 78, was on the second floor of her residence in Shiv Vihar when the events were unfolding. Owing to her old age, her blood pressure shot up and she fainted that afternoon. “I am only scared for my children. I have lived my life but I hope they live peacefully.” Haunting memories Sitting inside his house near Auliya Masjid, Nizamuddin had tears in his eyes thinking about the time. Over 5,000 men were walking and running amok on the streets destroying everything and everyone, he said. “We got so scared that we returned home only after a month from our village.” For Vineeta Kumar, 28, the most traumatic memory is the six days spent frantically looking for her 10-year-old daughter Radhika, who got lost in the middle of everyone scampering for cover when the houses were being burnt. “I looked for her everywhere for six days, shared her pictures on WhatsApp and even told the police but they didn’t help. Finally, a few boys known to my husband spotted my daughter in Loni at the house of a young girl who had found her and taken her to safety,” she recalled, adding that the e-rickshaw her husband bought two months before the riots was burnt by the mob. Pooja’s house was looted, she said, and along with her family, she was on the move for four-five days out of fear. “We still have cracks in the walls of our house,” she said, pointing at the wall. Hindus have been primarily blamed for initiating the riots, said Pooja, but she insisted that the residents of the area were not involved. “Outsiders had come.” Riots, for Rajni Devi, 45, meant calling off her son’s arranged wedding. He was due to get married in mid-2020 but when the riots broke out, the mob looted the wedding jewellery from their house. “We needed time to recover and postponed the wedding but the girl’s family didn’t agree. We had to call it off,” she said. Her house is now all decked up. The son got married on February 16 to another girl. The riots separated an old couple – Naresh Chand, 65, and Munni Devi, 63, – from their married son. His wife is too scared to come back to Shiv Vihar.  They have also lost their livelihood, a small confectionery on the ground floor of their double-storey residence. “Property rates have also gone down here. We get Rs. 2,000 a month as rent and old-age pension. If we had the money, we could have reopened our shop. Our son and daughter-in-law have also left. They don’t want to move back here because they are scared,” Mr. Naresh said. Ms. Munni remembered how they waited by their stairs for over an hour to be rescued as their house was set ablaze. They were finally saved but the house was burnt and looted. Fractured ties How is the relationship between the two communities now that a year has elapsed? “It’s not like the same as before”, was a unanimous response from both Hindus and Muslims. Mr. Nizamuddin explained that he has excellent relations with his immediate Hindu neighbours but is hesitant to be a part of any events of Hindus in the area. He avoids crowds as he doesn’t feel comfortable any more. “Both sides have their own fears. There are some anti-social elements on both sides, ready to turn the slightest issue into a communal one,” he said. Pooja believes the wounds have healed, now that a year has passed. “Now, there is no ill feeling any more but the interaction has lessened a lot,” she said, adding that they have forgotten everything and now there’s hardly any chatter at home about it. Towards the end of February last year, the idgah in Mustafabad had opened its doors to thousands of people looking for shelter. Now it lies empty. And those residing nearby are happy. “It’s better that it stays empty rather than being full of people taking shelter here. Women used to come to my house to use the toilet and bathroom and warm milk for their children. We helped people then but may Allah never show us that time again,” said Shamim, 75, a resident of Mustafabad. Every person The Hindu spoke to claimed that they have not received any compensation for their losses. Moreover, they said they have little idea about the status of the FIRs they had filed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/a-riot-of-emotions/article33899329.ece
22 February 2021||New Delhi,||HC grants bail to man held in Delhi riots case||The Delhi High Court has granted bail to a man, who was arrested in March last year in connection with a north-east Delhi riots case, noting that there was “no CCTV footage or viral video to implicate” him in the case. Justice Suresh Kumar Kait took into consideration that there are three public witnesses in this case and none of them have named the accused, Modh Danish, formally in their respective statements. As per the police, on February 24 last year, a police team deployed at an anti-CAA protest site at Chandbagh was brutally attacked without provocation, in which Head Constable Ratanlal was shot dead while several policemen, including DCP Amit Sharma were injured with grievous injuries. It is police’s case that Danish actively participated in the riots and as a part of unlawful assembly, he too is responsible for the death of the police officer. Additional Solicitor General S.V. Raju, appearing for Delhi Police, argued that Danish is a resident of Loni, Ghaziabad, but on February 23 and 24, at the time of the incident, his mobile location located him at Chandbagh. The ASG also stated that Danish was actively involved in riots and was identified by the witnesses, Constable Sunil and Constable Gyan of police station Dayalpur. A cab driver by profession, Danish, in his defence, stated that he had visited one maternal aunt, one elder sister and maternal uncle who reside in the Chandbagh area on February 23. He said that on February 23, things were as usual calm and normal. It was only on February 24 that things started worsening. His late mother, who was alive then, called and asked him to stay at maternal aunt’s/elder sister’s place till things got normal and return home in Loni thereafter. Danish said that on February 25 around 6 a.m. in the morning, he returned to his residence in Loni. Later on March 10, 2020, he was apprehended by Nandnagri police and was taken to Crime Branch, Delhi Police. Senior advocate Salman Khurshid, representing Danish, submitted that his client is educated only till Class 10. “He was made to sign some plain papers which later found to be disclosure statements attributed to him, Mr Khurshid said, adding that the “alleged statements appear to be fabricated and copied, hence, inadmissible as per law”. Justice Kait noted that the initial statements by beat Constable Gyan and Constable Sunil on February 27, 2020, do not name Danish. “It is much later, after a span of twelve days, in their supplementary statement dated March 10, 2020, the name of petitioner appears,” the High Court said. “It seems from the call detail records of the petitioner that on the date of incident, i.e. February 24, 2020, he was not even in the vicinity of the violence-affected area, i.e. Main Wazirabad Road,” the High Court remarked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-grants-bail-to-man-held-in-delhi-riots-case/article33899321.ece
22 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Three arrested in Congress leader murder case||Delhi Police Special Cell has arrested three persons, who were allegedly involved in the murder case of a Congress leader in Punjab’s Faridkot, said a senior police officer on Sunday. The officer said that Gurlal Singh Bhalwan (34), president of the Faridkot district Youth Congress, was shot dead on Thursday evening when he was standing near his car at Jubilee Chowk in Faridkot district. He was also a Zila Parishad member from Golewala, Punjab, the police said. The accused have been identified as Gurvinder Pal (32), Sukhwinder Singh (23), and Saurabh Verma (21) – all residents of Faridkot – they said. They are allegedly members of Lawrence Vishnoi gang, who is presently in Ajmer prison, and Gurinder Pal is the key conspirator in the case, the police said, adding that the two accomplices of the arrested accused are still at large. The police said that Goldy instructed Gurvinder to kill Bhalwan on February 9 after a Facebook post by the victim on February 5 mentioned about his plans of travelling to Delhi to join the ongoing farmers’ protest at the Singhu border. He, however, could not execute the plan due to the massive crowd of protesters at Singhu and owing to tight security. According to the police, two unidentified men allegedly fired around 12 shots at the victim when he was standing near his car after coming out from a friend’s shop at Faridkot’s Jubilee Chowk. The accused then fled. Bhalwan was rushed to a hospital, where he died during treatment. Raid conducted DCP (Special Cell) Manishi Chandra said: “On Saturday, we were informed that three persons, suspected to be involved in the said murder were expected to arrive at Sarai Kale Khan and would go to their hideouts in U.P. Our teams conducted a raid and apprehended them. Two firearms and eight live cartridges were seized from their possession,” he said. Preliminary interrogation revealed that the conspiracy was hatched by Canada-based Goldy Brar, who is an associate of Vishnoi, having several heinous cases registered against him. Brar runs an extortion racket in Canada from where he targets prominent Punjab-based businessmen, he said. Goldy’s cousin Gurlal, former State president of Student Organisation of Punjab University, was killed in a gang war between Vishnoi’s gang and Bhambhia gang in Chandigarh in October last. The accused were planning to kill Bhalwan whom they suspected to be from rival Bhambhia gang, the senior police officer said. The Punjab police have been informed of the arrests and efforts to trace and apprehend the remaining accused are under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/three-arrested-in-congress-leader-murder-case/article33899331.ece
22 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||4 more arrested in Rinku Sharma murder case||Delhi Police on Sunday arrested four more persons who were allegedly involved in the murder of Rinku Sharma in outer Delhi’s Mangolpuri. A senior police officer said that after examination of witnesses and CCTV footage, a Crime Branch team has arrested four more persons, identified as Deen Mohd, Dilshan, Fayaiz and Faizan for their role in the murder. All of them are residents of the same locality. With the arrest of five persons in the case earlier, a total of 11 people have been arrested in the case so far, they said. In a CCTV footage of the attack, the four arrested accused were seen attacking Rinku. The police said that on February 10, in Mangolpuri, some youths had gathered at a restaurant for a birthday party. During the celebrations, a fight broke out among some of them over shutting down a restaurant. It was an old business rivalry. After the fight, they went home. Following the incident, later in the night, some of them gathered outside Rinku’s house and another fight took place again during which Sharma sustained stab injuries. He was taken to a hospital for treatment where he succumbed to his injuries, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/4-more-arrested-in-rinku-sharma-murder-case/article33899332.ece
22 February 2021||Amravati,||Week-long lockdown in Amravati||Guardian Minister of Amravati Yashomati Thakur on Sunday said the district in Maharashtra’s Vidarbha region would be placed under a week-long lockdown from 8 p.m. on Monday to 8 a.m. on March 1. Apart from the week-long lockdown in Amravati, certain restrictions will be in place in four other districts of Amravati division — Akola, Washim, Buldhana and Yavatmal — with a view to curb the spread of the virus. Ms. Thakur said the lockdown was essential to control the recent spike in cases. “During the lockdown, all shops, except those dealing in essential commodities, will remain shut along with the government and private educational institutions, private coaching classes, training schools. People can buy items of daily need from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.,” she said. Theatres, gyms, swimming pools, parks will remain shut and gatherings will not be permitted. The number of beds for COVID-19 treatment will be increased from 1,400 to 1,600 in the city and strict restrictions will be enforced in nine containment zones declared by the Amravati civic body, Ms. Thakur said. She said industries given permission earlier will continue operations, while government offices and banks will work with 15% staff or a minimum of 15 people. “Hotels and restaurants will sell only parcels while goods transport will continue unrestricted during the lockdown,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/week-long-lockdown-in-amravati/article33899028.ece
22 February 2021||Mumbai,||Cong. meet tomorrow to discuss readiness for polls||Maharashtra Congress’s parliamentary board will meet in Mumbai on Tuesday to discuss the State’s prevailing political situation and the party’s preparedness for the upcoming local bodies polls. At the meeting, which has been convened by State Congress chief Nana Patole, the party also will finalise its strategy for an agitation against the Centre’s new farm laws and the fuel price rise, a statement issued the State Congress unit said. Elections to five municipal corporations — Navi Mumbai, Aurangabad, Kolhapur, Kalyan-Dombivli and Vasai-Virar — and 98 municipal councils are due this year. The Congress is part of the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra, and most of the State Congress leaders want their party to contest alone in the local elections. Mr. Patole and Mumbai Congress president Bhai Jagtap have also conveyed to the Congress high command that the party wants to go it alone in the elections to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation due in February next year. Top leaders to attend All India Congress Committee in-charge of Maharashtra H.K. Patil, State Revenue Minister and Congress Legislature Party leader Balasaheb Thorat, State PWD Minister and former chief minister Ashok Chavan, and former Union ministers Prithviraj Chavan and Sushilkumar Shinde will be present at the State parliamentary board meeting on Tuesday. Mr. Patole will also hold meetings with leaders of various district and city units to discuss how to strengthen the organisation. On February 24, Mr. Patole will meet leaders of Navi Mumbai, Kalyan, Vasai-Virar and Kolhapur party units. He will also hold meetings with Aurangabad city and rural district committees, and Bhandara, Gondia and Thane rural district committees on February 25. Review meeting On February 26, leaders of the Congress’s units in Yavatmal, and Chandrapur city and rural district committees will meet Mr. Patole for a review, the statement said. The interactions will end with a public meeting of party workers at Bhiwandi in neighbouring Thane on February 26 evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cong-meet-tomorrow-to-discuss-readiness-for-polls/article33899027.ece
22 February 2021||Mumbai,||Transporters’ body joins Bharat Bandh call over e-way bill system||The All India Transporters’ Welfare Association (AITWA) has demanded abolition of the new e-way bill or scrapping of certain rules and has, in support of its demand, decided to support the Bharat Bandh call given by the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) on February 26 against the GST. “All State-level transport associations have confirmed their support to the AITWA also in protest against the fuel price hike,” said Mahendra Arya, AITWA national president. “We will reject booking and movement of all bill-oriented goods for one day. All companies have been asked to park their vehicles between 6 a.m. and 8 p.m. as a symbolic protest. Godowns will display protest banners. Customers will be requested not to book or load goods on the day.” Penalties for a truck carrying a consignment with an expired or an erroneous bill amount to 200% of the tax value or 100% of the invoice value under Section 129 of the CGST Act, 2017. “For small and medium transporters, especially those involved in part-load movement of goods or retail transportation, the new rule means a burden with penalties running into lakhs of rupees for circumstantial delays. This may lead to completely shutting their shop,” Mr. Arya said. The AITWA has been writing letters to the government on various issues mainly on the impracticable e-way bill under the GST and the unviable pricing policy of diesel, Mr. Arya said. “Diesel prices should be equalised across the nation,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/transporters-body-joins-bharat-bandh-call-over-e-way-bill-system/article33899024.ece
22 February 2021||Navi Mumbai,||19-year-old Haryana man arrested for abducting minor from Digha||The Rabale MIDC police have arrested a 19-year-old man from Haryana for allegedly abducting a 17-year-old girl from Digha whom he had met five months ago via an online game. The accused, identified as Tabeej Tufail Khan, had met the girl, who has cleared Class X, while playing Garena Free Fire. Over the period, the duo exchanged mobile numbers and started talking over phone. “On February 1, Mr. Khan came to Navi Mumbai to meet her. He told the girl that he would marry her and convinced her to go with him,” senior police inspector Nitin Gite from Rabale MIDC police station said. After she went missing, her parents filed a complaint of kidnapping at Rabale MIDC police station. Tracked to Gurugram With the help of technical evidence from the call detail record, the police found the probability of the victim being in Haryana. A team led by Assistant Police Inspector Yashwant Patil left for Haryana on February 7, and found the duo at Sector 18, Gurugram, on February 11. Mr. Khan was then arrested. During interrogation, the police learnt that the accused, after abducting the girl, had travelled via road from Bandra to Ahmedabad and then Jaipur to Gurgaon. “Mr. Khan had sexually abused the victim and made her to stay with him and his sister. Hence, sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act were also added in the case, apart from relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code,” Mr. Patil said. The accused, who worked as a scrap dealer, is currently in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/19-year-old-haryana-man-arrested-for-abducting-minor-from-digha/article33899025.ece
22 February 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Wanted man found dead||The Panvel city police on Sunday found the body of a 26-year-old murder suspect in a forest in Hingoli. Prakash Jaywant More, a resident of Panvel, had allegedly killed a mother-daughter duo on Friday for rejecting his proposal. On Sunday afternoon, he posted a video on Facebook in which he claimed he was ending his life as he was a widower and no one was willing to marry him. He also admitted to committing the murders in the video. He then rang up his mother and told her he was going to end his life. “A police team in Hingoli began a search in the forest area and found the body,” senior police inspector Ajay Landge from Panvel city police station said. Several teams of the Panvel city police had been in pursuit of the accused after he fled the crime scene.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/wanted-man-found-dead/article33899020.ece
22 February 2021||Pune,||Sharp surge in COVID-19 cases worrisome: Uddhav||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray in an address to the people of the State on Sunday said the surge in COVID-19 cases was worrisome and the government would know within 15 days if Maharashtra was facing a second wave of the pandemic. “Today, the State has reported nearly 7,000 cases as opposed to 15 days ago, when it was reporting just 2,000-2,500 cases daily. The State’s active case tally, which had dipped below 40,000 a week ago, has now soared to 53,000. In this week, Mumbai’s cases have doubled, so has the numbers in Pune district. This is a very bad situation. I am especially worried that the sudden rise of cases in Amravati district in Vidarbha has begun from the district’s peak that it had attained last year,” Mr. Thackeray said. State to curb gatherings The Chief Minister said all social and political activities across the State would be curtailed for the next few days in wake of the situation. “While I understand that every political party is interested in party-building activities, we should not contribute to the spread of COVID-19 in this process. The public must also remember that the cases had come down only due to their self-discipline and the martyrdom of frontline warriors. While we congratulate such frontline warriors, one must remember that if one is not such a warrior, then at least they must try not be a carrier. That will be akin to insulting these personnel who have laid down their lives in combating the pandemic,” Mr. Thackeray said. The Chief Minister also warned that the administration would take strict punitive action against citizens and businesses not adhering to State guidelines. He stressed on the need to maintain self-discipline and be socially responsible and reiterated that it was entirely up to the public whether or not they wanted a lockdown. “I’m asking this question again? Do you’ll want a lockdown? I will observe for the next fortnight and I’ll get the answer. Those who do not want a lockdown are sure to adhere to all regulations, those who seek it, will violate them just as surely,” Mr. Thackeray said. He exhorted the public to behave responsibly by wearing masks and participating in the State’s Mi Jababdar (I am responsible) awareness campaign. He said measures against the pandemic showed that it could help break the chain of transmission of the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sharp-surge-in-covid-19-cases-worrisome-uddhav/article33899022.ece
22 February 2021||Pune,||Nearly 7,000 fresh cases in State||Maharashtra reported 6,971 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday — its biggest spike in nearly three months — as its active case tally breached the 50,000-mark to reach 52,956. A week ago, the tally stood a little over 35,000. The surge was notable in Mumbai city and Pune, Nagpur and Amravati districts, which contributed the maximum cases to take the total case tally to 21,00,884. Thirty-five fatalities pushed the death toll to 51,788. With just 2,417 patients discharged in the last 24 hours, the tally of recoveries stood at 19,94,947. The State’s recovery rate has dipped to 94.96% and the case fatality rate stands at 2.47%. Pune reported more than 1,000 new cases yet again to take its total case tally to 4,00,426. As per the State Health Department figures, six deaths were reported as the death toll reached 8,034. However, as per the district authorities, the toll has touched 9,180, while the active case tally has surged past the 5,500 mark. 921 cases in Mumbai Mumbai city reported 921 cases, taking its total case tally to 3,19,918, of which 5,859 are active. Six more fatalities saw the city’s death toll reach 11,446.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/nearly-7000-fresh-cases-in-state/article33899023.ece
22 February 2021||Special CorrespondentPune,||Schools, colleges in Pune to remain shut till Feb. 28||In view of an alarming surge in COVID-19 cases across Pune district, all schools, colleges and private coaching classes will remain shut till February 28, said Pune Divisional Commissioner Saurabh Rao on Sunday. The decision was taken following a review meeting of the pandemic situation chaired by Deputy Chief Minister and Pune Guardian Minister Ajit Pawar in which senior Pune administration and divisional authorities were present. Mr. Pawar directed officials to ensure that no ‘non-essential’ activities were to be permitted on roads between 11 p.m. and 6 a.m. Essential services like medicines, hospitals, delivery of vegetables, milk, newspapers will continue. “While no lockdown is being contemplated as yet, we will be strictly enforcing the rules until the cases come down. People must avoid large crowds in order to break the chain. This dropping of one’s guard is unacceptable,” said Mr. Pawar. He further said that no more than 200 people would henceforth be permitted at wedding functions and political programmes for which ‘no objection’ certificates have to be obtained from the Pune police. Likewise, in a bid to dissuade youngsters from roaming the streets late in the night, hotels and eateries will not be allowed to remain open beyond 11 p.m. as against their previous closing deadline of 1 a.m. Mr. Pawar also said that additional manpower and infrastructure would be provided to the Sassoon General Hospital in the next two-four days in order to cope better with any potential medical situation. Announcing the new restrictive measures, Mr. Rao said virus ‘hotspots’ had been identified in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporations and micro-containment zones would be formed to rein in the spread of the contagion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/schools-colleges-in-pune-to-remain-shut-till-feb-28/article33899030.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Welcoming a new dawn||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/welcoming-a-new-dawn/article33899553.ece
22 February 2021||Denver,||Plane suffers engine failure, scatters debris over U.S. city||A United Airlines plane suffered a fiery engine failure on Saturday shortly after taking off from Denver for Hawaii, dropping massive debris on a residential area before a safe emergency landing, officials said. A video shot from inside the aircraft — which had 231 passengers and 10 crew onboard — showed the right engine ablaze and wobbling on the wing of the Boeing 777-200, its cover entirely missing as the aircraft flew over a barren landscape. There were no injuries on the plane or on the ground, authorities said. “I can honestly say I thought we were going to die at one point — because we started dropping altitude right after the explosion,” passenger David Delucia told The Denver Post. “I grabbed my wife’s hand and said, ‘We’re done.’” “Flight UA328 from Denver to Honolulu experienced an engine failure shortly after departure, returned safely to Denver and was met by emergency crews as a precaution,” United Airlines said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/plane-suffers-engine-failure-scatters-debris-over-us-city/article33898918.ece
22 February 2021||Tehran,||Iran says talks with IAEA chief ‘fruitful’||Iran said on Sunday it had held “fruitful discussions” with UN nuclear watchdog chief Rafael Grossi in Tehran, ahead of a deadline when it is set to restrict the agency’s inspections unless the United States lifts painful sanctions. Mr. Grossi’s visit comes amid stepped-up efforts between U.S. President Joe Biden’s administration, European powers and Iran to salvage the 2015 nuclear deal that has been on the brink of collapse since former President Donald Trump withdrew from it. Iran’s Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif, before meeting Mr. Grossi, signalled that the Islamic republic wants to avoid an “impasse”, but also warned it could step further away from its commitments if Washington does not lift the sanctions. Mr. Grossi, head of the Vienna-based International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), arrived in Tehran late on Saturday and met the head of the Iran Atomic Energy Organisation, Ali Akbar Salehi, early on Sunday. “Iran and the IAEA held fruitful discussions based on mutual respect, the result of which will be released this evening,” Tehran’s Ambassador to the UN agency Kazem Gharibabadi wrote on Twitter.  Iran’s conservative-dominated Parliament months ago demanded that if the U.S. does not lift sanctions by this Sunday, Iran suspend some IAEA inspections from Tuesday. But Iran has stressed it will not cease working with the IAEA or expel its inspectors. Mr. Zarif told Iran’s Press TV on Sunday that he would talk to Mr. Grossi about implementing Iran’s law while making sure “not to create an impasse”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iran-says-talks-with-iaea-chief-fruitful/article33898910.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,||China detains 3 bloggers for ‘insulting’ Galwan soldiers||Authorities in China have said they have detained three  people for “insulting” Chinese soldiers who died in the Galwan Valley clash last year, a day after Beijing officially confirmed the deaths. Among the arrested  was Qiu Ziming (38), an investigative journalist formerly with The Economic Observer . Mr. Qiu was arrested on Saturday in Nanjing, where he lives, after questioning China’s official account of the Galwan clash. On Friday, the Chinese military announced honours for five People’s Liberation Army (PLA) soldiers, including four who died and one regimental commander who was injured, in the clash on June 15, 2020, which marked the worst violence on the India-China border since 1967. Twenty Indian soldiers lost their lives in the clash. ‘Heroes smeared’ In messages to his 2.5 million followers on Weibo, the Twitter-equivalent used in China, he suggested the fatalities would have been higher than four because as per the official account, some of the soldiers died coming to the aid of troops in difficulty, who, in his view, would have suffered losses as well. He also questioned why the announcement took eight months, while India had, in contrast, promptly recognised the 20 Indian soldiers who died. India’s prompt announcement, he wrote, suggested that “in India’s view they won and paid a lesser price”. Police in Nanjing posted a message on Saturday saying he was arrested for “releasing false information and smearing the four heroes who died and one who was wounded when dealing with the Indian military’s illegal trespassing”. He was arrested “for the offence of stirring up trouble that brought about a severe negative social impact,” the Global Times reported, saying that “he made a full confession to his illegal smearing of martyrs which he made in order to cause an internet sensation”. Mr. Qiu’s social media account was later suspended. His arrest was among the most discussed topics online, receiving 730 million views as of Sunday evening. A second blogger was detained in Beijing on Sunday, for comments made during a group chat on WeChat, the Chinese social media and messaging app. The police said they had received a report “of a person aged 28, surnamed Chen, publishing insulting comments in a group chat about the PLA soldiers who died when dealing with the Indian military’s illegal trespassing in the Galwan Valley.” “The comments sparked fury among other members in the group,” the Global Times reported, “who later reported his remarks to the police. The case was quickly investigated, and local police found Chen on Saturday evening, who said he had done it to vent his emotions. Chen was detained, and the case is undergoing further investigation.” A third person, identified as a 25-year-old surnamed Yang, was detained in southwestern Sichuan province, in the city of Mianyang, after he was reported by Internet users for posting “smears toward the PLA soldiers, who fought in the China-India border clash.” “Under social pressure, Mr. Yang confessed to the police the following day, and he was given seven days of detention,” according to the police. The announcement of the honours for the soldiers on Friday, coming eight months after the clash, was widely covered in the Chinese state media and has led to an outpouring of sentiment, with the topic among the most widely discussed on social media over the past three days. State media reports have highlighted the valour of the soldiers, while also releasing new footage from the clash. The announcement and video release, eight months after the clash, came a week after India and China announced a plan to begin disengagement, which has been completed on the north and south banks of Pangong Lake while talks are on-going to take the process forward in other areas along the Line of Actual Control. Support for families Local provincial governments across China have announced financial support to the families of the PLA soldiers, while promising to crack down on any attempts to “distort or slander” them. “One-off compensation has been given to the families of the martyrs, and qualified family members can receive regular compensation, according to departments of Veterans Affairs of Fujian, Henan, Gansu and Shaanxi, the hometowns of the four martyrs,” the Global Times reported. “Martyr Chen Xiangrong’s mother and older sister were offered jobs in their hometown so that their mother could be better cared for. Martyr Wang Zhuoran’s younger sister was able to study and intern at a local vocational school in Luohe, Central China’s Henan Province. Martyr Chen Hongjun’s wife was pregnant when Chen was killed, and the local government provided maternity services for her. The local government in Northwest China’s Shaanxi Province also helped Chen’s wife find a job at a conservatoire after learning that she holds a master’s degree in vocal music.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-detains-3-bloggers-for-insulting-galwan-soldiers/article33898916.ece
22 February 2021||Washington,||Biden’s A-G pick vows to prosecute Capitol attackers||U.S. President Joe Biden’s Attorney General nominee pledged on Saturday to depoliticise the Justice Department and to vigorously prosecute former President Donald Trump’s supporters who attacked the U.S. Capitol. In testimony prepared for his confirmation hearing on Monday and Tuesday, Federal Appeals Court Judge Merrick Garland indicated he wants to remove the taint of political interference left on the department by Mr. Trump. He also promised to create clear guidelines for FBI investigations, amid allegations that the agency strayed deeply into politics in investigating Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton in 2016 and then Trump in 2017-2018. In an apparent reference to the Black Lives Matter movement, Judge Garland also said that enforcing equal justice for people of colour remains an incomplete and “urgent” task, 150 years after the Justice Department was founded following the Civil War. “The Civil Rights Act of 1957 created the Department’s Civil Rights Division, with the mission ‘to uphold the civil and constitutional rights of all Americans, particularly some of the most vulnerable members of our society,’” the Judge said. “That mission remains urgent because we do not yet have equal justice.” Judge Garland also said the country faces a serious threat of extremism, as exemplified by the January 6 attack on the U.S. Capitol, which shut down the legislature as lawmakers met to certify Mr. Biden’s poll win.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/bidens-a-g-pick-vows-to-prosecute-capitol-attackers/article33898909.ece
22 February 2021||Washington,||Libya Minister escapes attack near Tripoli||The powerful Interior Minister of Libya’s unity government survived an assassination attempt on Sunday on a highway near the capital Tripoli, an official said. Fathi Bashagha’s convoy “was fired on from an armoured car while he was on the highway. His police escort returned fire. Two of the assailants were arrested and a third is in hospital,” the source said, adding that “the Minister is fine”. Mr. Bashagha, a heavyweight in Libyan politics, was returning from a routine visit to a new security unit overseen by his department, the same source said. The 58-year-old has served as Interior Minister in the North African country’s UN-recognised Government of National Accord since 2018 . Libya has been riven by violence since a 2011 NATO-backed uprising that toppled and killed dictator Muammar Gaddafi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/libya-minister-escapes-attack-near-tripoli/article33898911.ece
22 February 2021||New York,||New documentary paints disturbing picture of Woody Allen||A new documentary series premiering on Sunday on the HBO network, Allen v. Farrow , paints a damning picture of Oscar-winning director Woody Allen, particularly regarding his alleged sexual abuse of young adoptive daughter Dylan Farrow. Directors Kirby Dick and Amy Ziering delve into Mr. Allen’s past, using testimony and legal documents — some of them not previously seen — to dig deeper than anyone before them.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/new-documentary-paints-disturbing-picture-of-woody-allen/article33898913.ece
22 February 2021||METAIRIE,||US--Gun Store-Shooting||A person entered a gun store and shooting range in a New Orleans suburb and fatally shot two people on Saturday, prompting customers and staff to open fire on the shooter, a sheriff said. The shooter also died. The shooting happened around 2:50 p.m. at the Jefferson Gun Outlet in the suburb of Metairie, according to a police statement.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-gun-store-shooting/article33898914.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Voice vote as constitutional subterfuge||The Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill was passed by the State’s Legislative Council on Monday, February 8. The Bill had already been passed by the Legislative Assembly where the State government enjoys a majority. But the prospect of the Bill passing the Upper House was doubtful as the Opposition parties — the Congress and the Janata Dal (S) — have a majority in the Council; and both were opposed to the Bill. But the law was passed by the Council despite the lack of a majority. Instead of having a division vote based on actual voting as is usual and as the Opposition members had demanded, the presiding officer just declared the Bill passed by voice vote without any division. New legislative template If this sounds rather familiar, it is because an uncannily similar process was followed to pass the controversial farm laws (by the Rajya Sabha) in September 2020. Here too, the government seemed to lack a majority to pass the bills in the Upper House. And instead of a division vote, a voice vote was deemed to be adequate by the Deputy Speaker of the House. In both cases, the pandemonium in the House caused by heated interventions by the Opposition was used as a pretext to resort to a voice vote. In the last few months, while there has been extensive discussion of the farm laws, they have largely been about the merits of the laws and the need for reforms in the agrarian sector. But the fact that the legislative process followed for these laws did away with actual voting in the Upper House has not been given the prominence it deserves. The government has repeatedly invoked the multiple consultations around these laws over the years to justify them, but the fact that the pieces of legislation were passed without an actual legislative majority voting for them does not seem pivotal. These two sets of laws passed with a voice vote seem like a new template for bypassing the constitutionally envisaged legislative process. Indeed, both were first passed as ordinances; such was the urgency felt for enacting them. And once they were tabled in the legislature, the governments insisted on the Bills not being referred to the legislative committees in either case, even though the Opposition repeatedly raised the demand. The Money Bill ruse The voice vote subterfuge supplements the other technique repeatedly deployed over the last few years to bypass the Upper House of Parliament — the Money Bill route, utilised increasingly in instances even where the laws concerned would not easily fit within that definition. Most notoriously, the Aadhaar Bill was passed in this manner. But other controversial laws such as those pertaining to electoral bonds, retrospective validation of foreign political contributions and the overhaul of the legal regime relating to tribunals have also been carried out through the Money Bill ruse. A majority of the Supreme Court in the Aadhaar case upheld such use, though the dissenting judge called such use of the Money Bill as nothing less than “a fraud on the constitution” (https://bit.ly/2NNgwpy). A later constitutional Bench of the Court has since noted the problem with the majority position and has referred the issue of interpreting the Money Bill provision to a larger Bench. The Rajya Sabha’s role The fact remains that even if all these laws were actually unquestionably desirable and necessary, the dubious mechanisms followed for their enactment would surely mean they are unjustifiable. That is precisely why the justification for such subterfuge to pass these laws is so revealing. The increasing use of the Money Bill route was defended by the then Leader of the Rajya Sabha when he deplored the repeated questioning by the indirectly elected Rajya Sabha of the wisdom of the directly elected Lok Sabha. Underlying this common sentiment is a tendency to devalue bicameralism itself. The Lok Sabha is seen as directly representing the will of the people, and the Rajya Sabha as standing in its way. And since democracy itself is seen purely in terms of parliamentary majority in the Lower House, the countervailing function of the Upper House is rarely seen as legitimate. The Rajya Sabha has historically stopped the ruling party from carrying out even more significant legal changes. The notorious Emergency-era 42nd Constitutional Amendment could not be repealed in toto by the post-Emergency Janata regime because the Congress continued to have a strong presence in the Rajya Sabha. The Rajiv Gandhi government’s proposed 64th Constitutional Amendment Bill on Panchayati Raj was narrowly defeated in the Rajya Sabha, even though it enjoyed the highest ever majority in Lok Sabha. But neither of these governments resorted to constitutional subterfuge or attacked the Rajya Sabha’s raison d’être . Indeed, the Rajya Sabha is undoubtedly imperfect, partly because of constitutional design. And partly because obviously undesirable practices, such as members representing States they have no affiliation to, have been allowed to flourish. But forms of constitutional fraud that reduce it to a cipher cannot be condoned, and it is important to understand the crucial constitutional role that such a body plays. The value of bicameralism Legal philosopher Jeremy Waldron has explained the virtues of bicameralism, especially when the two Houses are chosen by different processes of representation and elected on a different schedule. The very questioning of the monopoly of the Lower House to represent the ‘people’ makes bicameralism desirable, he argues. In India, the fact that the Rajya Sabha membership is determined by elections to State Assemblies leads to a different principle of representation, often allowing different factors to prevail than those in the Lok Sabha elections. John Stuart Mill had warned in his classic treatise on representative democracy that “a majority in a single assembly, when it has assumed a permanent character—when composed of the same persons habitually acting together, and always assured of victory in their own House — easily becomes despotic and overweening, if released from the necessity of considering whether its acts will be concurred in by another constituted authority.” Now that judicial review is hardly practised in India, the second chamber’s performance of such a role becomes particularly important as it offers the opportunity for a second legislative scrutiny. The other merit of bicameralism for Waldron is especially significant in a Westminster system like India, where the Lower House is dominated by the executive. The Rajya Sabha holds the potential of a somewhat different legislative relation to the executive, making a robust separation of powers possible. Taking legislature seriously Arguably though, the malaise that allows such legislative humiliation to be tolerated in India runs even deeper, evident in the contempt for the legislature that has been shown by the executive in this country since the mid-1970s. Never though has it been more apparent than during the pandemic. While the British Prime Minister was being taken to task on ‘Prime Minister’s Questions’ every Wednesday in the House of Commons even during the pandemic, Parliament in India was not even convened until it became necessary, and that too after suspending Question Hour. The legislature’s role here is seen as only to pass legislation — the faster the better. But in a country where judicial procedure is perceived as an obstacle to justice by judges themselves, it should not surprise us that legislators view legislative procedure as dispensable so that laws can be enacted by hook or by crook. Anuj Bhuwania is a Professor at the Jindal Global Law School. He is the author of ‘Courting the People: Public Interest Litigation in Post-Emergency India’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/voice-vote-as-constitutional-subterfuge/article33898899.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,||The fight for dignity in the feminist struggle||It is heartening to note that journalist Priya Ramani, against whom a defamation charge was filed by former journalist and Bharatiya Janata Party leader M.J. Akbar, has been acquitted by a Delhi court and her right to dignity has been upheld. Dignity is a simple word, but it bears the imprint of resistance and struggle. Years ago, in the late 1990s, while discussing amendments to the existing legislation on sexual assault, feminists wondered if they ought not to come up with a different definition for the act, and one that does not focus on the woman as a victim, but on what is at stake for her as she struggles to seek justice. We came up with the idea that rape is a crime against ‘bodily integrity’, a term that can perhaps encompass other struggles against what the American philosopher Cornel West refers to as ‘ontological wounding’. Small wonder then that dignity is claimed by a range of persons who endure such hurt on a daily basis: Dalits, the queer community and transpersons, and minorities. Bitter experiences Ms. Ramani fought for over two years, and those years must not have been easy ones, as is the experience for most people who have sought justice for the impairment of their dignity. As far as justice goes, the balance sheet of the #Metoo movement is still in deficit. But occasions like these also help puncture the self-satisfaction we see all around when a woman's complaint is dismissed: to admit that she might be telling the truth is to admit to what a lot of people like to conveniently ignore, that for all the grand ideas handed out in our epics, ours is a culture that routinely belittles women and blames them for all that happens to them. The consequences of disbelief can prove consequential. In the Mathura rape case, the victim was not believed as the court held that because she was habituated to sexual intercourse, her charges against the policemen were untrustworthy. Bhanwari Devi was told that she could not have been subjected to a gang rape because the men that she claimed assaulted her were of a caste higher than hers. The Adivasi women of Vachathi in Tamil Nadu were not taken at their word for years. And lest we forget the Hathras case, where the facts of assault were disputed in ways that could only be termed sickening. But experiences like these are not unusual — Dalit women and other minority groups who seek justice in sexual assault cases routinely face such circumstances. Orthodox ideas In an everyday sense, when women complain about predatory men, they are told not to be over-fussy, and that it’s a man’s world, after all. A Tamil serial that is currently aired on primetime television has gone one step further: in an episode, a drugged man assaults a woman. But we are told that her perception of what has happened to her is not as important as the man’s intent. He did not mean to rape her and was a victim of cruel circumstances. He feels awful about what he has done and earns the victim’s grudging sympathy. In fact, she turns his accomplice, and together they decide to hush up matters to save his marriage. Never mind her dignity, or the fact that off-screen, often the converse happens: women may be drugged and assaulted.  In this context, the verdict for Ms. Ramani allows us to relish a moment of quiet satisfaction that in some contexts, at least the victim’s speech may be granted the legitimacy that is often denied. However, it might be useful to ponder over a few related matters. First, one may face the trauma of repression and speaking out long after they have experienced harassment or violence. How can we engage with complaints or confessions made years later, in institutional contexts, if due procedural methods do not allow us to do so? In what ways can we exercise ethical discretion in listening to complainants and seeking redressal? Second, sexual harassment exists as part of a wide spectrum of acts, which may range from casual demeaning speech to sexual threats and actual acts of assault. What needs to be addressed forthrightly is the heterosexual male’s sexual prerogative and the culture of impunity that supports and protects it. Law can do only so much in these matters — we need a robust culture of open speech and the right to defend our claims to dignity and justice in public, without being threatened with defamation or more. Third, the vulnerability of being sexually exploitable appears to be part of the working conditions that bind women in all sectors, and more so in so-called informal work: in brick kilns, quarries, garment factories, and in various service situations. To date, neither the Vishaka judgment nor the Act for sexual harassment at workplaces has been helpful in any of these contexts. Here, I am reminded of B.R. Ambedkar’s words regarding the trade-offs involved for a worker: “How many have to relinquish their constitutional rights in order to gain their living? … The fear of starvation, the fear of losing a house, the fear of losing savings, if any, the fear of being compelled to take children away from school, the fear of having to be a burden on public charity, the fear of having to be burned or buried at public cost are factors too strong to permit a man to stand out for his Fundamental Rights…” Support circles The challenge is to not lose sight of this stark truth that holds good even after years. It is important to build feminist jurisprudence on the subject and think about local support systems that can enable women to stand up for their rights. Women’s groups, civil rights groups and trade unions, all have roles to play in this enabling. Lastly, there is the question of restorative justice that some are interested in, and how that might apply in matters where bodily integrity is at stake. Where no legal justice has been possible, is social boycott an adequate response? If so, should it be of a certain duration? Should there be arbitration in cases where there is still some space left for dialogue? And what about remorse and reflection? Should we think of protocols so that expressions of regret are actually useful and relevant, and not just hollow talk?   V. Geetha is a feminist historian and writer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-fight-for-dignity-in-the-feminist-struggle/article33898906.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,||The blank pages in India’s online learning experience||The world is presently grappling with the adverse impact of the COVID-19 pandemic in the social, economic and political spheres. India can be counted among those nations that have been impacted severely. COVID-19 has affected all sectors. However, there are areas where countries such as India should be more worried about. One of them is education, especially education of the girl child. Around 300 million children across all age groups are reported to be out of school in India now (the number is of the period when all schools were closed) . And as and when schools finally reopen in the country, the number of children returning to class has to be closely scrutinised. The education sector faces the challenges of delivery, especially of pedagogical processes, classroom assessment frameworks, students’ support and teacher-student engagement. Realistic assessment is key More than just the numbers, the authorities have to realistically assess the level of understanding of students who have returned to schools after ‘digital learning’ at home. This is crucial as studies conducted on government-run schools in various States indicate poor performance — a majority of children, especially girl students, have missed out much on the various e-mail platforms offered. Apart from poor access to digital data, the children were burdened with household/farm work; girl students in particular were apprehensive of being given away in marriage. There is credible evidence that students, parents and teachers were unprepared for the pedagogic shift.  A challenge and the response School closures have had a significant impact on both students and their families, more in the case of the vulnerable and underprivileged sections. The lockdown happened during the last quarter of the academic year which led to the postponement of examinations and the curtailment of the prescribed syllabi. On their part, governments tried to put in place measures to address the situation. The basic strategy was to give a push to the digital distance learning method. The focus was on the use of text/video/audio content through SMS, WhatsApp, radio and TV programmes to reach out to students and engage them. The Union Ministry of Human Resource Development in March 2020 started sharing free e-learning platforms. They included the Diksha portal which has e-learning content aligned to the curriculum, and e-Pathshala, an app by the National Council of Educational Research and Training for Classes 1 to 12 in multiple languages. SWAYAM hosts 1,900 complete courses including teaching videos, computer weekly assignments, examinations and credit transfers, aimed both at school (Classes 1 to 12) and higher education. SWAYAM Prabha is a group of 32 direct to home channels devoted to the telecasting of educational programmes. While this looks fairly impressive, there are many pitfalls. Studies indicate that the rapid transition to digital learning has been very challenging. The initiative failed to take into account existing divides — spatial, digital, gender and class. A recent UNICEF report points out that the massive school closures exposed the uneven distribution of technology that is needed to facilitate remote learning. The chances for an education-enabled social and economic mobility appear to be grim in the country. The impact is multi-fold Following closure of schools, boys became inattentive to studies while girls, with lesser opportunities, were more involved in household chores. With their educational routine having been disrupted, children, in many cases, have also forgotten what they learnt earlier. Again, the decision to postpone the board examinations and to allow automatic promotion to the higher classes is bound to affect the quality. A survey promoted by the Centre for Budget and Policy Studies (https://bit.ly/2ZDCzSy), in July 2020, of 3,176 households of Assam, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana and Delhi, found that in families which faced cash and food shortages, only 50% of the boys and girls were confident of returning to school. The abilities of the families and communities concerned to support the educational journeys of the children have been found to be affected. One should remember that attending schools is not about learning alone. The long closure of schools has also meant the disruption of a range of activities such as the mid-day meal scheme, the school health programme and pre-metric scholarships to girl children. These activities in the past have had a lot to do with the enrolment as well as regular attendance. As for the digital initiative, it was taken up in a haphazard manner. Many States lacked adequate digital infrastructure and even teachers were poorly equipped to teach. Also, they were not consulted before the initiative. Now, the biggest complaint of the authorities concerned seems to be that teachers have been drawing their salaries doing precious little. The case of Rajasthan In States such as Rajasthan, the education of girl children is still a challenge. The State is positioned precariously — the second worst in overall literacy rates in India and the lowest literacy rate among the females (NSS,2017-18); 20% of girls in the age group 15-16 were out of school against the national average of 13.5 (Annual Status of Education Report 2018). Despite pioneering initiatives in education such as the Lok Jumbish and Shiksha Karmi projects, Rajasthan continues to flounder in systemic issues of education that relate to quality, equity and gender (https://bit.ly/3aDAM5X). A study by the Institute of Development Studies, Jaipur and Development Solutions, Delhi in September-October, found that most girls in Rajasthan (between 13-16 years) were keen to return to school. That as many as 97% of them in the districts surveyed — Tonk, Dausa, Karauli and Udaipur — had been enrolled in schools before the COVID-19 lockdown itself was a positive finding. However, the much touted online education plan of the State government did not work. In Rajasthan, the access of girls to education during the COVID-19 period was limited to 11%. Girls who had online access reported links through WhatsApp (92%) and YouTube (12%). The reasons for the inability of students to access online education were: lack of devices, poor or no Internet connectivity, and also girls’ preoccupation with household activity (https://bit.ly/3s8gibw). NGO activities as a contrast Interestingly, schools run by the non-governmental organisation sector did fairly well during the interregnum. Catering mostly to the poor and backward segments, these schools did not go online. Instead, teachers visited individual students at home. They also taught children in small groups. There seems to be consensus that online classes are not comparable to actual classroom education. The attempts at digital learning have only exposed the wide digital divide between the rich and the poor and the urban and rural areas. Education planning has to be context specific, gender responsive and inclusive. Enabling measures should include access to online education, removal of barriers in pre-metric scholarships and ensuring the provision of mid-day meals, iron and folic acid tablets and provision of personal hygiene products to girl students even when schools are closed. Once schools reopen finally, the authorities should establish the re-enrolment of children as mandated by the National Education Policy 2020. Mass outreach programmes should be developed with civil society to encourage re-enrolment. Remedial tuitions and counselling are advisable, along with scholarships, targeted cash transfers and other entitlements to retain the poorest at school. It is also apt to consider making secondary education for girls free. Given the seriousness of the situation, one expects the governments to keep the budgetary share of education to 6% of GDP, as emphasised by the President of India. Sunny Sebastian is Former Vice-Chancellor, Haridev Joshi University of Journalism and Mass Communication, Jaipur, Rajasthan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-blank-pages-in-indias-online-learning-experience/article33898901.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Clean energy post COVID-19||The year 2020 was one that only a few of us will forget. While the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic have played out unevenly across Asia and the Pacific, the region has been spared many of the worse effects seen in other parts of the world. The pandemic has reminded us that a reliable and uninterrupted energy supply is critical to manage this crisis. Beyond ensuring that hospitals and healthcare facilities continue to function, energy supports the systems and coping mechanisms we rely on to work remotely, undertake distance learning and communicate essential health information. Importantly, energy will also support cold chain systems and logistics to ensure that billions of vaccine doses make their way to the people who need them the most. Healthy progress The good news is that our region’s energy systems have continued to function throughout the pandemic. A new report, titled Shaping a Sustainable Energy Future in Asia and the Pacific: A greener, more resilient and inclusive energy system , released on Monday by the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP) shows that energy demand reductions have mainly impacted fossil fuels and depressed oil and gas prices. Renewable energy development in countries across the region, such as China and India, continued at a healthy pace throughout 2020. As the Asia-Pacific region moves towards clean, efficient and low-carbon technologies, the emergence of the pandemic raises some fundamental questions. How can a transformed energy system help ensure our resilience to future crises such as COVID-19? Can we launch a ‘green recovery’ post COVID-19 that simultaneously rebuilds our economies and puts us on track to meet global climate and sustainability goals? By emphasising the importance of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as a guiding framework for recovering better together, we must focus on two critical aspects. First, by making meaningful progress on SDGs, we can address many of the systemic issues that made societies more vulnerable to COVID-19 in the first place — health, decent work, poverty and socioeconomic inequalities, to name a few. Second, by directing stimulus funding to investments that support the achievement of SDGs, we can build back better. If countries focus their stimulus efforts on industries of the past, such as fossil fuels, we risk not creating the jobs we need, or deflecting from the right direction for achieving the global goals that are critical for future generations. The energy sector offers multiple opportunities to align stimuli with clean industries of the future. Added resilience Evidence shows that renewable energy and energy efficiency projects create more jobs for the same investment in fossil fuel projects. By increasing expenditure on clean cooking and electricity access, we can enhance economic activity in rural areas and support modern infrastructure that can make these communities more resilient and inclusive, particularly for the well-being of women and children. Additionally, investing in low-carbon infrastructure and technologies can create a basis for the ambitious climate pledges we need to fulfil to reach the Paris Agreement target of a 2-degree global warming limit. On this note, several countries have announced carbon neutrality. Phasing out the use of coal from power generation portfolios and substituting it with renewables, ending fossil fuel subsidies, and implementing carbon pricing are some steps we can take. The COVID-19 crisis has forced us to change many aspects of our lives. It has shown that we are more adaptive and resilient than we may have believed. But we should not waste the opportunities this crisis presents. It should not deflect us from the urgent task of making modern energy available to all and decarbonising the region’s energy system through a transition to sustainable energy. Instead, it should provide us with a renewed sense of urgency.  Armida Salsiah Alisjahbana is Under-Secretary-General of the United Nations and Executive Secretary of ESCAP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/clean-energy-post-covid-19/article33898907.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Navigating the storm||A pair of balanced scales representing the Union of India and the States, the cover visual of the Fifteenth Finance Commission’s report for the period 2021-22 to 2025-26, seeks to highlight the Commission’s endeavour to maintain an equitable approach at a time when the Centre and States are facing unprecedented revenue stress and fiscal demands. The Centre has accepted much of the Commission’s broad recommendations, including giving States a 41% share of the divisible pool of taxes and revenue deficit grants of nearly Rs. 2.95-lakh crore for 17 States over the next five years. It has also acceded to the Commission’s suggestion to make grants towards urban and rural local bodies conditional upon States setting up their own finance commissions and publishing online the accounts of local bodies. And 60% of these grants will be further linked to these bodies’ providing sanitation and water services. There is an ‘in-principle’ nod to the panel’s suggestion to set up a non-lapsable dedicated fund to support defence and internal security modernisation — a response to the Centre’s belated request to examine if such a fund can be considered for funding defence capex beyond normal Budget allocations. While the panel has suggested moving Rs. 1.53-lakh crore out of the Consolidated Fund of India over five years to partly finance this, the Centre has said the funding nitty-gritties will be examined later. States would monitor how the modalities here evolve, even as they have reason to fret about the Centre’s non-committal response to the Commission’s recommendations of sector-specific and other grants for them adding up to about Rs. 1.8-lakh crore. It is up to the Centre now to ensure that States do not feel short-changed from the new fiscal framework, given their frayed ties over GST compensation dues. States have also been steadily losing out, given the Centre’s penchant to raise more cesses and surcharges that do not have to be shared. This Budget has seen an encore with the agriculture infrastructure development cess. One wishes the Commission had at least noted its displeasure on this practice, like its predecessors did. Unlike them, however, the N.K. Singh-led panel had to cope with a tumultuous shift in the domestic and global macro-economic landscape. At home, the Planning Commission was dissolved and GST introduced. The panel’s tenure was extended by a year, requiring it to give an interim report first, with its work culminating in a virtual zero-visibility zone as the COVID-19 pandemic broke out months before its deadline. Given these pressures and the difficulties in projecting the economy’s path, the Commission has done well. It has resisted the Centre’s nudge to review what it felt was a too-generous 42% share granted to States by the previous Commission, and deftly dealt with most of the unusual terms of reference foisted on it. As N.T. Rama Rao said, India lives in the States. If the Centre takes them along, it might help attain the balance envisaged by the Commission, which is needed to drive the country onto a double-engine growth trajectory from the current nadir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/navigating-the-storm/article33898893.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Time and perseverance||The possibility of life on Mars has excited the imagination. Among the scientific community, the current thinking is that life may have existed on the earth’s ruddy planetary neighbour a long time ago. Understanding this will enrich our studies of evolution and nurture of life outside the earth. The recent NASA mission, Mars 2020, that was launched from Cape Canaveral, Florida on June 30, 2020, landed on the Jezero Crater in Mars on February 18, to much celebration. Of special magnificence was the entry, descent and landing of the mission’s Perseverance rover, described as the ‘shortest and most intense part’. Entering the Martian atmosphere at about 20,000 km per hour, the mission had to bring the Perseverance rover to a halt on the surface in just seven minutes. Also, since it takes 11 minutes for a radio signal to reach the earth from Mars, the mission control could not really guide the landing, and the rover had to complete this process by itself. During the complicated landing process, using a camera eye, the rover checked the ground below to avoid hazardous terrain, all in a few breathtaking minutes. NASA’s exploration of Mars has focused on finding traces and trails of water that may have existed, and relate it to finding evidence of ancient life. Its earlier Mars expedition which carried the Curiosity rover, landed on August 5, 2012. It identified regions that could have hosted life. Expected to last at least the duration of one Mars year, or about 687 earth days, the science goals this time are to look for signs of ancient life and collect rock and soil samples. Perseverance will take the inquiry made by Curiosity to the next level and search for signs of past life by studying the Jezero Crater. The crater was chosen for study as based on an earlier aerial survey, it was found to be home to an ancient delta. Clay minerals and carbonates were seen, making the crater a good place to search for life’s existence. Further, the rover will study the geology here and store samples in a place that can be accessed by a future mission which would return them to the earth. The rover will test out technologies that could help sustain the presence of humans there in the future. This includes an instrument to extract oxygen from the atmospheric carbon dioxide. The rover also carries a helicopter named Ingenuity that is specially designed to fly in Mars’s thin atmosphere; its sole purpose would be to demonstrate flight on Mars. Finally, to the question whether little green microbes did inhabit Mars in the distant past — only time and Perseverance can answer that.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/time-and-perseverance/article33898894.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,||I.M.A. to function as a trade union||[New Delhi, Feb. 21] The Indian Medical Association has decided to function as a trade union “to fight for and protect the rights and interests of the members of the medical profession as well as the community which the profession serves”. This was announced here to-day by the new President of I.M.A., Dr. A.K.N. Sinha. He said the I.M.A. will resort to “direct action” if the Government failed to accept its demand for higher capitation fee from Rs. 20 — recently fixed — to Rs. 30 for the panel of doctors of the Employees State Insurance Corporation. Dr. Sinha said the Association had to function like a trade union if it was to survive. Even the British Medical Association, he added, was functioning as a “middle class union” for getting higher pay for doctors, and there was no reason why the I.M.A. should remain a body only for academic pursuits. Some of the other demands of the Association include better pay and service conditions for those employed in Government service and more facilities for the private practitioners to serve the community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/ima-to-function-as-a-trade-union/article33898903.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Where to put your money first||Q.I am a 25-year-old government employee. My monthly earnings are about Rs. 30,000. I’m a bachelor; how much should I save every month? I am yet to start financial planning. I have some interest in the stock market. Abhijit Banerjee Aarati Krishnan replies: A.You would be right to start your investments with a financial plan. We would advise first setting aside some money, about 6 months’ worth of expenses, in a bank deposit towards any emergencies, including medical ones for you or your dependants. Do get a health insurance plan even if you have one from your employer. If you have parents depending on you, buy a pure term life insurance policy too, so that their interests can be taken care of, in the event of any unforeseen circumstances. Having done these things, you can start on your financial plan by listing out your goals over the next few years. If you have plans to make any big purchase, travel, buy a car or home or marry, you will need to save towards those goals. Ideally, map out the time horizon over which you would like to reach each goal. For goals that are less than three years away, bank recurring deposits and FDs, post office deposits and short-term debt mutual funds are decent options. For goals three to seven years away, you can consider post office schemes such as NSC, apart from GOI floating rate taxable bonds. For goals beyond seven years, you must open a PPF account and invest in it each year. You can also start investing in SIPs of equity funds. To begin with start them in index funds tracking the Nifty100 or Nifty500 index. You should be looking to save 15% of your salary to start with, and raise the amount to 25-30% as your income improves over the years. Invest each month before you spend so that savings becomes a habit. Q.I am a 26-year-old student. After deducting all my monthly expenses, I am left with about Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 5,000 every month. Is there any investment plan that suits a student’s budget? I have heard a lot about SIPs but haven’t tried them out yet. Should I go for only SIPs or are there any other ways to invest smaller amounts? If so, kindly advise me as to when and how to invest? Humayun Mir A.It is very creditable indeed that you are thinking of saving and investing even as a student. The amount of Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 5,000 you mention is certainly a substantial sum to begin your investing journey with. SIPs or systematic investment plans, which let you invest every month in mutual funds, are a good option if you are saving towards goals that are more than five to seven years away and can afford to take risks to your principal. Mutual funds invest your money in market instruments such as shares and bonds whose prices can swing up and down in the short run. If such volatility would make you uncomfortable and if you prefer predictable returns, consider post office or bank recurring deposits which will allow you to invest every month. If you are 18, you can also open a Public Provident Fund account with the post office and begin saving in it every year. The scheme offers tax-free interest which accumulates in the account until you withdraw it. However, this is 15-year scheme and you cannot withdraw from it whenever you like. If you don’t mind volatility, but would like to withdraw money at a time of your choice, you can explore SIPs in debt or hybrid mutual funds. Use the services of a qualified adviser to choose funds suitable to you. Q.I am a senior citizen and State government pensioner. My monthly pension is Rs. 37,000. For the past few years, income tax was deducted and form 16 was issued and income tax returns were filed. But now, as the income does not exceed the maximum limit chargeable to tax, no tax was deducted by the treasury. In such circumstances, is it possible to discontinue the filing of ITR?  R.V. Krishnamoorthy  N. Sree Kanth replies:  A.Under Section 139(1) of the Income Tax Act, an individual has to file their ITR if the total income exceeds the maximum amount not chargeable to tax. As your income is exceeding the basic exemption limits set for senior citizens, you have to file the respective ITR applicable to you. However, you may claim rebate under Section 87A as your income does not exceed Rs. 5 lakh (considering the pension income as the only source of income) which will result in your tax liability being zero.  (N. Sree Kanth is partner, GSS & Associates, Chartered Accountants, Chennai)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/where-to-put-your-money-first/article33898892.ece
22 February 2021||KOLKATA,||Bengal opens campaign with a bang||Young Kaif Ahmed and captain Anustup Majumdar scored excellent half-centuries as Bengal outplayed Services by 70 runs in its opening Group-E match of the Vijay Hazare Trophy one-day tournament at the Eden Gardens here on Sunday. Asked to bat, Bengal registered 315 for six on a batsman-friendly track. In reply, Services managed 245 for nine. Solid start Openers Shreevats Goswami (28, 55b, 4x4) and Vivek Singh (39, 47b, 6x4) gathered 71 runs to give the host a solid start. Majumdar (58, 61b, 6x4, 1x6), who played some delectable shots on the onside, and Abhimanyu Easwaran (39, 49b, 3x4), who returned after warming the bench in the Mushtaq Ali Trophy, rotated the strike well to add 92 runs. Following Majumdar’s dismissal, leg-before off Varun Choudhary in 34th over, Kaif (75, 53b, 11x4, 2x6) showcased his fine array of strokes on both sides to get his second List-A half-century. Good stands He had stands of 41, 42 and 42 with Abhimanyu, Shahbaz Ahmed (25) and Writtick Chatterjee (20 n.o.) respectively. Bengal gained a decisive edge by plundering 68 runs in the last five overs. Services struggles Services, chasing a formidable target, lost wickets at regular intervals to struggle at 122 for five after 27 overs. However, captain Rajat Paliwal played a fine knock (90, 102b, 6x4) and added 77 runs with Pulkit Narang (53, 58b, 5x4) to reduce the margin of defeat. Four Bengal bowlers — Ishan Porel, Mukesh Kumar, Akash Deep and Shahbaz — claimed two wickets apiece.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bengal-opens-campaign-with-a-bang/article33899318.ece
22 February 2021||Jaipur,||Mumbai opens its campaign with a bang||Shardul Thakur, after being released from India’s Test squad, did not feature in Mumbai’s Vijay Hazare Trophy opener versus Delhi. But Mumbai didn’t miss him at all at the Jaipur Vidhyalaya Ground here. Riding on a combination of tight bowling, suicidal running between the wickets by the Delhi openers and a scintillating hundred by opening batsman Prithvi Shaw (105 n.o., 89b, 15x4, 2x6), Mumbai opened its campaign with a thumping seven-wicket win with more than 18 overs to spare. Committing hara-kiri After the Delhi openers committed hara-kiri to be run out for a blob, Dhawal Kulkarni helped Mumbai restrict Delhi to 211 for seven. The mediocre total was never going to be enough to challenge a power-packed Mumbai line-up. Despite left-handed Yashasvi Jaiswal falling cheaply to Shivank Vashisth, Shaw made a mockery of the Delhi pacers, with valuable support from captain Shreyas Iyer (39, 39b, 6x4, 1x6) and Suryakumar Yadav (50, 33b, 6x4, 2x6). Fighting knock Shaw’s showmanship overshadowed Delhi No. 3 Himmat Singh’s fighting hundred (106 n.o., 145b, 6x4, 2x6). Had it not been for his 122-run partnership for the seventh wicket with Vashisth (55, 70b, 6x4), Delhi would have struggled to reach even the three-figure mark. Delhi openers Anuj Rawat (square off the wicket by Yashasvi Jaiswal) and Shikhar Dhawan (one-handed flick by Tushar Deshpande at mid-on) both threw their wickets away in the first two overs. Kulkarni then ran through the middle order to leave Delhi in tatters at 32 for six in the 19th over. The writing was clear on the wall then itself.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mumbai-opens-campaign-with-a-bang/article33899555.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Chennaiyin signs off with a draw||Chennaiyin FC’s campaign in the seventh edition of the ISL came to a sedate end with the two-time champion settling for a 1-1 draw with Kerala Blasters at the GMC Stadium, Bambolim (Goa) on Sunday. Chennaiyin finished with 20 points to remain eighth in the table, while Blasters, with a game in hand, is placed second from bottom, with 17 points. Both the goals came in the first half. After Fatkhulo Fatkhulloev put the former champion ahead, Gary Hooper equalised for Blasters from the penalty spot. Off the blocks The match got off to a frenetic start with the Chennai men storming towards the Blasters goal. They created as many as four chances within the first three minutes. Not surprisingly, it was an error from Blasters defender Bakary Kone that opened the door for the fierce attack from Chennaiyin. He gave away the ball to Lallianzuala Chhangte, who would prove be too dangerous on the left wing even without such help. But Blasters survived, though not for long. Fatkhulloev struck in the 10th minute, off an assist from Edwin Vanspaul. The Tajikistan winger did well to beat Jessel Carneiro and drive the ball firmly past goalkeeper Albino Gomes. Familiar scenario Though Chennaiyin produced an early goal, as it has done many a time this season, it didn’t keep the advantage for long, just as often it has. Hooper made it 1-1 in the 29th minute, off the kick awarded after Deepak Tangri handled the ball. More end-to-end action followed and opportunities were for both the teams, but nothing came off them. Chennaiyin was reduced to 10 men for the last 11 minutes of normal time after Enes Sipovic picked up his second yellow card. It has been that kind of a season for Chennaiyin.  The results:   Kerala Blasters 1 (Gary Hooper 29) drew with Chennaiyin FC 1 (Fatkhulo Fatkhulloev 10).   Bengaluru FC 1 (Wangjam 33) lost to FC Goa 2 (Angulo 20, Tlang 23).   Monday’s match:   Hyderabad FC vs ATK Mohun Bagan, 7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chennaiyin-signs-off-with-a-draw/article33899037.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Goa knocks BFC out of playoffs race||FC Goa knocked Bengaluru FC (BFC) out of the ISL playoff race with a 2-1 victory at the Fatorda Stadium, Margao, on Sunday. Early goals from Igor Angulo and Redeem Tlang left BFC with a mountain to climb in a must-win game. Suresh Wangjam’s first-ever ISL strike provided hope, but a solid second-half performance by Goa ensured BFC will not make it to the last four for the first time in its ISL history. For Goa, it was a statement win, as it took the lead in what increasingly appears a three-way race with Hyderabad FC and NorthEast United FC for the two remaining playoff spots. Goa is now on 30 points with one game left, while the other two are tied on 27 with two matches remaining. Goa first scored in the 20th minute, when Glan Martins robbed the ball off Erik Paartalu and the resultant pass was turned in by Angulo for his 13th goal of the season. Three minutes later, Tlang doubled the lead, capitalising on BFC’s failure to clear the ball out of the penalty area. Between the goals, Goa custodian Dheeraj Singh was lucky to escape when he misplaced a pass straight to Sunil Chhetri. But BFC sprang to life soon, with Wangjam skipping past right-back Seriton Fernandes and curling it into the top-right corner. BFC should have scored at least thrice more in the first half. Cleiton Silva planted a free header wide and when he got it on target, the ball bounced off the bar. The Brazilian then saw a glancing header saved by Dheeraj. The half-time break helped Goa regroup and it nearly put the tie to bed ten minutes after the restart, but Angulo’s attempted dink over Gurpreet Sandhu bounced wide. Goa was compact for the next half hour and didn’t allow BFC as much as a sniff, pocketing three important points.  The results: Bengaluru FC 1 (Wangjam 33) lost to FC Goa 2 (Angulo 20, Tlang 23); Kerala Blasters 1 (Hooper 29) drew with Chennaiyin FC 1 (Fatkhulloev 10). Monday’s match: HFC vs ATKMB, 7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/goa-kayoes-bfc-out-of-playoffs-race/article33899235.ece
22 February 2021||Melbourne,||Djokovic brooks no challenge||World No. 1 Novak Djokovic demolished Russia's Daniil Medvedev in straight sets to win his ninth Australian Open title and extend his record-breaking reign at Melbourne Park on Sunday. Djokovic overpowered the fourth seed 7-5, 6-2, 6-2 in front of 7,400 fans on Rod Laver Arena to end the Russian's unbeaten run at 20 matches.  In winning a third straight Australian Open for the second time, the Serb claimed his 18th Grand Slam title to move within two of Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal who have 20 each, while denying Medvedev his first. Rarely has a player been so dominant at a single tournament with the Serb's record-extending ninth title moving him past Federer's eight at Wimbledon but still a long way behind the 13 Nadal has won at Roland Garros. But it was a rollercoaster ride to get there, with Djokovic dropping five sets en route to the final and battling an abdominal injury that nearly forced him to pull out after the third round. Despite admitting it was a gamble to keep playing, with a risk the injury could get worse and affect the rest of his season, the 33-year-old chose to continue and it paid off. Smart cookie Medvedev, 25, is one of the smartest players on the Tour, keeping his opponents guessing with his flat and low groundstrokes, changing up the pace and angles, as he blends impenetrable defence with opportunistic offence. But the Serb, who held a 4-3 head-to-head record against him but had lost three of the previous four, had his measure. In front of a pro-Djokovic crowd, Medvedev overcooked two forehands on his opening service game then sent one into the net to hand the Serb the first break-points, then a wild backhand saw him immediately on the backfoot. Djokovic consolidated with a serve to love before the Russian finally got off the mark with a wobbly hold for 1-3. But then a failed drop shot and net volley from the top seed allowed the Russian to break back. Long rallies ensued and it went with serve until some brilliant groundstrokes from Djokovic earned three break-points at 6-5. Medvedev saved two but not the third to lose the opening set. Undeterred, the tall, pencil-thin Russian kept coming and stepped up the pressure to break Djokovic's opening serve in set two, only for the Serb to immediately strike back. Djokovic won three games in a row, despite the disruption of two fans being ejected in an apparent refugee protest, as he took control. He raced to a 5-2 lead with Medvedev smashing his racquet in frustration as the set and the championship began slipping away. Deflated, Medvedev dropped his opening serve in set three and never looked like finding a way back as Djokovic, in his 28th Grand Slam final compared to the Russian's second, drew on his experience to close out the match, dropping to the court in celebration. The win reinforced Djokovic's status as World No. 1, where he will mark his 311th week when the new rankings come out on Monday, surpassing Federer's record of 310. Medvedev will move to a career-high three in the rankings, behind Nadal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/djokovic-brooks-no-challenge/article33898978.ece
22 February 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Talk about the cricket, not the pitches’||India opener Rohit Sharma has confirmed that the pitch at the Sardar Patel Gujarat Stadium in Ahmedabad is likely to be a turner similar to the one in Chennai last week that raised a lot of eyebrows. Similar to second Test “It’s still early days to talk about the pitch but I don’t see anything changing in the pitch (from) what we played in the second Test match. It’s gonna be more or less on the same page,” Rohit said in a virtual media interaction on Sunday. “It’s gonna be turning as well. We are preparing accordingly. When the day comes, we need to still assess the what it is doing. It’s been a while since international game has happened on this ground so we need to still assess what it is going to be like.” If it ends being a square turner — as has been widely anticipated considering India has to win the four-match series to progress to the World Test Championship final — the third Test will be historic in more ways than one. Not only will it be the first at the refurbished stadium, it may end up being the first day-night Test in the world to be played on a rank turner. Conventionally, pink-ball Tests have ended up aiding seamers across the globe. Straight talk Rohit, reputed for his straight talk, swept critics off the Chepauk pitch over the fence, just like he did during his match-winning 161 in the second Test in Chennai. “Every team should get the pitch it prefers. That’s what it is when it comes to home advantage. Otherwise, you should get rid of it altogether. The ICC should direct that uniform pitches be made in India or anywhere else. When we travel, they also make our life difficult. I don’t think pitches should be discussed, instead we should discuss about the game, players, their techniques,” he said. “When we play overseas, we never speak about the pitches. We are happy with the result and move on. Everyone should do the same, especially experts. Talk about the cricket, not the pitches.”  Every team should get the pitch it prefers. That’s what it is when it comes to home advantage. Otherwise, you should get rid of it altogether||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/talk-about-the-cricket-not-the-pitches/article33898981.ece
22 February 2021||Chandigarh,||Top stars advance in contrasting style||Warming up ahead of the bigger battles, all the leading seeds expectedly advanced to the round of 32 but what came as a surprise was second seed G. Sathiyan dropping a game to Mizoram’s Jeho Himnakulhpuingheta in the National table tennis championship at Panchkula. Sathiyan’s 4-1 victory came after defending champion Harmeet Desai won by a similar margin against Delhi-based Yashansh Malik. Easily done After top seed Sharath Kamal blanked Tamil Nadu’s Abinay Vijay Babu for the loss of just 20 points over four games, fourth seed Manav Thakkar was the only other top player to advance without dropping a game. Former champion A. Amalraj, seeded nine, survived two match-points against Soumyadeep Sarkar before going through 12-10, 7-11, 7-11, 11-8, 11-9, 9-11, 14-12, but 10th seed Jeet Chandra was not so lucky. Left-handed Preyesh Raj, a former National sub-junior champion from Tamil Nadu, upstaged Jeet 11-9, 11-6, 8-11, 11-13, 11-6, 11-9. Later, Preyesh's Statemate Ananth Devarajan almost took out Sourav Saha, seeded 14th. After taking a 2-0 lead, Ananth could not keep up the momentum and let Saha escape with a 7-11, 8-11, 11-7, 11-5, 11-3, 6-11, 11-6 victory. Comeback man Soumyajit Ghosh dropped two games to Mohammad Ali while another National champion Sanil Shetty dropped a game to Shankab Baruah. Interesting match-ups On Monday, when three rounds are scheduled, Sharath is expected to face Ghosh in a much-awaited quarter final clash. Last year, Ghosh had ended an off-colour Sharath’s campaign. Should Sharath avenge that loss, he could meet last year’s runner-up Manav Thakkar for a place in the final. In the last quarter of the draw, Sathiyan faces a tough test Manush Shah in the third round. Manush had almost knocked out Sathiyan in the last edition of the championship. Sathiyan’s next rival could well be Sanil in the pre-quarterfinal. The winner of their contest could face Harmeet in the semifinal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/top-stars-advance-in-contrasting-style/article33899042.ece
22 February 2021||Coimbatore,||Racing Team India finishes fifth||Racing Team India’s dream of securing an invitation to the 24 Hours of Le Mans ended with a fifth place finish in the overall standings in the Asian Le Mans Series at the Yas Marina circuit in Abu Dhabi on Saturday. The team, comprising India’s ace F1 driver Narain Karthikeyan, Arjun Maini and Naveen Rao, raced its ORECA 07 LMP2 car to a pair of fifth-place finishes in the final two races of the season. Earlier, in the season’s opener in Dubai it had chalked up a fifth and fourth-place finish. The Dubai drive gave the team some hope of bettering its show but unfortunate racing incidents hindered the #64 challenger’s chances of maximising its potential. Learning curve For Racing Team India, backed by JK Tyres and with technical support from reigning Asian Le Mans champions Algarve Pro Racing, it was a big learning curve in its maiden season. It offered plenty of positives too. The team showed it had the speed to fight leading the second race at one stage. Blisteringly quick Narain, the man with a rich experience, was blisteringly quick and so was Maini. The 2020 IMSA Prototype Challenge Champion Naveen, the team’s bronze-rated driver, also made big strides forward as he unlocked a new level of performance from Dubai to Abu Dhabi. With these valuable lessons, Racing Team India will continue to chase its dream of becoming the first Indian team to race at the 24 Hours of Le Mans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/racing-team-india-finishes-fifth/article33899039.ece
22 February 2021||MELBOURNE,||Already a star, Naomi Osaka wants more||At 23, Naomi Osaka already is a star. She has the four Grand Slam titles, the record-breaking endorsement deals and the willingness to speak her mind to prove it. Now the question is: Where does she go from here? It was telling that the second question posed to Osaka at the news conference following her Australian Open victory on Saturday was about turning in better performances at Wimbledon and the French Open. After all, each of her Major championships so far came on hard courts at Melbourne Park (2019, 2021) or the U.S. Open (2018, 2020). She never has been past the third round at the All England Club or Roland Garros. Even more revealing was Osaka’s response. Asked whether her first non-hard-court Slam trophy will come on clay or grass, she said: “Hopefully clay, because it’s the one that’s sooner.” She is not about biding her time or patient improvement. And she’s been thinking about where she needs to improve. Goals “It was one of her goals this year to play well outside of the hard courts. She’s still very young. It’s time to grow on those surfaces. She also believes she can do well and, I’m sure, with the right preparation, with a few, maybe, tactical (and) technical adjustments, we’re going to do well,” said her coach, Wim Fissette. “She’s the person that wants to grow.” That’s been the case off the court and on. For example, Osaka wanted to face 23-time Major champion Serena Williams in the semifinals. No fear there. “She was like when I bring my kids to the toy store: They are very excited. And Naomi was excited to go on court with Serena. It’s just beautiful to see,” Fissette said. “At the end, this is what you train for, right? To be on the biggest stage with the best player of all time, Serena.” Away from the game, Osaka says, it took time to find her voice and express her views.  Naomi was excited to go on court with Serena. It’s just beautiful to see— Fissette||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/already-a-star-naomi-osaka-wants-more/article33899237.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Hajilol, Sonika are the champions||Parasappa Madevappa Hajilol of Karnataka and Haryana’s Sonika were crowned the National Cross Country 10km champions at the 55th edition of the event at the ATS Golf Meadows, near Chandigarh, on Sunday. The course, with two kilometre grassy loops, was designed with undulations and slushy sections. The 25-year-old Hajilol from Bijapur, who clocked 31 minutes, 13.21 seconds, surprised several seasoned favourites, including defending champion Anish Thapa Magar in a race that began under a blanket of fog that only made conditions more difficult for the 224 runners in the men’s section. The women did not have any such weather difficulties and 21-year old Sonika completed the race in 37 minutes, 9.53 seconds, ahead of the Maharashtrian duo of Komal Jagdale and Nikita Raut in the 173-strong field. Defending champion Kavita Yadav was relegated to fourth.  The results:   Men 10km: 1. Parasappa Madevappa Hajilol (Kar, 31:13.21), 2. Vikram Bangriya (MP, 31:15.21), 3. Adesh Yadav (Mah, 31:19.41); Under-20 8km: 1. Prince Nagar (Har, 26:04.87), 2. Sushant Jedhe (Mah, 26:06.22), 3. Indrajeet Farak (Mah, 26:27.36); Under-18 6km: 1. Gagan Singh (Har, 19:55.74), 2. Naveen Chouhan (MP, 20:01.90), 3. Karan Gahandule (Mah, 20:11.85); Under-16 2km: 1. Rohit (Har, 6:12.34), 2. Walter Kandulna (TN, 6:12.95), 3. Rahul Verma (UP, 6:17.68).   Women 10km: 1. Sonika (Har, 37:09.53), 2. Komal Chandra Jagdale (Mah, 37:11.40), 3. Nikita Raut (Mah, 37:12.71); Under-20 6km: 1. Rebi Pal (UP, 22:37.78), 2. Chatru Gumnaram (Raj, 22:52.07), 3. Kajal Sharma (UP, 22:52:21); Under-18 4km: 1. Supriti Kachhap (Jha, 14:40.53), 2. Aakancha Kerketta (TN, 15:02.36), 3. Urmila Bishnoi (Raj, 15:08.35); Under-16 2km: 1. Sunita Devi (UP, 6:37.30), 2. Priyanka Madivalappa (Kar, 7:16.11), 3. Sanika Rupnar (Mah, 7:19.18) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hajilol-sonika-are-the-champions/article33899044.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Vote for Sportstar Aces Awards 2021||The Sportstar Aces Awards 2021 celebrate consistency in performance and impact of sports stars in the decade between 2011 & 2020.  The second set of nominees for Popular Awards: RACQUET SPORTS    SPORTSMAN       Leander Paes (Tennis): There are men and there are marathon men. Paes, who began his Davis Cup journey at 17, continues to volley for his country even at 47! He has made seven trips to the Olympics — the most by a player — but is eager to finish with eight at Tokyo this year.  K. Srikanth (Badminton): He is the only Indian man to be ranked World No. 1, has produced a series of consistent performances this decade. 2017 was his best year as he bagged four titles. He also won a silver at the 2018 Commonwealth Games.  A. Sharath Kamal (Table Tennis): He is a role model for more than one generation of players. At the 2018 World Championships, he led India to its best-ever spot (13th), winning 10 out of 13 matches.  SPORTSWOMAN    P. V. Sindhu (Badminton): The holder of five World championship medals — a gold, two silver and two bronze — and silver medals from the Olympic Games, Asian Games, Commonwealth Games and South Asian Games, she remains a top contender at big-ticket events across the world.  Sania Mirza (Tennis): After giving birth to son Izhaan in October 2018, she decided to give tennis a shot again and duly won her 42nd WTA doubles title at the Hobart International in January 2020 in the company of Nadiia Kichenok. Along with Ankita Raina, she also piloted India to the Fed Cup final for the first time in history.  Saina Nehwal (Badminton): She is the only Indian woman to be ranked World No. 1. She won her biggest prize at the 2012 London Olympics — a bronze. Her never-say-die attitude has kept her going for more than 15 years. Fans can cast their votes on sportstar.thehindu.com/aces-awards/popular-awards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vote-for-sportstar-aces-awards-2021/article33898976.ece
22 February 2021||london,||Sterling heads Manchester City past Arsenal||Manchester City moved a step closer to the Premier League title as Raheem Sterling’s early goal gave it a 1-0 win against Arsenal on Sunday. Pep Guardiola’s side made it 18 successive wins in all competitions, thanks to Sterling’s second-minute header at the Emirates Stadium. Two goals from Lautaro Martinez and one from Romelu Lukaku earned Inter Milan a 3-0 win over AC Milan in Sunday’s derby clash at the San Siro, sending Antonio Conte’s side four points clear at the top of the Serie A standings.  Barcelona compounded its Champions League misery by drawing on Sunday at home to Cadiz, which scored an 89th-minute penalty to snatch a 1-1 draw. Earlier on Saturday, Everton enjoyed its first Premier League win at Liverpool since 1999 with a 2-0 victory, condemning Jurgen Klopp’s fading champions to a fourth straight home defeat.  The results: Premier League: West Ham 2 (Antonio 5, Lingard 47) bt Tottenham 1 (Moura 64); Aston Villa 1 (Traore 48) lost to Leicester 2 (Maddison 19, Barnes 23); Arsenal 0 lost to Manchester City 1 (Sterling 2).     LaLiga: Barcelona 1 (Messi 32-pen) drew with Cadiz 1 (Álex 89-pen).   Serie A: Parma 2 (Cornelius 3, Kucka 32-pen) drew with Udinese 2 (Okaka 64, Nuytinck 80); AC Milan 0 lost to Inter Milan 3 (Lautaro 5, 57, Lukaku 66).   Bundesliga: Augsburg 1 (Niederlechner 5) drew with Bayer Leverkusen 1 (Tapsoba 90+4); Hertha Berlin 0 lost to RB Leipzig 3 (Sabitzer 28, Mukiele 71, Orban 84); Hoffenheim 4 (Bebou 26, Baumgartner 44, Dabbur 49, Rutter 90) bt Werder Bremen 0   Saturday: Premier League: Burnley 0 drew with West Brom 0; Liverpool 0 lost to Everton 2 (Richarlison 3, Sigurdsson 83-pen); Fulham 1 (Lookman 61) bt Sheffield United 0.   LaLiga: Valencia 2 (Vallejo 90+4, Gameiro 90+8) bt Celta Vigo 0; Valladolid 0 lost to Real Madrid 1 (Casemiro 65).   Bundesliga: Schalke 04 0 lost to Borussia Dortmund 4 (Sancho 42, Haaland 45, 79, Guerreiro 60).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/inter-shades-milan-derby-with-lautaro-brace/article33898983.ece
22 February 2021||JALANDHAR,||Arjun hogs the limelight||Arjun Halakurki added the senior title to his under-23 gold, winning the 55kg at the 65th Greco-Roman National Wrestling Championship here. The two-day event that finished on Sunday completed the three-part national championships — the Freestyle and Women’s events were held last month — by the Wrestling Federation of India. The 22-year old Halakurki from Karnataka, returning from a shoulder injury, was participating in only his second senior tournament after the Asian Championships in February 2020 where he won silver. Asian Championship gold medallist Sunil Kumar, meanwhile, continued his winning form and reiterated his dominance on the mat, reclaiming top spot in the 87kg. Also winning gold was Gurpreet Singh in the 77kg after missing out on the Individual World Cup last year after testing COVID-19 positive. In the 82kg, Harpreet Singh continued Punjab’s good run in Greco-Roman with his seventh gold, defeating Sanjeet in just 48 seconds in the final.  The results: 55kg: 1. Arjun Halakurki (SSCB), 2. Vijay (SSCB), 3. Arshad (UP) and Shrikant (Har); 60kg: 1. Manish (RSPB), Sunny Jadhav (MP), 3. Gyanendra (SSCB) and Sachin Rana (RSPB); 63kg: 1. Neeraj (Del), 2. Govind (Mah), 3. M. Taibanganba (SSCB) and Ranjeet (SSCB); 67kg: 1. Gaurav (UP), 2. Surajmal (SSCB), 3. Sachin (SSCB) and Deepak (RSPB); 72kg: 1. Kuldeep Malik (RSPB), 2. Sameer (Mah), 3. Amit (RSPB) and Vikas (Har); 77kg: 1. Gurpreet Singh (Pun), 2. Mohd. Rafeeq Holi (SSCB), 3. Sajan (RSPB) and Manjeet (SSCB); 82kg: 1. Harpreet Singh (Pun), 2. Sanjeet (SSCB), 3. Atul (RSPB) and Rohit Dahiya (Har); 87kg: 1. Sunil Kumar (RSPB), 2. Prabhpal Singh (Pun), 3. Amit (RSPB) and Ravinder Khatri (SSCB); 97kg: 1. Deepanshu (SSCB), 2. Ravi (RSPB), 3. Hardeep (RSPB) and Narender Cheema (Pun); 130kg: 1. Naveen (SSCB), 2. Ravi (Del), 3. Sonu (SSCB) and Aawesh (Har).   Teams: 1. SSCB (190 pts), 2. RSPB (170), 3. Punjab (111) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arjun-hogs-the-limelight/article33899051.ece
22 February 2021||Chennai,||Former CFC player dies in accident||Aloysius Clement, a former under-18 player of ISL team Chennaiyin FC, died in a road accident in Kerala, the club said on Sunday. The 18-year old Aloysius was killed in a collision involving two motorcycles at Avanakuzhi on Saturday, family sources said. “We are deeply saddened at the untimely demise of our former u-18 player Aloysius Clement. May his soul rest in peace. All of us at Chennaiyin FC send our heartfelt condolences to his family and friends, and hope they find strength during this incredibly difficult time,” Chennaiyin FC posted a message on its twitter feed. Hailing from a fisherman family in Kerala’s Pulluvila, Clement had been an under-18 player with CFC for the last two years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/former-cfc-player-dies-in-accident/article33899515.ece
22 February 2021||INDORE,||Aman and Reshma get pride of place||Aman Dahiya and Reshma Maruri have been top-seeded in the ITF grade-5 junior tennis tournament to be played at the Indore Tennis Club from Monday. It should be an interesting week of action for aspiring young players, especially the girls who had a fruitful stint at the high performance training camp in the capital under the guidance of coaches Zeeshan Ali, Namita Bal and Shivika Burman.   The seedings: Boys: 1. Aman Dahiya, 2. Sanjith Devineni (USA), 3. Denim Yadav, 4. Anargha Ganguly, 5. Aayush Bhat, 6. Torus Rawat, 7. Wyatt Obrien, 8. Heerak Vora.   Girls: 1. Reshma Maruri, 2. Vaishnavi Adkar, 3. Suhitha Maruri, 4. Saina Deshpande (US), 5. Camilla Samel Cruz (Fra), 6. Gargi Pawar, 7. Lakshmi Gowda, 8. Sanjana Devineni (USA).   The results (third and final qualifying round): Boys: Akarsh Gaonkar bt Ansh Kundu 6-3, 6-7(4), [10-8]; Jaishnav Shinde bt Raghav Amin 6-3, 6-1; Arjun Gohad bt Prajwal Tewari 6-4, 6-0; Ayush Hindlekar bt Skandha Prasanna Rao 7-6(0), 1-6, [10-6].   Girls: Pavitra Parikh bt Anya Jacob 7-6(5), 6-0; Deepshika Sriram bt Tamanna Panwar 6-2, 6-2; Pushti Laddha bt Kashmira Manohar 7-5, 6-3; Diva Bhatia bt Raheen Taranum 6-1, 6-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aman-and-reshma-get-pride-of-place/article33899319.ece
22 February 2021||Pune:,||Miracle wins feature event||Miracle, piloted by P.S. Chouhan, claimed the Panchshil Breeders’ Produce Stakes (Gr. 3), the main attraction of Sunday’s (Feb. 21) Mumbai races held here. The winner is owned by Mr. Mehernosh H. Deboo & Mrs. Auzita M. Deboo. P. Shroff trains the winner. P.S. Chouhan and trainer Pesi Shroff stole the limelight on Sunday, as the former rode six winners while the latter saddled five winners.  1. BOLD MARCH PLATE (Div. II) , Cl. IV, 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 46: TANAHAIYAAN (Chouhan) 1, Pride’s Angel (C.S. Jodha) 2, Northern Singer (Dashrath) 3 and Safdar (K. Kadam) 4. 5-1/2, 2-1/4 and 1-1/4. 1m, 25.40s. Rs. 13 (w), 11, 23 and 19 (p). SHP: 36, FP: 50, Q: 91, Tanala: 180 and 77. Favourite: Tanahaiyaan. Owners: Mr. D.A. Nanda, Mrs. Esha Nanda Bhojwani & Mr. Amitabh Nanda rep. Arion Horse Co. Pvt. Ltd. & Mr. & Mrs. Shapoor P. Mistry rep. Manjri Horse Breeders’ Farm Pvt. Ltd. Trainer: Faisal A. Abbas.  2. PICASSO PLATE (1,600m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66: TIGRIO (Chouhan) 1, Makhtoob (C. S. Jodha) 2, Venezuela (Kaviraj) 3 and Athulya (Ajinkya) 4. 3/4, 2-1/4 and Dist. 1m, 39.28s. Rs. 14 (w), 13 and 15 (p). SHP: 22, FP: 15, Q: 15, Tanala: 33 and 12. Favourite: Tigrio. Owners: Mr. Pallon S. Mistry rep. Manjri Horse Breeders’ Farm Pvt. Ltd., Mr. D.R. Thacker rep. DT Racing & Breeders LLP & Mr. Mukul Sonawala. Trainer: P. Shroff.  Note: Originally Makhtoob had won and Tigrio ended second. An objection was raised by P.S. Chouhan against C.S. Jodha for causing him interference in the last 100m. The stewards upheld the objection and revised the order.  3. DAYS BEST PLATE (Div. I) (2,000m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46: SEASONS GREETINGS (Dashrath) 1, Arcadia (Chouhan) 2, La Teste (Zervan) 3 and Magic In The Wind (Parmar) 4. 3/4, 2-1/2 and Lnk. 2m, 5.36s. Rs. 15 (w), 16, 22 and 27 (p). SHP: 44, FP: 68, Q: 104, Tanala: 360 and 185. Favourite: Seasons Greetings. Owners: Mr. & Mrs. Vijay B. Shirke & Mr. Jay V. Shirke. Trainer: P. Shroff.  4. PIONEER PLATE (1,000m) (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only: CIRCUS QUEEN (Sandesh) 1, Petronia (Zervan) 2, Excellent Star (T. S. Jodha) 3 and The Mentalist (C. S. Jodha) 4. 1, 8-1/4 and Nk. 57.70s. Rs. 21 (w), 13 and 10 (p). SHP: 31, FP: 44, Q: 17, Tanala: 72 and 101. Favourite: Petronia. Owner: Mr. Vikram Bachhawat rep. Bacchawat Farms Pvt. Ltd. Trainer: S.K. Sunderji.  5. HYDERABAD RACE CLUB TROPHY (2,400m), Cl. I, rated 80 and upward: PARISIAN (Chouhan) 1, Wizard Of Stocks (T.S. Jodha) 2, Vulcan (Sandesh) 3 and Golden Era (C.S. Jodha) 4. 6-1/4, 7-3/4 and Nk. 2m, 30.19s. Rs. 14 (w), 12 and 19 (p). SHP: 36, FP: 75, Q: 40, Tanala: 80 and 42. Favourite: Parisian. Owners: Mr. & Mrs. Vijay B. Shirke, Mr. Jay V. Shirke, Mr. K.N. Dhunjibhoy rep. Five Stars Shipping Co. Pvt. Ltd. & Mr. Keki D. Mehta & Mr. Dara K. Mehta rep. Darashaw Bloodstock Pvt. Ltd. Trainer: P. Shroff.  6. HUNT FOR GOLD PLATE (Div. II) (1,000m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30: SUPREME BEING (Raghuveer) 1, Divija (Ajinkya) 2 & Dowsabel (Peter) 2 and Primum Non Nocere (A. Prakash) 4. Sh, Dht and 2-3/4. 59.49s. Rs. 448 (w), 64, 115 and 18 (p). SHP: No. 8 Rs. 119 and SHP: No. 9 Rs. 22. FP: 1,523, Q: 248, Tanala: C/O. Favourite: Kardashian. Owner: Mr. Premnath Kasinathrao. Trainer: Ivor Fernandes.  7. PANCHSHIL BREEDERS’ PRODUCE STAKES (Gr. 3) (1,400m) (Terms) 3-y-o only: MIRACLE (Chouhan) 1, Dragoness (Parmar) 2, Succession (T.S. Jodha) 3 and Alfayiz (Zervan) 4. 1, 5-1/4 and 3/4. 1m, 24.62s. Rs. 33 (w), 14 and 13 (p). SHP: 38, FP: 65, Q: 19, Tanala: 355 and 141. Favourite: Dragoness. Owners: Mr. Mehernosh H. Deboo & Mrs. Auzita M. Deboo. Trainer: P. Shroff.  8. DAYS BEST PLATE (Div. II) (2,000m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46: SOCRATES (Chouhan) 1, Chancellor (Sandesh) 2, Brazos (Parmar) 3 and Corus (S.Kamble) 4. 5-1/4, 1 and 8-1/4. 2m 7.78s. Rs. 36 (w), 16, 10 and 33 (p). SHP: 24, FP: 85, Q: 35, Tanala: 568 and 730. Favourite: Chancellor. Owners: Mr. & Mrs. Vijay B. Shirke & Mr. Jay V. Shirke. Trainer: P. Shroff.  Note: Mandeville (Dashrath up) jumped out awkwardly and dislodged his rider. Dashrath escaped unhurt.  9. BOLD MARCH PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), Cl. IV, 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 46: THUNDERCLAP (Chouhan) 1, Sandalphon (T.S. Jodha) 2, Timeless Deeds (Dashrath) 3 and White River (C.S. Jodha) 4. 4, 1-3/4 and Lnk. 1m, 25.93s. Rs. 32 (w), 12, 20 and 29 (p). SHP: 62, FP: 630, Q: 82, Tanala: 1,388 and 793. Favourite: White River. Owners: M/s. K.H. Vaccha, Marthand Singh Mahindra & Ms. Ritu Puri. Trainer: Adhirajsingh Jodha.  10. HUNT FOR GOLD PLATE (Div. I) (1,000m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30: WORLD IS ONE (M.S. Deora) 1, Titanium (P. Shinde) 2, Colosseum (P. Vinod) 3 and Willows (Vishal Bunde) 4. 2-1/2, 5 and 3/4. 57. 73s. Rs. 94 (w), 28, 58 and 27 (p). SHP: 143, FP: 1,167, Q: 1,377, Tanala: 5,290 C/O. Favourite: Little More. Owners: M/s. Deepak Suryavanshi, Solomon F. Sopher & Vishwajeet Sood. Trainer: Altaf Hussain. Jackpot (i): 70%: Rs. 4, 305 (6 tkts.) and 30%: 461 (24 tkts.); (ii): 70%: 69, 017 (1 tkt.) and 30%: 2,113 (14 tkts.). Treble: (i) 1,547 (2 tkts.), (ii) 415 (12 tkts.), (iii) 902 (10 tkts.). Super jackpot: 70%: 9,567 (1 tkt.) and 30%: 820 (5 tkts.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/miracle-wins-feature-event/article33899651.ece
22 February 2021||Hyderabad:,||N R I Valley in line to complete hat-trick in Elusive Plate||N R I Valley, who has won two races handily this season, should score a hat-trick in the Elusive Plate, the chief event of Monday’s (Feb. 22) races. Rails will be announced one hour before the first race.  GRAND PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), rated up to 25 (Cat. III), 1.20 p.m.: 1. Beauty On Parade (7) Suraj Narredu 60, 2. Fantastic Show (3) Ajeeth Kumar 60, 3. Fleur (8) Md. Ismail 60, 4. Platinum Classz (4) Trevor 60, 5. Sacred Lamp (2) Abhay Singh 60, 6. Smarty (9) Gaurav Singh 60, 7. Let It Be Me (1) Akshay Kumar 59, 8. Secret Command (6) Kiran Naidu 58.5, 9. Big Day (10) B.R. Kumar 58 and 10. Moka (5) A.A. Vikrant 56.5.  1. BEAUTY ON PARADE, 2. LET IT BE ME, 3. PLATNUM CLASSZ   LADY EMMA PLATE (1,800m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II), 1.50: 1. Destined Dynamite (10) A.A. Vikrant 60, 2. Egyptian Prince (4) Ajeeth Kumar 58, 3. Spicy Star (8) Deepak Singh 58, 4. Horus (3) Trevor 55, 5. Kesariya Balam (1) Akshay Kumar 54.5, 6. Beyond Limits (9) Kuldeep Singh 53.5, 7. Call Of The Blue (6) Gaurav Singh 52.5, 8. Mirana (7) Suraj Narredu 52.5, 9. N R I Heights (2) Abhay Singh 52 and 10. Lockhart (5) Ashad Asbar 51.5.  1. MIRANA, 2. KESARIYA BALAM,   3. SPICY STAR   SECRET STAR PLATE (1,100m) (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II), 2.20: 1. Ambitious Star (10) B.R. Kumar 56, 2. Dream Jewel (6) Abhay Singh 56, 3. Grand Duke (11) Akshay Kumar 56, 4. Gregor Clegane (3) Ashad Asbar 56, 5. Painted Apache (13) Trevor 56, 6. Paladino (12) N.B. Kuldeep 56, 7. Space Walk (—) (—) 56, 8. Aarya (8) Afroz Khan 54.5, 9. Angelina (7) Md. Ismail 54.5, 10. Fatuma (4) Ajeeth Kumar 54.5, 11. Golden Lady (5) Kuldeep Singh 54.5, 12. Hard To Toss (2) A.A. Vikrant 54.5, 13. Shelly Anne (9) Kiran Naidu 54.5 and 14. Wild Card (1) Koushik 54.5.  1. PAINTED APACHE,   2. GRAND DUKE, 3. AARYA   ECLAIR PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 2.55: 1. Cincia Azzurra (1) Deepak Singh 60, 2. The Special One (6) Rohit Kumar 60, 3. Flamingo Fame (2) Suraj Narredu 59, 4. Alliston (7) N.B. Kuldeep 58.5, 5. Green Turf (4) Md. Ismail 58, 6. Solo Winner (12) B.R. Kumar 58, 7. Star Racer (9) Kuldeep Singh 56.5, 8. Blickfang (13) Mukesh Kumar 56, 9. Gusty Note (5) A. A. Vikrant 56, 10. Aibak (14) Gaurav Singh 55.5, 11. Blazing Jupiter (8) Ajeeth Kumar 55.5, 12. Tiger Of The Sea (11) Surya Prakash 55.5, 13. Urvasi (3) Akshay Kumar 54 and 14. Hurricane (10) Abhay Singh 52.  1. GUSTY NOTE,   2. FLAMINGO FAME,   3. GREEN TURF   GRAND PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), rated upto 25 (Cat. III), 3. 30: 1. Air Salute (6) N.B. Kuldeep 60, 2. Exponent (11) Abhay Singh 60, 3. Farmville (8) Ajeeth Kumar 60, 4. Flying Queen (1) Koushik 60, 5. Rhine (7) A.A. Vikrant 60, 6. Silver Set (4) Akshay Kumar 60, 7. Kapell Bruke (3) Deepak Singh 59.5, 8. Jo Malone (5) Gaurav Singh 59, 9. Golden Lace (2) B.R. Kumar 57.5, 10. Acadian Angel (9) Suraj Narredu 57 and 11. Bedazzled (10) Afroz Khan 56.  1. AIR SALUTE,   2. ACADIAN ANGEL,   3. SILVER SET   ELUSIVE PLATE (1,400m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II), 4.05: 1. Ashwa Yashobali (9) Ashad Asbar 60, 2. N R I Valley (1) Akshay Kumar 60, 3. City Of Wisdom (Gaurav Singh) 59, 4. Blazer (7) N. B. Kuldeep 58, 5. That’s My Magic (5) Md. Ismail 57.5, 6. Red Snaper (12) Trevor 56.5, 7. Chuckit (4) A. A. Vikrant 54, 8. Mark My Day (8) B.R. Kumar 54, 9. Rhyhtm Selection (6) Afroz Khan 54, 10. King Maker (11) Surya Prakash 53.5, 11. Kamyar (10) Gopal Singh 52.5 and 12. N R I Vision (2) Koushik 52.5.  1. N R I VALLEY, 2. RED SNAPER,   3. BLAZER   HYPERION PLATE (1,800m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 4. 40: 1. Ashwa Arjun (3) Gaurav Singh 60, 2. Gusty Look (6) Akshay Kumar 60, 3. Miss Marvellous (4) N.B. Kuldeep 60, 4. Ulysses (9) Mukesh Kumar 60, 5. Sweet Melody (10) B.R. Kumar 58, 6. Buttonwood (2) Abhay Singh 57, 7. Lightning Power (8) Suraj Narredu 57, 8. Royal Pal (11) Kuldeep Singh 56.5, 9. Cheltenham (1) Afroz Khan 54, 10. Prime Gardenia (12) Ajeeth Kumar 53.5, 11. Dillon (13) Surya Prakash 53, 12. Astronaut (5) P. Gaddam 51.5, 13. Lightning Fairy (14) Md. Ismail 51.5 and 14. Super Act (7) R. Manish 51.  1. LIGHTNING POWER, 2. GUSTY LOOK, 3. SWEET MELODY   ECLAIR PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45, 5.15: 1. Linewiler (2) Trevor 60, 2. Four One Four (5) Afroz Khan 59.5, 3. Top saga (11) Md. Ismail 59, 4. Explosive (4) Gaurav Singh 58.5, 5. Dancing Doll (3) Ajeeth Kumar 58, 6. Soul Empress (1) Akshay Kumar 58, 7. Unstoppable (9) Deepak Singh 56.5, 8. Angel Tesoro (12) Suraj Narredu 56, 9. Promiseofhappiness (8) A.A. Vikrant 55.5, 10. Starwalker (10) Abhay Singh 55, 11. Story Teller (13) B. R. Kumar 54.5, 12. Crackershow (14) P. Gaddam 54, 13. Blazing Speed (7) Koushik 53.5 and 14. Tapatio (6) Surya Prakash 50.5.  1. ANGEL TESORO,   2. LINEWILER,   3. SOUL EMPRESS  Day’s best: MIRANA  Jackpot: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8. Mini Jackpot: (i) 2, 3, 4 & 5; (ii) 5, 6, 7 & 8. Treble: (i) 1, 2 & 3; (ii) 3, 4 & 5; (iii) 6, 7 & 8. Tanala: All races.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/n-r-i-valley-in-line-to-complete-hat-trick-in-elusive-plate/article33899032.ece
22 February 2021||Hyderabad:,||Sovet Pride obliges in main event||R.H. Sequeira trained-Sovet Pride, ridden by Akshay Kumar, won the Moment Of Glory Plate, the feature event of Sunday’s (Feb. 21) races. The winner is owned by Mr. Y. Damodar & Mr. Ashok Kumar Gupta. Trainer K. Satheesh saddled three winners on the day.  1. WISHFUL THINKING PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II): AKIDO (B.R. Kumar) 1, Keystone (Akshay Kumar) 2, Winning Streak (Trevor) 3 and Muaser (Kuldeep Singh) 4. Not run: Magic Mark. 3-1/4, 2-1/2 and 3. 1m, 27.53s. Rs. 20 (w), 10, 5 and 6 (p). SHP: 17, THP: 25, FP: 62, Q: 28, Tanala: 124. Favourite: Winning Streak. Owner: Mr. A.C. Muthiah. Trainer: K. Satheesh.  2. AUXILLARY PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): SPORTING SMILE (Abhay Singh) 1, Wah Ms Zara (Suraj Narredu) 2, N R I Vision (Akshay Kumar) 3 and City Of Blossom (Gaurav Singh) 4. 1/2, 3/4 and 1/2. 1m, 13.18s. Rs. 109 (w), 16, 5 and 7 (p). SHP: 15, THP: 30, FP: 370, Q: 90, Tanala: 686. Favourite: Wah Ms Zara. Owners: M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Trainer: K. Satheesh.  3. WISHFUL THINKING PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only: BUGSY (Trevor) 1, Lifes Song (Akshay Kumar) 2, Able Love (Kuldeep Singh) 3 and Salisbury (G. Naresh) 4. 2, 7-1/4 and 2. 1m, 26.17s. Rs. 29 (w), 8, 10 and 25 (p). SHP: 19, THP: 44, FP: 173, Q: 95, Tanala: 6,501. Favourite: November Rain. Owner: Mr. Aditya P. Thackersey. Trainer: L.V.R. Deshmukh.  4. AUXILLARY PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): FOREVER SPLENDOUR (Suraj Narredu) 1, Her Legacy (Kiran Naidu) 2, N R I Elegance (Akshay Kumar) 3 and Mind Reader (B. R. Kumar) 4. 4-3/4, 3/4 and 1. 1m, 12.69s. Rs. 6 (w), 5, 12 and 5 (p). SHP: 38, THP: 23, FP: 48, Q: 41, Tanala: 112. Favourite: Forever Splendour. Owners: Mr. Zavaray S. Poonawalla & Mrs. Behroze Z. Poonawalla rep. Poonawalla Racing & Breeding Pvt. Ltd., Mr. Vijay Kumar Gupta rep. Vijay Racing & Farms Pvt. Ltd & Mr. Susheel Kumar Gupta. Trainer: Laxman Singh.  5. ABERADER PLATE (1,200m), (Terms) 3-y-o only (Cat. II): FALCON EDGE (Akshay Kumar) 1, New Look (Kiran Naidu) 2, The Prospect (A. A. Vikrant) 3 and Jean Lafette (Kuldeep Singh) 4. Not run: Born To Be. 3/4, 2 and 2. 1m, 13.51s. Rs. 6 (w), 5, 8 and 6 (p). SHP: 22, THP: 13, FP: 20, Q: 21, Tanala: 45. Favourite: Falcon Edge. Owners: Mr. P. Prabhakar Reddy & Mr. Rama Seshu Eyunni. Trainer: R. H. Sequeira.  6. MOMENT OF GLORY PLATE (1,600m), rated 60 to 85 (Cat. II): SOVET PRIDE (Akshay Kumar) 1, Havelock Cruise (Suraj Narredu) 2, Pontius Pilate (Ashad Asbar) 3 and Paso Robles (Trevor) 4. Nk, 1-1/2 and 1-1/2. 1m, 40.17s. Rs. 13 (w), 6, 5 and 12 (p). SHP: 15, THP: 38, FP: 45, Q: 30, Tanala: 488. Favourite: Sovet Pride. Owners: Mr. Y. Damodar & Mr. Ashok Kumar Gupta. Trainer: R.H. Sequeira.  7. QUTAB SHAHI PLATE (1,600m), rated 20 to 45: MELTING ICE (B.R. Kumar) 1, Committed Warrior (Akshay Kumar) 2, Queen Daenerys (Afroz Khan) 3 and N R I Sun (Ajeeth Kumar) 4. 3, 1-1/4 and 1/2. 1m, 39.82s. Rs. 32 (w), 11, 8 and 9 (p). SHP: 30, THP: 14, FP: 158, Q: 71, Tanala: 1,340. Favourite: N R I Sun. Owner: M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Trainer: K. Satheesh.  8. SECUNDERABAD CLUB PLATE (1,400m), rated upto 25 (Cat. III): BLUE CRUISE (Suraj Narredu) 1, Sun Dancer (N.B. Kuldeep) 2, That’s My Star (Akshay Kumar) 3 and Kintsugi (Abhay Singh) 4. 2, 3/4 and Shd. 1m, 29.02s. Rs. 11 (w), 6, 12 and 13 (p). SHP: 26, THP: 41, FP: 121, Q: 95, Tanala: 430. Favourite: Blue Cruise. Owners: Mr. Shailendra Singh, Mr. P. Ranga Raju & Mr. Eswarachandra Rajagopal Tripuraneni. Trainer: D. Netto. Jackpot: 70%: Rs. 340 (601 tkts.) and 30%: 44 (1,992 tkts.). Treble: (i) 1,136 (26 tkts.), (ii) 65 (220 tkts.), (iii) 287 (65 tkts.). Mini jackpot: (i) 797 (18 tkts.), (ii) 342 (61 tkts.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sovet-pride-obliges-in-main-event/article33899041.ece
22 February 2021||Mumbai:,||Tank hits century||Opener Hersh Tank’s blistering century (116, 66b, 114, 8x6) powered Payyade Sports Club to a six-wicket win over Parsee Gymkhana and enter the final of the 73rd Police Invitation Shield cricket tournament.  The scores (semifinals): Parsee Gymkhana 245/6 in 45 overs (Vaibhav Kalamkar 97 n.o., Nikhil Patel 37) lost to Payyade SC 247/4 in 34.4 overs (Hersh Tank 116, Prayag Bhati 48 n.o.).   CCI 281/9 in 45 overs (Nishad Gabhawala 75, Akash Anand 47) bt Karnatak SA 204 in 43.1 overs (Shrideep Mangela 48, Karan Vashodia 44, Manan Khakar 43, Prathamesh Dake 3/50).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tank-hits-century/article33899652.ece
22 February 2021||New Delhi,||Vinka and Sanamacha win golds||Vinka (60kg) and T. Sanamacha Chanu (75kg) clinched gold medals as Indian youth boxers continued their outstanding show at the 30th Adriatic Pearl tournament in Budva, Montenegro. The Indian squad also claimed two silver and three more bronze medals on the penultimate day of the competition.  The results:   Women: Finals:   60kg: Vinka bt Kristina Kriper (Mda) 5-0.   75kg: T. Sanamacha Chanu bt Raj Sahiba 5-0.   48kg: Farzona Fozilova (Uzb) bt Gitika 4-1.   Semifinals: 57kg: Bojana Gojkovic (Mng) bt Preeti 4-1; 64kg: Lucky Rana bt Gulshoda Istamova (Uzb) 3-0.   Men: Semifinals:   49kg: Ishjonov Ibrokhim (Uzb) bt Priyanshu Dabas.   +91kg: Vasyl Tkachuk (Ukr) bt Jugnoo 5-0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vinka-and-sanamacha-win-golds/article33899031.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Ankita loses||Ninth seed Catherine Mcnally of the US proved too strong for Ankita Raina as she won 6-1, 6-3 in the first qualifying round of the $535,530 WTA tennis tournament here on Sunday. It was a hectic time for Ankita who flew into Adelaide after winning the doubles title in the WTA tournament in Melbourne. Owing to the high cut-off Ankita could not get into the doubles draw of the WTA-500 Adelaide event.  The results:   $535,530 WTA, Adelaide: Qualifying singles (first round): Catherine Mcnally (US) bt Ankita Raina 6-1, 6-3 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ankita-loses/article33899050.ece
22 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Royal HC, Unicorns triumph||Royal Hockey Club defeated Gymkhana Hockey Club-B 4-3 in the men’s final of the Chief Minister’s Cup five-a-side invitation hockey tournament here on Sunday.   The results:   Men (final): Royal HC bt Gymkhana HC-B 4-3. Third place: AC Guards Club.   Women (final): Unicorns bt Gymkhana HC 2-1. Third place: Gymkhana HC-A .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/royal-hc-unicorns-triumph/article33899558.ece
22 February 2021||LOS ANGELES,||Heat edges struggling Lakers||Jimmy Butler and Kendrick Nunn combined for 51 points as Miami Heat defeated reigning league champion Los Angeles Lakers 96-94 on Saturday, in a rematch of last season’s NBA finals. Nunn finished with 27 points and Butler had 24 and eight rebounds for the Heat, who have won six of its last nine contests.   The results:   Chicago Bulls 122 bt Sacramento Kings 114; Memphis Grizzlies 97 lost to Phoenix Suns 128; Charlotte Hornets 102 bt Golden State Warriors 100; Portland Trail Blazers 111 lost to Washington Wizards 118; LA Lakers 94 lost to Miami Heat 96.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/heat-edges-struggling-lakers/article33899040.ece
22 February 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan Royals parts ways with coach McDonald||IPL franchise Rajasthan Royals on Sunday parted ways with head coach Andrew McDonald after they mutually agreed “to move in different directions with regard to the leadership structure”. The team also announced it had drafted in former Zimbabwe cricketer Trevor Penney as lead assistant coach for the upcoming season.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rajasthan-royals-parts-ways-with-coach-mcdonald/article33899048.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Discover Reality||To discover 'Reality' is to identify what is eternal and true, that is, what exists always. This is the most meaningful quest for every human being who is concerned about the purpose of his birth and existence, pointed out Srimati Sunanda in a discourse. If we move away from truth, we cannot catch the reality. One way to explore reality is by analysing the states of waking, dream and deep sleep that all of us experience in our day to day life. Janaka is such a seeker of truth and tries to learn from each and every experience in his life. Once, he dreamt that he was a beggar suffering from starvation. It seemed so real at that time and the vivid experience of this dream pursued him even after he woke up. He then sought clarification about this from his mentor Ashtavakra. The preceptor said that neither the dream nor waking state is real. Then Janaka wanted to know what is real. The answer was, ""There is a state beyond these two. Discover that. It alone is real." In the Bhagavad Gita, Krishna makes it clear that all this cyclic process of creation and dissolution that seems to go on indefinitely is only temporary. His abode above and beyond all Prakriti and the Gunas alone is eternal and once this is attained through single minded devotion to Him, there is no coming back to this world. This means the soul is liberated from the bondage of birth. But most of us are attracted to this world and the general attitude is to shelve the thought of liberation for a later time or birth. We think that all this mysterious and wonderful creation is real. Only when we wake up to the reality of the ephemeral nature of all this can we see like realised souls the unsubstantial reality behind both the waking and dream states.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/discover-reality/article33898967.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 08:27 IST,||Sudoku — February 22, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-february-22-2021/article33899865.ece
22 February 2021||Ghaziabad,||Farm laws: khaps in U.P. rebuff BJP olive branch||Attempts by BJP leaders to reach out to khaps in western Uttar Pradesh to break the deadlock on farm laws has been met with stiff resistance. On Sunday, Sachin Jawla, the Chaudhary of Jawla khap of 12 villages in Shamli and Muzaffarnagar district, declared he was not interested in meeting Union Minister Sanjeev Balyan. “He reached out to us, but we have turned down the offer,” said Mr. Jawla, the 34-year-old who has recently taken over as the head of the khap after the death of his father. “If he wants to talk to us, he should either resign from the post of Union Minister or request Tikaitji (Naresh Tikait, president of Bharatiya Kisan Union) to call a panchayat of khaps . It seems he is looking for a photo opportunity with a young khap Chaudhary to tell the world that the khaps are not united in the fight for law on assured Minimum Support Price,” he added. Mr. Jawla’s rebuff comes after Mr. Balyan told a television channel that he had met leaders of khaps and tried to understand their point of view. “The government had many ways to put an end to this protest, but we believe in dialogue,” the Minister had said. Mr. Balyan also told the channel all things that are said during a speech are not meant to be acted upon. “ Baat aayi, baat gayi ,” he said. Last week, Mr. Naresh Tikait had said at a panchayat in Muzaffarnagar that farmers should refrain from inviting BJP leaders to weddings and functions and those who would, will have to feed 200 people. Surinder Chaudhary, the head of the Desh khap of 84 villages said on Friday that he didn’t want to meet BJP leaders. “We are not children who need to be told the benefits of the laws. They should talk to Samyukt Kisan Morcha. Public representatives should put our demands to the government and if they cannot, they should resign and join us,” he said. On Sunday, a BJP delegation led by Mr. Balyan had to face opposition of farmers in Bhainswal village of Shamli. Sources said the delegation could not meet Battisa khap Chaudhary Suraj Mal and had to make do with Udayveer Singh, an influential person in the village. Wheat crop destroyed In a related development, Yogendra Ahlawat, a farmer from Bhainsi village in Muzaffarnagar district destroyed his wheat crop on Sunday by running a rotavator over it. Mr. Ahlawat said he would not let the crop come in the way of agitation for guaranteed MSP. He said their leader Gajendra Ahalwat said the Minister had reached his residence without invitation. “Still, 200 people will go to his residence on Wednesday and he would have to feed them from his own kitchen as per the decision of the sarva khap panchayat .” The BJP leaders, he said, should first resign and then meet us. Dharmendra Malik, BKU media in-charge, said the Union was not stopping anybody from meeting BJP leaders. “They are only being advised to put their questions to them. And our reports suggest farmers are giving them a tough time,” he said. Admitting that he supported the BJP on the Ram Temple and Pulwama, Mr. Jawla asserted that the party had let the farmers down. He underlined that khaps didn’t belong to one caste and the BJP leadership made a mistake by calling it an agitation of Jats. “People of all castes find representation in a khap . Since morning, I have been getting calls from leaders of all communities not to indulge Mr. Balyan,” he said. On Saturday, another farmer from Bijnor district had destroyed a part of his wheat crop after listening to the speech of Rakesh Tikait where he urged farmers to be ready to sacrifice their standing crop. Mr. Tikait had later clarified that time was still not ripe to sacrifice crops and that farmers should not take his call literally. Countering the calls, Sahendra Singh Ramala, the BJP MLA from Chhaprauli, who was present at the two meetings of Jat leaders called in Delhi by the BJP leadership, said, “I have been meeting farmers in my constituency freely and am being invited to functions by the community. When I ask farmers about the protest, they say they were going to protest site just because the pradhan asked them to,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/farm-laws-khaps-in-up-rebuff-bjp-olive-branch/article33899231.ece
22 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||New farm laws are ‘death warrant’ for farmers: CM||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday termed the three farm laws “death warrant” for farmers and appealed to the Centre to repeal the contentious laws. Mr. Kejriwal met protesting farmer groups from western Uttar Pradesh at the Delhi Assembly and listened to their grievances. The Chief Minister said the laws would “reduce farmers to labourers in their own fields”. “The Central government and the BJP have been telling farmers that the laws would benefit them but till now, they have been unsuccessful in explaining how these laws would be beneficial to them. These laws are a death warrant for the farmers,” Mr. Kejriwal said. He once again appealed to the Centre to repeal the laws and guarantee minimum support price for crops as per the recommendations of the M.S. Swaminathan committee report.  In support of farmers  Mr. Kejriwal said he would be addressing a mahapanchayat in Meerut on February 28 in support of the farmers’ demands. “On February 28, Meerut kisan mahapanchayat will take place where farmers will join in large numbers. Discussion on these three anti-farmer laws will take place during that mahapanchayat . The farmers will demand immediate roll-back of these three anti-farmer laws,” Mr. Kejriwal said. Farmer leaders said Mr. Kejriwal had assured them of his support and that their protest would continue to persuade the Centre to repeal the three laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/new-farm-laws-are-death-warrant-for-farmers-cm/article33899012.ece
22 February 2021||New Delhi,||Child abuse is unpardonable, says HC||An offence involving abuse of child victim is unpardonable, the Delhi High Court remarked while refusing to lower the sentence awarded to a teacher, who was convicted for sodomising a 7-year-old boy. Justice Subramonium Prasad said releasing such convicts “by reducing the sentence will send a wrong signal to the society and will be against the purpose for which POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences ) Act was enacted”. The court rejected plea of Jitender Kumar Goswami, who was in November 2017 convicted by a trial court here for sodomising a boy. Goswami was sentenced to two and a half years of imprisonment for the crime. In his plea, Goswami stated that he has already undergone more than 28 months of imprisonment and pleaded to be let off with the imprisonment as he is a teacher and a family man. “Keeping in mind the nature of offence, this court is not inclined to accept the submission made by the learned counsel for the petitioner [Goswami] to reduce the sentence awarded to the petitioner to one of sentence already undergone,” the court said. It noted that the first appellate court was “not happy” with the sentence awarded to Goswami, which viewed the sentence awarded to him was on “the lower side”. The case against Goswami was registered on the complaint of the victim’s father. The victim had told the police that on June 16, 2012 when he was playing at his terrace in the afternoon, he found an injured pigeon. The victim took that pigeon downstairs and went to a friend’s house and asked him whether he would keep the bird. His friend told him that he could not keep the bird but he knew one person who keeps pigeons as pets. When the victim went to the man’s house, he was told that the latter pets pigeons at his terrace. The victim took the pigeon to the terrace where he found Goswami. When the victim asked him whether he keeps pigeons as pets, Goswami answered in affirmative and the victim handed over the injured bird to him. When the victim was about to leave, Goswami called him and asked him to remove his clothes and when the boy refused, the convict slapped him and also threatened to kill him and the bird. In the chargesheet, it is stated that Goswami then sodomised the boy. When the boy narrated the incident to his parents, they lodged the FIR and Goswami was arrested. While upholding the conviction and sentence awarded to Goswami, the court said the “victim has been consistent in his deposition and there is no reason as to disbelieve the deposition of the victim”.  Releasing such convicts by reducing the sentence will send a wrong signal to the society and will be against the purpose for which POCSO was enacted Subramonium Prasad Justice||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/child-abuse-is-unpardonable-says-hc/article33899007.ece
22 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Haryana women flock to Ghazipur to support protest||A group of women from Haryana’s Rohtak came to Ghazipur border to support the farmers on Sunday . They also met Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait. Actress Gul Panag also visited the Ghazipur border site to show her solidarity. “I myself belong to a family of farmers and have arrived here to show my support for the farmers,” said Ms. Gul. Nirmala, a resident of Rohtak, said her husband has been protesting at the Tikri border and she along with other women have come to Ghazipur to support them. “We are fighting this battle for our future generations. What will my children do when there will be no land? Since demonetisation, all kinds of welfare schemes announced by the Prime Minister for poor and farmers have turned out to be a disaster. We request this government to repeal the farm laws and try to give a better life to farmers,” said Ms. Nirmala. Taking responsibility The women said before coming to Ghazipur, they went to the Singhu and Tikri borders and met protesters. In the absence of male members in the house, they have taken up the work at farms. All household works have been handed over to children. “We have come to meet our brothers and tell them we are with them and they don’t need to worry about things at home. We have brought milk and other eatables items with us for the protesters,” said Kamla, a protester. She added that the way farm laws were passed was not a constitutional way. “The government should have consulted with stakeholders [farmers]. The amendment the government is talking now should have been done if they had consulted farmers before passing the law. The intent of the government is suspected from the farmers’ perspective. The government has tried to label and insult farmers whose children are serving in Defence forces. How will they trust [the government]? In Haryana, people voted for BJP because they believed the government will work for them but it has let them down.” Later, a meeting was held, and all farmers’ leaders were instructed to ensure the presence of 2,000 people at Ghazipur at any time of the day. “We have started preparations to beat summer. Very soon the plastic tents will be replaced by bamboo curtains, and water coolers will be installed. We will also erect a tent in front of the main stage where protesters sit,” said a protester.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/haryana-women-flock-to-ghazipur-to-support-protest/article33899018.ece
22 February 2021||GURUGRAM,||FII bats for subsidy on e-vehicles to combat pollution||Ahead of the State budget next month, the Haryana chapter of Federation of Indian Industry (FII) has demanded focused attention for the promotion of electric vehicles and special allocation to control pollution and provide basic amenities to the industries in the unapproved areas. In a letter to Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal, who is also the Finance Minister, the FII demanded that a special provision be made in the upcoming budget for subsidy to electric vehicles on the pattern of Delhi government that offers a subsidy of Rs. 1.5 lakh and has also waived off the registration charges. Valuable contributor The industry body argued that this would not only help reduce pollution but also make Haryana a valuable contributor towards the promotion of electric vehicles. “Special budget should be assigned to control pollution. Installation of smog towers in polluted areas should be taken up on priority basis as it will help industries to run smoothly. Also, the installation of gas lines in all industrial areas be expedited and provisions for subsidy on gas-operated gensets be made to further motivate industries to switch to this alternative fuel at the earliest,” said the letter jointly written by FII’s Haryana president Harbhajan Singh and general secretary Deepak Maini. MSMEs growth The letter pointed out that the Haryana government had in 2018 announced survey and regulation of unapproved industrial units but it has still remained on paper. The industry body demanded that the industries in these unapproved areas be provided basic amenities and separate budget be earmarked for it. “It will result in growth of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in these areas and create more job opportunities which is one of the top priorities in the Union Budget,” read the letter. Besides, the industry body demanded land on lease to the MSMEs, support for agriculture and rural industry and freight subsidy to the traders at par with the manufacturers to boost exports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fii-bats-for-subsidy-on-e-vehicles-to-combat-pollution/article33899008.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,||11 children working in tough conditions rescued: DCPCR||The Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) on Sunday said that 11 children, who were working in hazardous conditions as bonded labourers in bakery units, machine units and auto centre units of Alipur here, have been rescued. The rescue came after conducting raids in seven places. One child was rescued from a residential place where he was working as a domestic help. ‘Mental trauma’ The DCPCR said the rescued children had been exposed to all kinds of physical and mental trauma, especially during the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/11-children-working-in-tough-conditions-rescued-dcpcr/article33899013.ece
22 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Civic bypolls to decide Delhi’s future’||Addressing a booth-level workers’ meeting in Seelampur ahead of the municipal bypolls, AAP Delhi convener Gopal Rai said that this by-election is going to decide Delhi’s future for the next five years. “This is not just the election of five wards, but also the semi-final to overthrow the corrupt 15-year rule of BJP in the civic bodies,” Mr. Rai said. He claimed that the BJP engaged in politics of hatred during the Delhi Assembly elections. However, people voted for the AAP government and the same would happen in the civic bypolls as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/civic-bypolls-to-decide-delhis-future/article33899010.ece
22 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||City records 145 fresh virus infections||The Capital recorded 145 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday with two deaths and 97 recoveries according to a bulletin released by the Delhi government. It added that 63,813 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours with a positivity rate of 0.23%. Of the total tests conducted, 44,673 were RT-PCR and 19,140 were rapid antigen tests. Currently, there are 1,071 active cases in the city, of which 467 are under home isolation. The addition of Sunday’s cases takes the total number of cases to 6,37,900 with 10,900 deaths and 6,25,929 recoveries. Out of the total 5,751 beds available in hospitals for COVID-19 patients, 422 are occupied. At the dedicated COVID-19 care centres that have 7,392 beds, 37 are occupied. On Saturday, 152 new COVID-19 cases and one death due were reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/city-records-145-fresh-virus-infections/article33899014.ece
22 February 2021||February 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Innocent times||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/innocent-times/article33899016.ece
22 February 2021||New Delhi,||SDMC takes steps to boost Swachh ranking||Aiming to boost its ranking in the Swachh survey, the South Delhi Municipal Corporation has taken a number of innovative initiatives, including opening toy and shoe banks and starting a scheme through which a person can get a free meal at a restaurant in return for one kg plastic waste. These initiatives also seek to help the needy, especially the children who otherwise cannot afford to buy new toys and shoes, or get a proper meal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sdmc-takes-steps-to-boost-swachh-ranking/article33899009.ece
