23 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,||Congress-led govt. falls in Puducherry||The Congress-led government in Puducherry fell on Monday after Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy submitted his resignation to Lieutenant-Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan as it became apparent that he had lost the confidence of the House. A motion of confidence moved by Mr. Narayanasamy in the Assembly was not put to vote. However, Speaker V.P. Sivakolandhu announced that it stood defeated after the Chief Minister, questioning the right of the three nominated members to vote, led a walkout of the legislators of the ruling Congress-DMK alliance. Fourteen Opposition MLAs from the All India N.R. Congress (7), AIADMK (4) and BJP (3 nominated) were in the House when the Speaker gave his ruling. Spate of resignations Resignations by half-a-dozen legislators — five from the Congress, including two Ministers, and one from the DMK — in recent weeks and the disqualification of a Congress legislator last year had reduced the government to a minority. The House strength came down to 26 from 33 due to which the Opposition outnumbered the ruling alliance — Congress (9, including the Speaker), DMK (2) and Independent (1). Soon after the House assembled at 10 a.m. on the directions of the Lt. Governor to the government to prove its majority, Mr. Narayanasamy moved a motion of confidence and spoke for about an hour on the hurdles they faced from the Centre and from former Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi over the past few years. As soon as he finished his speech, Government Whip R.K.R Anantharaman sought a clarification from Mr. Sivakolandhu on the voting rights of the three nominated legislators belonging to the BJP. When the Opposition started arguing with the ruling party members, Mr. Narayanasamy and the ruling party members staged a walkout. Soon after they left the Assembly, Mr. Sivakolandhu informed the House that the confidence motion moved by the Chief Minister stood defeated. Mr. Narayanasamy then left for the Raj Nivas to hand over his resignation to the Lt. Governor. BJP leaders said the National Democratic Alliance would not stake claim to form the government before the election. “The National Democratic Alliance will form the government only after the election,” nominated legislator and BJP local unit president V. Saminathan told The Hindu . Addressing reporters after submitting his resignation, Mr. Narayanasamy said they had staged the walkout as the Speaker did not clarify on their demand on the voting rights of the nominated legislators. He said the Speaker did not agree to “our view” that only members elected by the people had voting rights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/congress-led-govt-falls-in-puducherry/article33908873.ece
23 February 2021||Belagavi,||Officials in border districts find it tough||Officers across districts bordering Maharashtra are facing several challenges in letting in only those who have a COVID-19 negative certificate. A series of check-posts have been put up across the inter-State border in Belagavi, Bagalkot, Vijayapura, Kalaburagi, and Bidar. Posters have been put up in English and Kannada that a RT-PCR negative certificate not older than 72 hours was mandatory for entering Karnataka. But officials at the check-posts are grappling with the influx of vehicles into Karnataka in the backdrop of the rising COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra. The primary problems are traffic congestion and the long queues of vehicles at the border. Across the region, traffic snarls are a common sight at the junctions where the check-posts have been set up. There was some confusion about private vehicles as the original notification by the State government asked officers to conduct random checks of private individual vehicles. However, in some districts the check-post personnel were asked to check every private vehicle. As per the guidelines, officers allowed vehicles, from Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat or Rajasthan that were only passing through Maharashtra into Karnataka.  State buses of Karnataka and Maharashtra were stopped and each passenger was asked for a RT-PCR test report. Some passengers claimed they were not aware of the guidelines. In some buses, only a few passengers had the certificates. This created confusion when the police asked the driver to take the bus back, as those with negative RT-PCR certificates argued that their journey could not be cut short. The police had to ask them to get into other buses that were entering Karnataka. Goods vehicles and those carrying essential commodities were allowed entry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/officials-in-border-districts-find-it-tough/article33909179.ece
23 February 2021||Bengaluru,||COVID-19 cluster in Bellandur||A new COVID-19 cluster emerged in an apartment complex in Bellandur on Monday. Ten cases have been reported in the past few days from SJR Watermark Apartment inAmbalipura, prompting the civic body to declare it a containment zone. This comes close on the heels of clusters emerging in an apartment complex in Bilekahalli and in a nursing college in north Bengaluru. SJR Watermark Apartment reported its first case on February 17. “Most of those who have tested positive as of now are senior citizens who have been walking in the common areas. The same trend was observed in the Bilekahalli cluster as well. Of the 103 positive cases there, 96 were over 60 years of age,” said Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad. There have been no reports of any large gatherings at the Bellandur apartment, neither has the civic body come across any travel history to Maharashtra or Kerala. “We are yet to ascertain the source,” Mr. Prasad said. Of the nine blocks in the apartment, six blocks have reported positive cases. BBMP has declared the entire complex a containment zone and increased surveillance. “We have identified primary and secondary contacts of all positive patients and home quarantined them,” Mr. Prasad said. Sanitisation has been taken up in the premises. A health team with four doctors has been deployed, BBMP officials said. Adopting a similar strategy to that deployed in the Bilekahalli cluster, BBMP has decided to test every resident of the apartment complex for COVID-19 irrespective of symptoms. Out of a population of 1,100, 500 residents have taken the RT-PCR test on Monday, results of which are expected by Tuesday evening. “We will test the remaining 600 residents on Tuesday. In a day or two, we will have a clear picture of the extent of the spread of the infection in the residential community,” a senior health officer from the zone said. The Commissioner reiterated that there was no place for complacency over COVID-19 safety norms and said group housing communities seemed especially prone to becoming clusters due to common areas and heightened interaction among residents. “We need to ensure wearing of masks, sanitisation of hands and social distancing. Only being cautious will prevent a second wave in the city,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-cluster-in-bellandur/article33908902.ece
23 February 2021||Mangaluru,||Cong will enhance rice quota under Anna Bhagya to 10 kg: Siddaramaiah||The former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah on Monday launched a strong attack against the State government concerning a slew of welfare programmes implemented during his tenure with specific focus on the Anna Bhagya scheme. The Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Assembly also took on his critics for dubbing him as the one opposed to Ram and said “Ram” was in his name. Speaking after flagging off the 108-km Janadhwani padayatra from Hejmady to Byndoor, organised by Udupi District Congress Committee at Hejmady, Mr. Siddaramaiah objected to B.S. Yediyurappa government’s move to reduce the quota of 7 kg rice per person he had earmarked under the Anna Bhagya scheme to 3 kg. He said, “The Congress is bound to come back to power with a majority in the next Assembly elections and we will increase the quota to 10 kg of rice.” Mr. Siddaramaiah said the government has failed on all fronts and did not implement any of the promises made in its manifesto. Speaking at the Bhavaikyata Samavesha organised by Dakshina Kannada District Congress Committee in Mangaluru later in the day, Mr. Siddaramaiah urged people not to fall prey to the tactics of PFI and SDPI, which divide secular votes thereby favouring the BJP. On the occasion, Shahul Hamid took charge as the president of DK Congress Minorities wing. Hindutva propagators cannot be Indians, he said, and added India cannot be made a Hindu Rashtra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cong-will-enhance-rice-quota-under-anna-bhagya-to-10-kg-siddaramaiah/article33909403.ece
23 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Sigh of relief as safe drinking water supply resumes at tribal villages||The tribal people of Karakavalasa and Bandhavalasa in Rompalli panchayat of Ananthagiri mandal in the district were all smiles, when they received drinking water in their village through a pipeline on Monday evening. Two storage water tanks of 1,000-litre capacity each for the villages would be installed on Tuesday, as the concrete base to place the tanks was not yet ready. Water was temporarily supplied for the day through a pipeline. The water is being drawn from a 5,000-litre tank of the ITDA at Rompalli panchayat, about 1 km away. The tribal people have been protesting for the past several weeks for safe drinking water. Though water had been supplied through a pipeline sometime ago from Rompalli, for about a week, it was stopped due to technical problems, according to local residents. The death of five persons at Karakavalasa in September 2020, reportedly due to consumption of contaminated water and malnutrition, had triggered protests in the village. A team of medical officers from the King George Hospital (KGH), Visakhapatnam conducted a study and submitted a report to the authorities. Water pit The local residents used to collect water from a deep pit, which they had dug up near the village. Water contamination was suspected to be one of the causes of the deaths apart from malnutrition and anaemia. It was suggested that the government should initiate measures to provide safe drinking water. The ITDA project officer had got a pipeline laid from Rompalli to Karakavalasa and provided drinking water, according to CPI(M) district executive member K. Govinda Rao. However, the water supply stopped after about a week. The Rural Water Supply (RWS) JE P. Chiranjeevi and panchayat secretary S. Ramana visited Karakavalasa on Sunday and assured the residents that water supply would be resumed through the pipeline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sigh-of-relief-as-safe-drinking-water-supply-resumes-at-tribal-villages/article33909495.ece
23 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Lawyers’ murder plot hatched 10 months ago||Bittu Srinu, the key conspirator in the lawyer couple murder, got the sickles used by the ‘ killers’ newly made at the instance of Kunta Srinu, said the police on Monday. Bittu Srinu alias Tulasigari Srinu got those arms made using tractor steel frames at Manthani. Announcing details of the progress in the investigation into the twin murders, IGP Nagi Reddy said Bittu Srinu hid those sickles in the house of Chiranjeevi. The latter was arrested along with Kunta Srinu and Kumar four days ago. The arrest of Bittu Srinu, who was already picked up, was declared on Monday on completion of his questioning. He was the key conspirator in the gory killings of Gattu Vaman Rao and his wife P.V. Nagamani, police said. It was he who arranged a four-wheeler and the sickles to execute the lawyer couple, according to the police. Vaman Rao and the duo of Kunta Srinu and Bittu Srinu developed differences over matters relating to their Gunjapadugu village and construction of a couple of temples there. For the past 10 months, Kunta Srinu had been telling that Bittu Srinu that elimination of Rao was the only option to reign supreme in the village. The IGP stated that, in fact, four months ago the accused had planned to carry out their murder plot when Rao came to Manthani to attend a court case. But they dropped the plan as Rao was accompanied by several others. However, they continued to bide for their time. On February 17, Kunta Srinu learnt that the couple had come to Manthani court. He alerted Bittu Srinu over phone. But the latter wanted the information to be confirmed. Kunta Srinu ascertained Rao’s presence by speaking to a person called Latchaiah who was at the court premises. Then Bittu Srinu rang up Chiranjeevi to come to Manthani bus-stop with the sickles. He gave his car to the latter who drove to Kunta Srinu carrying the weapons. After killing the couple at Kalvacherla, Kunta Srinu conveyed the information to Bittu Srinu over phone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lawyers-murder-plot-hatched-10-months-ago/article33909212.ece
23 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Xi may visit India for BRICS summit||China’s President Xi Jinping may visit India in the second half of this year to attend the BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, China, South Africa) leaders’ meeting, if a physical summit is held as is increasingly expected. The visit will come in the aftermath of the most serious border crisis between the neighbours in decades. China on Monday expressed its “support” for India hosting this year’s meeting, and said the meet would not be impacted by the border crisis. “We support India in hosting this year’s meeting.We will work with India and other members to strengthen communication and dialogue, and consolidate the three-pillar cooperation,” Foreign Ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin said. Expectations are that by the second half of the year, the summit will not have to be held virtually. While the COVID-19 situation will determine whether that is the case, other major summits in Europe and the U.K. are likely to take place this summer, before the BRICS meet. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to make his first overseas trip after the pandemic to Bangladesh in March and is also likely to attend the India-E.U. meet in Portugal in May and the G7 summit in the U.K., where India has been invited as a guest country, the following month. Preliminary discussions on a date for the BRICS summit were held during Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla’s recent visit to Moscow. Mr. Wang expressed China’s support to India hosting the meet when asked whether the border crisis would impact it. “In recent years, BRICS has seen greater solidarity, deeper practical cooperation, and greater influence,” he said. “It is now a positive, stable and constructive force in international affairs. China attaches importance to this mechanism and we are committed to deepening strategic partnership within it to consolidate solidarity and cooperation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/xi-may-visit-india-for-brics-summit/article33908874.ece
23 February 2021||kolkata,||Politics of appeasement in Bengal: Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday accused the Trinamool Congress of indulging in politics of appeasement and asserted that the BJP would give Bengal a government that “ensures development of all, appeasement of none”. Addressing a public rally at Chinsurah in Hooghly district, Mr. Modi raised the issue of the house of Bankim Chandra Chattopadhyay, who wrote Vande Mataram, lying in a dilapidated state. The Prime Minister described this as an insult to the pride of West Bengal. He alleged that there was a particular kind of politics behind such developments. “It is the kind of politics that gives more importance to vote bank than the love for the nation,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/politics-of-appeasement-in-bengal-modi/article33909343.ece
23 February 2021||Special CorrespondentPune,||Maharashtra reports 5,210 cases, but low fatalities||While Maharashtra reported 5,210 new COVID-19 cases on Monday, the rise was nearly matched by the recoveries as 5,035 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours. The State’s active case tally stands at 53,113. Monday’s rise was relatively lower than the single day jumps of the last three days. Importantly, the surge was offset by low fatalities with just 18 deaths being recorded on Monday to take the death toll to 51,806. The State’s total case tally has risen to 21,06,094 while the cumulative recoveries stood at 19,99,982 with the recovery rate at 94.96%. “Of a total 1,57,93,424 laboratory samples tested thus far, 21,06,094 have returned positive with over 73,000 samples tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. Pune reported nearly 700 new cases — a relatively low number as compared to the last few days — to take its total case tally to 4,01,114. As per State Health Department figures, just one death was reported as the death toll reached 8,035. 761 cases in Mumbai Mumbai city reported 761 cases, taking its total case tally to 3,19,889 of whom 5,986 are active. Importantly, no fatalities were recorded as the city’s death toll remained at 11,446. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported more than 750 new cases yet again, taking the district’s total case tally to 1,45,586 of whom 7,167 are currently active. However, no deaths were recorded as the fatalities remain constant at 3,464. Amravati, which went under a week-long lockdown today, saw a big spike of nearly 650 cases, taking its total tally to 31,259 of which 5,404 are active. Eight deaths saw the death toll rise to 440. Yavatmal reported 94 cases, taking its total to 17,222 of whom 904 are active. However, no deaths were reported from the district as the death toll stood at 472.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-reports-5210-cases-but-low-fatalities/article33909427.ece
23 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Mayor, Deputy Mayor assume office||Mayor of the Greater Hyderabad Vijayalakshmi R.Gadwal and Deputy Mayor Mothe Srilatha assumed their respective offices on Monday amid fanfare. They both took charge by signing on the first file, after conducting prayers in their respective chambers. Minister for Animal Husbandry Talasani Srinivas Yadav, Minister for Social Welfare Koppula Eeshwar, Home Minister Mohammed Mahmood Ali, Minister for Health Eatala Rajender, MP K. Keshava Rao, Deputy Chairperson of Legislative Council Nethi Vidyasagar, MLC M.S. Prabhakar Rao, MLA Danam Nagender and several others attended the event and conveyed their best wishes. Ms. Vijayalakshmi, who won as corporator from the Banjara Hills division, was elected as Mayor, while Ms. Srilatha, who won from Tarnaka division - as Deputy Mayor in the indirect elections conducted on February 11.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mayor-deputy-mayor-assume-office/article33909217.ece
23 February 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi riots: over Rs. 26 cr. disbursed as relief||The Delhi government has provided compensation of over Rs. 26 crore to more than 2,200 claimants over the last year since the north-east Delhi riots broke out in February 2020, according to statistics compiled by the authorities. The disbursal of compensation was monitored directly by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, the government said, in one of the “swiftest” instances of awarding compensation related to riots cases in the country, even as fresh claims being raised on a daily basis are being dealt with.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-rs-26-cr-disbursed-to-delhi-riot-victims/article33909051.ece
23 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||‘Decision on MPTC, ZPTC polls after HC verdict’||State Election Commissioner (SEC) N. Ramesh Kumar has said that the decision on MPTC and ZPTC elections would subject to the High Court judgment on some matters that are currently under its examination. Expressing satisfaction that the panchayat elections were conducted successfully in the State under challenging circumstances, he said that the polls witnessed an overall voter turnout percentage of 81.78. Mr. Ramesh Kumar appreciated the cooperation by the poll officials and the police. “The elections could be held peacefully due to the dedication of the government employees and the police which ensured that there were no major untoward incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/decision-on-mptc-zptc-polls-after-hc-verdict/article33908869.ece
23 February 2021||Ghaziabad,||4 injured as farmers, BJP workers clash in U.P. village||Four persons were injured when a clash broke out between the aides of Union Minister Sanjeev Balyan and the residents of Soram village in Muzaffarnagar on Monday. Sources said Mr. Balyan had gone to attend the prayer meeting of an influential person in the village. Some villagers raised slogans against the Minister and the farm laws, following which one of his aides pulled out a stick of a security person and attacked them. This led to chaos and the police had to intervene to control the situation. Later, the agitated villagers held a panchayat and hundreds of them held a protest outside the Shahpur police station, demanding an FIR be registered against Mr. Balyan and his aides. Yogesh Kumar, one of the injured persons, lodged a complaint saying that he and four others were standing when 20-25 aides of Mr. Balyan lunged at them with the purpose to kill. No FIR has been registered yet but the Circle Officer of Budhana said they were talking to the farmers. Mahapanchayat called The residents of Soram village have called a mahapanchayat against Mr. Balyan and the BJP on February 26. In a tweet, Mr. Balyan alleged that five-six Rashtriya Lok Dal workers were using abusive language when he went to attend the prayer meeting. “Locals interevened and shooed them away,” he said in the tweet. Earlier, RLD vice-president Jayant Chaudhary tweeted that it was a clash between BJP workers and farmers. “If you can’t speak in farmers’ favour, you can at least maintain decent behaviour,” he wrote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/4-injured-as-farmers-bjp-workers-clash-in-up-village/article33909052.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Back on track||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/back-on-track/article33909342.ece
23 February 2021||Mangaluru,||Mangaluru Innovation Conclave tomorrow||Karnataka State Electronics Development Corporation Ltd. (KEONICS) will host Mangaluru Innovation Conclave, which is a brainstorming session with thought leaders from industry, academia, and the government, in the city on February 24, according to chairman K. Harikrishna Bantwal. Addressing presspersons here on Monday, he said that Mangaluru has enough potential to be developed as the hub of science and technology. The upcoming conclave has been aimed at sowing seeds for the same. Mr. Bantwal said that the founding chairman of KEONICS Ramakrishna Baliga hailed from Bantwal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mangaluru-innovation-conclave-tomorrow/article33909404.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Congress sees a familiar pattern||Congress leaders on Monday lashed out at the BJP for “toppling” elected governments, with Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot claiming that the saffron party had tried it in his State as well. “Luring Congress MLAs has been their modus operandi in all Congress-ruled States. We saw this in Karnataka, M.P. & now in #Puducherry. They tried it in Rajasthan but people of Rajasthan taught them a lesson,” Mr. Gehlot tweeted.page 13||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-familiar-pattern-cong/article33908867.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Speed thrills!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/speed-thrills/article33909497.ece
23 February 2021||MUMBAI,||Varavara Rao granted bail for 6 months||The Bombay High Court on Monday granted interim bail for six months on medical grounds to poet Varavara Rao, 82, in the Bhima Koregaon violence case. The court said, “This is a genuine and fit case to grant relief or else we will be abdicating our constitutional duty and function as a protector of human rights and right to health covered under right to life guaranteed by the Constitution of India.” A Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and Manish Pitale directed that Mr. Rao be discharged from the private hospital where he is admitted depending on his health condition and be released on bail for six months on furnishing a bond of Rs. 50,000. The Bench noted, “The prisoners of advanced age like the undertrial, who suffer from various health ailments induced by old age when put beyond bars, certainly face the danger of their health conditions worsening and accelerating their journey towards the end of their life. This is an aspect, which cannot be ignored while considering the prayer for grant of an order of release from custody, despite rejection of bail application on merits. “The onset of old age and concomitant debilitating effect on the mental and physical conditions is an aspect which assumes great significance in the context of keeping such old, aged persons behind bars. Even if such old, aged prisoners with various health conditions are accused of serious offences, the question is whether they can be forced to live a subhuman existence behind bars, only because they stand accused of serious offences?” The 92-page judgment said: “The undertrial [Mr. Rao] herein can be granted bail purely on the grounds of sickness, advanced age, infirmity and health conditions, provided it is found that the continued incarceration of the undertrial would be incompatible with his health condition and that it would amount to endangering his life. The court held, “We are of the opinion that adopting a humanitarian approach in the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case is warranted. In special circumstances, a Constitutional Court can certainly exercise its jurisdiction under Article 226, even when regular bail has been rejected.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/varavara-rao-granted-bail-for-6-months/article33908910.ece
23 February 2021||MUMBAI,||Varavara Rao gets bail for 6 months||The Bombay High Court on Monday granted interim bail for six months on medical grounds to Varavara Rao, 82, in the Bhima Koregaon violence case. The court said, “This is a genuine and fit case to grant relief; or else we will be abdicating our constitutional duty and function as a protector of human rights and right to health covered under right to life guaranteed by the Constitution of India.” A Division Bench directed that Mr. Rao be discharged from the private hospital where he is admitted and be released on bail for six months on furnishing a bond of Rs. 50,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/varavara-rao-gets-bail-for-6-months/article33908871.ece
23 February 2021||New Delhi,||Activist Disha Ravi in one-day police custody||A Delhi court on Monday sent climate change activist Disha Ravi, arrested for her alleged involvement in sharing a ‘toolkit’ on social media in connection with the ongoing farmers’ protest against three farm laws, to one-day police custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/activist-disha-ravi-in-one-day-police-custody/article33909054.ece
23 February 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam poll dates likely by early March, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said the Election Commission was expected to announce the dates for the Assam Assembly election in the first week of March. Mr. Modi made this announcement after launching five projects worth more than Rs. 3,000 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/assam-poll-dates-likely-by-early-march-says-pm/article33909055.ece
23 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Yatnal in New Delhi||Dissident BJP legislator Basanagouda Patil Yatnal was in Delhi on Monday. While a section of party leaders claimed that he had been summoned by the party high command, a few others said he was there on his volition to meet Central leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/yatnal-in-new-delhi/article33909180.ece
23 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Seer is in the clutches of some leaders: Ministers||The Panchamasali community’s movement for reservation seems to be showing some cracks, with two Ministers accusing the Koodala Sangama Panchamasali Peetha seer of being in the “firm clutches of a few individuals looking to use the community for their selfish political gains”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/seer-is-in-the-clutches-of-some-leaders-ministers/article33909182.ece
23 February 2021||Patna,||Bihar presents surplus Rs. 2.18 lakh cr. budget||The Bihar government on Monday presented a revenue surplus budget of Rs. 2,18,302.70 crore, putting focus on education, rural development, agriculture, youth, health facilities, employment and Chief Minister Nitish Kumar’s ambitious plan of ‘Saat Nischay’ (Seven Resolves) Part 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bihar-presents-surplus-rs-218-lakh-cr-budget/article33909344.ece
23 February 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam poll dates likely by early March: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said the Election Commission of India was expected to announce the dates for the Assam Assembly election in the first week of March.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/assam-poll-dates-likely-by-early-march-pm/article33909345.ece
23 February 2021||CHENNAI,||Postal votes: poll officer files affidavit in HC||Tamil Nadu Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) Satyabrata Sahoo has filed a counter- affidavit in the Madras High Court stating that it would not be possible to share with political parties before the notification of elections a list of voters who could use the option of postal ballot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/health-secy-asks-people-to-follow-covid-19-rules/article33908963.ece
23 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Vaccination coverage poor in Bengaluru Urban||The Karnataka government has set a target of vaccinating 80% of healthcare workers and frontline workers in all districts of the State by the end of February. This comes even as four districts — Bagalkot, Davangere, Dharwad, and Bengaluru Urban — are said to be lagging behind by registering less than 50% coverage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaccination-coverage-poor-in-bengaluru-urban/article33908904.ece
23 February 2021||Mumbai,||Dadra and Nagar Haveli MP found dead in Mumbai||Mohan Delkar (58), seven-term Lok Sabha member from Dadra and Nagar Haveli, was found dead in a Mumbai hotel on Monday, police said. The body of the Independent MP was found at the hotel in south Mumbai’s Marine Drive area, a police official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dadra-and-nagar-haveli-mp-found-dead-in-mumbai/article33909428.ece
23 February 2021||Mangaluru,||Illegal ‘goshala’ will be shifted in a week: DC||An illegal ‘goshala’ on government land at Kenjar, on the outskirts of the city, will be shifted in a week to pave the way for establishing the Indian Coast Guard’s Training Academy, Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said here on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/illegal-goshala-will-be-shifted-in-a-week-dc/article33909406.ece
23 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala govt. annuls agreement with U.S. firm||The Kerala government has invalidated the Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation’s (KSINC) controversial agreement with a U.S.-based firm, EMCC International, to build and operate a deep-sea trawling fleet to harvest the marine wealth off the coast of Kerala. In one stroke, the government has also attempted to stymie the Opposition’s political gambit to stir up resentment against the ruling front for entertaining an investment proposal that seemed at odds with the vast coastal community’s inalienable right to harvest their traditional fishing grounds exclusively. KSINC managing director N. Prasanth and Shiju Varghese recently inked the Rs. 2,950 crore pact to build 400 deep sea fishing trawlers and new harbours and for the port development activities. The government found the agreement contravened the Left Democratic Front’s policy to allow only traditional fishers to own or operate deep-sea trawlers. Only they would receive new boat permits. Govt. stand The government felt the KSINC had “missed” the critical proviso when inking the agreement. The KSINC “failed” to vet the firm before inking the memorandum of understanding. The company “lacked” the financial heft to build a vast fleet and allied infrastructure. Its seed money was less than Rs. 10 lakh, an official said. The Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC) also appeared taken in by the firm’s pitch to build modern fishing harbours and a marine product processing centre. Consequently, it agreed to allocate four acres for the firm in an industrial park in Alappuzha. The government found the firm had attempted to take advantage of its programme to modernise the State’s ageing fishing fleet incrementally. Home Secretary T.K. Jose is examining the sequence of events that led to the signing of the agreements. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said shifting blame to officials would not help the political executive. The government could not absolve itself of the guilt of sacrificing traditional fishers at the altar of private business. The motive for engaging the U.S. firm remained suspect, he said. Congress workers led by T.N. Pratapan, MP, protested in front of the KSINC office in Kochi. EMCC International India Private Limited president Shiju Varghese came out against the cancellation of the agreement. “On what basis is the government cancelling the MoU? We are not any monopoly who are coming to plunder the fish stock of the State. Why did the Fisheries Minister not tell us prior if the project is against the State’s Fisheries' Policy?" he told a television channel.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-govt-annuls-agreement-with-us-firm/article33908796.ece
23 February 2021||New Delhi,||A familiar pattern, says Cong.||As the V. Narayanasamy government in Puducherry collapsed on Monday, Congress leaders lashed out at the BJP for “toppling” elected governments, with Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot alleging the saffron party had tried it in his State too. The elected government in Puducherry became the second Congress government to have been dislodged in an identical manner in less than a year. Last March, the Kamal Nath government in Madhya Pradesh lost power after 22 MLAs, many of them Jyotiraditya Scindia loyalists, resigned from the Assembly. Many of them eventually joined the BJP and have been re-elected. Reacting to the developments in Puducherry, Mr. Gehlot, in a series of tweets, said this was yet another case of how the BJP was destabilising the Congress governments to grab power through unethical means. “First, they created problems in running the administration through the Lieutenant-Governor and now this has happened,” Mr. Gehlot said. “Luring Congress MLAs has been their modus operandi in all Congress-ruled States. We saw this in Karnataka, M.P. & now in Puducherry. They tried it in Rajasthan but people of Rajasthan taught them a lesson.” In the past few years, open revolt against a Chief Minister followed by resignation of MLAs has been a common route to bring down State governments while escaping the provisions of the anti-defection law. The law requires two-thirds of the lawmakers to quit the parent party to legally merge with another party. In 2018, the Congress-Janata Dal(S) government led by H.D. Kumaraswamy collapsed after 15 MLAs from the two parties resigned. “@BJP4India kills democracy again. Using ED, IT & other agencies, spending crores of rupees they have toppled an elected govt,” tweeted Dinesh Gundu Rao, the All India Congress Committee in charge of Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Goa. While a section of the Congress leaders in Delhi believe that the fall of the Puducherry government may help the party with the “sympathy” factor and negate anti-incumbency, others believe it to be a warning sign for poll-bound Tamil Nadu. During the 2017 Assembly elections in Goa and Manipur, the Congress had emerged as the single largest party but the Governors had invited the BJP-led alliances in these States.  Pinarayi’s charge Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan accused the BJP of replacing democracy with money and communalism. He said Congress MLAs had reduced the party to a commodity.  (With inputs from   T.N. Bureau)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-familiar-pattern-says-cong/article33908818.ece
23 February 2021||CHENNAI,||Covaxin uptake below 1% in 12 States, UTs||As on February 21, the uptake of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin for COVID-19 across India was about 10%, Health Ministry data show. The reception to the vaccine stands in contrast to Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, which accounts for 90%. Of the 10.6 million doses administered, 10,37,565 are Covaxin. On January 3, the Indian regulator approved Covaxin for restricted use “under clinical trial mode” as a matter of “abundant caution” when no interim data of phase-3 trial was available. No dose Not a single dose of Covaxin had been administered in Chhattisgarh, while three Union Territories — Puducherry, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Daman & Diu — did not report any uptake as on February 21. Many States and UTs reported low uptake compared to Covishield. Punjab administered the vaccine only to 91 people, while Goa immunised just one person with it. The other States with low uptake were Nagaland (4 people), Mizoram (4), Lakshadweep (4), Chandigarh (9), Manipur (29), Tripura (30), Ladakh (31), Himachal Pradesh (38), Meghalaya (49), Arunachal Pradesh (54), Uttarakhand (69), and Sikkim (128). Except Sikkim, where the uptake was 1%, it was less than 1% in 12 States and Union Territories. The 8,332 Covaxin doses given in Maharashtra appeared high in absolute numbers but represented only 0.95%. The percentage refers to share of all vaccine doses. Covishield doses stood at 8,63,235. In Tamil Nadu, Covaxin doses stood at 4,421 and Covishield at 2,51,944, putting the former’s share at 1.72%. Karnataka administered Covaxin to 5,873 people (1%) and Covishield to 5,41,714. Telangana reported 13.5% (Covaxin 37,473 and Covishield 2,40,068), Kerala 12.8% (Covaxin 52,355, Covishield 3,54,743) and Andhra Pradesh nearly 10% (Covaxin 41,740 and Covishield 3,76,894). At 27%, Gujarat reported the highest figure at 2,19,211 compared to Covishield at 5,91,762 doses. High uptake was also seen in Uttar Pradesh at 21.3% (Covaxin 1,65,255, Covishield 6,07,984), Rajasthan 21% (Covaxin 1,65,255, Covishield 6,07,984) and Madhya Pradesh 18.6% (Covaxin 1,17,779, Covishield 5,14,469). “The difference in coverage is a function of differential allocation of Covaxin doses to different States. This is further confounded by delayed communication of the information and lack of data on efficacy,” epidemiologist Dr. Giridhara Babu, a member of Karnataka’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee, said in an email to The Hindu . In response to a Parliamentary question, the Health Ministry said on February 5 that as on February 1, nearly 2.6 million Covaxin doses were distributed to 19 States and UTs. At 1,89,920, Tamil Nadu got the most (Covishield was a little over one million). Other States with large Covaxin supplies included Telangana and Rajasthan (1,72,960), Maharashtra and Delhi (1,70,400), Odisha (1,69,760), Assam (1,68,160), Karnataka (1,66,240), Uttar Pradesh (1,65,280), Andhra Pradesh (1,64,320), Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh (1,50,400). Chhattisgarh, Jharkand, Punjab, and Kerala each got the lowest number (37,760).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covaxin-uptake-below-1-in-12-states-uts/article33908830.ece
23 February 2021||KASARAGOD,||Karnataka entry curbs irk Kerala||The Karnataka government has again decided to close all roads to Kasaragod in Kerala, except at four points, citing the increasing number of COVID-19 cases in Kerala. As per the order, issued by the Mangaluru Deputy Commissioner, all roads to Kasaragod, except the Thalappadi-Mangaluru, Jalsur-Sulia, Sardka-Bantwal, and Nettanige-Puthur roads, would remain closed. At these four points, people will be allowed to cross the border from Kasaragod if they show an RT-PCR negative certificate taken within 72 hours. Those arriving with antigen test reports will not be allowed entry. Bus conductors should verify the RT-PCR certificates before issuing tickets from Kerala to Karnataka. Those in private vehicles will be inspected at check-posts. The same restriction applies to those travelling by train or air. No bar on ambulances There will be no curbs on ambulances carrying patients. There is already an order that day scholars from Kerala studying in educational institutions in Karnataka should submit a negative RT-PCR certificate once in 15 days. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Monday that the closure of the border roads by Karnataka amounted to a violation of the ‘unlock’ guidelines that had been issued by the Centre. The State government would seek the Centre’s intervention to lift the border restrictions, he said while chairing a COVID-19 review meeting. The decision has raised concern among the public, who during the initial days of COVID-19 outbreak had suffered much hardship due to closure of border roads. Members of the Congress and the Indian Union Muslim League staged a protest at Thalappadi and blocked vehicles entering the State from Karnataka. They said several people in Kasaragod depended on Mangaluru for medical needs. Karnataka has also put up check-posts across Belagavi, Bagalkot, Vijayapura, Kalaburagi, and Bidar districts bordering Maharashtra.  (With inputs   from Belagavi)  D||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnataka-entry-curbs-irk-kerala/article33908793.ece
23 February 2021||CHENNAI,||Railways stung by IT ‘breaches’||Following instances of cyber attacks during the ongoing pandemic across its network, the Ministry of Railways has roped in the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) to educate its officials on Internet ethics, cyber hygiene and best practices in the use of IT equipment, including mobile phones. This is a part of its National Cyber Security Strategy. In a note to the General Managers, production units and other major establishments recently, the Railway Board said a number of incidents had come to notice regarding breaches in various IT applications as electronic working has got further proliferated. A majority of them were applications related. Incidents occurred due to “improper handling of the IT assets by the personnel”. According to sources, the IT Wing of the Computerisation & Information System Directorate sends out periodic alerts on cybersecurity vulnerabilities and threats to the staff directly handling IT-based systems. One of the major IT functions is the Passenger Reservation System (PRS). Periodic alerts In January 2019 alone, 6.61 crore passengers booked from 10,394 PRS terminals in 3,440 locations and the IRCTC website resulting in a revenue of Rs. 3,962.27 crore. While 9.38 lakh passengers made bookings on January 10, 2019, 671 bookings were made per second nine days later. The PRS involves passengers disclosing their identities along with proof of address, mobile phone number and netbanking/card payment details. The Railways also uses its IT infrastructure for Unreserved Ticketing System which served 2.11 crore passengers in January 2019 earning Rs. 58.83 crore each day. E-payment is provided as part of the Freight Operations Information System (FOIS) leading to Rs. 8,666.6 crore of revenue in January 2019. The Board said in the note the pandemic had introduced a greater reliance on electronic modes of communication in official working. Hence, it was necessary that all officials took responsibility and followed adequate procedures when using IT infrastructure for ensuring confidentiality, privacy etc in dealing with official information. “This can be achieved to a great extent by following Internet ethics, cyber hygiene and following best practices on the use of IT equipment like desktops, laptops, mobile devices etc. While many officials are aware of these and other related practices, there are still a number of officials who are unaware of the same,” the note said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/railways-stung-by-it-breaches/article33908833.ece
23 February 2021||KALPETTA,||New laws will destroy farming: Rahul||The recent farm laws brought in by the Union government will hand over agriculture business to a few corporates and destroy the country’s farming system, Rahul Gandhi, MP, has said. He was addressing a public meeting at Muttil in the district on Monday after attending a tractor rally taken out to express solidarity with the ongoing farmers’ protest in north India. “The whole world can see the difficulties being faced by our farmers, but the government in Delhi is unable to feel their pain. The Centre will not take back the new laws unless forced. The laws are designed to let two or three friends of Prime Minister Narendra Modi take control of the entire agriculture-related business,” he added. The agriculture business, which fed the country, was owned by 40% of the Indian population, he said. “In Parliament, I had said ‘Hum do humaare do’ (we two and our two). Two people in the government are partnering with two people outside the government. The idea is simple — these four people want to own and control agriculture. Farmers should sell their products directly to these people,” he said. ESZ notification The draft notification of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) declaring eco-sensitive zones (ESZ) around the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary had left the people of Wayanad worried. The notification should be repealed. He said the government should mitigate human-wildlife conflict in the district. The rally covered a distance of 3 km from Mandad to Muttil. Farmers on nearly 100 tractors, apart from hundreds of farmers and farm workers on foot, took part in the rally. Addressing a tribal conference at Nilambur later in the evening, Mr. Gandhi said, “Currently, I am a soldier in Delhi. When the United Democratic Front government comes to power, I will be your full-time soldier in Kerala to make sure that you get the health care and education that you need.” Mr. Gandhi gave a patient listening to the woes of Adivasis. Many of them shared their problems with him. Some of them said that they were living in constant threat of wild animals without even a house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-laws-will-destroy-farming-system-rahul/article33908802.ece
23 February 2021||New Delhi,||Disha Ravi in police custody||A Delhi court on Monday sent climate change activist Disha Ravi, arrested for her alleged involvement in sharing a ‘toolkit’ on social media in connection with the ongoing farmers’ protest against three farm laws, to one-day police custody. The end of the latest police custody will coincide with the pronouncement of order by another Delhi court on her bail plea on Tuesday. The 22-year-old was arrested on February 13 and sent in five-day police custody the next day. After the end of the police custody, on February 19, she was sent to three-day judicial custody and it expired on Monday. During the hearing, the public prosecutor stated that the Delhi Police required her custodial interrogation to confront her with the co-accused. The other two accused in the case — Shantanu Muluk and Nikita Jacob — have joined the investigation, he stated. Recently, the Bombay High Court granted protection to both Mr. Muluk and Ms. Jacob from arrest in connection with the case. Ms. Disha, a permanent resident of Bengaluru, was arrested by a Cyber Cell team of the Delhi Police from Bengaluru and brought to the capital. According to the Delhi Police, Ms. Ravi is an editor of the “Toolkit Google Doc” and was a key conspirator in the document’s formulation and dissemination. It alleged that she started a WhatsApp group to make the Toolkit doc in collaboration with alleged pro-Khalistani organisation Poetic Justice Foundation to spread disaffection against the Indian state. Ms. Ravi, in her defence before the court, had said she had just edited two lines in the ‘toolkit’ and that she was in support of the farmers and was influenced by their protests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/disha-in-police-custody/article33908810.ece
23 February 2021||Kozhikode,||Hindutva to be base of BJP poll strategy||The BJP Central leadership has chalked out a multi-pronged strategy, including sticking to its key Hindutva ideology, to be adopted for its State unit for the upcoming Assembly polls. Sources said the BJP national office-bearers who met in New Delhi on Sunday decided to go ahead on its project of attracting members from the two numerically strong Ezhava/Thiyya and Nair communities. Core base The meeting perceived that the Nair community formed the core base of the BJP in the State and that in the past few years the party has been able to attract the young generation from the Ezhava community as well. Also, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh has been asked to play a major role in electioneering right from the booth level. As of now, the party is expected to put up a tricornered contest in 40-plus segments and could possibly have a chance to win at least 10 seats, the sources said. NSS factor However, what bothers the BJP is that the Nair Service Society (NSS), though it has contributed Rs. 7 lakh for the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya, would take a pro-Congress stand in the polls and support only a few BJP candidates in select segments, the sources said. A few leaders have been tasked to build a close and harmonious relationship with Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam leaders.  Poaching members This apart, poaching members from both the Congress-led United Democratic Front and the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front and promote friendly relation with various denominations of the Christian community in the run- up to the polls seem to be the other strategies. A senior party functionary said the performance of the BJP in recent polls which hovered around with 13-14 % of the total popular votes failed to win seats in a bipolar political structure in the State. Sreedharan impact The meeting felt said that the decision of technocrat E. Sreedharan to join the BJP, which grabbed the headlines at the national level, gave a fillip to the party. His presence in campaigning or his candidature would help the party refurbish its image among the apolitical sections of society. Unlike the Lok Sabha polls of 2019, the Central leadership of the BJP wanted the party leaders who regularly contested the polls to be in the race for elections, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hindutva-to-be-base-of-bjp-poll-strategy/article33909303.ece
23 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||5 States account for 86.3% of new COVID-19 cases: Ministry||Seven States and Union Territories (UTs), including Uttarakhand, Ladakh, Meghalaya, Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh, have not reported any new COVID-19 cases in 24 hours, data released by the Union Health Ministry on Monday show. Meanwhile, 86.3% of the new cases are from five States, with Maharashtra reporting the highest of 6,971, followed by Kerala with 4,070 cases and Tamil Nadu with 452. It said that 19 States/UTs had not reported any COVID-19 deaths in the last 24 hours. These include Haryana, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, Odisha, Goa, Chandigarh, Assam, Manipur, Sikkim and Lakshadweep. The country reported 83 deaths in the last 24 hours and five States accounted for 78.31% of them. Maharashtra saw the highest of 35, while Kerala reported 15 deaths. “India has on Monday morning registered a record in the number of COVID-19 cumulative tests. It has crossed the 21.15 crore [21,15,51,746] tests, with 6,20,216 tests being conducted in the last 24 hours,” the Ministry said. ‘Involve private sector’ Former president of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) Ravi Wankhedkar stressed the importance of participation of the private sector in COVID-19 vaccination. “The private sector is providing health services to nearly 70% of the population. For the vaccination programme to be effective and successful in a vast country like India, the involvement of the private sector is essential,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/5-states-account-for-863-of-new-covid-19-cases-ministry/article33908822.ece
23 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Private schools in Karnataka shut as staff members protest||A majority of private schools in the State have declared holiday for students on Tuesday, with the teaching and non-teaching staff going on strike against the government’s order asking schools to charge only 70 % of the tuition fees this academic year. The holiday applies to both online and offline classes. All schools, including those affiliated to the State board, Central boards and international schools, have declared a holiday. A press release by the Karnataka Private Unaided School Managements, Teaching and Non-Teaching Staff Coordination Committee (KPMTCC) stated that their staff would take out a rally from the City Railway Station to Freedom Park in Bengaluru from 9 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. on Tuesday. The committee consists of 11 different private school associations. Many private schools have communicated to parents through circulars that they supported the rally and the classes on Tuesday would remain suspended. D. Shashi Kumar, convener of the committee, said that the school managements and their staff had to protest as they were facing financial hardship due to COVID-19 pandemic. He said that many of their staff had lost jobs or faced salary cuts as a majority of parents had not paid the fees for the 2020-2021 academic year. He expressed disappointment that the government did not provide any assistance or compensation for the teaching and non-teaching staff during the pandemic even though the associations had put forth repeated requests for the same. The committee also added that the Department of Primary and Secondary Education was making it difficult for existing private schools to function as it was being demanding that they fulfil the norms required for new schools. The secretary of a top private school in the city said although the government had said that 70 % of the tuition fee could be collected this academic year, schools were facing tough times as the government had said that no other fee could be collected. “With this order, we will be able to collect only about 50 % of our annual tuition fees. Running schools is very difficult as we have made a lot of investment to run our online classes. We want the government to roll back this order,” he said.  The secretary of a top private school in the city said although the government had said that 70% of the tuition fee could be collected this academic year, schools were facing tough times as the government had said that no other fee could be collected. “With this order, we will be able to collect only about 50% of our annual tuition fees. Running schools is very difficult as we have made a lot of investment to run our online classes. We want the government to roll back this order,” he said. Ahead of the protest on Tuesday, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar on Monday evening said, “The government had to very reluctantly step in and cut tuition fee by 30% to help parents in this hour of distress. We wanted schools to talk to parents and reach an understanding on fee. But despite my repeated appeals, this did not happen.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/private-schools-in-karnataka-shut-as-staff-members-protest/article33908791.ece
23 February 2021||Hyderabad,||Bail conditions difficult to meet, say poet’s kin||“There is a sense of relief. This is the first positive development in the Bhima Koregoan case as no one else has got bail. This conditional medical bail is making us feel happy,” said P. Pavana, daughter of poet and activist Varavara Rao. Challenges Speaking from a room in Mumbai where her 81-year-old father is recuperating at the Nanavati Hospital for the past three months, and her 72-year-old mother lay down to relax, Pavana said the next challenge would be to pay for the personal bond as well as find a home for the family. The medical bail has 13 conditions, including surrendering of passport which Mr. Rao doesn’t have. According to the family, Mr. Rao has been under house arrest for three months and inside prison and hospitals for 28 months after he was booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for violence at the Elgar Parishad-Bhima Koregoan. The High Court in Mumbai invoked right to health covered under right to life guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution of India for granting the medical bail. “It is a welcome relief but the conditions are difficult to meet as he has to stay in Mumbai for the period of the medical bail. We will have to find a house in Mumbai where my 72-year-old sister can take care of him,” said N. Venugopal, speaking on behalf of the family in Hyderabad. Among conditions set by the court are that only near family members can meet him, he should not meet the press and should not post on social media. “It is difficult, but this too shall pass,” said Mr. Venugopal, sounding a note of optimism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bail-conditions-difficult-to-meet-say-poets-kin/article33909229.ece
23 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC nod for NLCT process on Rs. 24,713 crore RIL-Future deal||The Supreme Court on Monday allowed National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) proceedings in connection with the proposed Rs. 24,713-crore deal between Future Group and Reliance Industries to go on, but directed the Tribunal to refrain from passing any “final order of sanction of the scheme”. E-commerce major, Amazon, which opposes the multi-crore deal, had recently moved the NCLT against Future Group’ s plea to hold a meeting of its shareholders or creditors to approve the deal with Reliance. On Monday, a Bench led by Justice Rohinton Nariman also issued notice on a petition filed by Amazon, to stay the operation of a Delhi High Court order of February 8. The order had revoked an earlier direction to Future Group to maintain 'status quo' on the sale of its retail assets to Reliance Industries. “We are not saying anything on merits now... We have read the files thoroughly and we know exactly what is happening,” Justice Nariman told the lawyers. When senior advocate Ranjit Kumar asked whether the apex court’s intervention and notice in the case would mean the Division Bench of the Delhi High Court could not proceed further, Justice Nariman replied “obviously, show them the order”. In its order, the Bench, while issuing notice to Future Retail and other parties arraigned by Amazon as respondents, said they would get two weeks to file their counter while Amazon was given a week to file its rejoinder thereafter. The case would next come up for hearing after three weeks. “In the meantime, the NCLT proceedings will be allowed to go on but will not culminate in any final order of sanction of scheme,” the apex court directed. In its petition challenging the February 8 order of the High Court, Amazon, represented by senior advocate Gopal Subramanium, had said the order was “ex-facie arbitrary and illegal”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-nod-for-nlct-process-on-rs-24713-crore-ril-future-deal/article33908813.ece
23 February 2021||Ghaziabad,||Farmers clash with Minister’s associates||Four persons were injured when a clash broke out between the aides of Union Minister Sanjeev Balyan and the residents of Soram village in Muzaffarnagar on Monday. Sources said Mr. Balyan had come to the village to attend funeral prayers of a senior member of the village. However, when some villagers raised slogans against him and the farm laws, one of his aides snatched a stick from the security staff and attacked the villagers. This led to chaos, forcing the police to intervene to bring the situation under control. Later, the agitated villagers held a panchayat and hundreds of villagers organised a sit-in protest at the Shahpur police station, demanding that an FIR be registered against Mr. Balyan and his aides. Yogesh Kumar, one of the four persons who were allegedly injured, lodged a complaint, stating that they had been attacked by around 25 aides of Mr. Balyan with the purpose to kill, and severely abused. The police have yet to register the FIR but the Circle Officer of Budhana said they were talking to the farmers. Talking to reporters, Mr. Kumar said he and his friends were members of the BKU and were raising slogans in support of the union. “I was pulled into a car by policemen and the aides of the Minister. A gun was pointed at me and I was roughed up. After an hour, I was left in a field,” he said. In a tweet, Mr Balyan said five or six RLD workers had used abusive language. “Locals intervened and shooed them away,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-clash-with-ministers-associates/article33908864.ece
23 February 2021||Kolkata,||‘Appeasement politics in Bengal’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday accused the Trinamool Congress of indulging in politics of appeasement and asserted that the BJP would give Bengal a government that “ensures development of all, appeasement of none”. Addressing a public rally at Chinsurah in Hooghly district, Mr. Modi raised the issue of the house of Bankim Chandra Chattopadhyay, who wrote Vande Mataram , lying in a dilapidated state. The Prime Minister described this as an insult to the pride of West Bengal. He alleged that there was a particular kind of politics behind such developments. “It is the kind of politics that gives more importance to vote bank than the love for the nation. It is that kind of politics that prevents the people of the State from organising Durga Puja and preventing immersion of idols,” he said. Development of the State was not possible as long as cut money culture, syndicate rule and tolabaji (extortion) persisted, he said. He called for asal parivartan (real change). “It is important for the lotus to bloom in the State so that the real change which the youth of the State have been dreaming of can be ushered in,” he said. Hooghly district, which was once the hub of industries, was a symbol of the decadence that successive regimes have brought to the State. “Once there were folk songs of men from different parts of country going to Calcutta... Now the people of the district and the State have to go other States for work. The BJP government that you have decided to bring to power will start working and taking steps to change the situation. The State people have made up their mind to change the government,” he said in his half-an-hour speech. Piped water supply The Prime Minister, while targeting the Trinamool government on the denial of benefits of PM Kisan Samman Nidhi and Ayushman Bharat, also added the subject of supply of piped water in rural households of the State. He said that of the 1.5 crore to 1.75 crore rural households in the State, piped water was reaching only two lakh households and had increased to nine lakh households after the Centre’s intervention. “The pace at which the State government is working here to provide piped water connectivity, it will take several years. The Centre sent Rs. 1,700 crore for piped water connectivity. Of this, only Rs. 609 crore has been spent,” he stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/politics-of-appeasement-in-bengal-pm/article33908816.ece
23 February 2021||Kolkata,||Willing to join probe: Trinamool MP’s wife||Responding to the notice served by the CBI, Rujira Banerjee, wife of Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee, on Monday said she was willing to join the probe. “Though I am unaware of the reason for being called for questioning or the subject matter of the investigation, you may visit my residence, as per your convenience between 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. i.e February 23, 2021,” Ms. Banerjee wrote in a letter addressed to Umesh Kumar, Investigation Officer of the case. She also urged the CBI to inform her their schedule. The CBI on Sunday sent the notice in connection with a case registered on November 27, 2020 involving alleged “coal theft”. The agency served a notice also to Menaka Gambhir, Ms. Banerjee’s sister. Mr. Banerjee, also president of the party’s youth wing, had described the CBI notice to his wife “predictable” and “desperate”. Mr. Banerjee said if the agency uses such measures to “intimidate us, they are mistaken. We are not the ones who would ever be cowed down”. A CBI team visited the residence of Ms. Gambhir. The team, which also included women officers, was at the residence for more than a couple of hours and recorded her statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/willing-to-join-probe-trinamool-mps-wife/article33908819.ece
23 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC raps govt. for not replying to Jairam’s plea on RTI Act||The Supreme Court on Monday criticised the Union government for having not filed a reply to a petition by parliamentarian Jairam Ramesh challenging the amendments made to the Right to Information Act for over a year. The court, in January 2020, asked the Centre to file its reply to Mr. Ramesh’s plea that the amendments gave the Centre unparalleled powers to dictate the tenure, salaries and service conditions of the Chief Information Commissioner and Information Commissioners as per its “whims and fancies”. “The notice was issued in January, 2020! What have you been doing? The vires of the RTI Act have been challenged,” a Bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and M.R. Shah asked the government lawyers. Two weeks time The Bench gave the government two weeks to file its reply. “The Modi government undermined the sanctity of the RTI Act in 2019 through amendments. Then when I challenged it in Supreme Court, the government failed to respond to the Court’s notice for more than a year! I hope that the government will take this matter seriously at least now,” Mr. Ramesh tweeted. Mr. Ramesh, through advocate Sunil Fernandes, has contended that the RTI Amendment Act of 2019 and its Rules cripple the objectivity and independence of the Central Information Commission (CIC), the top adjudicatory body under the Act, by bringing under the yoke of the government. The petition has argued that the very purpose of the Act, which is “a salutary piece of legislation aimed at promoting transparency in public administration and empowering the common citizen”, is denuded when the salaries and tenure of the information commissioners depend on the sheer pleasure of the government. The government and its various agencies are parties in every case filed before the CIC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-raps-govt-for-no-reply-to-jairams-plea/article33908826.ece
23 February 2021||Hassan,||Leopardess beaten to death in Hassan after it attacked people||Residents of Bendekere hamlet in Arsikere beat a two-year old leopardess to death on Monday. The carnivore had attacked five people, including a veterinarian on the day. The animal was spotted around 7.30 a.m. at Byragondanahalli, where it attacked a woman and her son, who were going to their field. As the information reached the Forest Department, the staff rushed to the spot to trap the animal. They kept watch on its movements. Dr. Murali, a veterinarian, attempted to tranquillise the animal. While he was doing this, the animal jumped on him and bit his left arm. Attacks on people Later, it attacked two people riding on a bike towards Bendekere. When they screamed for help, those who had gathered at the hamlet to attend a marriage, spotted the animal and beat it up with sticks. By the time officers could reach the spot, the animal was dead. Trap laid Deputy Conservator of Forests K.N. Basavaraj told The Hindu that officers had laid a trap to capture the animal. “We attempted to dart the animal. But the veterinarian, who was on the job, was also attacked. He has been admitted to a private hospital in Mysuru,” he said. Second veterinarian The officers called in another veterinarian from Bhadra Tiger Reserve in Chikkamagaluru to tranquillise the animal. “However, by the time the veterinarian could reach the spot the animal was dead. He conducted the post-mortem examination,” the DCF said. The animal was aged around 20 months. “It seems it had just separated from the mother and was looking for prey. Locals had noticed and videographed it as well. As we were following its behaviour since morning, we can confidently say the same animal attacked five people on the day,” the officer said. Case against villagers The Forest Department would register a case against the villagers under the Wildlife Protection Act. “We will book the case and conduct an investigation,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/leopardess-beaten-to-death-in-hassan-after-it-attacked-people/article33908861.ece
23 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Rs. 70,221 cr. reserved for domestic buying’||About Rs. 70,000 crore of the capital allocation of Rs. 1.35 lakh crore in the defence budget would be reserved for domestic procurements and a second negative list of items that could be procured only locally by the Services would be issued, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Monday. “My Ministry has planned to invest, about 63% of the outlay for 2021-22 on domestic procurement, i.e. about Rs. 70,221 crore for domestic defence procurement during for 2021-22,” Mr. Singh stated at a webinar organised by the Department of Defence Production and the Society of Indian Defence Manufacturers. Defence Secretary Ajay Kumar said the new negative list was expected to be issued in March and around 10 mid-sized projects would be given to industry in April. The deal for Light Combat Helicopters was also set to be signed shortly while the deal for Light Utility Helicopters was expected by August 2022. Addressing the webinar, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the 21st century defence sector cannot stand without private sector partnership. “I would urge the private sector to come forward with not just manufacturing capabilities but also with design and development,” he said. In the budgetary allocation for 2021-22, the capital allocation for defence saw an increase of Rs. 21,326 crore or 18.75% compared to Budget Estimates (BE) of last year. Last year, for the first time, the government introduced a separate allocation for domestic procurement within the defence budget and reserved Rs. 52,000 crore for 2020-21. Support to start-ups Mr. Singh announced that to support start-ups, the Ministry planned to channelise about Rs. 1000 crore during 2021-22 for procurement from start-ups under the Innovation for Defence Excellence (iDEX)initiative. As part of a series of efforts to streamline defence procurement, Mr. Singh said, the Ministry was working on bringing down the delays in timelines of capital acquisition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-70221-cr-reserved-for-domestic-buying/article33908835.ece
23 February 2021||KOCHI,||Differences in NCP to the fore||A State committee meeting of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) here on Monday ended with State general secretary Jayan Puthenpurackal demanding in full media glare a change in the party leadership in Kerala and seats for freshers in the upcoming Assembly polls. He told the media that State president T.P. Peethambaran and Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran only pursued their own interests by keeping party office-bearers and workers in the dark about organisational developments. He would write to the national leadership demanding a change of leadership in the State unit and to field new faces in the elections. “Mr. Peethambaran was responsible for the split in the party and he ditched Mani C. Kappan after encouraging him to talk to United Democratic Front leaders. Similarly, while they held a meeting with Left Democratic Front leaders on seat-sharing, they were not forthcoming on the details of the same. This is a ploy to field Mr. Saseendran from Elathur again,” Mr. Puthenpurackal told The Hindu and said all allied organisations of the NCP were for a change of leadership. Mr. Puthenpurackal’s outbursts came on the heels of Mr. Peethambaran telling the media that the State leadership of the party remained united. Mr. Peethambaran said the NCP would legally challenge if the new party formed by Mr. Kappan (Nationalist Congress Kerala) took a name or symbol resembling the NCP’s.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/differences-in-ncp-to-the-fore/article33909304.ece
23 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||IIT Council sets up panels for more autonomy||The IIT Council has set up committees to look at greater autonomy for the elite institutions, in line with the National Education Policy recommendations, as well as reform of the academic Senate, grooming faculty to head the IITs, and innovative funding mechanisms. The Council also recommended cutting IIT staff strength to lower levels, according to an Education Ministry statement. However, Council members said the discussion at Monday’s meeting only revolved around the need to reduce non-teaching manpower in the face of increasing digitisation and outsourcing, and no decisions were taken. The IIT Council is headed by the Education Minister and includes the directors of all IITs, and the chairs of each IIT’s Board of Governors. It is meant to advise on admission standards, duration of courses, degrees and other academic distinctions, and also lays down policy regarding cadre, methods of recruitment and conditions of service of employees. “It was also recommended rationalisation of staff from current standards to a lower number,” said an Education Ministry statement. Pre-approved ratio “The IITs currently function so that for every 10 students, there is one faculty member. And for every 10 faculty, we have pre-approval for 11 staff. That is the ratio we operate with, already approved by the government,” explained an IIT Director who was at the meeting. “No change in that ratio was discussed.” “The IITs are seeking autonomy on the lines of what was granted to the IIMs,” said one of the directors. “We have recommended that it should be the Boards of Governors who appoint the Directors, not the government. Ideally, that is what we want.” Though multiple committees have made similar recommendations, including in the recent past, their suggestions have not yet been acted upon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/iit-council-sets-up-panels-for-more-autonomy/article33908866.ece
23 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||‘Hyderabad’s position as vaccine capital bolstered’||Telangana Industries and IT Minister K.T.Rama Rao on Monday said the dream and vision of growing the life sciences sector to over $100 billion looks plausible. “We remain committed,” he said, seeking to highlight how the sector in Telangana responded with resilience and witnessed tremendous growth amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The sector, in the State, attracted about Rs. 3,700 crore investments in the last one year with an employment potential for around 14,000 people, he told the inaugural session of BioAsia 2021. Moment in spotlight According to the Minister, with scientists and entrepreneurs giving the sector its moment in the spotlight by accelerating development of vaccines, diagnostics and therapeutics Hyderabad’s life sciences ecosystem came to the fore and displayed fortitude. “I take pride in saying Hyderabad rose to the occasion… our position as the vaccine capital of the world was bolstered and world is looking to India and Hyderabad,” he said. Mr.Rao, who earlier presented BioAsia’s Genome Valley Excellence Award to Bharat Biotech, said the company’s “remarkable contribution and commitment to develop India’s first indigenous vaccine for COVID-19 [Covaxin]” as well as efforts of other vaccine makers Biological E and Indian Immunologicals are laudable. Noting how Hetero Pharma and Dr.Reddy’s Laboratories were set to augment global supply by manufacturing and distributing Russian vaccine Sputnik and Aurobindo Pharma is setting up a vaccine manufacturing facility with a capacity of about 450 million doses, he said “all these highlight the position of Hyderabad as the vaccine capital… extremely confident significant global population will be immunised with vaccines produced in Hyderabad.” Vision 2030 Chairman of Telangana Life Sciences Advisory Committee and pharma major Dr.Reddy’s Laboratories K.Satish Reddy told the gathering that the State sought to emerge as one of the top life sciences clusters in Asia by 2030. The vision was to contribute to the growth of the life sciences sector in Telangana from the existing around $13 billion to $50 billion in 10 years. There is potential to touch $100 billion, he said. A report of the Committee last year had said to realise the $50 billion in cluster revenues vision (and $100 billion ecosystem valuation) in 10 years, the sector ought to grow around 15% as against the 12% at present. Bharat Biotech founder and CMD Krishna Ella, who received the Genome Valley Excellence Award along with JMD Suchitra Ella, said the recognition is for all the entrepreneurs who contributed to the emergence of Hyderabad as a vaccine hub. Almost 65% of vaccines made in India come from Hyderabad. On pandemic vaccines, he said “anything in future will also come only from Hyderabad… with new entrants, it is going to be bigger game for India and vaccines”. This is the 18th edition of BioAsia and the two-day event devoted to life sciences is being organised by Telangana government.  The vision was to contribute to the growth of the life sciences sector in Telangana from the existing around $13 billion to $50 billion in 10 years. There is potential to touch $100 billion. K.Satish Reddy, Chairman, Dr.Reddy’s Laboratories and Telangana Life Sciences Advisory Committee||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hyderabads-position-as-vaccine-capital-bolstered-says-ktr/article33909185.ece
23 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Marshals to be deployed at weddings, events||As another cluster emerged in Bengaluru, the State government announced that marshals would be deployed at wedding halls and at events to ensure adherence to COVID-19 protocols. Speaking to reporters here on Monday after a videoconference with all district administrations, Minister for Health and Medical Education K. Sudhakar admitted that VVIPs and VIPs were also not following the COVID-19 protocols recommended by the Technical Advisory Committee. “Even when we attend events, organisers ask us to remove the mask. Protocols are routinely flouted. Marshals will levy fines against all violators. A circular has been issued with regard to their deployment,” he said and remarked that it was “unfortunate” that protocols were violated by leaders and thousands who participated in the Panchamasali rally in the city on Sunday. Pointing out that lockdown had been imposed in several districts in neighbouring Maharashtra, Dr. Sudhakar said the government may be forced to put in place stringent measures if citizens continued to disregard the protocols. He said while there was no restriction on inter-State travel, he would soon meet with his counterparts in Kerala and Maharashtra to urge them to issue a circular making it mandatory for travellers from their respective States to have a negative RT-PCR report prior to their travel to Karnataka. “If there is such a requirement for people from Karnataka travelling to Kerala and Maharashtra, we are ready to cooperate,” he said, while acknowledging the inconvenience caused to travellers into the State owing to the checking at the borders. Dr. Sudhakar said the government was taking measures to prevent the a second wave in the State. The positivity rate had increased marginally in three districts – Kalaburagi (1.37%), Bengaluru Urban (1.2%), and Dakshina Kannada (1.1%). The positivity rate in other districts in the State was below 1%. District administrations of the three districts had been directed to increase targeted testing for early identification of infected and step up contact tracing. With regard to school reopening, he said they were being opened in a phased manner and no increase in cases had been reported. He added that the department would review the decision to have full capacity in theatres later this month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/marshals-to-be-deployed-at-weddings-events/article33908789.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Congress-led govt. falls in Puducherry||“As the Speaker did not agree, we staged a walkout. Even in our absence, he should have put the motion of confidence to vote. In the meantime, Speaker himself gave a ruling, which is absolutely wrong. But we have the moral responsibility to resign. So I tendered the resignation,” he said. The Opposition and Centre used the three nominated legislators to destabilise the government, he charged. Of them, two had contested in the 2016 Assembly polls and lost their deposits. BJP leaders, who were rejected by the people, were directly appointed by the Centre and then used as an instrument to topple a democratically elected government, he said. Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has forwarded the resignation letter of Mr. Narayanasamy and a report on the Assembly proceedings to the Union Ministry of Home Affairs for its consideration, a source in Raj Nivas told The Hindu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-led-govt-falls-in-puducherry/article33908804.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Xi Jinping may visit India for BRICS summit||He was referring to economic cooperation, political and security cooperation, and people-to-people and cultural exchanges. Expectations are that by the second half of the year, the summit will not have to be held virtually. While the COVID-19 situation will determine whether that is the case, other major summits in Europe and the U.K. are likely to take place this summer, before the BRICS meet. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to make his first overseas trip after the pandemic to Bangladesh in March and is also likely to attend the India-E.U. meet in Portugal in May and the G7 summit in the U.K., where India has been invited as a guest country, the following month. Preliminary discussions on a date for the BRICS summit were held during Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla’s recent visit to Moscow. Mr. Wang expressed China’s support to India hosting the meet when asked whether the border crisis would impact it. “In recent years, BRICS has seen greater solidarity, deeper practical cooperation, and greater influence,” he said. “It is now a positive, stable and constructive force in international affairs. China attaches importance to this mechanism and we are committed to deepening strategic partnership within it to consolidate solidarity and cooperation.” China also was in favour of working with the grouping to “expand BRICS-plus cooperation and work for greater progress and help the world to defeat COVID-19, resume economic growth and improve global governance”, he said. 2017 summit outcome In 2017, Prime Minister Modi visited China to attend the BRICS summit five days after Indian and Chinese troops ended a 72-day stand-off on the Doklam plateau. The timing of the summit, officials in India and China said at the time, pushed both sides to arrive at a deal. Four years on, however, the border crisis is of a far greater magnitude, having led to the biggest violence since 1967, the first loss of life since 1975 and a major rupture in the relationship. Also unlike Doklam, the crisis has not been limited to one spot and has involved the deployment of thousands of troops and armoured elements. While disengagement is under way along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh, having been completed last week at Pangong Lake and now in progress in other areas, de-escalation is yet to take place, with thousands of troops on both sides still present in depth areas beyond the LAC and yet to return to their peacetime positions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/xi-jinping-may-visit-india-for-brics-summit/article33908807.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Varavara Rao granted bail for 6 months||“The prisoners of advanced age like the undertrial, who suffer from various health ailments induced by old age when put beyond bars, certainly face the danger of their health conditions worsening and accelerating their journey towards the end of their life. This is an aspect, which cannot be ignored while considering the prayer for grant of an order of release from custody, despite rejection of bail application on merits,” the 92-page order said. “The onset of old age and concomitant debilitating effect on the mental and physical conditions is an aspect which assumes great significance in the context of keeping such old, aged persons behind bars. Even if such old, aged prisoners with various health conditions are accused of serious offences, the question is whether they can be forced to live a subhuman existence behind bars, only because they stand accused of serious offences?” The 92-page judgment said: “The undertrial [Mr. Rao] herein can be granted bail purely on the grounds of sickness, advanced age, infirmity and health conditions, provided it is found that the continued incarceration of the undertrial would be incompatible with his health condition and that it would amount to endangering his life. “There can be no doubt about the fact that a person in the health status of the undertrial would face intensification of ailments if he continues to be in custody. The condition of old age, sickness and multiple health ailments suffered by the undertrial indicate that his continued custody would be incompatible with his health conditions and that sending him back to Taloja Central Prison would amount to endangering his life, thereby violating his fundamental right under Article 21 (no person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty) of the Constitution of India.” The court held, “We are of the opinion that adopting a humanitarian approach in the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case is warranted. In special circumstances, a Constitutional Court can certainly exercise its jurisdiction under Article 226 (power of High Courts to issue certain writs) of the Constitution in favour of an accused in custody, even when regular bail application has been rejected on merits under the provisions of special statutes like Unlawful Activities Prevention Act.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/varavara-rao-gets-bail-in-bhima-koregaon-case/article33908808.ece
23 February 2021||New Delhi,||High Courts of Kerala, Delhi get new judges||The Law Ministry on Monday notified the appointment of new judges to the High Court of Delhi. “The President of India appointed Shri Jasmeet Singh and Shri Amit Bansal as the judges of the Delhi High Courtfrom the date they assume charge,” the Law Ministry said.  Four additional Judges of the Karnataka High Court — Singapuram Raghavachar Krishna Kumar, Ashok Subhashchandra Kinagi, Suraj Govindaraj and Sachin Shankar Magadum — who were appointed as additional judged in September 2019 were also made permanent judges through a notification issued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/high-courts-of-kerala-delhi-get-new-judges/article33908820.ece
23 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||IMA shocked by claims of certification for Coronil||The Indian Medical Association on Monday expressed shock and dismay at what it called is a “blatant lie of WHO certification” for Patanjali’s Coronil tablet, which the company said can be used to fight the COVID-19. It has also demanded an explanation from Health Minister Harsh Vardhan about his presence at the event where Coronil was launched last week. The Association’s two-page note comes after World Health Organisation clarified that “it has not reviewed or certified the effectiveness of any traditional medicine for the treatment of COVID-19”. Health Minister present On Friday last, Ramdev launched the product in the presence of Mr. Vardhan and Nitin Gadkari, Minister for Road Transport & Highways and Minister for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises. The IMA said it was shocked to note the “blatant lie” of certification for a “secret medicine” launched in the presence of the Health Minister, who is a doctor as well. The country “needs an explanation” from him, it said in a statement. Patanjali Ayurved managing director Acharya Balkrishna put out a clarification shortly before the WHO tweet. “We want to clarify to avoid confusion that our WHO Good Manufacturing Practices compliant COPP certificate to Coronil is issued by the Drugs Controller General of India, Government of India. It is clear that WHO does not approve or disapprove any drugs. WHO works for building a better, healthier future for people all over the world,” he said. The AYUSH Ministry had earlier said Coronil can be sold only as an immunity-booster and not as a cure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ima-shocked-by-claims-of-certification-for-coronil/article33908823.ece
23 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Karti Chidambaram gets SC nod to travel abroad||The Supreme Court on Monday allowed Congress MP Karti Chidambaram, who is facing investigation in INX Media case and the Aircel-Maxis case, to travel to Germany, U.K. and France. “Taking note of the previous orders allowing the applicant to travel abroad, we are of the view that the applicant should be allowed to travel to Germany, United Kingdom and France between March 1 to June 23 of 2021. He will, however, appear before the investigating authorities in connection with the investigation on such dates as may be fixed by the Enforcement Directorate excluding the above stated travelling period, and will cooperate with the investigating agencies,” the court said. The court laid down a series of conditions which includes depositing Rs. 2 crore before the Secretary General of the court. It barred Mr. Karti from opening or closing any bank account overseas and from entering into any kind of property transactions there. It directed him to give the itinerary and places of residence before proceeding to travel abroad. The court asked Mr. Karti to file an undertaking before it within three days indicating his flight details and the date of arrival in India. “If the undertaking is not filed, the applicant shall not be allowed to go abroad,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karti-chidambaram-gets-sc-nod-to-travel-abroad/article33908825.ece
23 February 2021||New Delhi,||Pakistan actions to be reviewed at FATF plenary||The three-day virtual plenary session of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), during which Pakistan’s performance in terms of measures taken against money laundering and terror funding will be reviewed once again, started on Monday. Pakistan has been on the FATF’s “greylist” since June 2018 when it was presented with a 27-point action plan. During the last FATF plenary in October 2020, owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, Pakistan was given an extension for full compliance with the recommendations till the next session. It had not fully complied with six of the 27 directives, while the other obligations were largely met. Pakistan’s inaction against several organisations linked to banned terror outfits and global terrorists had an impact on the FATF decision. India has also been highlighting the failure on Pakistan’s part to take action against those involved in the 26/11 Mumbai and Pulwama attacks. A final decision on whether Pakistan should remain on the “greylist” will be taken on completion of the FATF Plenary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pakistan-actions-to-be-reviewed-at-fatf-plenary/article33908812.ece
23 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||State to seek Centre’s help||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Monday that the closure of border roads by Karnataka, citing rising COVID-19 cases in Kerala, amounted to a violation of the ‘unlock’ guidelines issued by the Centre. The State government would seek the Centre’s intervention to lift the border restrictions, he said while chairing a COVID-19 review meeting. Pointing out that vehicles from Kerla were being intercepted at the border, he said officials were demanding COVID-19-negative certificates based on RT-PCR test. “Karnataka has agreed to waive the condition only for vehicles transporting essential goods after the Kerala State Police Chief talked to his counterpart in Karnataka. We will reach out to the Karnataka government and the Centre to resolve the issue,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/state-to-seek-centres-help/article33909306.ece
23 February 2021||Bengaluru,||T.N. slammed over Cauvery basin project||Former Chief Ministers H.D. Kumaraswamy and Siddaramaiah on Monday criticised Tamil Nadu’s move to utilise excess water in the Cauvery basin through a link scheme, for which the foundation stone was laid on Sunday. Criticising the Karnataka government for not being alert on Tamil Nadu’s plans, Mr. Kumaraswamy said, “The Mekedatu project conceived during my tenure as Chief Minister had been opposed by the AIDMK with the assistance of the BJP. The anxiety for Tamil Nadu was the utilisation of excess water in the project,” he said in a series of tweets. “It is surprising that the State was not aware of a project that is being funded by the Centre. I have not seen commitment in the Water Resources Ministry. The Minister, who insisted on the portfolio, has been ignoring it.” He also suggested that the Minister, who always speaks of defeating someone or the other, concentrate on the State’s welfare. On Sunday, the Tamil Nadu government laid the foundation stone for the Cauvery-Vellaru-Vaigai-Gundar link scheme to provide water to its southern region. “There is a danger of Tamil Nadu placing its rights over additional water during a crisis. It is already using 6 cubic feet of water to 342 lakes and irrigating 42,170 acres,” Mr. Kumaraswamy said. Mr. Siddaramaiah urged the State government to approach the Supreme Court against the project, “which seeks to illegally utilise the excess water”. “Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa should write a letter to his Tamil Nadu counterpart registering his protest and asking him to stop the project at once,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hdk-siddaramaiah-slam-tn-over-cauvery-basin-project/article33908932.ece
23 February 2021||Hyderabad,||Police move to cancel 72 passports of Bangladeshis||The Regional Passport Officer was asked by the Cyberabad police to cancel 72 Indian passports obtained fraudulently by the Bangladesh nationals. Police has even asked for Look Out Circulars from the Foreigners Regional Registration Officer. These circulars can help prevent many of these illegal immigrants from leaving India, and also in securing deportation for those already abroad. In a letter to the Regional Passport Officer, a copy of which is in possession of The Hindu , the Cyberabad police stated that Parimal Bain facilitated 72 Bangladeshi immigrants in securing Indian passports, out of which 32 were obtained with a single house address in Bodhan. Till May 2019, he got passports for 41 persons and charged Rs. 7,000 to Rs. 8,000 per person. Later, he started charging anywhere between Rs. 20,000 to Rs 25,000, as he ended up paying more to ASI Anil Kumar. “Since there is no scope for the citizens of Bangladesh to go abroad on employment, Parimal hatched a plan to provide Indian passports to Bangladeshis for sending them abroad,” police said. Meanwhile, in 2019, he got acquainted with Shahnaj Pail alias Sabuj of New Delhi, who provided flight tickets through his friend Saddam Hussan and visas through one Manoj. After providing them shelter for a few days in West Bengal, the gang obtained Aadhaar cards for the illegal immigrants who were later sent to Bodhan to get passports and visas. Parimal colluded with Bodhan MeeSeva centre staff Mateen Ahmed Mirza in changing the address on Aadhaar cards without any valid documents, who further helped them in getting passports on local addresses. Officials said that they will also write to the Ministry of Home Affairs, Intelligence Bureau and other concerned authorities on how illegal immigrants were obtaining the Indian passports. “A letter will be sent to UIDAI to give access to the Aadhaar data to the RPO for verification of address before issuing the passports,” an officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-move-to-cancel-72-passports-of-bangladeshis/article33908792.ece
23 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC adjourns contempt plea against Kamra||For the second time in a row, the Supreme Court adjourned hearing a bunch of contempt petitions accusing stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra of scandalising the Supreme Court with his tweets. A Bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and R. Subhash Reddy, on Monday, scheduled the case to be taken up after four weeks. The case was adjourned after the court received a request from one of the petitioners for time to file a rejoinder. The petitioners are Abhyudaya Mishra, Skand Bajpai and Shrirang Katneshwarkar. Last time too, the Bench had adjourned the case by two weeks. On that occasion, a petitioner had sought time to file his response to Mr. Kamra’s affidavit. Taking offence is now seen as a fundamental right, Mr. Kamra had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-adjourns-contempt-plea-against-kamra/article33908811.ece
23 February 2021||GUWAHATI,||‘Assam poll dates likely by early March’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said the Election Commission of India (ECI) was expected to announce the dates for the Assam Assembly election in the first week of March. Mr. Modi made this announcement while addressing a gathering at Silapathar in Dhemaji district of northeastern Assam after launching five projects worth more than Rs. 3,000 crore. Assam is going to the polls by May along with Kerala, Puducherry, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. The projects in the oil and gas sector that the Prime Minister inaugurated virtually are in Bongaigaon, Dibrugarh and Tinsukia districts. He unveiled an engineering college in Dhemaji and laid the foundation stone of another at Sualkuchi, a town near Guwahati synonymous with the production of indigenous silk. “The Election Commission had declared the last [2016] Assembly election dates on March 4. Likewise, we expect the dates this time to be announced in the first week of March,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-poll-dates-likely-by-early-march/article33908814.ece
23 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||India in trade, defence pacts with Mauritius||India and Mauritius signed a $100 million Defence Line of Credit agreement on Monday. It was a part of several understandings, including the Comprehensive Economic Cooperation and Partnership Agreement (CECPA) that was signed between the two countries during the ongoing visit by External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar. “Privileged to witness along with Prime Minister Pravind Kumar Jugnauth the signing of Comprehensive Economic Cooperation and Partnership Agreement, India’s first such agreement with an African country. [This] will help focus on post pandemic economic recovery. Enable business expansion and greater investments,” said Mr. Jaishankar in a message after the signing of the agreement. Using the new framework under the CECPA, India and Mauritius would provide preferential access to a number of items like surgical equipment, medicine, and textile products that would cater to market requirements on both sides. “Just to illustrate some of the benefits, Mauritius will get preferential access for export of 40,000 tonnes of sugar into India at an early time frame,” said Mr. Jaishankar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-in-trade-defence-pacts-with-mauritius/article33908824.ece
23 February 2021||New Delhi,||777s are not grounded in India: Ministry||Boeing’s recommendation to ground over 120 of its 777 planes with engines similar to the one that failed on a United Airlines plane in the United State’s Denver would not impact India as the 777s operating in the country did not have Pratt and Whitney engines, a Civil Aviation Ministry source said on Monday. After the Denver incident, Boeing recommended grounding of the planes pending inspections. Soon after the take-off, one engine of the plane carrying 231 passengers and 10-member crew from Denver to Honolulu had failed. No one was injured during the emergency landing. While the United Airlines decided to temporarily ground 24 Boeing 777s, the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration issued a directive for immediate inspection of the planes with the same type of engine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/777s-are-not-grounded-in-india-ministry/article33908836.ece
23 February 2021||Hyderabad,||Hypermarket told to refund Rs. 3 for carry bag, pay Rs. 15k damages||A consumer disputes redressal commission directed a hypermarket refund Rs. 3 which the company had charged for a carry bag printed with its logo, and pay Rs. 15,000 as compensation. The complainant said that by charging Rs. 3 for the bag with its logo, the company had used the customer as an ‘advertising agent’, which is an unfair trade practice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hypermarket-told-to-refund-rs-3-for-carry-bag-pay-rs-15k-damages/article33908803.ece
23 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Bineesh Kodiyeri’s bail plea rejected||The city civil and sessions court on Monday rejected the bail plea of Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of former CPI(M) Kerala State Secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan. This is the fourth time that his bail plea has been rejected since his arrest in October last year for his alleged links to the drug peddling racket busted by the Narcotics Control Bureau.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bineesh-kodiyeris-bail-plea-rejected/article33908858.ece
23 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Ravi Pujari in Maharashtra police custody||The Maharashtra police on Monday took underworld operative Ravi Pujari into its custody for 15 days from the Parappana Agrahara prison here. The Maharashtra police are probing his links with the Mumbai underworld. Pujari, who is involved in 97 cases in Karnataka, was brought here from Senegal last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ravi-pujari-in-maharashtra-police-custody/article33908859.ece
23 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kappan forms Nationalist Cong. Kerala||Incumbent Pala legislator Mani C. Kappan announced a new political party, Nationalist Congress Kerala (NCK), here on Monday. Mr. Kappan had exited from the Left Democratic Front in a fit of pique recently over the move to cede his sitting seat to Jose K. Mani of the Kerala Congress (M). Office-bearers Mr. Kappan is the president of the new outfit. Babu Karthikeyan is the working president. P. Gopinath and Zulfikar Mayoori are vice presidents. Siby Thomas is the party’s treasurer. Mr. Kappan also waved a long list of State and district office-bearers. They are all “Kappan loyalists” who left the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) following a rift with Transport Minister A. K. Saseendran over the Pala question. Mr. Saseendran, an NCP veteran and an eight-time legislator, had convinced the party's national leadership that it was politically expedient to cede the Pala seat to Mr. Jose and remain in the LDF. Exit from LDF The NCP decision had left Mr. Kappan in the lurch and paved the way for his exit. NCP State president T. Peethambaram was sympathetic to Mr. Kappan’s cause initially. However, he soon fell in line with the party national leadership. Mr. Kappan said the LDF had forsaken him to favour “newly arrived” Jose. K. Mani. He had tasted success in Pala in the 2019 Assembly byelection when the LDF lost dismally to the Congress in the Lok Sabha polls. Some leaders had forgotten his long and loyal innings in the LDF, he said. Mr. Kappan saw the writing on the wall when Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan indicated that he should contest from Kuttanad. However, he did not want to deprive the late NCP leader Thomas Chandy’s brother of the seat. The NCK would enter the UDF. It would retain the Pala seat and seek two more, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kappan-forms-nationalist-cong-kerala/article33908797.ece
23 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Rank holders launch indefinite fast||Public Service Commission (PSC) rank holders agitating for appointments started an indefinite fast from Monday night despite reconciliatory talks with representatives of the government. The decision to ratchet up the 27-day-old agitation in front of the Secretariat was the fallout of the “failure” on the part of the government to seal its part of the pact with the agitators by promising in writing that it would extend the validity of the PSC rank list for appointment to the post of last grade servants till August 1. Home Secretary T.K. Jose and Additional Director General of Police Manoj Abraham had engaged them in talks for two consecutive days. Govt. assurances They said the government would expedite promotions to create more entry-level vacancies and report the openings to the PSC speedily. Such a move would enable the government to appoint national games medal winners in State service. The government seemed legally hard-pressed to revive the obsolete PSC rank list for Civil Police Officers. It has sought legal counsel in the matter reportedly. Meanwhile, a set of PSC rank holders claimed that Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran had made light of their woes when they called on him at his official residence in the morning. Mr. Surendran said he had told the youth that some of their demands were legally untenable. He also cautioned them against falling prey to the machinations of the Congress and BJP to discredit the government. The Democratic Youth Federation of India has decided to field thousands of youths who got government employment via the PSC to counter the PSC rank holders strike politically. Meanwhile, the police used water cannons and swung batons to disperse a Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha demonstration voicing support for the PSC rank holders. Several activists were injured in the police action. Protesters lock office In Kozhikode, Kerala Students Union activists locked the local PSC office from outside and strung banners lampooning Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. In Thiruvananthapuram, Congress legislators Shafi Parambil and K.S. Sabarinadhan are in a weakened state. They were on the seventh day of their indefinite fast in front of the Secretariat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rank-holders-launch-indefinite-fast/article33908799.ece
23 February 2021||Srinagar,||Train services resume in Valley after 11 months||The Kashmir Valley on Monday saw resumption of inter-district rail services after 11 months of suspension following the pandemic. An official said two trains started ferrying passengers in the first phase between Banihal in south Kashmir and Baramulla in north Kashmir. The official said the trains started from 11.25 a.m. from Banihal and 9.10 a.m. from Baramulla. Ahead of the resumption of the services, the railways had carried out a dry run of 137 km on Sunday. The trains will be able to pick passengers from 17 stations now. Meanwhile, security forces on Monday morning defused a roadside Improvised Explosive Device (IED) in the outskirts of Srinagar, close to the main train stopover in the city. Police officials said a bomb disposal squad was pressed into the service immediately after the IED was spotted by a road opening party on the Pantha-Chowk-Nowgam road in Srinagar. “It was defused successfully,” the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/train-services-resume-in-valley-after-11-months/article33908828.ece
23 February 2021||New Delhi,||House panel asks ISRO to make landslip warning system||The parliamentary standing committee on science and technology has asked the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) to develop an alert system to warn on landslides, following a brief discussion on the Chamoli flooding in a meeting on Monday. The committee, headed by Congress leader Jairam Ramesh, was meeting to discuss the Demands for Grants (2021-22) of the Departments of Space and Atomic Energy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/house-panel-asks-isro-to-make-landslip-warning-system/article33908831.ece
23 February 2021||Srinagar,||Mehbooba Mufti re-elected PDP president||Former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti was re-elected as the president of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) on Monday. “Ms. Mufti was unanimously re-elected as J&K PDP president for a period of three years. Her name was proposed by senior leader G.N.L Hanjura and seconded by Khurshid Alam,” PDP spokesman Suhail Bukhari said. Senior leader A.R. Veeri was the chairman of the party election board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mehbooba-mufti-re-elected-pdp-president/article33908837.ece
23 February 2021||New Delhi,||Robert Vadra cycles to work to protest against fuel price hike||A day after Congress president Sonia Gandhi wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on fuel price hike, her son-in-law and businessman Robert Vadra registered his protest against fuel prices by riding a cycle to commute to his office. Congress leaders in Madhya Pradesh, including former Ministers Jitu Patwari and P.C. Sharma, also used cycles to protest against the fuel prices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/robert-vadra-cycles-to-work-to-protest-against-fuel-price-hike/article33908839.ece
23 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rapid urbanisation and lack of infrastructure||The Thiruporur Assembly constituency, which is now part of Chengalpattu district that was carved out of Kancheepuram in 2019, has a variety of landscape and different levels of urbanisation. It has a coastal region, agricultural land, forests, industrial parks, fully urbanised areas, rural pockets and tribal hamlets. Consequently, the constituency faces a wide range of issues, with the key problem being the improperly planned urbanisation of areas on the periphery of Chennai. Since 1984, the constituency has always elected MLAs from parties that came to power or their allies. The only exception was the 2019 byelection caused by the disqualification of M. Kothandapani, one of the 18 rebel AIADMK MLAs. In the byelection, L. Idhayavarman of the DMK defeated Tirukazhukundram S. Arumugam of the AIADMK by 21,013 votes. However, the election of MLAs from the ruling parties has not helped in addressing several long-pending issues or in ensuring uniform development in Thiruporur, a section of the constituency’s residents say. G. Selvam, an activist, says places like Kelambakkam, Navalur and Siruseri that technically remain as village panchayats have witnessed rapid urbanisation in the past decade with the mushrooming of high-rise apartments, primarily fuelled by the growth of information technology companies along the Old Mahabalipuram Road. “These areas are now much bigger than the Thiruporur town panchayat. The rapid growth has led to sky-rocketing of real estate prices, improper handling of sewage by many apartment complexes, depletion of groundwater and increasing cost of living for the long-time residents,” he says. Though these areas are well-connected by buses to Chennai city, many daily wage earners say affordability is an issue. N. Lakshmanan, a construction worker who often travels to Chennai for work, says Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) buses are operated now in place of mofussil buses operated earlier by the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation. “MTC buses that classify their services as deluxe charge us more. With the increase in fuel costs, it is not affordable to use two-wheelers also,” he says. While certain pockets have seen rapid urbanisation, the Thiruporur town panchayat, which is also the taluk headquarters, is yet to get proper civic infrastructure. The residents say the underground drainage project has not been completed yet and several localities are in need of road repairs. Lord Kandaswamy temple in the town attracts thousands of devotees. “Parking and other infrastructure is not capable of handling the crowd. We see huge traffic jams on auspicious days when there is more crowd,” says S. Mohan, who runs a shop near the temple. A roughly 3 km road connects Thiruporur with Nemmeli, where a government higher secondary school and a constituent college of the University of Madras are located. Though many students commute from the town to Nemmeli, buses do not ply on this road. “It is not safe for students, particularly girls, to walk. They take a bus to Kelambakkam or Mamallapuram and then to Nemmeli. Buses should be run at least during school and college timings,” Mr. Selvam said. The constituency, which has a considerable population of the Scheduled Castes, was a reserved constituency from 1977 to 2006. It also has a sizeable tribal population, mainly of the Irula community. Housing, patta, road and other basic amenities have been a long-pending issue. R. Malliga, a 38-year-old differently abled woman of a tribal community in Kottamedu village, says she has been trying for allocation of land for several years in vain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rapid-urbanisation-and-lack-of-infrastructure/article33909012.ece
23 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Four peripheral areas get piped water supply after a long wait||Four peripheral areas of the city are set to get piped water supply from Tuesday. Some of the long-pending schemes to provide a better underground drainage system in Ambattur and Avadi will also be launched simultaneously. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami will inaugurate the schemes, which have been completed on an outlay of Rs. 325.08 crore. Some amenities were long-pending demands of residents. The Pallavaram water supply scheme was proposed a decade ago to provide 27,926 house service connections in the municipality at a cost of Rs. 130 crore. Nearly 35.56 million litres of water daily (mld) would be supplied to 2.63 lakh residents in the local body. The Chembarambakkam reservoir is one of the main sources of water supply. Households, which are getting water once in three or four days now, may get piped supply daily. Similarly, the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) will supply 12.54 mld water to a population of 93,000 in the Pammal municipality through the network comprising four overhead tanks and distribution pipelines running to a length of 115 km. Two more areas — Vadperumbakkam and Theeyambakkam — that were brought under the limits of the Chennai metropolitan area would now have a piped water network at a cost of Rs. 20 crore. Spread over 30 sq km with a population of 6,600, these two areas would get 1.02 mld water supply. Two overhead tanks and two underground sumps have been built for the purpose. An underground sewerage network has been a long-pending demand of Ambattur, an added area of the Greater Chennai Corporation. Completed on an outlay of Rs. 95.77 crore, it will be among the schemes being inaugurated by the Chief Minister. The government approved the project to be taken up in four packages in 2008. However, several issues related to contractors and problems in identifying sites for pumping stations delayed the project. Sources in the CMWSSB said the work was initially awarded to Vishwa Infrastructure and Services Ltd. in 2010 to provide 12,100 connections covering seven wards. However, the contract was terminated in 2016 because of the slow progress of work, and the remaining portion was split into six packages and executed by different contractors. Commissioning of the scheme that covers Korattur, Ambattur, Mogappair and Anna Nagar West Extension is expected to reduce water pollution, sources added. Relief for Avadi The Avadi Municipal Corporation now has a sewage treatment plant with a capacity of 36 mld at Paruthipattu as the CMWSSB completed the project at a cost of Rs. 36 crore. It took nearly a decade for the work to be finished owing to various hurdles. This is expected to decrease the discharge of untreated sewage into the Paruthipattu lake, which has been developed into an eco park.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-peripheral-areas-get-piped-water-supply-after-a-long-wait/article33909002.ece
23 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SIMA sets benchmark for industrial estates||The SIPCOT estate at Irungattukottai stands out in the State for its success in nurturing a model industrial township. Managed by SIPCOT Irungattukottai Manufacturers Association (SIMA), the cluster houses a number of automotive companies and auto ancillary units. SIMA, which was founded in 2010, has as its members Hyundai Motor, Schwing Stetter, JKM Automotive and Asahi India Glass. Model township The cluster has, within a decade, evolved into a model township consisting of well laid-out roads lined with avenue trees and pavements, electricity distributed through underground power lines, a concrete-paved truck terminal to de-congest the service roads of the industrial township, LED street lights, and a police security booth at the entrance. Industrialist and SIMA president S. Thyagarajan said civic infrastructure had been developed in cooperation with the SIPCOT with members contributing 50% of the cost. Thanking the State government and SIPCOT for reducing the lease rental from Rs. 7 to Rs. 2 per square feet, and helping increase the built-up coverage to 75% from 50%, Mr. Thyagarajan wanted SIPCOT to change the land holding rights to freehold from leasehold. States such as Karnataka and Gujarat had been handing over industrial lands in a free-hold concept, while Tamil Nadu still followed the leasehold system. Mr. Thyagarajan said representations had been made to SIPCOT and to Industries Minister M.C. Sampath. Skill centre B. Prabhu, president of SIMA, said the industrial estate, with the cooperation of SIPCOT, had opened a skill enhancement centre, giving heavy machine training to students, vocational classes such as tailoring and basic computer education and offering free consultancy services to industries to help them comply with labour and legal issues. About changing the leasehold to free-hold rights of land, a senior official of SIPCOT said the leasehold aspect had been enshrined in the policy of SIPCOT and the board had rejected the demand.  Civic infrastructure has been developed in cooperation with SIPCOT   S. Thyagarajan SIMA president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sima-sets-benchmark-for-industrial-estates/article33909008.ece
23 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State reports 449 fresh cases||As many as 449 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Monday. Chennai reported 151 cases, Coimbatore 40 and Chengalpattu 34. The fresh cases took the State’s tally to 8,48,724. Two returnees from Kerala and West Bengal were among those who tested positive for the infection. There was no new case in Kallakurichi, while 25 districts clocked fresh cases in single digits. Chennai’s overall case count stood at 2,34,491, followed by Coimbatore (55,502) and Chengalpattu (52,497). The State accounts for a total of 4,091 active cases. Another 461 persons were discharged following treatment, taking the total number of persons discharged till date to 8,32,167. Six persons succumbed to the infection — four in Chennai and one each in Chengalpattu and Coimbatore. All six had co-morbidities, and were aged above 50. They included a 55-year-old man from Chengalpattu with systemic hypertension, diabetes, coronary artery disease and diabetic foot. He was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on February 17 and died on February 20 due to COVID-19 pneumonia and respiratory failure. A total of 12,466 persons have died of the infection in the State till date. As many as 50,202 samples were tested in 24 hours, taking the total figure to 1,71,70,947. Dip in vaccination After over 19,000 persons a day were vaccinated in the last seven days, the coverage dipped to 14,754 — 10,775 healthcare workers, 2,350 frontline workers and 1,629 police personnel — on Monday. Till date, 3,85,366 persons have been vaccinated in the State. The number of healthcare workers inoculated has crossed three lakh. A total of 3,06,930 healthcare workers, 46,226 frontline workers and 32,210 police personnel have received the COVID-19 vaccines till date. Covishield was administered to 10,378 healthcare workers, 2,347 frontline workers and 1,629 police personnel. A total of 397 healthcare workers and three frontline workers received Covaxin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-reports-449-fresh-cases/article33908994.ece
23 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Companies face many hurdles at Rail Auto Hub||Five years since the Rail Auto Hub at Walajabad, near Kancheepuram, commenced operations several infrastructure challenges remain in and around this hub. Sources in the automobile industry pointed out that there are not many takers for this particular location. Data shows that in the last five years, 29,685 vehicles have been sent out through this hub till January 2021. Of these, 24,838 vehicles were from Hyundai Motor India Ltd. (HMIL). In 2016, the Union Government in its railway budget said that Tamil Nadu will be getting the country’s first Rail Auto Hub for transportation of cars by rail. “Despite Chennai being the Detroit of India, Hyundai is the only firm which has consistently and frequently using the facility since its inception. The volume of consignments from other firms is miniscule,” said a source, who tracks the automobile industry in Tamil Nadu. The reason is “the infrastructure is not up to the mark and there is a lack of marketing. Both Railways and the government should promote and market this space,” he said. In terms of infrastructure, logistics firms and companies whom The Hindu spoke to said there were no proper approach roads for trailers or trucks. The area also lacked fencing. Locals freely entered the area. “Here is where the service providers have to depute security officials to avoid freight/vehicle damages,” a spokesperson of Renault Nissan Automotive India Private Ltd. (RNAIPL) said. Single loading bay “In several areas, there is a single loading bay, which results in trains waiting for unloading and loading. This leads to delayed schedules,” the spokesperson said. A HMIL spokesperson said, “Considering the increased interest that not just Hyundai but other auto OEMs are evincing in this mode, a significant enhancement of the infrastructure in the hubs — increased storage space for cars, more lines for loading/unloading multiple rakes simultaneously, surveillance towers for increased security and amenities for the workers can help facilitate greater utilisation of this significant mode of transportation.” The HMIL spokesperson said the Railways had responded favourably to such representations and had assured that these would be looked into. Railway officials said work was on to extend the line. The 478 m line would be extended by another 200m. The yard can accommodate 16 NMG wagons and there was a proposal to extend it up to 25 NMG wagons.  Eco-friendly transport The HMIL spokesperson said, “Apart from being more convenient (supporting bulk loads movement) and faster to reach the customer, it is an eco-friendly mode because of the drastic reduction in carbon emissions. At present, around 14% of our total domestic volumes of cars are despatched through the railway mode.” Hyundai had actively pursued railway-based logistics as a ‘green’ and efficient mode of transporting its cars. The RNAIPL spokesperson said, “One of the important aspects is that the lead time has reduced from 6.5 days to now 4 days. This has resulted in a cost benefit of approximately 4% to 8% depending on the destination compared to the road.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/companies-face-many-hurdles-at-rail-auto-hub/article33909009.ece
23 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Year-end ad campaign on govt.’s achievements has come to end’||The State government on Monday told the Madras High Court that its year-end advertisement campaign, undertaken at a cost of Rs. 64.72 crore, to highlight its achievements of the last four years had come to an end on Thursday and hence a case filed by the DMK against the ad campaign had become technically infructuous. Appearing before the first Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy, Advocate General Vijay Narayan said it was not new for governments to issue advertisements highlighting their achievements. The Supreme Court had endorsed such a move, stating that the Chief Minister’s photograph could be used in such advertisements. Accordingly, the government had issued advertisements in newspapers, television channels, cinema halls and digital platforms from December 18, 2020, highlighting its achievements. Denying charge Denying the charge that thousands of crores of rupees was spent on the ad campaign, he said around Rs. 58 crore was spent on it and the total amount worked out to Rs. 64.72 crore, including the Goods and Services Tax (GST). He also stated that the DMK’s plea for the Election Commission of India (ECI) to intervene in the matter and prevent the government from issuing advertisements would not arise since the Assembly election date had not been announced and the code of conduct had not come into force. He assured the court that all campaigning would stop immediately after the code comes into force. Senior counsel G. Rajagopalan, representing the ECI, told the court that the DMK had already lodged a complaint with the ECI and the commission had called for remarks from the AIADMK and the State government. After hearing them, the judges directed the State government and the ECI to file their counter affidavits by March 2. ‘Action must’ Senior counsel P. Wilson, representing the DMK, insisted that the ECI should also initiate action against the AIADMK for having violated its October 7, 2016, guidelines which prevent political parties from using public funds, public places or government machinery for carrying out any activity that would amount to advertisement for the party or propagate the election symbol allotted to it. He claimed that public funds had been used to boost the image of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and other leaders of the AIADMK on the verge of elections and it amounted to an unfair electoral practice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ad-campaign-on-govts-achievements-has-come-to-an-end/article33908980.ece
23 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK plea to High Court over EC’s new class of voters||The DMK on Monday urged the Madras High Court to declare as unconstitutional Section 60 (c) of the Representation of the People Act of 1951, which empowers the Election Commission of India (ECI) to notify a new class of voters who can choose to cast their votes through postal ballot instead of visiting the polling stations. Arguing before the first Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy, senior counsel P. Wilson insisted that not only Section 60 (c) but also the consequent statutory rules framed under it and the guidelines issued by the ECI for the creation of a new class called ‘absentee voters’ should be declared illegal. He said a large chunk of voters, such as those above 80 years of age, the physically challenged, those suffering from COVID-19 and those engaged in essential services, had been made eligible to get included in the ‘absentee voters’ list and choose to cast their votes through postal ballot. The list was not being provided to the political parties in advance, he complained. “Section 60(c) leads to delegation of uncanalised legislative function on the executive. This is an excessive delegation. It is an unguided and unlimited power conferred upon the Election Commission. The Central government has also approved the classification of absentee voters without holding any consultations with the Commission as required under the law,” he contended. Since counsel could not complete his arguments on Monday, the Bench adjourned the case to March 1 for hearing him as well as senior counsel G. Rajagopalan, representing the ECI, and Additional Solicitor General R. Sankaranarayanan, appearing for the Centre. Earlier, Mr. Rajagopalan brought it to the notice of the court that after the present case, DMK principal secretary K.N. Nehru, too, had filed another case. In his writ petition, Mr. Nehru had sought a direction to the ECI to share with his party a list of the absentee voters. Therefore, the party must decide which case it wanted to conduct though the ECI was prepared to contest both, the senior counsel said. Immediately, senior counsel R. Viduthalai, assisted by S. Manuraj, said the court could take up the writ petition challenging Section 60(c) first since it was a for a larger relief and then hear his client Mr. Nehru’s petition.   Section 60(c) leads to delegation of uncanalised legislative function on the executive||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-plea-to-madras-hc-over-ecs-new-class-of-voters/article33908969.ece
23 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Questions raised over efficacy of crop loan scheme||The State government’s scheme for waiver of crop loans extended by cooperative societies has triggered a debate on the efficacy of such credit. This assumes relevance as the Reserve Bank of India, in a study during 2019, hinted that Tamil Nadu was among those States where the possibility of diversion of credit for non-agricultural purposes existed. The bank made the assessment, using the data for 2015-2017 which revealed that in Tamil Nadu, the ratio of agricultural credit outstanding in relation to its agricultural gross domestic product (GDP) was about 170%-180%. Again, using the data for 2014-16, the bank concluded that the State got the credit four times the value of input cost requirement. Another finding was that contrary to the trend of Kisan Credit Cards (KCC) emerging as a preferred credit instrument, 88% of crop loans was disbursed in the State outside the scheme, which meant that not all the loans were lent against the production of land documents. The general practice has been to issue loans against gold jewellery. Normally, the cooperative institutions account for 10% of the crop loans given to farmers every year. Considering the disbursal of Rs. 9,700 crore through primary agricultural credit cooperative societies (PACCS) this financial year, it is estimated that about Rs. 1 lakh crore would have been issued to farmers, mostly through commercial banks. The State government’s waiver scheme found a mention in the debate of Rajya Sabha recently when M. Thambi Durai of the AIADMK wanted the Centre to announce a similar scheme for loans taken by farmers from nationalised banks. If repaid within the stipulated period, usually a year, the loans carry nil interest rate in respect of the cooperative societies and 4% in the case of banks. Personal loan Officials, familiar with farm credit issues in the State, said a substantial portion of the crop loans was used as “consumption or personal loans”. An unintended positive effect of this practice is that it keeps the rural economy going. However, the purpose of giving the loans was not served. There could be an improved version of the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN), an income support scheme. P.R. Pandian, a farmer-leader based in Mannargudi, said the existing arrangement benefits “non-farmers,” who own farmlands but are not dependent on agriculture, more than small and marginal farmers. Arupathy P. Kalyanam, national organiser of the Self-Sufficient Green Village Movement, suggests that funds allocated under the PM-KISAN scheme and those provided by the Centre and States for the crop insurance scheme be merged. Notwithstanding the criticism about the working of the cooperative sector, Seeniappan, a farmer of Dharmapuri district and M. Duraisamy of Namakkal, say that these days, the societies give the loans after ensuring that loanees have the KCCs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/questions-raised-over-efficacy-of-crop-loan-scheme/article33909016.ece
23 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Provide wide publicity, seek public opinion before finalising CZMP, directs NGT||The Tamil Nadu Coastal Zone Management Authority (TNCZMA) and the National Coastal Zone Management Authority (NCZMA) have been directed to take the 1996 approved Coastal Zone Management Plan with modifications that were approved in respect of Tiruvallur district, while preparing the current Coastal Zone Management Plan. The southern bench of the National Green Tribunal directed the authorities to give wide publicity calling for objections regarding the Coastal Zone Management Plan (CZMP) before finalising the plan. It directed them to consider the objections and representations received from the public and take appropriate decision in preparing the final CZMP for Tamil Nadu. Tiruvallur district This would include Tiruvallur district and the Ennore Creek, the Tribunal said. The bench directed the authorities to consider taking the 1996 approved plan with modifications made by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, instead of the 1997 Plan. The 1997 Plan was used when the CZMP was prepared in 2018. The applicant had argued that the approved 1996 CZMP included a larger extent of coastal stretches in Ennore Creek area, having an extent of 16 km of Kosasthalaiyar river, sand dunes and the other ecologically sensitive zones. Omission by government The applicant submitted that the Tamil Nadu government had prepared Sheet No. 2 of the CZMP with modifications, contrary to the approval granted and the approved plan of 1996, omitting a lot of ecologically sensitive zone areas, including reducing the stretch of Kosasthalaiyar river to 13 km and leaving out most of the sand dunes and other ecologically sensitive zones in the 1997 modified plan, to expand its development activities in the coastal zone. The MoEF&CC submitted documents showing that the maps were prepared on the basis of the CRZ Notification, 2011, and claimed they had found that most of the ecologically sensitive areas and major portion of the waterbodies, such as Kosasthalaiyar river and salt pans, had been omitted in the 1997 plan and these were included in the 2018 plan. The State government informed the Tribunal that on obtaining approval for the CZMP maps from the National Coastal Zone Management Authority, the TNCZMP would upload the CRZ areas of Map No. 2 with existing approval for Tiruvallur district for the use of the government and stakeholders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/provide-wide-publicity-seek-public-opinion-before-finalising-czmp-ngt/article33908976.ece
23 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK govt.’s development claims a farce, says DMK||DMK MLA and IT wing secretary P.T.R. Palanivel Thiaga Rajan on Monday said the Tamil Nadu government’s Vetrinadai Podum Tamizhagam (Tamil Nadu marches on successfully) campaign was a farce since the State’s cumulative revenue deficit had touched a whopping Rs. 1,31,000 crore in five years. “This is unheard of in any State or country in the world. That is why we say leadership matters. I do not understand the slogan of the government that says Tamil Nadu is on the path of progress,” he said in a pre-Budget analysis. The government is set to present its interim Budget on Tuesday. Mr. Thiaga Rajan said the DMK government, led by Kalaignar (M. Karunanidhi), achieved a revenue surplus of Rs. 2,386 crore between 2006 and 2011, while it became a Rs. 17,057 crore deficit under Jayalalithaa. “People are irritated by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and his Deputy [in government] O. Panneerselvam’s claims,” he said. ‘Fiscal management’ Mr. Thiaga Rajan said while States like Odisha and Chhattisgarh were able to generate revenues through mines, Tamil Nadu, which was blessed with similar natural resources, could generate only Rs. 900 crore through the Tamil Nadu Minerals Limited (TAMIN). “The situation in Tamil Nadu speaks of its poor fiscal management,” he said. Citing extensively from the 15th Finance Commission report, he said in the last 10 years under the AIADMK rule, the State’s revenues had been decimated and it had resulted in increased debt accumulation. “State borrowings have mostly been utilised to finance interest payments and not for development projects and infrastructure development. The debt has reached Rs. 5 lakh crore. Its own revenue has come down from 10.59% during the DMK regime to 7.2% now,” he said. According to him, manufacturing and construction activities had slowed down from 10.9% between 2005 and 2011 to 4.6% between 2011 and 2017. “It is explained by the study on State finances by the Madras School of Economics. This is a major concern because both sectors are significant for employment generation,” Mr. Thiaga Rajan said.  This is unheard of in any State or country in the world. That is why we say leadership matters P.T.R. Palanivel Thiaga Rajan DMK IT wing secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-govts-development-claims-a-farce-says-dmk/article33908986.ece
23 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Complacency in adhering to norms may lead to surge in cases, says Health Secy.||Complacency in adhering to precautionary norms may lead to a surge in COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan warned on Monday. “COVID-19 cases are on the rise in various districts of Maharashtra. On Sunday, it recorded nearly 6,900 new cases. Neighbouring Kerala is also continuously reporting daily cases between the range of 4,000 and 6,000. The positivity rate is high in many States, such as Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. The public have become careless because Tamil Nadu has a positivity rate of 0.9%,” he told presspersons. “If we are complacent about wearing masks, maintaining physical distancing in public places, washing hands and other standard operating procedures [SOPs], there are chances for the cases to rise in Tamil Nadu too,” Dr. Radhakrishnan said. Under the amended Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, around Rs. 13 crore had been collected as fine from 14 lakh persons for violating COVID-19 norms. “We have fever clinics and information booths in the bordering areas of Kerala, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh,” he said. Surveillance had been stepped up in the border areas, especially Kerala, due to a surge in cases, and at Hosur, Chittoor and Tiruvallur. Cluster identification and testing had also been taken up. “Chennai is recording 140 to 170 cases a day. We look at the areas from where these cases are being reported, and whether it is being reported sporadically or if it is concentrated in that single area. We are testing the contacts too. Such measures are being taken in Chennai, Coimbatore and Chengalpattu, which continue to report cases in the same range,” he said. The SOPs that applied to marriages and other events were applicable to election meetings too. Party workers should wear masks. Random testing of persons participating in the meetings were also being done as part of surveillance activities. Frontline workers, including police personnel, home guards, local administration, revenue, municipal and rural administration staff, were being vaccinated, and about 55%-60% of healthcare workers had been covered so far, Dr. Radhakrishnan said. Infant deaths On the recent death of two infants who had received pentavalent vaccines in Coimbatore, Dr. Radhakrishnan said the preliminary inquiry reported that aspiration could have been the primary cause of death. “A detailed inquiry by experts will be conducted at the district-level in 10 days, after which the State-level committee will meet. A total of 27 children who received the vaccination at the same centre are fine,” he said. Dr. Radhakrishnan was taking part in a programme at the Tamil Nadu Government Multi Super Speciality Hospital, which was celebrating the seventh year since its inauguration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/complacency-in-adhering-to-norms-may-lead-to-surge-in-cases-says-health-secy/article33908988.ece
23 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘List of absentee voters cannot be shared with parties now’||Tamil Nadu Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) Satyabrata Sahoo has filed a counter affidavit in the Madras High Court stating that it would not be possible to share with political parties before the notification of elections, a list of voters aged above 80 years, the physically challenged and those suffering from COVID-19 who could exercise the option of voting through postal ballot instead of visiting the polling stations. The counter affidavit filed before Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy, in response to a case filed by DMK principal secretary K.N. Nehru seeking the list of such voters in advance, stated that the process of inviting applications from those voters would begin only after announcement of election date and end five days after the notification of the election. Though the Election Commission of India (ECI) had already flagged voters above 80 years of age and those suffering from physical disabilities in its database as an internal arrangement for official purpose of facilitating their entry and exit into polling stations if they choose to vote at the booths, such profiling of electors could not be shared now since it may amount to invasion into their privacy, the CEO said.  Intelligible differentia  Further pointing out that the voters above 80 years of age, the physically challenged, those suffering from COVID-19 and those engaged in essential services had been given the option of being categorised as ‘absentee voters’ and then allowed to vote through postal ballot, the CEO said the categorisation would clearly satisfy the intelligible differentia as per Article 14 (right to equality and equal protection of laws) of the Constitution. Highlighting the process that the eligible voters would have to make applications, for their inclusion in the ‘absentee voters’ list, between the date of announcement of elections in the State and within five days after the notification of the elections, the CEO said the Returning Officers concerned would take a final call on accepting such applications after being satisfied with necessary certificates regarding age and disability. List of voters whose application in Form 12D for availing the facility of postal ballots has been approved by the Returning Officer would be shared with the contesting candidates of recognised political parties, the CEO said. He stated that the candidates could also depute their authorised representatives when polling officials go door-to-door to collect postal votes from the ‘absentee voters’ till a day before the actual date of election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/list-of-absentee-voters-cannot-be-shared-with-parties-now-ceo/article33908974.ece
23 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Opposition parties slam BJP over U.T. crisis||Political parties in Tamil Nadu accused the BJP of destroying democracy after Puducherry Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy resigned on Monday ahead of a trust vote. DMK president M.K. Stalin alleged that the BJP had toppled the Congress government led by Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy in Puducherry through politically indecent ways, horse-trading and the claim that nominated members had voting rights. “I appreciate Mr. Narayanasamy who explained the anti-people and anti-democratic activities of the BJP in the Assembly before resigning,” he said in a statement. Mr. Stalin said when Puducherry was ready to face the Assembly elections along with Tamil Nadu, the BJP government at the Centre had murdered democracy. “Though it does not have a single member in Tamil Nadu, it is using the slave AIADMK government as a puppet. If it has plans to run the government through the Governor and postpones the election, the DMK will challenge it through legal means,” he said. Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri slammed the BJP, accusing the party of using former Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi to prevent the Congress government in the Union Territory from carrying out any welfare and development activities. “Despite all the hurdles mounted by Ms. Bedi, Mr. Narayanasamy managed to implement so many welfare schemes,” he said. He said the Congress was democratically elected to power in Puducherry while the BJP which contested in 18 seats lost deposit in all the seats. “Appointing three people as nominated members to the Assembly when the people of the Union Territory had spurned them was an anti-democratic, anti-people move by the BJP,” he said, adding that the BJP might have got but a temporary victory by dislodging the Congress government in the Union Territory. “But the people will not forget the good work done by Mr. Narayanasamy. In Tamil Nadu, the horizontal quota for NEET admissions is 7.5%, but in Puducherry he implemented 10%. Despite the hurdles put by Ms. Bedi on the free rice scheme, he managed to implement it successfully. While Puducherry was supposed to receive 41% Central funds as per the 15th Finance Commission’s recommendations, it got only 21%. People are aware of all these,” he said, adding that the Congress will storm back to power in the Union Territory after the polls. MDMK general secretary Vaiko said the BJP had resorted to the murder of democracy and had enacted a drama of removing the Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi, who had been working against the democratically elected government from day one. “Puducherry too has fallen into the list of States where the BJP has toppled democratically-elected governments by buying MLAs,” he charged. Manithaneya Makkal Katchi president M.H. Jawahirullah, said the BJP which was only doing politics of horse-trading had made fools of people who had elected another party democratically. He demanded that to prevent any such future incidents like this, the practice of appointing nominated members to the Assembly must be dispensed of with immediately and full Statehood status must be given to Puducherry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/opposition-parties-slam-bjp/article33909019.ece
23 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bring fishermen home, families tell govt.||The families of nine fishermen from Kanniyakumari, who are languishing in a prison in Iran, have urged the Tamil Nadu government to take steps to get them released and bring them back. The men, who were working on a boat from Kuwait, were allegedly arrested in January 2020 for straying into Iran’s waters. Liggi, the sister of Arockia Ligin, 24, said he was the youngest in the family and had decided to go abroad to earn for the family. “It’s been over a year since we’ve even heard his voice. Someone said they were in prison and had to pay to get food. They do not even have proper clothes to wear. The fathers of two of the men have died and the mother of one of them has become mentally unstable waiting for him to return home,” she said. Sahana, the sister of Sahaya Vijay, 22, said their mother had petitioned multiple people, including the Collector and the local MP, but nothing had happened so far. “All the families have paid Rs. 90,000 each, taking loans to bring them back. Someone said a lawyer would have to be engaged. But they just keep giving us new deadlines,” she said. Valarmathi, cooordinator of the National Domestic Workers Movement, said they had submitted a petition to the Commissioner of Rehabilitation and Welfare of Non-Resident Tamils. “The boat owner retrieved his boat but has not helped these men. We hope the State and Central governments will step in to rescue these men and bring them back home. Their families have been badly affected,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bring-fishermen-home-families-tell-govt/article33909490.ece
23 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Kamal may contest from Alandur’||Makkal Needhi Maiam sources said that party founder Kamal Haasan could contest from any of the four assembly constituencies – Mylapore, Alandur, T. Nagar and Velachery – in Chennai in the Assembly election. There is an indication that he could pick Alandur constituency to reiterate his claim on the political legacy of former Chief Minister and the founder of AIADMK, M.G. Ramachandran, who contested from the erstwhile St. Thomas Mount Assembly constituency, said the sources. The party’s office-bearers in Alandur have asked voters to register their support by calling a phone number if they want Mr. Haasan to be the candidate. The party hopes to capitalise on the fact that the party had polled over 22,000 votes in Alandur assembly segment and over 1.3 lakh votes in Sriperumbudur Parliamentary constituency (under which Alandur assembly constituency falls). The party also polled more than 1.3 lakh votes in South Chennai Parliamentary constituency. Sources said the party had polled a sizeable number of votes in these constituencies even without noticeable party infrastructure in the Lok Sabha polls. “While the party had no booth-level workers in the Lok Sabha elections in 2019, we managed to appoint enough number of party cadres at the booth level. In assembly constituencies like T. Nagar, Alandur, Mylapore and Velachery, the party has a good base to work from,” said a party source. Mr. Haasan is expected to announce the party’s electoral alliance during the public meeting scheduled on March 7. The party had put up a good show in the urban centres in the Lok Sabha elections and hopes to pick up a few seats in Chennai, Coimbatore and Madurai even if it chooses to lead the third front, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kamal-haasan-may-contest-from-alandur/article33908971.ece
23 February 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Eight arrested for trespassing into actor’s house, harassment||A case has been booked against a correspondent of an engineering college and seven others for trespassing into a house of a 22-year-old woman in the Puzhal police station limits. The complainant is Sameera, a resident of Soorapattu, Puzhal. She has acted in a couple of films. On February 17, the police control room received a message stating that eight persons, including four women, had entered her house and attacked her. On her complaint, the police booked a case against Govindarajan, correspondent of an engineering college in Red Hills, and others for criminal intimidation. Govindarajan reportedly entered into an agreement with Ms. Sameera for casting her in a film produced in 2012. She alleged that he had been harassing her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eight-arrested-for-trespassing-into-actors-house-harassment/article33909013.ece
23 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Retteri, Medavakkam flyovers ready for traffic||Two uni-directional flyovers, one at Retteri on the Jawaharlal Nehru Salai and the other at Medavakkam on the Velachery-Tambaram Road, are ready to be inaugurated. The finishing work, including electrification, laying of bitumen layer and painting, has been completed on the three-lane roads. Sources in the Highways Department said that at Retteri, the vehicles going to Anna Nagar and Thirumangalam from Madhavaram can take the 1.32 km flyover, constructed at a cost of Rs. 41.07 crore, and avoid the Perambur-Red Hills junction. “Around 40% of the traffic will travel at grade. These are mostly local vehicles,” said another source. The junction has a 740 m uni-directional flyover carrying vehicles in the other direction. S. Kumar of Kolathur said the flyover would provide big relief, especially during rush hours. “After schools and colleges reopen, it will be very helpful. Efforts should be made to widen the Perambur-Red Hills Road,” he said. Medavakkam flyover The 1.5 km flyover at Medavakkam will connect Velachery and Tambaram, crossing the Sholinganallur and Mambakkam junctions. Once this is opened for traffic, the department would take up the remaining work on the 2.3 km flyover that would allow vehicles from Tambaram to Velachery. “That requires a few more months of work. Though land acquisition has been completed, some structures have to be removed,” said a source. The cost of construction is Rs. 300 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/retteri-medavakkam-flyovers-ready-for-traffic/article33909000.ece
23 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three arrested for possessing and selling ganja||A 55-year-old woman and her 19-year-old associate were arrested in the Thiruverkadu police station limits for allegedly possessing and selling ganja. About 13 kg of ganja was seized from them. Following a tip-off, a special team from the Prohibition and Enforcement Wing intercepted the duo at Kaduvetti in the early hours of Monday. The names of the arrested were given as Kalai alias YouTube Kalai, 19, and M. Mari, 55, of Washermenpet. Kalai was involved in a murder in the past, said the police. Both were remanded in judicial custody. Meanwhile, a 24-year-old transperson, who allegedly smuggled ganja from Andhra Pradesh in a bus, was arrested in the Otteri police station limits and 8 kg of ganja was seized from the accused. The accused was identified as Nancy alias Gokul, 24, of Vadapalani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-arrested-for-possessing-and-selling-ganja/article33909003.ece
23 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Will Tamil Nadu’s interim Budget have a scheme?||With Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam set to present an interim budget in the Assembly on Tuesday, the question being debated in government and political circles is whether he will announce a scheme, following the example set by the Centre two years ago. Deviating from the convention of refraining from launching schemes at the presentation of an interim Budget, the BJP-led government at the Centre, in Februrary 2019, unveiled the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN), which was meant to provide farmers up to Rs. 6,000 a year as minimum income support. ‘Rules more sacrosanct’ S. Semmalai, a veteran legislator from the ruling party, sees no harm in taking the path shown by the Centre. “Rules and laws are more sacrosanct than convention. If the requirements of the people have to be attended to, there is nothing wrong in altering the conventions.” C.K. Tamizharasan, leader of the Indiya Kudiyarasu Katchi and a four-time former legislator, feels that a departure from convention has become common in recent times as there is no legal bar on the announcement of schemes. When contacted, Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar, who is regarded as the Cabinet spokesperson, declined to comment. Rule 110 A few former officials point out that more than making any announcement in the interim Budget, what has become the norm in Tamil Nadu in the last 15 years or so is the use of Rule 110, under which Ministers are permitted to make a statement on a matter of public importance, followed by no debate. The Chief Minister of the day makes major announcements under the rule. This practice makes everyone wonder whether the Budget in general, as a comprehensive statement on the schemes and polices of the government, has lost its sheen, the former officials add.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/will-tamil-nadus-interim-budget-have-a-scheme/article33908989.ece
23 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AMMK general council to meet on Feb. 25||The Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) will hold a meeting of its executive and general council on Thursday through video conferencing. Announcing this, the party general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran, in a release, stated on Monday that S. Anbalagan, chairman of the presidium of the party, would preside over the meeting. The meeting is expected to give authorisation to Mr. Dhinakaran to decide the future course of action on stitching up an alliance for the Assembly election. ‘Coalition on the cards’ On Friday, Mr. Dhinakaran said that a coalition, led by his party, would be formed to face the Assembly election for defeating the ruling party and the DMK.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ammk-general-council-to-meet-on-feb-25/article33909493.ece
23 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rain that pounded coastal districts set to ease over T.N.||Rainfall over the State is set to decrease from Tuesday as the influence of weather systems has reduced over the region, according to the Meteorological Department. During the past 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. on Monday, Cuddalore Collectorate recorded the highest amount of rainfall for the day with 12 cm and IMD’s Cuddalore weather station received 11 cm. Tiruttani in Tiruvallur district and Sivagiri in Tenkasi district received 7 cm. Other places in Puducherry, Coimbatore and Nagapattinam also recorded rain. Officials of the Meteorological Department said the interaction between the deep westerly trough and the easterly trough at low level had reduced and this would mean a decrease in rainfall intensity over the State from Tuesday. Dry weather likely S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai, said light rain is possible at one or two places over districts near the Western Ghats on Tuesday, and dry weather may prevail over the rest of the State. Normally, winter rains are subdued over the State. But, this time, a westerly trough, combined with strong easterly winds at low level that pushed moisture towards the Tamil Nadu coast, brought heavy rain over coastal places, such as Puducherry and Cuddalore. Similarly, the State also recorded good rain in mid-January as a spillover from the northeast monsoon. There have been occasions in the past when the State had received such rain during the winter months, he said. The current winter rainspell that pounded Puducherry set a new record for the heaviest rain in February. It brought 19 cm in 24 hours ending on Sunday morning, which surpassed the all-time record of rain of 11.6 cm registered in a single day on February 27, 2000. Tamil Nadu has recorded 15 cm of rain so far, which is in excess by 482% than its average of 3 cm of rain since January 1. The percentage of excess rainfall in all the districts runs in hundreds, officials noted. However, dry weather is set to return over Tamil Nadu from Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-set-to-ease-over-tn/article33909117.ece
23 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gold seized at airport||About 1.5 kg of gold and foreign currency worth Rs. 79.23 lakh were seized by Air Customs personnel at the Chennai airport. Two persons were arrested. Ajmal Khan, who flew in from Dubai, was seen entering the toilet and since he did not come out after a long time, an official went in and found him hiding inside. Officials found him in possession of a 1.5 kg gold wrapped in black adhesive tape but he got nervous and hid it in the toilet. On Sunday, Rahuman Hameed was stopped when he was about to leave for Dubai after security and immigration clearance. Officials found him in possession of $8,300 and 7,500 Saudi Riyals and arrested him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-seized-at-airport/article33909004.ece
23 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Six held for kidnapping photographer||Six persons who allegedly kidnapped a photographer to recover the money they lost to him while investing in a scheme were arrested on Monday. The police said the person in question reportedly offered ‘kalasams’ of ancient temples which, he claimed, would bring wealth to the five accused. The police said Newton, 44, of Velayutham Colony, Virugambakkam, was a photographer in the film industry and had a studio at Thousand Lights. He recently ventured into the real estate business and started lending money at Thirumullaivoyal. Newton did not return home on Saturday, and his father-in-law received a call from him stating that he had been kidnapped and his abductors were demanding Rs. 30 lakh. The shocked man passed on the information to his daughter, Kowsalya, who filed a complaint at the Virugambakkam police station. After studying the cellphone call records, the police traced Newton to a house at Sriperumbudur. The police rescued him and arrested Sunil, 28, Dilip, 34, Vicky, 22, Sathish, 38, Gowtham, 24, and Srinivasan, 33.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-held-for-kidnapping-photographer/article33908995.ece
23 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Glitches leave Indian Bank customers exasperated||The customers of Indian Bank complained about not being able to access the bank’s mobile and internet banking services. On February 15, Indian Bank announced that the integration of data of the erstwhile Allahabad Bank, which was merged with it, had been completed and branch functioning was being prioritised and alternative channels and other services were being started.  Frequent disruptions  “I have been an Indian Bank customer for 40 years. Since January, there have been frequent disruptions in accessing the bank’s mobile banking and internet services, Today morning, the services were totally down and in the evening they were restored, but the issue is not resolved completely,” T. Sadagopan, a consumer activist, said. He said the account holders were told to use alternative channels instead of crowding at bank branches amid the COVID-19 pandemic, but they were not able to access online banking services. “Indian Bank has a wide presence in Tamil Nadu, with a lot of pensioners accessing their services. The RBI should look into the issue of frequent disruptions in online services,” Mr. Sadapogan said. Irked customers took to Twitter to vent their ire over not being able to access the online services. Indian Bank responded saying the services were working, but customers might face network congestion issues. A senior official from the bank said there were issues in accessing the online services last week. However, internet banking and mobile banking were restored and there had been minimal complaints, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/glitches-leave-indian-bank-customers-exasperated/article33909005.ece
23 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Maritime summit on March 2||The Chennai Port Trust will sign more than 15 MoUs with various institutions ahead of the Virtual Maritime Summit 2021 being held from March 2 to 4. The summit will be inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Chennai Port Trust Chairman P. Raveendran said on Monday that one of the important MoUs would be for the formation of a special purpose vehicle between Chennai Port, the State government and the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) for a multi-modal logistics park at Mappedu. “We have finished doing the feasibility study for this project. We will find a private operator to run this project and will bring in an investment of Rs. 1,500 crore,” he said. Another important MoU included exploring the feasibility of running passenger ferry services between Chennai and Puducherry and Karaikal, he said.  “When ships come in, they need electricity for which they use diesel generators; to avoid this, we plan to start supply of power from shore using a specific system and signed an MoU with the Navy. With the Indian Oil Corporation, we will carry out a study to see if Chennai can be a hub for bunkering,” he said. With over one lakh delegates and 40 countries participating, this summit was expected to be a platform for showcasing opportunities in the maritime sector, Mr. Raveendran added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pm-to-inaugurate-virtual-maritime-summit/article33909015.ece
23 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Indo-Japan Chamber plans virtual meeting on Friday||The Indo-Japan Chamber of Commerce and Industry is organising a virtual meeting on ‘A new year, a new beginning and the challenges of trade in the Indo-Pacific’ on Friday. The meeting will be conducted from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. and veterans in the spheres of diplomatic and civil administration, defence, industry and journalism will be part of the meeting. Masayuki Taga, consul-general of Japan in Chennai, will be present. There is no registration fee. For details about the meeting, log on to www.ijcci.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/indo-japan-chamber-plans-virtual-meeting/article33908996.ece
23 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Light lamps tomorrow, AIADMK tells cadre||The AIADMK on Monday called upon its workers to light lamps on Wednesday, which marks the birth anniversary of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa and take a pledge to safeguard the party. In a statement, Chief Minister and party co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister-coordinator O. Panneerselvam said the party’s adversaries had begun working together with a view to defeating the AIADMK in the upcoming Assembly election. “We have to teach a lesson to these enemies of the people by defeating them through hard work, determination, a sense of unity, affection towards the public and loyalty,” they said. The appeal assumed importance in the light of V.K. Sasikala, former interim general secretary and aide of Jayalalithaa, declaring a few weeks ago during her return to Chennai that she would like to play an active role in politics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/light-lamps-tomorrow/article33908972.ece
23 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Democracy replaced with communalism and money’||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan slammed the developments in Puducherry on Monday, accusing the BJP of replacing democracy with money and communalism. He accused the legislators of queuing up to switch sides and reducing the party to a commodity. “What we saw in Puducherry is a business deal between those willing to sell and buy democracy. It is a shameful chapter in Indian democracy. BJP is playing a dangerous game,” he said. He added: “When the Congress reduces itself to a commodity, it is the left and democratic forces that put forth alternative politics. Puducherry reminds us of the need to strengthen the forces that are unwavering in their defence of democracy, secularism and development.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/democracy-replaced-with-communalism-and-money/article33909017.ece
23 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK suspends ex-MLA||The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) on Monday suspended K. Venkatesan, the party’s MLA from Puducherry, whose resignation contributed to the fall of the Narayanasamy-led Congress government. Party general secretary Duraimurugan, in a statement, said Mr. Venkatesan had violated the party’s principles and had brought shame. Full suspension “He has been suspended as a primary member of the party and has been removed from other positions,” the senior party leader announced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-suspends-ex-mla/article33909176.ece
23 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK cadre told to light lamps on Wednesday||The AIADMK on Monday called upon its workers to light lamps on Wednesday on the occasion of the birth anniversary of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, and take a pledge to safeguard the party. In a statement issued here on Monday, Edappadi K. Palaniswami, Chief Minister and co-coordinator, and O. Panneerselvam, Deputy Chief Minister and coordinator, said the party’s adversaries and enemies had begun working together with a view to defeating the AIADMK in the Assembly elections, which would be held in a few months. “We have to teach a big lesson to these enemies of the people by defeating them through hard work, determination, sense of unity and affection towards the public and loyalty,” they said, calling upon volunteers to light the lamps at 6 p.m. on Wednesday. Sasikala’s return  The appeal assumed importance in the light of V.K. Sasikala, former interim general secretary and aide of Jayalalithaa, declaring a few weeks ago during her return to Chennai after her four-year imprisonment in Bengaluru, she would like to play an active role in politics and her nephew and the AMMK general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran stating that Ms. Sasikalawould carry on the legal battleto regain her control over the AIADMK.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-cadre-told-to-light-lamps-on-wednesday/article33909383.ece
23 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. turns to local manufacturer to complete multilevel car parking project||After having waited for long for a Chinese manufacturer to supply machinery for the multilevel car parking (MLCP) project that it was executing on D.B. Road in the city, the Coimbatore Corporation had turned to an Indian manufacturer. Delay in shipping  According to sources, the company is based out of Coimbatore. The search for an alternative to the Chinese company led the Corporation to Sieger Parking in Arasur. The civic body had to go in for an alternative because of the delay in shipping machinery during the COVID-19 pandemic and India imposing restriction on China in the wake of stand-off at border. Sieger Parking had started work at the project site. It would soon be installing machinery to park 324 cars on four floors using a completely in-built solution. Sieger Parking’s senior manager (Sales), Suresh Jayaprakash said the company supplied Corporation with its automated comb cart parking system, where machinery would lift and move cars to vacant parking lots on any of the four floors. It would also supply parking management solution to the Corporation to ensure a completely automated system. There would be no need for human intervention, he added. The company that had installed similar parking system at a hospital and textile showroom on Cross Cut and was engaged in installing another at a hospital on Mettupalayam Road had also completed the first phase of its work for the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation. Mr. Jayaprakash said the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation had contracted the company for a system to park 574 cars. And, it had completed phase-I of the project to park 102 cars. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had inaugurated the phase-I in October last year. The Coimbatore Corporation sources said that with most of the civil works done and the company in the process of completing the machinery installation soon, the civic body hoped to throw open the facility to public by March-end. The Corporation had taken up the MLCP project at Rs. 40.78 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-turns-to-local-manufacturer-to-complete-multilevel-car-parking-project/article33909040.ece
23 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Lab technicians demand regularisation||Lab technicians who were engaged on contract during the COVID-19 pandemic period submitted a petition to the district administration on Monday seeking regularisation of service. The petitioners said they worked at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital for eight months. When the infection spread was at its peak, the technicians came forward to support the governments’ efforts to contain the spread. Though a few among them had contracted the Coronavirus, they did not back out and risked their lives to continue working. Now, with the infection spread on the decline, the technicians said they were given to understand that their service was about to end. They, therefore, wanted the State Government to regularise their service on compassionate ground. Tangedco contract workers protest  Tamil Nadu Min Vaariya Oppanda Thozhilalar Sangam on Monday submitted a petition to the district administration seeking regularisation of service. A few workers who were at the Collectorate attempted to return their Aadhaar card and EPIC as a sign of protest. In their petition, the workers said more than 500 persons were engaged in installation and maintenance work in the distribution circles in the district for a wage worked out three years ago. At a meeting held in February 2018, the State Government, Tangedco and workers’ unions, the Tangedco agreed to pay Rs. 380 a day as wage and the Power Minister assured workers that it would be paid. In the last three years, the Tangedco had not paid the assured wage, the workers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lab-technicians-demand-regularisation/article33909038.ece
23 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Temple elephant not injured, say officials||The temple elephant, which was beaten up by its mahout and another man at the rejuvenation camp in Thekkampatti near Mettupalayam, was not injured, official sources said. Mahout arrested On Sunday, a clip of the elephant Jayamalyatha from Andal temple in Srivilliputhur being caned by its mahout Vinil Kumar, 46, and another caretaker Sivaprasath, 32, on the camp premises was widely shared on social media platforms. This prompted the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department to suspend the mahout, following which the Forest Department arrested him and the caretaker. Forest Department officials said on Monday that the incident occurred on Saturday evening and that the duo were booked under Section 13 (Acts which are tantamount to cruelty to elephant) of Tamil Nadu Captive Elephant (Management and Maintenance) Rules, 2011 and section 51 (Penalties) of Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. They were remanded in judicial custody at Avinashi sub-jail. Meanwhile, the HR&CE Department sources said a committee comprising veterinarians from the Forest Department and the Department of Animal Husbandry inspected the 19-year-old Jayamalyatha and found it to be healthy without suffering any injuries. The remaining 25 elephants in the camp were also inspected. Following the mahout’s arrest, the HR&CE Department allowed Subramaniam from Tiruchendur, who has been looking after Jayamalyatha for the past three years at the rejuvenation camp, to take care of the elephant at the camp. As Mr. Subramaniam is already familiar with the elephant, it is expected that there will be no issues, according to the sources. HR&CE Joint Commissioner for Coimbatore Zone R. Senthilvelavan convened a meeting with the mahouts at the elephant camp on Monday and advised them to take instructions from the veterinarians at the camp if the elephant is experiencing any stress. The mahouts must not resort to any acts that amount to cruelty towards the elephants and were warned of strict action in such cases, the sources said. The annual rejuvenation camp for temple and mutt elephants was inaugurated on February 8 and will end on March 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/andal-temple-elephant-not-injured-say-officials/article33908978.ece
23 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||DMK stages protest over fuel price hike||Four district units of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhgam (DMK) staged a protest in front of the Coimbatore South Taluk office on Monday, condemning the fuel price hike and holding the Central and State Governments responsible for it. Coimbatore east urban unit in-charge and MLA N. Karthik, urban west unit in-charge Payya alias Krishnan, north unit in-charge C.R. Ramachandran and east unit in-charge Marudhamalai Senathipathi led the protests. Mr. Karthik said the almost daily increase in petrol, diesel and LPG price had led to the LPG refill price almost touching Rs. 900. The Central and State governments were responsible for the hike. The DMK specifically targeted the State government for playing along with the BJP. The protesters also said the policies of the BJP government at the Centre had hit hard the micro, small and medium enterprises and spinning mills – around 50,000 in Coimbatore. A release from the DMK said former minister Pongalur N. Palanisamy, former Mayor P. Rajkumar and other senior leaders participated in the protests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-stages-protest-over-fuel-price-hike/article33909033.ece
23 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Minister commissions water supply scheme||Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani on Monday commissioned the drinking water supply improvement project aimed at helping Kurichi and Kuniamuthur residents get water on a par with those in the old city areas. Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board had implemented the Rs. 71.68 crore project for the Coimbatore Corporation with Central Government funds under the AMRUT scheme, said a Corporation release. The project for Kurichi and Kuniamuthur was a part of the scheme that the Corporation was implementing for all the 11 added areas at Rs. 165.43 crore. The project would help each of the residents in the two areas get 135 litres water a day with the Corporation supplying the water every two or three days. Thus far the Corporation supplied water at 70 litres a person a day every six or seven days, the release pointed out. With the Rs. 71.68 crore, the TWAD Board had tapped 35.02 MLD (million litres a day) Siruvani water near Kovaipudur Pirivu to take it to a 15 lakh litre sump, pump it from there for 15.02 km to a 15 lakh litre master balancing reservoir (water tank) in Press Enclave for distribution to Kuniamuthur and 20 lakh litre master balancing reservoir in Pillaiyarpuram for distribution to Kurichi. The release said from the Press Enclave tank the Board would distribute the water to 25 distribution tanks – seven new and 18 old and in use – though 21km distribution lines. Sources said the TWAD Board had completed the work for water distribution in Kurichi using the Pillaiyarpuram tank and conducting trial runs to check leaks. Very soon the Board would commission the Kurichi leg of the project as well. The release added that Minister Mr. Velumani also commissioned the 2.50 lakh litre tank that the Board had constructed in Sundakkamuthur. Senior officials from the Corporation, TWAD Board and Revenue Department were present at the inauguration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-commissions-water-supply-scheme/article33909036.ece
23 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Skill development programmes||Three green skill development programmes organised by the ENVIS Centre on Forest Genetic Resources and Tree Improvement began at the Institute of Forest Genetics and Tree Breeding on Monday. The programmes will be on ‘Quality Planting Material Producer, Forest Entomology and Pest Control and Plant Tissue Culture and its Applications’ and are offered free of cost. IFGTB Director C. Kunhikannan inaugurated the programmes, according to press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/skill-development-programmes/article33909171.ece
23 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man run over by train in Coimbatore||An unidentified man was run over by a train near Syrian Church Road in the city on Monday. The Government Railway Police said that the man, set to be around 50 years old, was hit by the train around 1 p.m. The deceased is believed to have been undergoing treatment, as he was found intubated through the nose. However, no absconding cases were reported from Coimbatore Medical College Hospital or other hospitals in the city, police said. The Government Railway Police have registered a case and further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-run-over-by-train-in-coimbatore/article33909042.ece
23 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Idols recovered||The Revenue Department and the Coimbatore District Police recovered seven idols in Perur on Monday. According to sources in the Revenue Department, six metal idols and one stone idol were retrieved from the Periyakulam  tank based on the information given to the police by residents. It is unlikely that the idols were from any temples, sources said. The idols were sent to the taluk office in Perur and further inquiries are on.   Three green skill development programmes organised by the ENVIS Centre on Forest Genetic Resources and Tree Improvement began at the Institute of Forest Genetics and Tree Breeding (IFGTB) on Monday. The programmes will be on ‘Quality Planting Material Producer, Forest Entomology and Pest Control and Plant Tissue Culture and its Applications’ and are offered free of cost. IFGTB Director C. Kunhikannan inaugurated the programmes, a release said. The participants will receive a certificate from the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change on completion of the training, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/idols-recovered/article33909043.ece
23 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Young Skal Club launched||Skal International, an international organisation promoting tourism, recently launched the Young Skal Club in Coimbatore. A release said that the Club was launched on February 18 with 42 students pursing courses in Hotel Management, Tourism and Travel Management. They will get to interact with hoteliers and tourism professionals and understand the latest trends in the industry through the sessions hosted at the Club. P. Premkanna, Professor and Head of the Department of Catering and Hotel Management, Hindusthan College of Arts and Science, will be the director of Young Skal Club, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/young-skal-club-launched/article33909041.ece
23 February 2021||DHARMAMPURI,TAMIL NADU||Work on housing project inaugurated||Works on a multi-storied slum clearance board tenements project at a cost of Rs. 14.19 crore was inaugurated here by the Minister for Higher Education K.P. Anbalagan recently. The project envisions 192 tenements in Poonayanur village in Paapireddypatti in Dharmapuri here. Each tenement will be about 400 sq.ft each to accommodate low income group families. The construction works that were flagged off now is slated for completion in 15 months, according to the administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-on-housing-project-inaugurated/article33909164.ece
23 February 2021||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||Kanimozhi sends cricket kit to youth||DMK MP M.K. Kanimozhi’s campaign tour last week here in Dharampuri turned out to be blessing for the local youth of a little known Palacodde village. On Monday, when the youth least expected, their goodies arrived through the local DMK MLA P.N.P. Inbasekaran, less than a week after they asked Ms. Kanimozhi for what they wanted. The youth of Seeriyanahalli village in Palacodde managed to have an audience with Ms. Kanimozhi last week, as her campaign van toured through the constituencies as part of the DMK’s Vidiyalai Nokki Stalinin Kural . The youth, interested in cricket, however did not have the means to buy bats or accompanying cricket gear to pursue their interest. With no sports gear of their own, they were left to go to the neighbouring village for a chance to play with shared gear. The young men, keen cricket enthusiasts wanted cricket gear including bats. The youth waved Ms. Kanimozhi’s campaign van and gave her a petition asking for her help. Ms. Kanimozhi was seen reading the petition right out of her seat in the campaign van. She had assured the boys of support. According to the DMK, Ms. Kanimozhi had cricket bats, nets and other protection gear purchased out of her own funds in Chennai and had them dispatched to Mr. Inbasekaran. The MLA met the youth and handed over the gifts. For the boys, it was a dream come true, as they posed with the long- awaited sports||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kanimozhi-sends-cricket-kit-to-youth/article33909166.ece
23 February 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||‘Major political parties violated election expenditure limits’||Alleging that major political parties violated election expenditure limits, Puthiya Tamilagam leader K. Krishnasamy on Monday urged the Election Commission of India to tighten surveillance to prevent the practice. Addressing journalists in Dindigul, he alleged that parties with money and resources alone won in elections. He felt symbols should not be permanently allotted to parties and they must be annually renewable. The ECI must instill confidence in the electorate by giving a level playing field to all registered parties, he said. The ECI must take note of early campaigns for Assembly elections launched by some political parties. Campaigns must be restricted to post-notification of election schedule. While welcoming the Centre’s move to classify seven Scheduled Caste subsects under the title, ‘Devendrakula Velalar’, he said the community was sentimentally hurt as it continued in the SC list. “We want to be in the mainstream,” he said claiming the community did not want to be given reservations. He urged the Centre and State governments to jointly work to reduce fuel tax. His party would hold a seminar on ‘Development of Tamil Nadu’ on March 4 in which the poll related issues including the alliance would be decided, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/major-political-parties-violated-election-expenditure-limits/article33909106.ece
23 February 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||PT leader asks EC to be more vigilant||Alleging that major political parties violated election expenditure limits, Puthiya Tamilagam leader K. Krishnasamy on Monday urged the Election Commission to tighten surveillance to prevent the practice. Addressing journalists in Dindigul, he alleged that parties with money and resources alone won in elections. He felt symbols should not be permanently allotted to parties. The EC must instil confidence in the electorate by giving a level-playing field to all registered parties, he said. The EC must take note of early campaigns launched by some political parties. Campaigns must be restricted to post-notification of election schedule. While welcoming the Centre’s move to classify seven Scheduled Caste sub-sects under the title, ‘Devendrakula Velalar’, he said the community was sentimentally hurt as it continued in the SC list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pt-leader-asks-ec-to-be-more-vigilant/article33908975.ece
23 February 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Fuel prices will come down only if Centre, State cut excise duties: Stalin||The prices of petrol and diesel will come down only if both the Central and State governments reduce excise duties, DMK president M.K. Stalin said on Monday. He was addressing people from Bhavani, Anthiyur, Gobichettipalayam and Bhavani Sagar at Bungalow Pudur in the Thookanaickenpalayam panchayat union as part of ‘Ungal Thogudhiyil Stalin’, the DMK’s outreach programme. He said the steep increase in the prices of fuel and LPG cylinders would result in an increase in the prices of essential commodities. “They keep saying that only if the crude oil price drops, the fuel prices can be reduced. But now they say that even if the crude oil price comes down, the fuel prices cannot be reduced,” he said, adding that the hike was due to the duties levied by the governments. Mr. Stalin said the Union government’s duty on petrol in 2014 was Rs. 10.39 a litre and it had gone up to Rs. 32.98 now, while the State’s duty was Rs. 11.9 in 2014 and it had gone up to Rs. 19.9 now. Likewise, the Centre’s duty on diesel in 2014 was Rs. 4.5 a litre, which was now Rs. 31.83, while the State’s duty was Rs. 6.61 in 2014 and it was Rs. 11.22 now. “This shows the increase in the fuel prices is not the result of the crude oil price, but the taxes levied,” he said. He said Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami was enacting a drama by saying his government was not responsible for the hike in fuel prices and pointed out that the duties on the fuel had been reduced twice in the past by the DMK government. State’s rights Mr. Stalin received petitions from the people of Mettur, Edappadi and Sankagiri constituencies in Mecheri, Salem, as part of his outreach programme. During the event, he said the Chief Minister had given away the rights of the State to the Centre. The AIADMK government had forfeited the State’s rights in various departments, he added. Accusing the government of being negligent in the maintenance and development of public infrastructure, he said a new check dam at Ponnai river in Villupuram had collapsed. This was an example of the “corrupt Palaniswami” government, Mr. Stalin said. “The Rs. 25 crore check dam collapsed in a month,” he added. Mr. Stalin asked what action was taken by the State government against the contractors and called the suspension of the concerned officials an “eyewash”. In contrast, the erstwhile DMK governments had strengthened infrastructure, he said, adding, “Mettur dam is an example of how a dam can benefit the public.” Mr. Stalin said the present government had announced that it would construct eight dams in 2019, but no action had been taken till date.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fuel-prices-will-come-down-only-if-centre-state-cut-excise-duties-stalin/article33908982.ece
23 February 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Farmers’ federation calls for imposing duty on starch imports||With falling prices of tapioca worrying farmers, Federation of Tamil Nadu Agriculturists’ Associations has urged the Central government to impose duty for import of starch. In a release, its secretary C. Nallasamy said that the government had allowed import of starch at zero duty from Vietnam and a few other countries whereas 20% import duty is levied on imports from Thailand. Hence, starch from Thailand is exported to Sri Lanka and again imported to the country at zero duty. He said that the price of tapioca that was Rs. 10,000 a tonne two years ago dropped to Rs. 5,500 a tonne now affecting the livelihood of farmers. “The main reason for the drop in price is due to absence of import duty for starch while adulteration is the other reason”, he added. He said that a writ petition filed in the Madras High Court by the association against adulteration did not yield the required result as a warning was issued to the adulterators and the case was closed. “Adulteration and import of large quantities of starch should be stopped”, he said and wanted the government to take necessary steps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-federation-calls-for-imposing-duty-on-starch-imports/article33909161.ece
23 February 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Pandemic opens new opportunity for govt. school students||The COVID-19 pandemic has enabled students of Government High School at Valayapalayam in T.N. Palayam block to turn writers, who with the help of teachers, penned down their observations, which were released as journals and found their place in the school library. The school has 139 students from Classes 6 to 10 and 11 teachers, including its headmistress N.K. Dhanabakyam. Since there was no interaction between teachers and students for many months, teachers visited the students’ home during September and October last year during which many students shared their observations and experiences during the lockdown. They narrated incidents of how their family suffered during lockdown, life in forest areas and how they went for swimming and how their mother cooked food in their small kitchen room. “Since their observation was very sharp and the narration was joyful, we asked them to record all the interesting events so that we can come out with a journal for each student”, said Mrs. Dhanabakyam. Students took pictures for their own scripts and submitted it to the teachers who corrected it and published it as 78 journals. K. Gokilavani, a class X, student in her journal on, “The Palm Fruit Will Fall”, describes her days when she was roaming around the village on a bicycle with her friends and taking care of her pet dog and helping her mother in maintaining the house. She describes how she actively took care of the plants in her small garden containing rose plants, herbs, and greens and was eagerly waiting for the palm fruit from the tree to fall. Students’ writings explain chicken nesting, how they fished at a pond, how they reared cattle and poultry the lessons they learnt during the lockdown. “It is a well-utilised opportunity for students to be writers”, the headmistress said and added that they are planning to publish the content as books.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pandemic-opens-new-opportunity-for-govt-school-students/article33909160.ece
23 February 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Power loom units resume production after 11 days||Over 30,000 power loom units that stopped production from February 11 to 21 against rising price of yarn, resumed operations here on Monday. Units in Erode, Chithode, Lakkapuram and Veerappanchatiram that were involved in producing rayon fabrics stopped their operations over the issue of continuous rise in yarn price. They said that the price of yarn continues to be on the rise affecting their production. Also, the price of yarn changes frequently and they wanted the companies supplying yarn to fix the price once in a month. B. Kandavel, coordinator, Tamil Nadu Federation of Power Loom Association, said that due to stop in production, fabric worth Rs. 85 crore could not be produced and added that regulating the yarn price is the only solution for the issue. The price of yarn that stood at Rs. 230 a kg in January dropped to Rs. 205 in the second week of February and again was increased to Rs. 215 a kg on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-loom-units-resume-production-after-11-days/article33909157.ece
23 February 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||New office bearers for CII Erode zonal council||D. Senthil Kumar, Director, Qualfis Foodz Private Limited and Durai Palaniswamy, Director, Pallava Textiles Private Limited, have been nominated as the chairman and vice-chairman respectively of CII Erode zonal council for the year 2021-22. They were nominated during the annual session of CII Erode zone held recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-office-bearers-for-cii-erode-zonal-council/article33909155.ece
23 February 2021||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Palaniswami lays foundation stone for TTD temple||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami laid the foundation stone for the Sri Venkateswara Swamy Temple in Ulundurpet in Kallakurichi district on Monday. Mr. Palaniswami, along with Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy and Ministers C.Ve. Shanmugam and M.C. Sampath, participated in the rituals as a prelude to the construction of the temple. As Vedic scholars chanted mantras, Mr. Palaniswami and Mr. Subba Reddy performed the rituals. Documents handed over Official sources said that the temple would come up on four acres of land at a cost of Rs. 40 crore. Ulundurpet MLA R. Kumaraguru had recently handed over the documents for the land and Rs. 3.16 crore to the TTD for the construction of the temple. K.A. Jawahar Reddy, Executive Officer of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams, Kallakurichi Collector Kiran Gurrala and Superintendent of Police Ziaul Haque participated in the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-minister-lays-foundation-for-ttd-temple/article33908966.ece
23 February 2021||KODAIKANAL,TAMIL NADU||Ex-councillor’s husband found dead||Former AIADMK councillor Gandhimathi's husband Chandran (45) of M.M. Street here was found dead in the lake on Monday. Police said that following a complaint three days ago that he was missing, a case was registered. Even as the police were on the lookout, they received information that a body was found in the lake and they retrieved it with the help of the Fire and Rescue Services here and preliminary inquiries revealed that the victim was Chandran. The body was sent for postmortem to the Government Hospital. A police officer said that investigations were on whether he was murdered or had ended life by suicide or it was an accidental fall, which turned fatal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ex-councillors-husband-found-dead/article33909138.ece
23 February 2021||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||DMK demands immediate rollback of fuel price hike||DMK women members staged a protest against the hike in the prices of petrol and cooking gas here in Krishnagiri on Monday. Amid the steep hike in the prices of LPG and petrol and diesel, the protests have mounted against the BJP-led Centre across the country. In its wake, the DMK led protests with a huge participation of women, who are the primary stakeholders facing the impact of the rise in prices of cooking gas. According to the protesters, the rise in price of LPG by over Rs. 100 has hit women. Similarly, the hike in the prices of petrol and diesel would directly impact the price of essential commodities, whose prices will inflate with transportation costs added. According to the DMK, this was yet another indication of the “anti-people” policies of this government. The protesters also condemned the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-demands-immediate-rollback-of-fuel-price-hike/article33909163.ece
23 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Ring Road: Farmers seek higher compensation||A group of farmers from Chettikulam village of Madurai East block submitted a petition to the Collector here on Monday seeking higher compensation for the agricultural lands that were acquired to lay a Ring Road to connect Tiruchi highway with Dindigul highway. K G. Kannamuthupandi, a petitioner, said that land was acquired from 17 farmers of Chettikulam. Each farmer was given a compensation of Rs. 7,500 for a cent of agricultural land. “However, the compensation paid to farmers of a neighbouring village was between Rs. 59,000 and Rs. 98,000,” he said. The officials attributed the disparity to difference in land value. However, farmlands of the two villages are only a few hundred metres apart. So compensation for farmers in Chettikulam should be increased,” he said. GRH workers’ plea A group of contract workers of Government Rajaji Hospital submitted a petition to the Collector, urging him to make them daily wage employees. A Rahul, a petitioner, said 95 contract workers were engaged in cleaning, plumbing, electrical and other work at the GRH for the past three years. “We have been working in the COVID-19 wing since the outbreak of the pandemic. We are paid Rs. 9,500 as monthly wages. It is meagre. If we are paid Rs. 500 as daily wages, it will be of much benefit. Our service should be regularised after five years,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ring-road-farmers-seek-higher-compensation/article33909390.ece
23 February 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Ensure clause in settlement deeds to protect senior citizens: HC||Taking a serious note of the fact that after settlement of properties, several senior citizens are thrown on the street, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has observed that appropriate steps must be initiated as per the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007. The court said Section 23 of the Act made it clear that when the transferor, a senior citizen, conveyed the property by means of gift or settlement, there should be a clause in the deed to ensure that the transferee provided the basic/physical needs to the transferor. If the transferee failed to provide or refused basic amenities, the transfer of property should be deemed to be made by fraud, coercion or undue influence. The Sub-Registrar/Registrar who registered a deed of conveyance must ensure that conditions stipulated in Section 23 of the Act were incorporated in the deed, leaving the transferee not in a position to sell the property. In case of sale, the buyer would be at risk, the court said. Justice S. Vaidyanathan observed that those who were responsible for the care of senior citizens but left them in the lurch should be imprisoned as per Section 24 of the Act, and imposition of fine was only secondary. The cases filed by senior citizens would have to be heard on a day-to-day basis without adjournment for beyond seven working days. Though the word used was “either” in Section 24 of the Act, the imprisonment should be made mandatory. Even though discretion was given to magistrates to try the offence and impose punishment, unless the sword of Damocles was hanging on youngsters, a lot of old age homes would be mushrooming and the crime would be on the rise, the judge said. The court was hearing a batch of petitions that challenged the unilateral cancellation of deeds, and the point raised was whether Registrars had the power to register the deed of cancellation or a civil court had to be approached. With conflicting judgements in this regard, the judge directed the issue be placed before the Chief Justice for constitution of a larger bench to decide the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-clause-in-settlement-deeds-to-protect-senior-citizens-says-hc/article33909395.ece
23 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Anganwadi workers stage protest||A large number of anganwadi workers and helpers began an indefinite protest in front of Madurai Collectorate on Monday demanding regularisation of service, time scale of pay and higher gratuity. Led by district secretary of Tamil Nadu Anganwadi Workers and Helpers Association Varadhalakshmi, they demanded service regularisation. “Despite working hard for more than 30 years, we are still not considered permanent government employees,” said Ms. Varadhalakshmi. They also demanded time scale of pay for all the anganwadi workers and helpers. “An anganwadi worker is paid only around Rs. 8,000, and a helper Rs. 5,000. If we are included in the time scale of pay, there will be a substantial increase in our salaries,” said Ms. Varadhalakshmi. Apart from discharging their duties at the anganwadis, the workers were responsible for enumeration of pregnant women, registration of birth and death, distribution of nutritious food to pregnent women and children and other election-related works. “Even during the COVID-19 pandemic-induced lockdown, the anganwadi workers were engaged in door-to-door screening to identify symptomatic persons. Despite working this hard, our services have not been regularised,” Ms. Varadhalakshmi. said. The protesters demanded that gratuity of Rs. 10 lakh instead of Rs. 1 lakh for workers and Rs. 5 lakh instead of Rs. 50,000 for helpers should be given. “ We will not stop our protest until our demands are met by the government,” said Ms. Varadhalakshmi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anganwadi-workers-stage-protest/article33909385.ece
23 February 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Common man hit hard by high fuel prices: DMK||Sudden and frequent increase in prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas has hit the common man badly, said Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam Madurai urban north district secretary Pon. Muthuramalingam. Addressing a demonstration organised by the party against high fuel prices, Mr. Muthuramalingam said not only the affluent use petrol, diesel and cooking gas. “Cooking gas cylinders is used by middle class and poor people. The spiralling price of the LPG refill has affected them the most,” he said. The high fuel prices would have a cascading effect as bus fare and lorry freight would also rise, leading to an increase in prices of essential commodities. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the Centre and States should try to bring down the fuel price. “Instead of sharing her thoughts, the Minister should take the initiative to lessen the burden of the common man,” he added. “The All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam government is following the diktats of the Centre and had forgotten the Constitution-guaranteed autonomy to States. It was not taking any independent decision for the benefit of the people,” he charged. Amid several issues facing the country, it was Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam president M.K. Stalin who has exposed the Centre and State on important issues affecting the common man, he said. Madurai urban south district secretary G. Thalapathy, V. Veluchamy and former Mayor P. Kulandivelu took part in the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/common-man-hit-hard-by-high-fuel-prices-dmk/article33909392.ece
23 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC directive to State on PSTM reservation||The State government has informed the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court that the procedure adopted by Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission and Teachers Recruitment Board would be followed by Tamil Nadu Uniformed Service Recruitment Board with regard to the implementation of the Persons Studied in Tamil Medium (PSTM) category of reservation. The court was hearing a batch of petitions that challenged TNUSRB’s decision to implement the PSTM reservation after the completion of the entire selection process to the post of Sub Inspector of Police and not at every stage of the selection process. The petitions were filed by Sub Inspector of Police aspirants. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi recorded the submissions made and allowed the batch of petitions. The High Court Bench directed TNUSRB to see whether the petitioners were eligible for selection to the next stage of the recruitment process and if they were entitled to, they should be given the appointments accordingly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-directive-to-state-on-pstm-reservation/article33909393.ece
23 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Irregularity in payment of wages to conservancy workers alleged||A farmer from Kumbakonam in Thanjavur district has moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court alleging irregularities in payment of wages to conservancy workers in Kumbakonam municipality. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi ordered notice to the municipality in the petition filed by S. Selvaraj who said Kumbakonam municipality had 45 wards and about 550 streets. Clearance and disposal of solid waste was handled by the staff appointed by the municipality. However, only a limited number was appointed and the remaining workforce was outsourced by the municipality. Of the 458 conservancy workers, only 146 were permanent employees. The rest were outsourced workers engaged by an agency. The daily wage of the outsourced staff was one-third of the regular workers. Moreover they were forced to work without taking leave. The agency had short paid the workers, which is tantamount to misappropriation of municipal funds. The money thus short paid must be given back to the workers, the petitioner said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/irregularity-in-payment-of-wages-to-conservancy-workers-alleged/article33909107.ece
23 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Contract workers demand service regularisation||A large number of workers of Tamil Nadu Electricity Contract Labourers’ Union staged a protest in front of Madurai Collectorate on Monday demanding service regularisation. The protesters surrendered their Aadhaar cards, ration cards and voter IDs stating that it was not economically viable for them to reside in the State. R. Manivasagam, district secretary of the Union, said that around 10,000 contract workers across the State had been performing various jobs for the department for the past 20 years. “Even during natural calamities such as Cyclones Ockhi, Vardha, Nivar and Gaj, we continued to discharge our duties,” he said. The contract workers help in installation of electric poles, transformers and undertake repair works for the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco). They also demanded that the government must pay them daily wages of Rs. 380. “The Electricity department paid wages till 2008. Since then the contractor pays us a paltry. Though we work hard to light up the city, we live a miserable life because of the lackadaisical attitude of the government,” said Mr. Manivasagam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/contract-workers-stage-protest-demand-service-regularisation/article33909397.ece
23 February 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Dental Camp||Yadava College in association with Madurai Multispeciality Dental Clinic conducted a free dental camp in Kodimangalam recently. The villagers were explained dental and oral diseases and how to prevent them. Medicines, toothpastes and toothbrushes were given to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dental-camp/article33909399.ece
23 February 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Memorial Day||The Memorial Day of freedom fighters Thillaiyadi Valliammai (birth anniversary) and Kasturba Gandhi (death anniversary) was held at the Fatima College here on Monday. The college joined hands with Gandhi Memorial Museum to conduct the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/memorial-day/article33909538.ece
23 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry headed for President’s rule||After the fall of the Congress government of V. Narayanasamy on Monday, the Union Territory appears headed to President’s rule as Opposition parties are not keen on forming a government with the election just two months away. Before his government lost the trust vote, Mr. Narayanasamy used the floor of the Assembly for one final assault on the BJP government at the Centre, which he said had engineered resignations from the Congress to topple a democratically elected government virtually on the doorstep of elections. Mr. Narayanasamy said the Opposition, too, had to answer the electorate for winking at such anti-democratic measures and explain whether they approved of the manner in which the Union government, through the former Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi, had obstructed the implementation of welfare schemes. With the issue likely to be a rallying theme for the Congress-led Secular Democratic Progressive Alliance during electioneering, and could even find resonance in Tamil Nadu, the Opposition’s line of thinking could be that it would rather not play into this image trap by forming a government at this juncture. Also, since the election notification is a few days away, a new government would not be able to announce or implement any scheme once the model code of conduct is in force. In fact, the Opposition has been seeking to project the desertions from the Congress as a case of internal strife, with party leaders unwilling to face the election with very little to show for. While Leader of the Opposition and former Chief Minister N. Rangasamy was non-committal on whether he would stake a claim, the AIADMK and the BJP, both allies of the AINRC, said the local units would await advice from their leadership. “We will not try and form a government at this stage,” BJP president V. Saminathan said. He was optimistic that the BJP and its allies would come to power in May and “build a bright future for the people of Puducherry”. In case of the Opposition not staking a claim for government formation, Puducherry will go for another round of President’s rule, hardly a new phenomenon given the past phases of political uncertainty from defections, poaching and resignations. In the history of the union territory, more than 10 governments had fallen without completing the tenure either owing to defections, infighting and withdrawal of support by allies. The political history reveals that the same person had occupied the Chief Minister’s chair, contesting on different party ticket. M.O.H. Farook held the post as a DMK and Congress nominee. Except for V. Vaithilingam and N. Rangasamy, no other Chief Minister could complete a full tenure because of political instability. “In fact, the ‘Aya Ram Gaya Ram’ concept was very much prevalent in Puducherry when the issue of horse trading created national attention. We have more political turncoats than in other States. This trend will continue till people become more aware of the reasons for politicians to switch sides very often...,” a political observer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-headed-for-presidents-rule/article33909024.ece
23 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Central leadership will decide next step’||The AIADMK and the BJP, allied with the AINRC in Puducherry, have left the decision about their next course of action, including staking a claim to form a government, to their respective central leaderships. Addressing a press conference after the Narayanasamy-led Congress government lost the confidence vote, former Chief Minister and Leader of the Opposition N. Rangasamy said the government was blaming the Centre and former Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi as a cover for its own failure to implement any worthwhile schemes over the last five years. “It is a steep fall for the government,” he said. On the next step, BJP-nominated MLA V. Saminathan said, “Being a national party, we cannot take a decision at the local level. We will consult the central leadership on the next course of action”. The BJP’s prediction that Mr. Narayanasamy will be the last Congress Chief Minister to serve Puducherry would come true, he said. AIADMK leader A. Anbalagan said the Congress-DMK alliance which came to power with 19 MLAs in 2016 had seen several legislators leave its fold because of misrule. The Congress leaves with a record of not having implemented a single of its promises from its 2016 election manifesto, Mr. Anbalagan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-leadership-will-decide-next-step/article33909020.ece
23 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘CBI, ED and I-T Depts. used to threaten Opposition leaders’||Accusing the Union government of destabilising and toppling an elected government through “engineering defections using investigative agencies” and by “inducements,” Puducherry Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Monday charged the Centre with “murdering democracy” by removing a democratically-formed government at the fag end of its tenure. Moving the Motion of Confidence in the Legislative Assembly, the Chief Minister said the Centre had been trying to destabilise his government for a long time like “they did” in Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Madhya Pradesh and Goa but the Congress-DMK combine was able to thwart the attempts as recently as last week. “What was the necessity to remove a democratically-elected government just around ten days before the announcement for the Assembly elections? The Centre uses Income Tax [Department], Central Bureau of Investigation and Enforcement Directorate to threaten Opposition leaders [in order] to form their government. In our camp, we had some timid legislators (referring to those resigned) the BJP was successful in weaning away. The people of the Union Territory are watching the developments,” he said. Squarely blaming the BJP-led NDA government for toppling his government, he said “Just because they have power they think they can do anything in the country. Atrocities against Dalits and minorities continue in the country. Don’t the minorities have the right to live in the country? The Opposition parties here will be also judged by the people for supporting the Centre’s move.” Training his guns on those who resigned, he said, “There were two ministers sitting next to me (referring to A. Namassivayam and Malladi Krishna Rao). One was a Minister as well as chief of Pradesh Congress Committee. All enjoyed their power and left in the last minute. Is it not ‘political prostitution’? Leaders should have an ideological commitment,” he said. “We will face the electorate and explain to the people how best we served despite so much interference and obstruction,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-agencies-used-to-threaten-opposition/article33909022.ece
23 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Timing more significant than resignations of MLAs themselves||While disenchantment with the erstwhile Narayanasamy-led government is the stated reason for legislators in the Congress-DMK alliance resigning from their posts, the timing of their decisions fits more with moves in the political game that eventually culminated in the fall of the Ministry on Monday. A. John Kumar, while putting in his papers last week, said, “I had sacrificed Nellithope constituency for the Chief Minister. I was offered a Ministerial post but was not given. I also asked for a seat in the coming Assembly elections for my son but the Congress has denied it. I was planning to quit along with Mr. Namassivayam also.” K. Lakshminarayanan, who put in papers on Sunday barely hours before the trust vote, said “I thought it was the right opportunity to express my anguish and pain for being sidelined so hence resigned the MLA post before the elections.” He had said his vote made no difference in a hopeless situation for the government. K. Venkatesan, who has since been suspended by the DMK, had also submitted his resignation on Sunday. The reason he was that as a legislator representing Thattanchavady, he was not able to meet the needs of the people in his constituency since there was no allocation of funds under the MLA Local Area Development fund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/timing-more-significant/article33909018.ece
23 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry records eight new cases of COVID-19||New COVID-19 cases dropped to eight while 26 patients recovered on Monday. No deaths were reported in the Union Territories. While Puducherry and Karaikal reported three cases each, Mahe recorded two cases. Yanam did not report any fresh cases. The number of active cases stood at 174. Of this, 109 were in hospitals and 65 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 1.52%, case fatality rate 1.67% and recovery rate 97.86%. The Union Territory has so far recorded 663 deaths and 39,600 cases while 38,763 patients have recovered. The Health Department has carried out an estimated 6.20 lakh tests of which about 5.76 lakh samples returned negative till date.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-records-eight-new-cases-of-covid-19/article33909492.ece
23 February 2021||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||38 fall ill due to food poisoning near Ilupur||Thirty-eight persons fell ill and were admitted to Government Hospital at Ilupur on Monday after consuming variety food. The food was supplied in packets upon their return from the foundation stone laying function of the Cauvery - Gundar river link project that was held at Kunnathur village near Viralimalai on Sunday. Those admitted were from Thennalur and nearby areas. Health Department authorities said food packets containing tamarind rice, boiled egg and pickle were given to them. The officials said some had consumed the leftover food at night. Some complained of diarrhoea, mild fever and vomiting on Sunday night. Initially they went to the PHC at Thennalur. The 38 persons, majority of them women, came to the Government Hospital at Ilupur where they were admitted on Monday and kept under observation. The health condition of all the 38 patients were stable, said the officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/38-fall-ill-due-to-food-poisoning-near-ilupur/article33909129.ece
23 February 2021||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK will be taught a lesson in Assembly election, says Madurai MP||Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan said that All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam will face the worst defeat in the ensuing Assembly election for forging alliance with Bharatiya Janata Party. Addressing a meeting organised by Communist Party of India (Marxist) here on Sunday to protect industries and agriculture, Mr. Venkatesan pointed out that people of Punjab have handed out a major blow to Sironmani Akali Dal (SAD) that was formerly in alliance with the BJP in the Centre in the recently concluded local body elections. “Even SAD’s fortresses were blown apart as people took revenge on the party for having been part of BJP alliance that brought in the three anti-farm legislations,” he said. If the people of Punjab can be so harsh on a party that had severed alliance with the BJP for farm laws, will not the people of Tamil Nadu thwart the AIADMK’s attempt for fighting the polls with the BJP, he said. The BJP had been against the Tamil heritage, culture and language, he charged. When the whole world was trying to ensure food security and protect their economy, Indian Government brought in the farm laws that were against the farmers. “Unless the industries here stood up to fight for its rights like the Punjab farmers, they cannot get expect any relief,” Mr. Venkatesan said. Party district secretary, K. Arjunan, leaders, S. Balasubrmanian and B. Mariappan, were among those who spoke meeting organised by CPI(M).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-will-be-taught-a-lesson-in-assembly-polls/article33909108.ece
23 February 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||My govt. keeps its word: CM||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday rebutted DMK president M.K. Stalin’s criticism that his government had failed to keep its promises. He was speaking after opening a veterinary science college at the Advanced Institute for Integrated Research on Livestock and Animal Sciences (AIIRLIVAS) at Thalaivasal. Minister for Animal Husbandry Udumalai Radhakrishnan and senior officials were present at the function. He said Thalaivasal had been made a taluk. Mr. Palaniswami said, “The Leader of the Opposition says I am just laying the foundation, and there is no progress beyond it. AIIRLIVAS is an example. I announced its construction. I myself laid the foundation a year ago and now I have inaugurated it.” The Chief Minister said a Rs. 100-crore facility would be opened at Karumandurai in the district for research on hybrid breeds of dairy cattle. He said the government tried to establish a cattle sperm research station at Udhagamandalam at a cost of Rs. 46 crore, but the project was held up by litigation. The work would begin soon as the government had received a favourable verdict from the court. Earlier, addressing members of the AIADMK women’s wing at Attur, Mr. Palaniswami said it was former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa who provided 50% reservation for women in the local body elections. He said Rs. 82,000 crore had been given in bank-linked credit to women’s self-help groups. The Chief Minister said Tamil Nadu was the only State where newborns benefited from welfare schemes immediately after birth, as a kit with 16 products was provided for them. He said Mr. Stalin had moved court and tried to stop the distribution of the Pongal cash gift of Rs. 2,500, but the government won the case and implemented it. He said the government did not announce the scheme to help the AIADMK garner votes, but only in view of the hardship being endured by the people. Mr. Palaniswami said Mr. Stalin had called him a ‘sorcerer’ (‘manthravadhi’). “I’m not a sorcerer but a ‘doer’ (‘seyalvathi’),” he said. Tamil Nadu had surplus electricity today in contrast to the severe power cuts when the State was under the DMK. “Today, we have created a situation wherein women can live peacefully.” He said the 2021 Assembly election would be important because it was the first election after the death of Jayalalithaa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/my-govt-keeps-its-word-cm/article33908991.ece
23 February 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry case a rehearsal for what will happen in T.N.: Thirumavalavan||Member of Parliament and Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi leader Thol. Thirumavalavan said here on Monday that the dissolving of the Congress-led government in Puducherry could be seen as a rehearsal for such a move in Tamil Nadu if the BJP’s opponents were to come to power. Mr. Thirumavalavan told presspersons, “What happened in Puducherry is an assassination of democracy and VCK strongly condemns it. BJP has done in Puducherry what it did in Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka”. The BJP was trying to show that it would do anything to its political opponents for power, he said. The DMK-led alliance would win in the upcoming Assembly elections in the State. But, what was done in Puducherry was to intimidate the BJP’s opponents in Tamil Nadu. The BJP’s efforts would not succeed in Tamil Nadu, he said. Mr. Thirumavalavan said there was a strong sense of dissatisfaction among the public against the AIADMK government. “Despite being in power for 10 years, it has failed to fulfil the basic needs of the people” he said. Terming the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act draconian, he demand its withdrawal, and the release of four persons who were arrested under the Act in connection with Maoist Manivasakam’s case. The VCK leader condemned the Centre for changing the look and attire of Thiruvaluvar in the CBSE text and demanded that it be removed immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-case-a-rehearsal-for-what-will-happen-in-tn-thirumavalavan/article33909175.ece
23 February 2021||Sirkazhi,TAMIL NADU||Paddy fields inundated in Sirkazhi||The unexpected downpour on Sunday has inundated paddy fields in thousands of acres in Sirkazhi, Kollidam and Poompuhar blocks in the district at the crucial stage of crop harvest. Much to their dismay, paddy farmers whose fields had escaped the brunt of the earlier spells of rains over the last four months found to their horror that their crops had been inundated after the unseasonal downpour. According to the farmers, the misery of those among them who had delayed the cultivation in the Samba season has now been accentuated by the unseasonal rainfall. According to officials, the damage caused by the rainfall in Sirkazhi, Kollidam, Poompuhar and Tranquebar areas was yet to be estimated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/paddy-fields-inundated-in-sirkazhi/article33909111.ece
23 February 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Include our demands in election manifestos, urge farmers||The Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association has called upon political parties to consider their demands and include them in their election manifestos. The association convened a meeting of farmers in this regard at Kumbakonam last week and listed out 15 demands/requirements that could be considered for inclusion in the election manifestos to be released by the political parties during the forthcoming elections. They urged the political parties to include an assurance that they, if elected to power, would pass a resolution in the floor of the Assembly demanding unconditional repealing of the three new farm laws and the Electricity Amendment Bill. Demanding hike in the minimum support price for paddy to Rs. 3,500 per quintal (including the incentive ), the association also expected an election promise of a monthly pension of Rs. 3,000 for female agriculturalists aged 55 and above and for male agriculturalists who have crossed 58 years of age. In addition to this, the party aiming to capture power should also consider disbursement of Rs. 15,000 per annum per acre to the farmers as incentive to encourage cultivation, the association demanded. Waiver of crop loans taken from commercial banks, waiver of crop loans converted as mid-term loans during the 2016-17 financial year, setting up of new Primary Agriculture Cooperative Credit Societies, waiver of lease considerations entered into with mutts and temples as done in the year 1989, re-introduction of mobile paddy procurement system, non-insistence of no objection certificate from the PWD to avail new farm power connection and clearing the backlog of farm power connection applications were the other demands. They also urged political parties to assure that consideration would be given for construction of bed or check dams across Coleroon at seven places between Mukkommbu and Lower Anicut which serves as the vital source for drinking water for over 6 crore people in the central region of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/include-our-demands-in-election-manifestos-urge-farmers/article33909123.ece
23 February 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||SFI stages protest||The student's wing of the Communist Party of India, the Student Federation of India (SFI), organised a demonstration here on Monday condemning the depicting of Thiruvalluvar like a ‘Hindu prohithar’ in the textbooks of the Central Board of Secondary Education. The demonstrators assembled near the Tamil University campus on the Thanjavur Bypass Road raised slogans condemning the CBSE for its alleged intention to paint the Thiruvallur in ‘Hindutva colours’. They held the photographs of Thiruvalluvar clad in white cloth, which was released as the official image of Thiruvalluvar by the Tamil Nadu government during the regime of Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam in the past.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sfi-stages-protest/article33909112.ece
23 February 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Former Tamil professor statue unveiled||The bronze statue of late Tamil professor P.Viruthachalanar was unveiled on the campus of Navalar Na. Mu. Venkatasamy Nattar College here on Sunday. The students of the late professor decided to honour their mentor by installing a statue at NNMVN College at a cost of Rs. 12 lakh. Former Union Minister and Thanjavur MP, S. S. Palanimanickam, former Thanjavur MLA, S. S. Ubaiyathullah, AVVM Pushpam College correspondent, Tulsiayya Vandaiyar, former Director, Art and Culture Department, R. Gunasekaran and others participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-tamil-professor-statue-unveiled/article33909125.ece
23 February 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||New Collector assumes office in Theni||H. Krishnan Unni, a 2012 batch IAS officer, assumed office as the new Collector of Theni district here on Monday. Prior to the new posting, Mr. Krishnan Unni had served as Joint Secretary (Finance), Deputy Secretary (Finance) and Sub-Collector, Gobichettipalayam. Earlier, he had also served as Assistant Collector (Training) in Tiruchi district. Pallavi Baldev, who was the Collector of Theni district, was transferred as Additional Commissioner (Land Administration) a few days ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-theni-collector-assumes-office/article33909142.ece
23 February 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Mother’s milk bank inaugurated at Thoothukudi GH||Minister for Information Kadambur C. Raju inaugurated the mother’s milk bank at Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital here on Monday. The mother’s milk bank, which was inaugurated in the presence of Collector K. Senthil Raj, has the capacity to store 200 litres of mother’s milk up to six months. As the hospital handles 4,000 to 6,000 deliveries annually, mothers who wish to donate milk may do so, which will be preserved hygienically in 200 ml bottles. Since the milk will be treated in 62.50 degree Celsius, any infection will get neutralised so that it can be stored there up to six months in minus 20 degree Celsius. After being taken out from minus 20 degree Celsius, the milk will be kept in refrigerator to be used within 24 hours. If the mother and the baby are under treatment in separate areas, the milk can be collected from the mother and given to the baby whenever it is necessary. Similarly, mothers secreting excess milk can donate it to be given to the babies in need of the nutritious food due to a range of reasons. “We will give the mother’s milk stored in the bank to babies including neonatal babies undergoing treatment in Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital. If the mothers of the babies are under treatment, the milk stored in the bank would come in handy. Moreover, we will also share the milk stored in our hospital with the babies under treatment in other private hospitals also. Like blood donation, mothers secreting excess milk should donate it for saving the babies badly in need of mother’s milk,” said Revathi Balan, Dean, Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital. Mr. Raju also rechristened the Thoothukudi – Palayamkottai Highway as ‘Thamizh Saalai’ in the presence of Corporation Commissioner Sharanya Ari as resolved by the Department of Tamil Development on giving this name to an arterial road in the district headquarters. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Raju said cases registered during the anti-Sterlite protests could not be dropped unilaterally even as the probe by the judicial commission into the police firing was on. After getting legal opinion, the Chief Minister would decide on it. He also defended the State government’s stance on the fuel price hike, saying they were not supporting the hike. Since oil companies were fixing the price as per the plan put in place by the previous Congress government, the fuel price was going up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mothers-milk-bank-inaugurated-at-thoothukudi-gh/article33909529.ece
23 February 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Engineering colleges find it tough to conduct in-person classes||Not all engineering colleges in the region have been able to start in-person classes for first year students from the first week of this month as per the instructions issued by Anna University. Managements of at least a handful of colleges took longer than the planned time to set right the infrastructure that had undergone only limited maintenance for nearly a year. Due to truncated cash flow caused by the prolonged lockdown, incurring huge costs for disinfection of classrooms and hostel buildings in time and putting in place other safety measures as per the Standard Operating Procedure of the State Government turned out to be a challenge for these colleges. However, the learning activity has not been disturbed as teachers, notwithstanding the salary cuts imposed by the managements, were continuing the online classes for the students. In-person classes began for final-year students from the second week of last December. As per the instructions of the State Government, in-person classes had to be conducted for first-year students with 50 % strength from February 5. But then, it was optional for students to attend these classes. It was convenient for the colleges to provide the students with online study material and access to e-resources, a principal said. According to a representative of a private college management, classes for the second and third year students will be conducted without any hassles from March 15, and April 5 respectively. Nevertheless, the colleges were still clueless on how the 2020-21 academic session will progress, as there was lot of portions to be covered. “In normal circumstances, the focus on practical component of the even semester used to begin in March. But now, we have no idea as to when the practical component for the odd semester will be completed,” a senior professor said. Most managements of private engineering colleges opine that it would be prudent under the prevailing circumstances to club both semesters for this academic year, though they do admit that the scope for this is limited since it would require the Union Ministry of Higher Education, the University Grants Commission, the AICTE, the State Government, and the Anna University to be on the same page.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engineering-colleges-find-it-tough-to-conduct-in-person-classes/article33909121.ece
23 February 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘Release water for cash crops’||With the storage at the Mettur reservoir remaining above the 100 feet mark, farmers representatives in Tiruchi district have appealed to the State government to ensure release of adequate water to meet the requirements of standing cash crops such as banana, sugarcane and betelvine till May. At present, about 1,500 cusecs of water was being discharged from Mettur to meet the drinking water requirements of towns and cities downstream. Farmers are now demanding that the quantum of release be sustained through the non-Mettur season to irrigate banana, betelvine, and sugarcane crops that are irrigated by the 17 irrigation canals running between Mettur dam and Kallanai. The Tiruchi district secretary of the Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam, Ayilai Siva.Suriyan, in a statement, pointed out that normally about 1,500-3000 cusecs of water would be released in the Cauvery to meet the drinking water requirements and to irrigate the annual crops fed by the irrigation canals. “The water will normally be released in the canals continuously or adopting a turn system till May 10. Water will be released for this purpose even when the storage is less than 40 feet in the dam,” Mr. Siva.Suriyan said. However, over the past decade, only about 500-1000 cusecs was being released during the non-Mettur season citing poor storage at the dam. Though for the past three years, the storage has been above 100 feet, the demand of the farmers has not been accepted and only meagre quantum of water was being released for drinking water purposes periodically. Owing to this, the area of coverage of annual crops has shrunk drastically and summer paddy cultivation has completely stopped, he said. Taking into consideration the losses sustained by farmers due to the unseasonal rain and the pandemic, the government should ensure the release of adequate quantum of water to meet requirements of farmers dependent on the irrigation canals including the Uyyakondan and Kattalai High Level canals, till May 10, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/release-water-for-cash-crops/article33909133.ece
23 February 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||DMK stages stir condemning fuel price hike||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam cadres staged demonstrations in Tiruchi and other districts in the central region on Monday condemning the steep hike in prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas. The demonstration in Tiruchi was held at a couple of places. Former Minister and the party's principal secretary K. N. Nehru led the demonstration near the District Collectorate. Mr. Nehru also took part in the stir that was held near the Chathram bus stand in which party MLA Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi and others participated. In Pudukottai district, the demonstrations were held at Pudukottai town and Aranthangi. The party's Tirumayam MLA S. Regupathy led the demonstration organised in Aranthangi town. In Perambalur town, the demonstration was held near the old bus stand led by the party’s district secretary Rajendran, while in Ariyalur the stir was led by former MLA S. S. Sivasankar. In Karur town, the demonstration was led by the party’s district unit in-charge and Aravakurichi MLA Senthil Balaji. The demonstrations in Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai towns were led by the party’s respective district in-charges Gowthan and Nivedha Murugan respectively.  Thanjavur Demonstrations were also held in Thanjavur and Tiruvarur districts. While the DMK Thanjavur South District Unit organised the demonstration at Thanjavur, the Thanjavur North District DMK unit staged the protest at Kumbakonam under the respective district secretaries, Durai Chandrasekaran and N. Kalyanasundaram. At Tiruvarur, the district secretary, K. Kalaivanan, led a demonstration where participants raised slogans demanding rollback of the price increase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-stages-stir-condemning-fuel-price-hike/article33909127.ece
23 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||24 injured in jallikattu organised in Ariyalur||As many as 24 persons were injured in a jallikattu organised at Keezhaiyur in the neighbouring Ariyalur district on Monday. Around 480 bulls were released during the event, which went on for five hours, and 300 tamers participated. Five among the injured were referred to a hospital and the remaining were treated as out-patients, police sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/24-injured-in-jallikattu-organised-in-ariyalur/article33909154.ece
23 February 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Govt. school students oppose teacher’s transfer||Opposing the transfer of their Mathematics teacher by the School Education Department to another school in the district, a group of students of Perumalpalayam Government Higher Secondary School in Thuraiyur block staged a protest by blocking passage of a Tamil Nadu Government Transport Corporation for a while on Monday. The transfer order was issued by the District Educational Officer of Lalgudi following an inquiry after a reported fallout between the PG teacher and the school head backed by some teachers due to disagreement over certain administrative aspects of the school. The teacher was believed to have questioned the practice of the school to levy annual fee of Rs. 1,500 from each student, on the ground that the entire education ought to be imparted free of cost. Also, the physically challenged teacher belonging to an oppressed community was said to have acted tough against a section of students wearing caste bands. This had earned the displeasure of some of his colleagues. Earlier, during the academic year, the teacher was subjected to an inquiry over alleged misbehaviour with a girl student. Chief Educational Officer R. Arivazhagan said that necessary action had to be taken to prevent a flare-up of groupism amongst the teachers. While the Mathematics teacher was transferred to the Government Higher Secondary School in Thuvarankurichi, two other teachers were sent on deputation to other schools, the CEO said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-school-students-stage-protest-opposing-transfer-of-teacher/article33909110.ece
23 February 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||41 test positive for COVID-19||Forty-one more persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the central region on Monday. No death was recorded for the day in the region in the bulletin issued by the State Department of Health. Thanjavur topped with 16 fresh cases among the eight central districts . Tiruchi and Tiruvarur reported six cases each. Three cases each were recorded in Ariyalur, Karur, Nagapattinam and Pudukottai districts, while Perambalur registered a single case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/41-test-positive-for-covid-19/article33909114.ece
23 February 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Owners of backhoe loaders on strike||A large number of backhoe loaders stayed off work on Monday as part of a two-day strike called by the Tiruchi District JCB Owners Association, in protest against the hike in prices of fuel, spares and demanding an increase in rentals. “There has been a steep rise in the prices of diesel, oil, grease, tyres and other spares. The wages of drivers have also gone up. But we are getting the same rental,” said S. Manjunath, president of the association. Mr. Manjunath said several owners of backhoe loaders, used widely as earth movers and in various construction activities including government/railway projects, have been struggling to repay dues of the vehicle loans. The price of the backhoe loaders have gone up from Rs. 17 lakh to Rs. 29 lakh. The wages of drivers, who are skilled labourers, have also risen to Rs. 1,200 from Rs. 700 a day. The association demanded that the rentals of the backhoe loaders be increased to Rs. 1,300 per hour (from the present Rs. 1,000) and the minimum charges to Rs. 3,500 (from the present Rs. 2,500). A large number of backhoe loaders were parked at different locations across the district including Sanjeevi Nagar and Musiri, Lalgudi and  Vaiyampatti-Manapparai in the district.  There has been a steep rise in the prices of diesel, oil, tyres and other spares but we are getting the same rental S. Manjunath President, Tiruchi District JCB Owners Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/owners-of-backhoe-loaders-on-strike/article33909131.ece
23 February 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||24 injured in jallikattu||Twenty four persons were injured in a jallikattu organised at Keezhaiyur village in neighbouring Ariyalur district on Monday. As many as 480 bulls were released during the course of the event which went on for five hours. A total number of 300 tamers participated. Five among the injured were referred to a hospital and the remaining injured were treated as out-patients, said police sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/24-injured-in-jallikattu/article33909122.ece
23 February 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Anganwadi workers stir||Several anganwadi workers and assistants resorted to waiting agitations in Tiruchi and Pudukottai on Monday in support of their demands. Their stir in Tiruchi was held near the old Collectorate in which around 500 anganwadi workers and assistants participated. In Pudukottai town, around 300 of them participated in the stir. They urged the State to declare them as govt. employees and provide them with a time bound scale of pay among other demands. The agitation in Tiruchi was led by the Tamil Nadu Anganwadi Workers and Assistants Association, Tiruchi district president Tamilselvi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anganwadi-workers-stir/article33909128.ece
23 February 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Maintenance of law and order top priority, says new CoP||The city police will accord the highest priority to maintenance of law and order and will identify ‘sensitive polling stations’ to ensure fool-proof security for conduct of free and fair Assembly polls, according to T.S. Anbu, who assumed office as Commissioner of Police, Tirunelveli City. Mr. Anbu served here as Police Commissioner between 2015 and 2016. When Mr. Anbu, a 2001-batch IPS officer, was posted here as Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tirunelveli Range, in 2015 following promotion, he headed the Tirunelveli City Police also as additional charge. Before joining here as Commissioner of Police, Mr. Anbu served as Inspector General of Police in Idol Wing. Mr. Anbu said the city police would focus on ensuring safety of residents. “The city police will concentrate more on ensuring the safety of the residents of Tirunelveli city. Aggrieved residents may approach the police station concerned to get their genuine grievances solved.” Earlier, D.K. Srinivasan assumed office here as Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order), Tirunelveli City, after his predecessor S. Saravanan was posted as principal of Police Training College, Peroorani, in Thoothukudi district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/maintenance-of-law-and-order-top-priority-says-new-cop/article33909535.ece
23 February 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Court awards three-year jail term for youth||A court here has awarded three years imprisonment to a youth who sexually harassed a 17-year-old girl repeatedly. According to prosecution, C. Ramar, 26, of Chathramputhukkulam in Thatchanallur was sexually harassing the girl from a nearby area regularly. When the problem worsened on October 16, 2018, the victim filed a complaint with Maanur police who arrested Ramar. The Judge of special court for cases registered under POCSO Act, Indrani, awarded the imprisonment to Ramar on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/court-awards-three-year-jail-term-for-youth/article33909148.ece
23 February 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Gadwall spotted at Nanjarayan Tank||A lone gadwall ( Mareca strepera ), a migratory bird rarely found within the State, was reportedly spotted for the first time at Nanjarayan Tank on the outskirts of Tiruppur. According to the president of Nature Society of Tiruppur, K. Ravindran, who photographed the bird at the water body on Saturday, gadwalls have been spotted only in Kanchipuram, Tiruchi and Coimbatore in the State as per the eBird web portal. Only one male gadwall, characterised by its black tail feather and a distinctive “scale-like” plumage pattern, was spotted here, he said. “Many of the birds are behind the bushes, which also makes it difficult to spot them,” he said. The migratory birds will arrive from various parts of the world to the Nanjarayan Tank from the first week of October and leave by March. During this season, two birds have been reportedly spotted for the first time here, with the other being ruddy shelducks ( Tadorna ferruginea ), according to Mr. Ravindran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gadwall-spotted-at-nanjarayan-tank/article33909173.ece
23 February 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Infrastructure plan for judiciary soon: CJ||A “definite infrastructure plan” for the judiciary will soon be put in place in agreement with the State government, said Chief Justice of Madras High Court Sanjib Banerjee while inaugurating the Additional Mahila Court and Additional District Munsif Court in Tiruppur via video-conferencing. “I am trying to get the government to agree that we will have a five-year long-term budget for infrastructure,” he said during his presidential address. The Chief Justice spoke about the importance of women empowerment and education of girls. “If we do not give them the affection, respect and the opportunities that they deserve, society will never develop,” he said. Justices D. Krishnakumar, S.S. Sundar and P.T. Asha from the Madras High Court also addressed the inaugural event via video-conferencing. Principal District and Sessions Judge for Tiruppur district S. Alli, Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan, Superintendent of Police Disha Mittal and Commissioner of Police G. Karthikeyan were present in Tiruppur. Legal sources said 737 civil cases would be transferred to the Additional District Munsif Court and 187 cases to the Additional Mahila Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/infrastructure-plan-for-judiciary-soon-cj/article33909151.ece
23 February 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Panchayat union ward member beheaded||Rajesh, 38, of Manalmedu Kovilur, a ward member of the Muthupettai Panchayat Union, was beheaded by an unidentified gang on Monday. The murder came to light after members of the public noticed a human head fall on the road in Alankadu area from a moving two-wheeler. Two persons riding the vehicle, fled the scene. Immediately, passers-by alerted the police. Following a thorough search in the nearby areas, the police found a corpse without its head lying near a coir factory. On investigation, the police identified the deceased as the Muthupettai Panchayat Union Ward-11 member, Rajesh, who is said to be involved in several criminal cases. Rajesh, who got elected to the Panchayat Union as an independent candidate, later joined the AIADMK, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panchayat-union-ward-member-beheaded/article33908965.ece
23 February 2021||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||Panchayat Union ward member beheaded||R. Rajesh (38) of Manalmedu Kovilur, a ward member of Muthupettai Panchayat Union in the district, was beheaded by an unidentified gang on Monday. The murder came to light after the public noticed a human head slip and fall on the road from a moving two-wheeler in Alankadu area. Two persons riding the vehicle fled the scene. Immediately, passers-by alerted the police.  Body found Following a thorough search in the nearby areas, the police found a headless body lying near a coir factory. On further investigation, the police identified the deceased as member of Muthupettai panchayat union ward 11 Rajesh. He was allegedly involved in several criminal cases, including a murder case. Rajesh, who had got elected to the panchayat union as an independent candidate, later joined the AIADMK, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panchayat-union-ward-member-beheaded/article33909135.ece
23 February 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Accidents lead to closure of Kalhatti ghat road again||Two weeks after Kalhatti ghat road was reopened for tourist vehicles, a series of accidents along the stretch forced the police to close the road to motorists from outside the Nilgiris. Since the road was opened to vehicles to descend to the Sigur plateau from Udhagamandalam on February 8, five cars met with serious accidents along the stretch. Fortunately, there were no fatalities, said police officials. “On the very first day that the road was opened, a car hit a huge boulder after losing control along the road. Apart from the five accidents, there have been a number of persons who have reported reckless driving along the stretch,” said a police official. Following the accidents, the police have temporarily closed the road to vehicles registered outside the Nilgiris. They have taken the action due to the ongoing Bokkapuram Temple Festival, which witnesses large number of devotees using the road to reach Bokkapuram in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR). The police said they were concerned that the increase in the amount of traffic could lead to more accidents, and temporarily rerouted vehicles proceeding to MTR via Gudalur. When contacted, R. Pandiarajan, Superintendent of Police, said he had suggestions from the public urging him to close the road for vehicles descending the Kalhatti Ghat. “Since the suggestions were first made, two more accidents occurred along the road. The police will discuss with the Collector and decide on a permanent solution to the problem, which could mean more restrictions along the road,” said Mr. Pandiarajan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/accidents-lead-to-closure-of-kalhatti-ghat-road-again/article33909150.ece
23 February 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Anganwadi workers stage protest||Around 600 anganwadi workers and assistants staged a protest outside the Collectorate in Udhagamandalam on Monday demanding the State Government to regularise their jobs, and to provide pension and gratuity.  Anganwadi workers and assistants union, which led the protest, demanded that the workers be made permanent employees. They also wanted gratuity of Rs. 10 lakh and Rs. 5 lakh to be paid to anganwadi workers and assistants respectively. The protesting workers said that former Chief Minister J. Jayalalithaa had promised to make anganwadi workers and assistants permanent government employees and alleged that the AIADMK was reneging on that promise. Protesters held A total of 565 protesters were arrested by the police while staging a demonstration outside the Collectorate on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anganwadi-workers-stage-protest/article33909046.ece
23 February 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Making wildlife feel at home on her property||T. Jayshree, a septuagenarian who has been living in Bokkapuram in the buffer zone of the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) for 26 years, takes a daily tour of her 12.5 acre property, especially when she spots a herd of cattle that has entered through a broken fence. Quickly chasing the herd away from a patch of forest, she says that despite her age, she visits her property every day to check for any potential threat to the wildlife that have made themselves at home around her residence. Illegal resorts “I am so afraid that these cattle will spread disease to the herds of deer that live here,” says Ms. Jayshree, who has become one of Bokkapuram’s least favourite residents, due to her persistent efforts to bring to light the illegal functioning of resorts along the notified elephant corridor. “The local body has received more than 30 petitions against me from the resort owners here, who have tried to get water and power supply to my property stopped, so that they can force me out of Bokkapuram,” said Ms. Jayashree. She claims she has faced threats from local residents on numerous occasions, demanding that she stop speaking out against the illegal resorts in the area. Access for wildlife Unlike other residents, Ms. Jayshree does not restrict access into her property for wildlife. “I leave the fence of my property open for them to enter, but have a strict policy of not feeding them or getting close to them,” she says. When she first purchased the land in 1994, the 12.5 acre property was used as a grazing area for cattle. “Now, by restricting the entry of cattle, the property has over 150 native trees and thousands of clumps of bamboo, which have all re-established in the area over the last two decades. I don’t plant any trees but I protect the flora that grows by itself,” she says. Due to the protection and refuge that her property offers, a tigress and her cub, a leopardess, bears, dholes, elephants and deer are seen on Ms. Jayshree’s property almost throughout the year. “The people who live in this area are not animal-lovers. If deer enter their property, they chase them away, and I have even heard of some of them attacking elephants,” she says. “People must realise that to live here is a privilege, and no sort of commercial business must be allowed. Only people who really love wildlife and who can share their space with animals should be allowed to stay here,” she says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/making-wildlife-feel-at-home-on-her-property/article33909153.ece
23 February 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||11 new COVID-19 cases in Vellore district||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 20,941, with 11 new cases reported on Monday. While 20,538 persons have been discharged after treatment, the number of active cases in the district stands at 53. The death toll is 350. Ranipet and Tirupattur In Ranipet district, five cases were reported, taking the tally to 16,209. In Tirupattur district, one case was reported on Monday, taking the total figure to 7,627. In Tiruvannamalai district, three new cases were reported, taking the tally to 19,464. Of them, 19,144 persons have been discharged, and the number of active cases stands at 36.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/11-new-covid-19-cases-in-vellore-district/article33909540.ece
23 February 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Govt. second to none in living up to people’s expectations: CM||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has called upon DMK president M.K. Stalin to stop uttering lies and making unfounded allegations against the AIADMK as the government had taken several progressive measures to relieve the people of their hardships in every field of development. Laying the foundation stone for a desalination project costing Rs. 1,502.7 crore and various other projects, including a fishing harbour costing Rs. 235 crore in Villupuram district on Monday, he said that the 60 million litres per day capacity desalination plant was the first in the State to be set up in a rural area and would meet the drinking water requirements of 692 rural habitations in Villupuram and Tindivanam municipalities and Marakkanam and Vikravandi town panchayats. Mr. Palaniswami said the construction of a fishing harbour at Alagankuppam, near Marakkanam, was a long-pending demand of the people, especially the fishermen. It would give a fillip to the fisheries sector in the district. Charging the DMK president with uttering lies and giving false statistics, Mr. Palaniswami said the very fact that the government had developed a site full of garbage mounds located in the centre of Villupuram town from an eyesore into a tank equipped with various amenities was proof of the attention the government paid to development in Villupuram district. “The DMK leader should first make a field visit either by himself to the renovated tank or depute his lieutenants, including K. Ponmudi (former Minister), to the site and then make any statement against the government.” “Whenever Mr. Stalin opens his mouth, he is only speaking lies and unfounded statements,” the Chief Minister said. Mr. Palaniswami said that the government’s crop loan waiver scheme had benefitted more than 16.43 lakh farmers in the State. The scheme had benefitted as many as 65,622 farmers in Villupuram district, and the total amount waived off was Rs. 451 crore in the district. The Chief Minister said that the government was second to none in measuring up to the expectations of the people. “We have also drawn up a plan to ensure that all families own dwelling units and no one should be without houses,” he said. Law Minister C.Ve. Shanmugam, Higher Education Minister K.P. Anbalagan, Collector A. Annadurai and Additional Collector Shreya P. Singh were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-second-to-none-in-living-up-to-peoples-expectations-cm/article33908968.ece
23 February 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Central government should reduce taxes on fuel, says DMK||The cooking gas price that used to be Rs. 220 when the then Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi introduced free cooking gas connection scheme, has now fast approaching Rs. 1,000, said Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam Virudhunagar south district secretary K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran. Addressing a protest organised by the party here on Monday, the Aruppukottai MLA said that the spiralling price of cooking gas, petrol and diesel was making the fuel beyond the reach of the common man. He said the Centre should reduce the taxes on fuel. “Even if the Union Government does not cut the taxes of fuel, the State Government should come forward to reduce its taxes to give relief to the people,” Mr. Ramachandran said. The Centre and the State should not think that their acts against the people will go unquestioned. “The people should vote for the DMK to bring down the fuel prices,” he added. Tiruchuli MLA, Thangam Thennarasu, said that the Bharatiya Janata Party that was vehemently protesting and blaming the then United Progressive Alliance Government in the Centre for the fuel price hike, was now trying to absolve itself. “Finance Minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, was putting the blame on the oil companies for increase in price of fuel. The Centre cannot shirk its responsibility,” he added. Madurai Sudden and frequent increase in prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas has hit the common man badly, said DMK Madurai urban north district secretary Pon. Muthuramalingam. Addressing a demonstration organised by the party against high fuel prices, Mr. Muthuramalingam said not only the affluent use petrol, diesel and cooking gas. “Cooking gas cylinders is used by middle class and poor people. The spiralling price of the LPG refill has affected them the most,” he said. The high fuel prices would have a cascading effect as bus fare and lorry freight would also rise, leading to an increase in prices of essential commodities. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the Centre and States should try to bring down the fuel price.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-government-should-reduce-taxes-on-fuel-says-dmk/article33909146.ece
23 February 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Minister gives Rs. 5-lakh relief to girl who lost parents in fire accident||Minister for Dairy Development K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji on Monday gave Rs. 5 lakh compensation to a minor girl, Nandini, who lost both her parents in the February 12 fire accident near Sattur. Mr. Bhalaji gave the money from his savings towards the school education of the 12 year old girl. Her parents, Backiaraj and Selvi, were charred to death in the accident at Sree Mariyammal Fireworks. The Minister visited her at her home in Nadusoorangudi to hand over the money. He also added that he would help other victims of fireworks accidents to get due relief. All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam Virudhunagar east district secretary K. Ravichandran was present. Later, addressing a meeting organised to discuss making fireworks units safe at the Collectorate, the Minister said that leasing out of factories should not be done. Collector R. Kannan, Superintendent of Police P. Perumal, District Revenue Officer R. Mangalaramasubramanian, and Deputy Chief Controller of Explosives K. Sundaresan were among those who were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-5-lakh-relief-given-to-minor-girl-who-lost-parents-in-fire-accident/article33909136.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Residents of 40-year-old colony near Palayamkottai face eviction||A group of residents from Viswakarma Colony near Palayamkottai submitted a petition to Collector V. Vishnu on Monday appealing for patta for the land on which they have constructed their houses and residing over the past 40 years. The petitioners, led by M. Esakkimuthu, said they lived in huts in the colony as they were labourers. They constructed permanent houses with loan availed from Palayamkottai Cooperative Housing Society. The houses were give power connection after they paid taxes to Tirunelveli Corporation. Besides, drinking water connections were given to the houses and the residents had ration, Aadhaar and Electors’ Photo Identity Cards. “After we submitted petitions seeking patta for the land on which our houses stand on various occasions, Revenue Divisional Officer, Tirunelveli, who ordered survey of our lands, also inspected the spot. At a time when we are awaiting the patta, the residents of Viswakarma Nagar have been told to move out saying our colony is situated inside an irrigation tank though our houses do not obstruct flow of water in anyway. Hence, the Collector should instruct the officials concerned to issue patta for us,” Mr. Esakkimuthu said. Another group of people from MGR Nagar in Pettai near Tirunelveli submitted a petition to the Collector seeking his intervention to allow them to live in the same place after the Tamil Nadu Housing Board reportedly asked them to move out of the place to facilitate construction to be started shortly. The petitioners said they were living in MGR Nagar over the past five decades and working in Tirunelveli Corporation as permanent and temporary sanitation workers. Since the Tamil Nadu Housing Board, which built group houses for rehabilitated leprosy patients and multi-storey apartments for the poor, planned to start construction at MGR Nagar also, the residents had been asked to move out of this place. “Though we are affected by stagnant rainwater every year, we never approached officials seeking alternative place. Hence, the Collector should allow us to live in the same place,” said P. Vanapandi, one of the petitioners. The Bahujan Samaj Party submitted a petition urging the Collector to take steps for retrieval of panchami lands in Tirunelveli district given to beneficiaries from the Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe communities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-of-40-year-old-colony-near-palayamkottai-face-eviction/article33909533.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Uber moves HC seeking uniformity in GST for offering pillion rider services||The Madras High Court on Monday directed the Central Board of Indirect Taxes (CBIT) to consider a representation made by Uber India Systems Private Limited to either exempt it from paying Goods and Services Tax (GST) for the motorcycle pillion rider services offered by it or collect such tax from all other companies which provide similar services of transporting pillion riders from one place to another. Justice Anita Sumanth directed the CBIT to consider the representation and pass appropriate orders on it after affording an opportunity of hearing to the petitioner company as well as all other companies offering identical two-wheeler hiring services. The direction was issued without prejudice to the pendency of the writ petition filed by Uber India, which was aggrieved over non-consideration of its plea. The judge also directed senior standing counsel A.P. Srinivas to take notice on behalf of CBIT and apprise the court of the progress by April 5. The directions were issued after hearing senior counsel Arvind P. Datar, who said Uber was dutifully paying 2.5% towards State GST and another 2.5% towards Central GST whereas identical operators of two-wheeler hiring services were not paying the taxes at all. Stating that Uber operates about 6,000 two-wheelers under its hiring services, senior counsel said the Centre had granted permission for offering such services. While some State governments insist that those two-wheelers display yellow-coloured number plates generally used by cabs, other States had so far allowed white colour number plates used by private vehicles to continue, he said. In so far as Tamil Nadu was concerned, a case was pending before a Division Bench of the High Court regarding permission to be granted to two-wheeler services and Uber had impleaded itself in the case, he said. Collecting GST from Uber alone and not making other operators pay the taxes had handicapped the petitioner company from implementing a competitive pricing policy, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/uber-moves-hc-seeking-uniformity-in-gst-for-offering-pillion-rider-services/article33909387.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Anganwadi workers demand recognition as govt. employees||Anganwadi workers and helpers on Monday staged wait-in protest near the Collectorate to highlight their demands. The protestors said the State government should recognise them as government employees and give them timescale. Besides giving pension to retired anganwadi workers and helpers, family pension should also be given in the event of their death. Gratuity of Rs. 10 lakh should be given to anganwadi workers, while this amount should be fixed as Rs. .5 lakh for assistants. When the protestors, led by Gnanammal, district secretary of Anganwadi Workers, Helpers Welfare Association, were marching towards the Collectorate, they were stopped at MGR Statue near the District Science Centre and directed to a ground near the Collectorate. In Thoothukudi, district president A. Mariammal presided over the agitation and State vice-president of Tamil Nadu Government Employees’ Association N. Venkatesan inaugurated the protest. Similar agitations were organised by anganwadi workers near Tenkasi and Kanniyakumari Collectorates also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anganwadi-workers-demand-recognition-as-govt-employees/article33909531.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||SHRC orders initiation of criminal proceedings against HM||The State Human Rights Commission has recommended to the State Government to issue suitable instructions to the Director of School Education for expediting pending inquiry against the headmistress of Kallanai Corporation Higher Secondary School here for not allegedly disbursing scholarships meant for SC/ST students. The SHRC has also recommended to the government to initiate criminal proceedings against the erring headmistress. According to petitioner M. Muthuvalavan of Sivarajapuram in Melapalayam here, the scholarships received to the tune of Rs. 4.70 lakh from the government by headmistress of school in Tirunelveli Town, Anantha Bairavi alias Natchiyar, were not disbursed to the beneficiary SC/ ST students for four years since 2015. The petitioner also alleged that Ms. Anantha Bairavi did not pay the ‘English language tuition fee’ of Rs. 17 lakh for 2,000-odd beneficiary students from 2015 – 2016 to 2018 – 2019 and filed a complaint with the State Human Rights Commission seeking its intervention to ensure prompt disbursal of the assistances to beneficiary students. Following direction from SHRC, District Educational Officer, Tirunelveli, conducted inquiry into the charges against Ms. Anantha Bairavi and found them to be true. Subsequently, the DEO submitted a report to SHRC and the Chief Educational Officer. The CEO, in his report to the SHRC, also attached seven more documents including copies of the letter he sent to the Director of School Education, Chennai, seeking disciplinary action against Ms. Anantha Bairavi as the charges levelled against her were true as per the report submitted by the DEO and the inspection report. The CEO also submitted the proceedings of the Director of School Education, Chennai, ordering disciplinary proceedings against the headmistress under Rule 17 (b) of the Tamil Nadu Civil Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, which is still pending for disposal. Moreover, the CEO also sent a letter to the District Adi Dravida and Tribal Welfare Officer, Tirunelevli, that the scholarships meant for SC/ST students for the year 2017 – 2018 were not disbursed to beneficiary students as the amount was in the bank account of the headmistress. Judge D. Jayachandran said Ms. Anantha Bairavi had not disbursed the scholarship of Rs. 81,000 for the year 2017 – 2018. “Since she violated human rights, Ms. Anantha Bairavi should pay compensation of Rs. 25,000 to the complainant who unearthed the violation. The SHRC also recommended to the State Government to give suitable instructions to the Director of School Education, Chennai, to expedite its inquiry against the headmistress and initiate criminal proceedings against her for “misappropriation of scholarship”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/initiate-criminal-proceedings-against-hm-shrc-to-state/article33909109.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Salem district reports 14 cases||Salem district reported 14 COVID-19 positive cases on Monday. According to officials, 11 cases were indigenous and three cases have returned from Chennai and Dharmapuri. In Namakkal, six cases were reported, two patients have returned from Erode and Coimbatore. Erode district reported 15 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 14,733. While 17 persons were discharged, 128 persons continue to be under treatment. Coimbatore district reported 40 cases, while Tiruppur district saw 12 cases. In the Nilgiris district, six people tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 8,332. The number of deaths in the district stood at 48 on Monday while 64 people are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-district-reports-14-cases/article33909168.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Vaikundarajan gets 3-year prison sentence||The case was registered by the CBI on March 1, 2016. The agency had alleged that Khatri, as the then Deputy Director (Scientist-C) in the Ministry of Environment and Forests, accepted Rs. 4.13 lakh through a bank draft, dated July 3, 2012, in favour of VIT University (Vellore) at the instance of Vaikundarajan. His son, Sidharth, had been admitted to a B. Tech. (mechanical engineering) course of the university, for which the amount was deposited. In lieu of the bribe, the CBI alleged, Khatri extended favour with respect to a letter submitted by V.V. Minerals’ managing partner on October 15, 2012, to the Secretary of the Ministry of Environment and Forests, along with a form and a pre-feasibility report, for seeking ‘terms of reference’ for environmental clearance. It pertained to a products-specific (mineral-based) SEZ project over an area of 166.665 hectare at Thiruvambalapuram in Tirunelveli. The application was submitted in the Ministry’s central registry and marked to the Impact Assessment (IA)-III division. An acknowledgement receipt was given. A copy of the receipt was submitted by the company to the IA-II division, where Khatri was posted. The CBI alleged that the application should have been handled by the IA-III division. Khatri endorsed the acknowledgement copy with a note: “to be considered in next EAC [Expert Appraisal Committee] meeting (November) urgent”, and marked it to the Section Officer. The agency said enclosures to the letter were incomplete as they did not have Vaikundarajan’s signature at all the required places, while those accompanying the letter to the central registry had his signatures. The CBI said the air tickets for Khatri and his son — from Delhi to Chennai and his return ticket from Chennai to Delhi — were bought by Subbulakshmi. As it turned out, the company was accorded Coastal Regulation Zone clearance for operations in Tirunelveli during 2005-06. Subbulakshmi was employed as a liaison officer on a contract basis from 2011 to early 2013 to look after the company’s work. In May 2012, the Industries (MIE2) Department of the Secretariat in Chennai, on the company’s application, recommended to the Commerce Ministry the grant of “formal approval” for the establishment of the SEZ. A copy of the recommendation letter was received by V.V. Minerals, following which it knew that it had to approach the Ministry of Environment and Forests for environmental clearance. The company’s proposal was approved by the Commerce Ministry on July 6, 2012. The CBI also submitted in the court that Khatri had earlier been caught while accepting and demanding Rs. 7 lakh in bribe, which was investigated in another case registered on January 16, 2013.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaikundarajan-gets-3-year-prison-term/article33908984.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||One death, 40 new cases in Coimbatore||Coimbatore district reported one COVID-19 death and 40 new cases on Monday, taking the overall tally to 55,502. The Health Department reported the death of a 68-year-old man who was undergoing treatment for COVID-19 and the district’s toll rose to 680. The district saw 54,419 recoveries and 403 were active cases. A total of 44 persons from the district were discharged from various treatment centres on Monday. Tiruppur district reported 12 fresh cases on Monday, and the tally rose to 18,259. No deaths were reported in the district. As many as 17,912 patients have recovered and 123 were active cases. On Monday, 14 patients were discharged from various treatment centres. Six persons tested positive for the disease in the Nilgiris district on Monday. With the latest infections, the number of confirmed cases in the district stood at 8,332. Sixty-four persons are under treatment. Of the 14 new cases reported in Salem district, 11 were indigenous and three patients had returned from Chennai and Dharmapuri. Namakkal district reported six cases. Two patients had returned from Erode and Coimbatore. Erode district reported 15 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 14,733.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-death-40-new-cases-in-coimbatore/article33909044.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Summer is near||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/summer-is-near/article33909170.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Shimmering water||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shimmering-water/article33909119.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Welfare politics||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/welfare-politics/article33909489.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COIMBATORE TODAY||Coodu and ITC: Water Mela, Bore Gouder Mahal, Dhayanur, 10 a.m.  KG College of Arts and Science: Guest lecture on ‘Income Tax Global Scenario’, 3 p.m.  Jansons Institute of Technology: Webinar on ‘Evolution of Electric Vehicles’, 3.30 p.m.; webinar on ‘A day life of Ham’, 6.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-today/article33909034.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||ERODE||Kongu Arts and Science College: National Cadet Corps, Combined Annual Training Camp III, 10 a.m.  RD National College of Arts and Science: World Thinking Day observance, webinar on Design Thinking by Anish Manohar Urkude, Director, IJORD Group, Nagpur, 12.30 p.m.     The Kavery Educational Institutions: On campus drive, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode/article33909156.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||ERODE Due to road widening works by the State Highways Department in the Mettukadai sub-station Valliputhiranpalayam line, power supply will be disrupted from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on February 23 in the following areas:  Valliputhiranpalayam line : Dr. Garden, Vidhya Nagar, Valliputhiranpalayam, Therkupallam, Aparna Avenue, Kalliyankattu Valasu, Karattupalayam, Kargil Nagar, Alagapuram, Athappapalayam, EP. Nagamanickam Nagar, Murugan Nagar, Saravana Nagar, Palani Goundan Palayam, Arthanari Goundan Valasu, Konganampalli, Sriram Nagar, Ganapathi Garden, Amman Garde, Kuttaikadu and Tirupathi Garden.  Villarasampatti line : V.I.P. Golden City Veerapampalayam, Veerapampalayam Bypass Road and Thai Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article33909158.ece
23 February 2021||BELAGAVI/MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Checkposts set up on border with Maharashtra and Kerala||A series of checkposts have been put up across the Karnataka-Maharashtra border in Belagavi, Bagalkot, Vijayapura, Kalaburagi and Bidar districts to make sure that those entering the State have COVID-19 negative reports. Kalaburagi has the highest number of checkposts (5), followed by Belagavi (4), Bidar (3) and Vijayapura (2). Posters were put up stating that RT-PCR negative certificate was mandatory for crossing into Karnataka. Meanwhile, even as surveillance in districts sharing a border with Kerala has been stepped up with fresh COVID-19 scare, the health authorities of Mysuru district have been asked to mandatorily screen all passengers entering from Kerala through the border check-posts, as a measure against the preventing fresh spread of the pandemic. Amidst a scare of a second wave of the pandemic with new infections being reported in neighbouring Kerala and Maharashtra, an emergency meeting of police officers was convened by Minister in-charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar. Measures in Kodagu Surveillance on the Kerala border in Kodagu district has been intensified. Deputy Commissioner Charulatha Somal, accompanied by Superintendent of Police Kshama Mishra, visited checkposts at Karike and Sampaje. She instructed personnel to strictly screen people entering into Karnataka from Kerala, and verify the COVID-19 test reports. In Chamarajnagar, surveillance had been tightened in border areas. No one is allowed to enter Karnataka without a RT-PCR negative report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/checkposts-set-up-on-border-with-maharashtra-and-kerala/article33908927.ece
23 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Seer is in the clutches of some leaders: Ministers||The Panchamasali community’s movement for 2A reservation status in the OBC list seems to be showing some cracks, with two Ministers accusing the Koodala Sangama Panchamasali Peetha seer of being in the “firm clutches of a few individuals looking to use the community for their political gains”. While appealing to the seer to drop his dharna plans, Ministers Murugesh Nirani and C.C. Patil, who pledged their support along with 14 Panchamasali legislators to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, alleged that their party colleague Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, a legislator from Vijayapura, and former Congress legislator Vijayanand Kashappanavar had the seer in their clutches. The Ministers accused the two leaders of “misusing the Panchamasali convention for their selfish political gains with their inciting speeches”. They said that it was unfortunate and condemnable that the community was being misled on the ground reality about the process of providing 2A reservation. Mr. Kashappanavar, on his part, dismissed the allegations and claimed that both BJP leaders would lose their ministerial posts if he “spoke the truth”. He said the Ministers were upset about his growing popularity in the community. A padayatra of nearly 700 km, taken up over 39 days, from Koodala Sangama had culminated with the convention at Palace Grounds in Bengaluru on Sunday. The aim was to exert pressure on the government. Seer Basava Jayamruthyunjaya Swami announced a dharna and an indefinite fast later if the demand was not met. Mr. Yatnal launched a personal attack on the Chief Minister and accused him of running a “drama company”. The sudden announcement of a rally towards Vidhana Soudha sparked off tense moments for the police, who later convinced the seer to march towards Freedom Park, from where he has started a dharna on Monday. “The aim of the convention was to demand the inclusion of the community under 2A category. However, Mr. Yatnal used the platform to attack the Chief Minister and his family members, which is not acceptable,” said Mr. Patil. He also accused Mr. Kashappanavar of becoming the president of the Koodala Sangama Trust without convening a meeting of either the trust or the community leaders. Original plan According to Mr. Nirani, at a meeting of political leaders from the community that was held in Tumakuru ahead of the convention, it had been decided that after the convention the government would be given time. “However, the seer, under the influence of the two [Mr. Kashappanavar and Mr. Yatnal] took other decisions beyond the convention,” he claimed. “Under a 1994 Supreme Court directive, the backward classes commission has to give a report [on reservation] and the decision has to be apolitical. We cannot set a deadline. Once the report is given, the Cabinet will discuss it,” Mr. Patil said. While both Ministers invited the seer for a dialogue and sought time, the seer refused to agree. “Let Yediyurappa announce the formation of a committee under a retired judge, as promised by the Ministers. Then we willconsider. I will not go to the government for talks. Let them come to Freedom Park,” he said, adding that he wasn’t under anyone’s influence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/seer-is-in-the-clutches-of-some-leaders-ministers/article33908935.ece
23 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Four districts register less than 50% vaccination coverage||The government has set a target of 80% to vaccinate healthcare workers and frontline workers in all districts in the State by February-end. This comes even as four districts, including Bengaluru Urban, are said to be lagging in vaccination. The other districts that had registered less than 50% coverage were Bagalkot, Davangere, and Dharwad. Six districts had achieved over 70% coverage – Chickballapur (79%), Tumakuru (78%), Uttara Kannada (73%), Gadag (71%), Chikkamagaluru (70%), and Chamarajanagar (70%). With regard to vaccination of frontline workers, Gadag (84%) and Tumakuru (71%) had outperformed other districts in the State. In this category too, Bengaluru Urban had fared poorly with just 26% coverage. Two other districts that were lagging behind included Bagalkot (23%) and Chamarajanagar (27%). Minister for Health and Medical Education K. Sudhakar told reporters here on Monday that more than 4.24 lakh Health Department employees and 1.2 lakh frontline warriors had been administered the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine. “We are cleaning up registration data by eliminating duplicate entries. We have set a target of 80-90% coverage by the end of this month,” he said. He also said that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa was monitoring the vaccination drive and would soon be chairing a videoconference with officials from all districts this weekend. Urging more healthcare workers and frontline workers to take the vaccine, he said spread of the virus could be checked only if more people were vaccinated. “That is the only way we can achieve herd immunity,” he said and added that the Centre had earmarked Rs. 35,000 crore for vaccines. Third phase Dr. Sudhakar said that the Centre was likely to announce the third phase of vaccinations by March. Under this, citizens above the age of 50 and those below 50 with comorbid conditions would be eligible for the vaccine. “However, the focus of the State government right now was to ensure maximum coverage among the healthcare and frontline workers in all districts. “The mop-up round for both categories will be held over the next three days to achieve maximum coverage,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-districts-register-less-than-50-vaccination-coverage/article33908924.ece
23 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NIMHANS to be part of global project to tackle encephalitis||NIMHANS will be a part of an international project, ‘Brain Infections Global’, funded by the National Institute of Health Research (NIHR), Liverpool, U.K. The other collaborating centre in India is Christian Medical College, Vellore. Two other nations – Malawi in Africa and Brazil in South America – are also participating. V. Ravi, retired professor of neuro virology, NIMHANS, told reporters on Monday that the project aims to establish a standard care package for improving diagnosis and early hospital management of patients with suspected acute brain infections. A press release stated that a standard care package will be developed to improve the early diagnosis and management in Acute Brain Infections. It is envisaged that this ‘model’ programme on brain infection management will pave the way for such programmes being implemented in other States as well. Every year, February 22 is observed as World Encephalitis Day to create awareness for people who have been directly or indirectly affected by encephalitis. The theme this year was ‘Light up a local landmark’. Prominent landmarks, including Vidhana Soudha, Arogya Soudha and NIMHANS, were lit up in red. Every year, thousands of cases are reported from 17 States to the National Vector Borne Diseases Control Programme (NVBDCP) in India. It is known that there is one death for every 250 cases of brain infections in the country. During 2018, 10,485 AES cases and 632 deaths were reported. AES cases were reported mainly from Assam, Bihar, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Manipur, Meghalaya, Tripura, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh. As per conservative estimates, 50,000 to 1,75,0004 cases are reported every year with 10,000 to 15,000 deaths annually. Inaugurating the programme, Minister for Health and Medical Education K. Sudhakar said: “As we are struggling to combat communicable diseases over the past year, we also need to take a serious note and address diseases like encephalitis. India is among the countries where thousands have succumbed to this disease. .” He also said with citizens from across the country coming to NIMHANS, he had urged Union Finance Minister to establish sub-centres in two more regions of Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nimhans-to-be-part-of-global-project/article33908920.ece
23 February 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Vokkaligas petition State govt. seeking increase in reservation||In the midst of demands on reservation by various communities, the Vokkaliga community has officially demanded an increase in reservation from 4% to 10% in the Backward Classes category 3A. It has also sought a Vokkaliga development authority with a corpus fund of Rs. 1,000 crore. Terming the caste census conducted by the backward classes commission in 2016-17 “politically motivated”, religious heads of the community have urged the government not to accept it. On Monday, Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan and Revenue Minister R. Ashok (both belonging to the Vokkaliga community) visited AdichunchanagiriMutt in Bengaluru to receive a memorandum from the mutt seer, Nirmalananda Swami, Spatikapuri Mutt seer Nanjavadhoota Swami and other community leaders. “The demand to include all 115 subsects of Vokkaliga in the Backward Classes list and the demand for the authority will be discussed with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. An appropriate decision will subsequently be taken. The government is committed to meeting the demand,” Mr. Ashok said. He added that the memorandum has pointed out that 3A category means 4% reservation, which has to be shared among 12 communities. Since the community constitutes 17 % of the State’s population, the reservation has to be increased to 10%, the memorandum stated. The memorandum has also urged the State government to recommend to the Centre the inclusion of urban Vokkaligas in the Central OBC list. It stated that lakhs of Vokkaligas, who had surrendered their lands for the city’s development, were now living in slums. Horticulture and Youth Affairs Minister K.C. Narayan Gowda, Food and Civil Supplies Minister K. Gopalaiah, Bangalore Development Authority chairman S.R. Vishwanath, and a host of Vokkaliga legislators were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vokkaligas-petition-state-govt-seeking-increase-in-reservation/article33908936.ece
23 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC puts rider on steps taken based on govt.’s decision to create boards and corporations||As the State government failed to submit statement of objections for the past two months despite grant of sufficient time, the High Court of Karnataka on Monday said that any further decision after setting up of boards and corporations would be subject to court’s final orders to be passed on the petitions pending adjudication. A Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum, passed the interim order as the Advocate-General sought more time to file objections to the three separate PIL petitions challenging constitution of boards and corporations based on castes. The interim order would apply to the steps taken with regard to Karnataka Maratha Development Corporation; Karnataka Arya Vysya Community Development Corporation; Karnataka Vishwakarma Communities Development Corporation; Karnataka Christian Development Board; Karnataka Brahmin Development Corporation; and Karnataka Kadugolla Development Authority. The Bench was hearing separate PIL petitions filed by S. Basavaraj, a city-based advocate and the Karnataka State Backward Castes’ Federation questioning the legality of setting up boards and corporations in the name of castes and religion. The court in December 2020 had passed interim direction in case of Karnataka Veerashaiva-Lingayat Development Corporation, stating that further steps would be subject to its final order a petition which specifically challenges creation of this corporation. Earlier, senior counsel Ravivarma Kumar, appearing for the federation contended that these boards and corporations were set up solely for “vote bank” purpose keeping in mind the byelections to be held to the Assembly constituencies in north Karnataka region where certain communities form a major section of the electorate. However, Advocate-General Prabhuling K. Navadgi said that the government could not answer the allegation that these boards and corporation were created keeping the byelections in mind but could only deny the allegation. The A-G also pointed out that though many corporations were set up earlier, the petitioners, who did not raise objections then, had sought to challenge them when recently two corporations were created for the benefit of two communities. The Bench adjourned further hearing till March second week as Mr. Navadgi sought two weeks to file statement of objections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-puts-a-rider-on-any-further-govt-decision-on-creation-of-boards-and-corporations/article33908908.ece
23 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Re-examine afresh plea for FIR against Ravi, Hegde, says HC||The Karnataka High Court has directed a metropolitan magistrate court in Bengaluru to consider afresh a complaint made in 2017 for registering a criminal case and conduct a probe against BJP leaders Ananth Kumar Hegde and C.T Ravi for allegedly issuing provocative statements on celebration of Tipu Jayanti. The magistrate in November 2017 had rejected a private complaint, filed by one A. Alam Pasha for the reason that the offences there had no prior sanction from the State as the offences alleged against them required prior sanction under Section 196(1) and (1-A) of the Code of Criminal Procedure for proceeding against them. However, a Bench of Justice John Michael Cunha remitted the case to the magistrate court while stating that there was no need for prior sanction for considering the plea for registration of an FIR and to conduct investigation based on the plaint as the bar on the courts to proceed without prior sanction applied only for taking cognisance, which was after completion of the investigation. “The trial judge, without registering the case, heard learned counsel for complainant and pronounced the impugned order on 04.11.2017 dismissing the complaint, without even considering the merits of the case, which indicate that the impugned order is passed with a predisposition to dismiss the complaint, without proper regard to the merits of the case,” the court observed. “The magistrate has not applied his mind to the facts and circumstances of the case and merely by referring to the provisions of law quoted in the complaint, has proceeded to hold that the previous sanction of the government is necessary for referring the complaint for investigation,” it observed. The complainant had sought direction to the jurisdictional police to register an FIR and conduct an investigation against Mr. Hegde, MP, and Mr. Ravi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/re-examine-afresh-plea-for-fir-against-ravi-hegde-high-court/article33908946.ece
23 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Half of govt. vehicles will be replaced with electric vehicles in 2-3 years’||The State government, in a bid to encourage e-mobility, is aiming to replace 50% of all government vehicles with electric vehicles in the next two to three years, Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said on Monday. Regulatory measures will be taken up for setting up charging infrastructure at high-rise buildings, metro stations, malls, IT parks, and apartment complexes, he said during a panel discussion on the future of sustainable mobility, organised as part of the Harvard India Conference. “The goal is to set up fast chargers along the major highways in the State and to establish a world-class Karnataka Electric Mobility, Research and Innovation Centre,” he said. Acknowledging the lack of charging infrastructure as a major concern, he said the government had assessed the ground situation and received feedback from citizens regarding discounted charging at public places, dedicated parking for e-cabs, and mandating EV charging facilities in building bylaws. Dr. Narayan also said the State was looking for partnerships and concrete strategies with the United States in the e-mobility sector. “Countries such as Norway, the U.S., and China could become examples for developing an e-mobility ecosystem in Karnataka,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/half-of-govt-vehicles-will-be-replaced-with-electric-vehicles-in-2-3-years/article33908933.ece
23 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Committee to look into reservation demands||Minister for Small-scale Industries C.C. Patil on Monday said the government would shortly appoint a committee under the chairmanship of a retired High Court judge to study the demands of various communities on the issue of reservation. He said Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had plans to set up such as committee. “This committee will not only study the demands of Panchamasalis, but also those of all the communities seeking reservation or change in reservation status,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/committee-to-look-into-reservation-demands/article33908943.ece
23 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Calligraphy competition||Spacewell Foundation will present a virtual global English Calligraphy competition in Bengaluru. According to a release, the top three performers will be awarded cash prizes of Rs. 15,000, Rs. 10,000 and Rs. 5,000 respectively. The last date to register is March 26. A digital certificate will be given to all participants. For details, log on towww.callithon.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/calligraphy-competition/article33908945.ece
23 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Stone for extended academic block of school laid||Educational institutions have been contributing to nation building for ages. Lourdes Central School boasts a commendable achievement in providing education to thousands of students and making them responsible citizens, said Mangaluru Diocese Estate Manager Maxim Rosario. Speaking after laying the foundation stone for the extended academic block of Lourdes school here on Monday, Mr. Rosario hoped that the added facility would produce more responsible citizens in the country. School convener and Chief Priest of Bejai Church J.B. Saldanha, in his introductory address, said he was proud of the school that has been providing value-based education. Assistant priests Pramod Crasta and Joy Vishwas, principal Robert D’Souza and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stone-for-extended-academic-block-of-school-laid/article33909421.ece
23 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||317 new COVID-19 cases, five deaths in State||A total of 317 new cases of COVID-19 were reported in the State on Monday. With this, the total positive cases has increased to 9,48,466. According to the health bulletin issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, five deaths were reported, taking the toll to 12,299 in the State. Of the 6,061 active cases in the State, 128 patients have been admitted to ICU in various facilities across the State. While the positivity rate of the day stood at 0.69%, the case fatality rate was 1.57%, the bulletin stated. As many as 287 persons were discharged, taking the total recoveries to 9,30,087. The bulletin also stated that as many as 45,868 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 44,013 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 1,83,80,||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/317-new-covid-19-cases/article33908922.ece
23 February 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Appeal to CM||Karnataka State Disabled and Caregivers Association has submitted a memorandum to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa appealing to fulfil the promises made in the BJP manifesto.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/appeal-to-cm/article33908913.ece
23 February 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Exhibition||Native Bazaar, which features textiles, silver jewellery, painting, and home furnishing will be open till February 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/exhibition/article33908918.ece
23 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||President-elect||K.C. Samuel from India has been elected as the International President-elect of Y’s Men International for 2021-22. According to a release from Y’s Men International, the election was conducted across 71 countries.The International President Jacob Kristensen, at the mid-year conference of the association, announced the result. Mr. Samuel will be the International President during the 100th year of Y’s Men International and will assume office at the international convention to be held in August at Hawaii, USA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/president-elect/article33908931.ece
23 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Residents move HC||The Karnataka High Court on Monday directed the State government to file its response on a PIL petition complaining about non-constitution of ward committees and area sabhas in Mysuru City Corporation. A Division Bench comprising Justice B.V. Nagarathna and Justice M.G. Uma issued the direction on the petition filed by Malavika Gubbivani and two other residents of Mysuru city. The petitioners pointed out that they submitted representations to the authorities concerned to constitute ward committees and area sabhas as per the enated provisions of the Karnataka Municipal Corporation. However, the authorities have not take any action to fulfil their constitutional obligation., the petitioners said. It was also pointed out in the petition that the ward committees have been constituted in Bengaluru and Mangaluru cities only after directions were issued by the High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/residents-move-hc/article33909439.ece
23 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||PhD counselling postponed||The second round of PhD counselling for admission to PhD programme for the year 2020-21 scheduled to be held on February 23, has been postponed owing to unavoidable circumstances. In a release, Bangalore University said the next date would be announced at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/phd-counselling-postponed/article33908944.ece
23 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Yatnal acting like Congress B-team’||Ministers Murugesh Nirani and C.C. Patil on Monday launched a verbal attack at BJP leader and Vijayapura legislator Basanagouda Patil Yatnal and accused him of acting like the “B-team of the Congress”. Mr. Nirani said that over the past 20 to 25 years, Mr. Yatnal had made it a habit of criticising party leaders. “In the past, he has criticised B.S. Yediyurappa, Jagadish Shettar, Pralhad Joshi, and Shobha Karandlaje. He has criticised ourleaders more than leaders from other parties,” he said. He also accused Mr. Yatnal of turning the Panchamasali convention into a “Congress convention”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yatnal-acting-like-congress-b-team/article33908941.ece
23 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Stakeholders slam HESCOM’s proposed power tariff hike||The proposed power tariff hike was opposed by several stakeholders during a public hearing conducted by the Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission (KERC) in Dharwad on Monday. In the hearing, chaired by chairman of KERC Shambu Dayal Meena, the stakeholders, including representatives of consumers’ forums, industrialists, and businessmen, vehemently opposed the proposed hike of 0.73 paise per unit sought by Hubballi Electricity Supply Company (HESCOM). The participants expressed displeasure over the attempt to increase the power tariff at a time when people were severely affected by the COVID-19 lockdown. They said due to the pandemic the people had faced several hardships and at a time when they were still struggling to get back to normality, HESCOM wanted to ‘rub salt on the wounds of the people’. Industrialist from Hubballi Sandeep Bidasari said that as the industrial sector had suffered huge losses and was still ailing, HESCOM should not be allowed to increase the power tariff. He said that in neighbouring Maharashtra and Goa the power tariff had been reduced by 20% to help domestic and commercial power users. He urged the KERC to freeze power tariff for two years and direct HESCOM to bring down transmission and distribution (T&D) losses. Terming the proposal to hike unscientific, Mr. Bidasaria said that as there was power available in surplus, the rates should go down. Consumer rights activist A.S. Kulkarni pointed out that HESCOM had claimed a total deficit of Rs. 974.77 crore for proposing a hike of 0.73 paise per unit. However it had utterly failed to collect the unpaid bills amounting to Rs. 2,146 crore apart from Rs. 532 crore due from the government. There were more unmetered sales than metered sales under HESCOM jurisdiction and the reason for loss was system failure, he said. Mr. Kulkarni urged KERC to issue direction to HESCOM to collect 95% balance amount and 95% amount from unmetered sales. He said that the 16 directors of HESCOM should also be made to share the loss along with consumers by reducing the directors’ pay by one third and the remaining could be passed on to the consumers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stakeholders-slam-hescoms-proposed-power-tariff-hike/article33909196.ece
23 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Rs. 974.77 crore loss for HESCOM, says MD||As various stakeholders strongly opposed the proposal to hike power tariff, Managing Director of Hubballi Electricity Supply Company (HESCOM) M. Muniraju defended the proposal saying that it had become necessary as even after bringing down transmission and distribution (T&D) losses, HESCOM had incurred losses to the tune of Rs. 974.77 crore. Defending the proposal at the KERC public hearing on Monday, Mr. Muniraju said that HESCOM was purchasing power at Rs. 5.34 per unit as against Rs. 4.21 last year as the power purchase rates had increased. Mr. Muniraju said that HESCOM had managed to bring down T&D losses to just 14.10% which was well within the limit prescribed by KERC. HESCOM has effectively implemented the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Gram Jyoti, the Integrated Power Development Scheme (IDPS), and installation of new transformers and underground cables. So far, laying of 450 km trackline and 1,221 km looplines had been completed, he said. Elaborating on various development initiatives, he said that HESCOM was supplying uninterrupted 24-hour power supply in three phase to 788 feeders and under Nirantar Jyoti scheme for IP sets, three-phase power supply was being ensured to 2,040 feeders. This apart, 24.27 lakh LED bulbs had been sold saving 220 million units of power and 31,745 LED tubelights were sold saving 2.67 million units of power, he said. Mr. Muniraju appealed to the KERC to allow power tariff revision of 0.73 paise per unit as escalating power purchase rates and increased losses had necessitated it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-97477-crore-loss-for-hescom-says-md/article33909197.ece
23 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Remember pledge on duty’||Inspector-General of Police (Training) P. Harishekharan called on the new recruits who completed their apprenticeship to keep in mind the pledge they had taken before reporting for duty and work. He was speaking at the passing-out parade of the sixth batch of civil police apprentices at the Police Training School in Dharwad on Monday. He said that when on duty several officials and personnel fail to understand their authority and responsibilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/remember-pledge-on-duty/article33909203.ece
23 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||7,973 dead persons still ‘got’ pension||As many as 7,973 pension accounts where the beneficiary was dead but still getting pension, have been unearthed in Dharwad district during a special exercise and the administration has recovered over Rs. 1 crore. The drive was conducted following several complaints on the issue. Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil said on Monday it was found that family members of the deceased continued to avail themselves of the benefits even after the death of the pensioners. “As per the data with e-Janma web portal, a total of 35,166 persons from 2015 to February 16, 2021 had taken death certificates. During an exercise, it was found that 7,973 persons who were dead continued to receive the pension in their accounts,” he said. Mr. Patil said that the family members of the deceased had not informed the government on the death of the pensioners and had continued receiving the pension amount. He said that bank officials were consulted and after tallying their names with the social security scheme, 7,973 such pension accounts were unearthed Mr. Patil also said that the administration was verifying the data of the remaining 27,193 pensioners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/7973-dead-persons-still-got-pension/article33909199.ece
23 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Rs. 6 cr. for Nuggikeri road development’||Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Prahlad Joshi on Monday announced that the road leading to Nuggikeri Hanuman Temple will be developed at a total cost of Rs. 6 crore. Speaking after performing bhoomi puja for the development of roads at Nuggikeri on the outskirts of Dharwad on Monday, he said that Rs. 2 crore had been sanctioned in the first phase for the work. Mr. Joshi said that being a historic temple, Nuggikeri was attracting devotees from all parts of the country and also abroad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-6-cr-for-nuggikeri-road-development/article33909198.ece
23 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Trust in poet’s name||A trust has been set up in the name of poet V.C. Airsang in Dharwad to promote art and literature and Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar inaugurated it on Sunday. He praised the life and literary works of poet V.C. Airsang, who was known for his simplicity and humility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/trust-in-poets-name/article33909194.ece
23 February 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Kalaburagi city police shoot at ganja smuggler; recover 300 kg of narcotic||The Kalaburagi city police opened fire at a ganja smuggler near Swami Samarth temple on Bidar-Srirangapatna national highway on the outskirts of the city early on Monday, and arrested a gang of four inter-State ganja smugglers and seized 300kg of ganja from their vehicle. The smuggler, Bheemu, was shot in the leg when he attacked inspector Wahid Kotwal at a check-point. Bheemu, who hails from Jalsanghi village of Humnabad taluk in Bidar district, was admitted to the Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) for treatment. The other three arrested are Parashuram, a car driver from Konkanahalli in Sedam taluk, Shafi from Jalsanghi village in Bidar, and Savita from Umarga in Maharashtra. The police also seized 300 kg of ganja concealed in packets. Based on information about a large quantity of ganja being smuggled from Bidar to Kalaburagi district, a police team led by Assistant Police Commissioner Anshukumar and Anti-Rowdy Squad Police Inspector Wahid Kotwal checked vehicles on the route and zeroed in on a car on Monday. There were three men and a woman in the vehicle. In last September, the Bengaluru police seized 1,350 kg of ganja at a goat farm in Lakshman Nayak tanda of Kalgi taluk and arrested three persons from Kalaburagi and Vijayapura districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kalaburagi-city-police-shoot-at-ganja-smuggler-recover-300-kg-of-narcotic/article33909190.ece
23 February 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Now, RT-PCR test reports with QR code in Kalaburagi||After the Dubai health authority made it mandatory for all Dubai-bound passengers to produce their RT-PCR test reports with Quick Response (QR) code printed on them, United Diagnostics, a laboratory wing of the United Hospital, Kalaburagi, began printing QR Codes in all RT-PCR reports. In a media release, Vikram Siddareddy, Chairman and Managing Director of United Hospital, claimed that it was the first laboratory in the region to issue QR code-bearing RT-PCR reports. “All the reports from the United Diagnosticss are sent via downloadable links so that the user can print or download them anywhere and anytime. The QR Codes on these reports would now enable the authorities to check and ascertain the authenticity of the report by directly linking them to the original reports of the laboratory online,” Dr. Siddareddy said.  “The measure is a continued effort of the United Hospital and its United Diagnosticss to maintain the international standards in all the services,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/now-rt-pcr-test-reports-with-qr-code-in-kalaburagi/article33909186.ece
23 February 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Bidar student felicitated||Kirthana K., a student from Bidar who had recently been appointed as one of the Global Ambassadors of University of Maryland, Baltimore County (UMBC), was felicitated in her hometown on Monday. Ms. Kirthana is presently doing her Masters in Information Systems in UMBC. She came home last September and was spreading awareness on the courses and quality of education offered and the facilities available in UMBC. She is expected to complete the course in the next December. She is the daughter of Dadarao Kolekar and Alka Kolekar. “I feel very happy to be appointed as a global ambassador of a reputed global university. It was possible because of my hard work and the active support from the parents and schools,” Mr. Kirthana added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bidar-student-felicitated/article33909188.ece
23 February 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Cong. leader joins AIMIM||Congress leader Iliyas Bhagwan joined the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) party on Monday. President Asaduddin Owaisi announced him as the candidate from Kalaburagi North constituency in the 2023 Assembly elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-leader-joins-aimim/article33909191.ece
23 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Illegal ‘goshala’ on govt. land will be shifted in a week: DC||An illegal goshala on government land at Kenjar, on the outskirts of the city, will be shifted in a week to pave the way for establishing the Indian Coast Guard’s Training Academy, Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said here on Monday. Speaking at the District Development Coordination and Monitoring Committee (DISHA) meeting, presided over by Member of Parliament Nalin Kumar Kateel, Dr. Rajendra said the land earmarked for the academy belongs to the Karnataka Industrial Area Development Board (KIADB) and a part of it is being illegally occupied by a person managing the shelter for cattle. “We are ready to allocate an alternative land for the goshala,” Dr. Rajendra said. Umanath A. Kotian, Moodbidri MLA, said a group of residents of Kenjar have threatened of launching an agitation if the goshala is not shifted and have accused the goshala operator of allowing illegal cow slaughter. Mr. Kateel said that his party will not support the shelter for cows built on the government land illegally. Mangaluru City Corporation Commissioner Akshy Sridhar, who is a director in the board of Mangaluru Smart City Limited, said development works of MSCL have been stopped since last two months following a stay order by the Karnataka High Court. The report by the CSIR-National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) on whether MSCL projects comply with the Construction and Demolition Waste Management Rules, 2016 is likely to be placed before the court on Wednesday. “We are awaiting further directions of the High Court,” Mr. Sridhar said. D. Vedavyas Kamath, Mangaluru City South MLA, took MSCL officials to task for incomplete underground drainage works in Bunder area. “You dug up the roads and made life horrible for residents,” he said. When Mr. Kamath pointed out at the poor way in which Kolkata-based Simplex Infrastructure Private Limited was executing the underground drainage works of the Karnataka Urban Infrastructure Development and Finance Corporation, Mr. Kateel directed Dr. Rajendra to hold a meeting of KUIDFC Mangaging Director and Chairman of Kolkata-based firm on February 24 and sort out the issues. Seeing slackness in execution of works taken up from the 14th Finance Commission grants and other Central government schemes, Mr. Kateel asked Dr. Rajendra to constitute a committee of officials that will meet regularly and speed up the works. Mr. Kateel said he will personally review these works every month. Dr. Rajendra asked officials from the State government’s National Highway section to make use of road safety funds available with district administration and Transport Department for erecting signages and taking other road safety measures on the national highways which they maintain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/illegal-goshala-on-govt-land-will-be-shifted-in-a-week-dc/article33909418.ece
23 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Health Dept. starts screening at border checkposts||While the Dakshina Kannada district administration started the screening of those entering the district from Kerala at the four border check-posts on Monday, residents protested at the Talapady check-post by accusing the Karnataka government of placing restrictions in movement between Kasaragod and Dakshina Kannada. Teams comprising Health Department staff and the police started screening people at the check-posts in Talapady in Mangaluru taluk, Saradka in Bantwal taluk, Nettanige Mudnur-Menala in Puttur taluk, and Jalsoor in Sullia taluk. District COVID-19 nodal officer H. Ashok said motorists were screened and allowed to move after telling them to produce a RT-PCR test negative report during their next visit. Motorists were also told that reports of Rapid Antigen Test will not be accepted. Dr. Ashok said students were also allowed as it was responsibility of the institution concerned to ensure that they are tested once every 15 days. There was no restrictions on movement of ambulance as it was responsibility of the hospital to test the patient and persons accompanying the patient for COVID-19. Throat and nasal swabs of 300 persons were randomly collected at the check-posts, he said. There was a long line of vehicles at the Talapady check-post as the screening began in the morning. This led residents of Manjeshwar and other neighbouring areas of Kerala to carry out the snap protest at the check-post. The protesters accused the district administration of unneccesarily placing curbs on the movement of people across the two districts. A group of protesters started stopping vehicles coming from Mangaluru. The Mangaluru City police and the Kerala police jointly dispersed the protesters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/health-dept-starts-screening-at-border-checkposts/article33909417.ece
23 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Nothing wrong in seeking reservation: Ex-CM||The former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah on Monday said there was nothing wrong in the Panchamasali Lingayat community demanding reservation and said the demand could be met if the community was eligible for such a reservation under the Constitution and if the State government recommends for the same. Interacting with reporters after launching the six-day 108-km Janadhwani Padayatra organised by Udupi District Congress Committee at Hejmady, he said there was no constitutional crisis over the demand of Panchamasalis. He said, “There is a Permanent Backward Classes Commission in the State that should examine the demand and make recommendations.” Mr. Siddaramaiah said he did not perceive the March 4 deadline given by the community to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa as blackmail tactics. He said, “They are asking for it. It is left to the government to decide on their demands as per the Constitution.” Responding to accusation that I-Monetary Advisory (IMA) Group Founder founder Mohammed Mansoor Khan had paid off political leaders, including him and former chief minister H.D. Kumaraswamy, Mr. Siddaramaiah said, “I have not taken even 5 paise from anyone. I do not need it.” He said he was right in refusing to donate for the Ram temple in Ayodhya and added he was donating to one being built in his village. Speaking at Udupi later, Mr. Siddaramaiah accused the BJP for spreading communal hatred in coastal Karnataka. “It was a place where many religions co-existed peacefully. However the BJP has now changed it into an experimental ground to spew communal hatred. BJP was engaged in dividing society in the name of religion.” The padyatra which will end at Shiroor in Udupi district has been organised to highlight what the Congress said the anti-people policies of the Union and State governments. Earlier interacting with reporters at Mangaluru International Airport, Mr. Siddaramaiah dared BJP to ban the People’s Front of India (PFI) and the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nothing-wrong-in-seeking-reservation-ex-cm/article33909410.ece
23 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Fisheries College to build aquaculture units||The Union government has sanctioned a Rs. 7.9-crore project to the College of Fisheries, Mangaluru, to develop ultra modern aquaculture units in the farm area of the college at Yekkur. The project assigned under the Rashtriya Krishin Vikas Yojana (RKVY) will be implemented in coordination with the National Institute of Technology – Karnataka (NIT-K), Surathkal, according to A. Senthil Vel, dean. The bhoomi puja for the upcoming project will be performed on Tuesday at 12.30 p.m. Minister for Fisheries, Ports and Inland Transport S. Angara, Nalin Kumar Kateel, MP, Minister in-charge of Dakshina Kannada Kota Srinivas Poojary, and others will be present, he said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fisheries-college-to-build-aquaculture-units/article33909415.ece
23 February 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||ISPRL: Pay enhanced relief to land losers, says Shobha||Shobha Karandlaje, Udupi-Chikkamagaluru MP, on Monday directed officials concerned to offer maximum permissible compensation to land losers for the second phase of Indian Strategic Petroleum Reserve (ISPRL) crude storage facility at Padur in Udupi district. Chairing a meeting of land acquisition affected persons and ISPRL officials in Udupi, Ms. Karandlaje said the revised land acquisition norms of the Union government should be applied for acquiring 210 acres of land for the second phase of the project. The MP said the ISPRL project has been one of the critical projects of the country wherein over 410 million barrels of crude could be stored. She said ISPRL should ensure houses were not damaged during extension work even as no harm should be caused to the 800-year-old Jain Basadi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/isprl-pay-enhanced-relief-to-land-losers-says-shobha/article33909411.ece
23 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||24 new cases in Udupi, DK||With 10 new COVID-19 cases and 20 patients discharged, the number of active cases in Dakshina Kannada stood at 210 on Monday. A fine of Rs. 34.6 lakh has so far been collected in 33,490 cases of people not wearing masks. In Udupi, 14 new COVID-19 cases were reported and 12 patients were discharged on Monday. The number of active cases stood at 53.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/24-new-cases-in-udupi-dk/article33909420.ece
23 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||Power supply to Mulky, Bappanadu, Karnad, Chitrapu, Vijaya College Road, Karnad Industrial Area, Lingappayya Kadu, Kavattar will be stopped on February 24 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. It is for maintenance works.    There will be no power supply to some areas in Udupi on February 24 from 9.30 a.m. to 5 p.m. The areas are city bus stand, Kadiyali, Kinnimulki, Kolambe Mission Compound, Bailoor, Ajjarakadu, Court Road, Shantinagara, Sharadamba Road Kunjibettu, Gundibailu, Kalsanka, Udyavara, Padukare, Pitrodi, Kadekar, Paniyadi, Chitpady, Indiranagara, Manipal Syndicate Circle, Vidyaratnanagara, Sagri Hole, Perampally, offices of Deputy Commissioner and Regional Transport Officer.    MESCOM will conduct a virtual meeting of its consumers to address their grievances if any at its Attavar Sub-Division in the city on February 26 from 11 am to noon. Log on to the link meet.google.com/ifx-bfts-bnx. Phone 2421833.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article33909413.ece
23 February 2021||Mini Tejaswi,KARNATAKA||Karnataka set to add value to its flower power||The Horticulture Department, in collaboration with the International Flower Auction Bangalore (IFAB), is setting up a flower processing centre to convert unsold flowers into various useful products. M. Vishwanath, Joint Director of Horticulture and MD of IFAB, told The Hindu , “This incubation centre will process flowers and convert them to value-added products such as natural dyes, floral papers, incense sticks, flower petal powder for cosmetic usage, floral embedded works, floral arts, and silica-stored flowers.” He said such a facility was needed as flower farmers have been suffering huge losses whenever there is a glut or market disruption. Growers can learn the art of flower processing from the centre, he said. “The unit will be able to process all kinds of flowers. It will come up at IFAB by March or April. A large number of flower growers from across the State can benefit from this centre instead of resorting to dumping their produce or abandoning gardens,” Mr. Vishwanath said. During the lockdown periods and until September/October, flower growers incurred huge losses as they were forced to discard thousands of tonnes of jasmine, marigold, aster, chrysanthemum, tuberose, gladiolus, firecracker (kanakambara), gomphrena (chendu hoovu), carnations, gerberas, and roses. According to Mohan Krishna, a flower farmer from Doddaballapur and a wholesale flower dealer at K.R. Market, flower farmers and vendors were the worst hit from April to September 2020. They had no choice but to convert hard-produced yield to manure. “Some say K.R Market is the largest flower market in Asia. That is probably true as we get over a 100 varieties here, including over two dozen rose varieties, at least a dozen shades of kanakambara and gerberas, and carnations in almost all colours. It is good to hear about the processing centre and value-addition possibilities,” he said. Karnataka, which has 18,000 hectares of land under flower cultivation, accounts for 14% of India’s total area under flower production.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-set-to-add-value-to-its-flower-power/article33908912.ece
23 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Human-tiger conflict: Should tigers be translocated?||Following the two human deaths due to tiger attacks within a span of 12 hours in Kodagu last weekend, questions are being asked on whether the forests have reached their ecological carrying capacity and should tigers be translocated. While Kodagu is known to be an epicentre of human-elephant conflict, there is an increase in frequency with which tigers are straying into villages in recent years. In the last year alone, three human deaths have taken place due to tiger attacks in villages bordering Nagarahole. A section of the Forest Department officials on condition of anonymity have opined that a decision has to be taken to move some of the healthy tigers from Nagarahole and introduce them into other protected areas in the State or the country where there was scope to absorb the tiger population. The fact that tigers are increasingly being sighted in plantations and estates indicates that these animals are trying to occupy new territory, they say. A recent analysis of tiger population in Nagarahole based on the fourth and fifth cycle of camera trap-based tiger monitoring indicated that the national park had 125 tigers and the density was 11.82 tigers per 100 sq km, the third highest in the country after Jim Corbett and Kaziranga tiger reserves. This study was carried out between 2017-19 by the Forest Department as part of the phase IV of the tiger monitoring programme of NTCA. The number of unique tiger photo captures that were recorded was 101 individuals in the fourth cycle and 125 individuals in the fifth cycle respectively, as per the Forest Department records. Sanjay Gubbi, wildlife scientist, said the current crisis also brought to focus the issue of habitat management. The focus on increasing tiger numbers in areas that had reached ecological carrying capacity by modifying the habitat to make it more and more conducive for tigers, should stop, according to him. Dr. Gubbi said a top predator like the tiger had no natural enemies and hence it was very critical to allow natural mortality that comes with a seasonal crunch in resources such as food and water or through competition from its own species or conspecific predators such as dholes and leopards. “We should also not treat wildlife if they are injured due to natural reasons,” Dr. Gubbi added. A section of wildlife activists has also questioned the practice of installing solar-powered water pumps inside tiger reserves to fill waterholes to help animals quench their thirst during summer. This does not allow the natural weeding out of the weaker animals, facilitates the prey population to increase resulting in growth in carnivore population due to availability of food as well. But with habitat size remaining the same, tigers are ejected out of forest in territorial fights or injuries which escalates human animal conflict, according to wildlife activists. Dr. Gubbi pointed out that wildlife conservation was about saving a species and not about individual animals. If no solid steps were taken to stop human killings it would lead to animosity from people, and the tiger as a species would be seen as a big enemy. This would lead to a loss of support to entire tiger conservation efforts, he cautioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/human-tiger-conflict-should-tigers-be-translocated/article33908948.ece
23 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Alert over second COVID-19 scare||The health authorities of Mysuru district have been asked to mandatorily screen all people coming from Kerala through the district border checkposts, as a measure against preventing fresh spread of the pandemic. Amidst the scare of second wave of the pandemic with new infections being reported in neighbouring Kerala and Maharashtra, an emergency meeting of police officers was convened here by Minister in-charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar. The Minister told the DHO to deploy adequate health workers and police personnel at the checkposts and strictly screen all passengers entering the State. The Minister, however, said the authorities should ensure that the surveillance does not cause inconvenience to the public and the trader activities between the States. The meeting discussed how the measures of checking vehicles and the passengers should be like. “If we ban traffic from Kerala, it might cause problems to the public. The daily needs and essentials like vegetables have to be transported from Mysuru to the neighbouring State. Therefore, it is better to step up screening and also start carrying out Rapid Antigen Tests at the border checkposts,” he told the meeting. Mysuru MP Pratap Simha, IGP Praveen Madhukar, Police Commissioner Chandragupta and SP Rhyshyanth were present.  Surveillance on the Kodagu-Kerala border has also been intensified and Deputy Commissioner Charulatha Somal, accompanied by Superintendent of Police Kshama Mishra, visited the checkposts at Karike and Sampaje and gave instructions to the personnel deployed for strictly screening the people entering the State from Kerala, and verifying the COVID-19 test reports. At the checkposts of Kutta, Karike, Makutta, Perumbadi and Sampaje in Kodagu, the personnel had been asked to allow people from Kerala only if they show RT-PCR negative report of the test done within 72 hours. The surveillance at all the checkposts will be carried in three shifts with eight personnel in each shift. The DC has asked the Health Department to start doing RATs at tourist sites, and places having floating population besides constituting mobile squads comprising senior officers for patrolling the check-posts for monitoring the effectiveness of the measures. RT-PCR test has been advised for those living in the gram panchayats’ limits of Kodagu sharing borders with Kerala’s districts as a safety precaution. All home stays, hotels, resorts have been told to confirm the negative report from the tourists before allowing them to check-in. In Chamarajanagar too, the surveillance had been tightened in the border areas with strict no to entry into the State without the PCR negative report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/alert-over-second-covid-19-scare/article33909434.ece
23 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Minister takes dig at Siddaramaiah||Minister in-charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar on Monday claimed that former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, who asked for an account of the donations collected for the Ram temple at Ayodhya, might have given donation but is reluctant to concede the same in public. “He is making baseless allegations since he has no issues for criticising the BJP government in the State which is being adeptly run,” the Minister said. Claiming that nobody was forcefully collecting donations as was being alleged, he said the donations are being accounted for. Besides the house number and signature of the house owner, the PAN number of the donor is also entered in the list of donors, and receipt given. “People are voluntarily donating funds,” he replied, to queries from reporters. The accounts would be made public. The Minister was speaking after handing over the carriage-cum-lift that was restored by the Mysuru railway division for assembling the chariot of Sri Chamundeshwari Temple atop the Chamundi Hills here. Mysuru MP Pratap Simha and the temple chief priest Shashishekar Dixit were present. The century-old temple carriage-cum-lift which was used to place the idol of the Goddess on the elevated seat in the temple chariot was in dilapidated condition and the original drawings were not available for the lift arrangement. The temple administration led by the Chief Priest and the Mysuru MP approached the General Manager/ South Western Railway in October last during the annual inspection and sought the railways’ help restoring the lift. The Central Workshop, Mysuru, took up this task under “deposit work” and renovated the lift. Cradle lifting mechanism was provided with locking and anti-fall arrangement and a new ladder provided with anti-skid plates and hand rail, a railway release said. Rigidity of the structure is ensured with additional propping arrangement and the whole unit is painted without losing its antique look. The work was completed in 45 days’ time and the temple teaminspected the lift for its smooth operational requirements and expressed their satisfaction, according to the railways. The new manually-operated crane manufactured at Mechanical Millwright Shop of South Western Railway, Mysuru division Central Workshop, weighs anywhere between five to six tonnes and is 5.5-metre high. It has a capacity to lift 300 kg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-takes-dig-at-siddaramaiah/article33909436.ece
23 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Ram temple renovation in full swing in Siddaramaiah’s village||The former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, who has drawn flak from BJP leaders for refusing to contribute to the construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya, has been inconspicuously patronising the renovation of a Ram mandir in his native village of Siddaramanahundi near here. The renovated temple is coming up on a 50x100 ft. plot of land, where a Ram temple had existed in an old structure. The renovation, which began more than a year ago but had to be suspended on account of COVID-19, has resumed and is now in full swing. The work has reached an advanced stage and the temple is likely to be ready for the Ramanavami festival in April, according to members of the committee overseeing the construction. Nagaraj, a resident of Siddaramanahundi and a committee member, told The Hindu that the temple work was taken up using contributions from the 600 families in the village. The committee members are hopeful of a contribution from the former Chief Minister, who is also backing the renovation work, he said. The entire cost of renovation is expected to be between Rs. 35 lakh and Rs. 40 lakh, and the main idol of Ram is scheduled to come from Chickballapur soon. Mr. Siddaramaiah first revealed that a Ram temple was under construction in his village while speaking to reporters in Mysuru last Saturday, fielding queries on the collection of donations for the Ayodhya temple. After saying that Ram temples were built everywhere and not just in Ayodhya, the Congress leader said one such construction was under way in his native village as well. The Congress leader had refused to contribute to the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya, citing its disputed nature as the reason. But he had also said that he was ready to contribute to constructions of Ram temples elsewhere. Somashekar hits back S.T. Somashekar, Minister in charge of Mysuru district, claimed on Monday that Mr. Siddaramaiah might have given donation for the Ram temple in Ayodhya but was probably reluctant to concede it in public. “He is making baseless allegations [on the donations being collected] since he has no issues to criticise the BJP government in the State with as it is doing good work,” he said.  What ex-CM had said Earlier, Congress leader Siddaramaiah had refused to contribute to the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya, citing its disputed nature as the reason. But he had also said that he was ready to contribute to constructions of Ram temples elsewhere.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ram-temple-renovation-in-full-swing-in-siddaramaiahs-village/article33908940.ece
23 February 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Madiwala community threatens stir||Amid the ongoing movements for reservation, the Madiwala community in the State has also threatened an agitation over its long-pending demand for inclusion in the list of Scheduled Castes. Leaders of the community, who met in Mysuru on Monday, have planned to hold a meeting under the leadership of Madiwala Gurupeetha seer Basava Machideva Swami in Chitradurga on February 24 and chalk out a plan of action. Sri Basava Machideva Swami told reporters that the community was already part of Scheduled Castes in 18 States. But in Karnataka, it is clubbed with more than 100 other castes in 2A category and the members of the community have not been able to derive reservation benefits. The State government had commissioned a study of the community by Annapoorneshwari of University of Mysore and a recommendation, based on the study, had been submitted for their inclusion in the list of Scheduled Castes in 2007-08. The State government should forward the recommendation to the Centre. The Swamiji said the communitydoes not have any political representation. There are no MLAs or Ministers belonging to the community to represent its cause to the government. Prashant S.J., leader of the Mysuru district struggle committee for inclusion of Madiwalas in Scheduled Caste, said the community had organised conventions in different parts of the State including Chitradurga, Bengaluru, Mandya, and Mysuru to mobilise members of the community, who are regarded as ‘untouchables’, and press for their demand for inclusion in Scheduled Castes’ list. According to a study conducted in 2007, the community comprised about 9 lakh members in Karnataka. The numbers may now be in the region of 12 to 13 lakh. The community’s demand for inclusion in Scheduled Castes’ list is pending for almost 40 years now, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/madiwala-community-threatens-stir/article33909437.ece
23 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Minister warns those dumping waste on ORR||The much-awaited asphalting of the six-lane 42-km-long Outer Ring Road (ORR), which has become a major carriageway here linking key national and state highways, got off to a start on Monday. This is the first-ever end-to-end asphalting of the road taken up after its formation. ORR is now under the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), after the Mysore Urban Development Authority (MUDA), which constructed the road under JNNURM, handed it over to the NHAI. Launching the works, Minister in-charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar said the entire road stretch had been cleaned ahead of the work. “The debris that was dumped all these years along the ORR had been cleared in a one-time drive. If debris is dumped again, case will be booked against the wrongdoers, imposing a hefty penalty on them. Vehicles carrying the debris and dumping on the ORR will be seized,” he warned. Mysuru MP Pratap Simha and G.T. Deve Gowda, MLA, were present. Mr. Somashekar said the drivers of such vehicles would also be booked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-warns-those-dumping-waste-on-orr/article33909432.ece
23 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||TKM tie-up with college||In line with its commitment to contribute to Skill India Mission, Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) on Monday signed a MoU with ATME College of Engineering [ATMECE], Mysuru. TKM, through its training arm, Toyota Learning and Development India, will share its best practices with the faculty, bridge the industry-academia gap and equip students with employable skills. The focus would be on sharpening the skills of every person and continue the quest for improvement by encouraging incremental and breakthrough innovative thinking, a company press release said. G. Shankara, Vice-President, Human Resources and Services Group, TKM said, “We would like to share Toyota’s best practices with the youth which will enable them to become skilled technicians,. Basavaraj L., Principal, ATMECE, said, “We are happy to associate with TKM. We aim to develop our students in line with our vision of ‘Moulding better tomorrow through educational, cultural and sports excellence.’ It is time to create a nurturing environment where industry and academia can work together and lay the foundation for economic progress.” The course comprises 90 per cent practical exposure to Toyota’s skill practices and 10 per cent emphasis on theoretical aspects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tkm-tie-up-with-college/article33909438.ece
23 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Nirani visits Mandya mining areas, promises action||Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani on Monday visited Kalenahalli and surrounding areas in Srirangapatna taluk to take stock of the mining-related issues. The Minister instructed the officials to submit a report on the prevailing conditions in the mining areas within a week. Mr. Nirani, along with Mandya MP Sumalatha, Deputy Commissioner and department officials, visited Kalenahalli, T.M. Hosuru and surrounding areas and inspected stone quarrying activities. The Minister later instructed the officials to submit a report on mining activities within a week by coordinating with Revenue and Forest departments and the pollution control board. “I will take appropriate action based on the report. I will visit more mining areas in the district in coming days and will make honest efforts to resolve any problem,” he said. Pointing out the initiatives taken in the department, Mr. Nirani said: “I have focused on bringing in reforms in the department after taking charge. Our aim is to make the Mines and Geology Department people-friendly.” Stone extraction The Minister’s visit to the mining areas in Mandya comes in the backdrop of allegations over illegal stone extraction. Ms. Sumalatha had recently raised the issue in the Lok Sabha and urged the Union government to formulate rules to curb the rampant illegal mining activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nirani-visits-mandya-mining-areas-promises-action/article33909202.ece
23 February 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||‘Declare new projects for Yadgir’||Chandrashekhar Gowda Magnur, State secretary of Raitha Morcha of the Bharatiya Janatha Party (BJP), has urged Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to announce new projects for Yadgir district in the 2021-22 State Budget. Submitting a memorandum, he said that Yadgir district is still to get new projects to ensure development in various sectors, especially education. Mr. Magnur listed out some projects such as government technical college, drinking water for Yadgir city, rejuvenation of the milk cold storage at Dornahalli and cotton yard at APMC, Shahpur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/declare-new-projects-for-yadgir/article33909201.ece
23 February 2021||Yadgir,KARNATAKA||Tahsildar caught while ‘accepting bribe’||Tahsildar of Gurmitkal Sangamesh Jidage was caught red-handed by the ACB when he was allegedly taking a bribe from a farmer on Monday. According to ACB sources, Jidage had allegedly demanded Rs. 10,000 for work relating to land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tahsildar-caught-while-accepting-bribe/article33909200.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Upper primary classes reopen with 42% attendance on Day 1||Upper primary classes in Karnataka reopened on Monday after a span of 11 months. As many as 42.91% of the students attended classes on Monday. Many students in upper primary classes (classes six to eight) were already coming to school to attend classes under the Vidyagama programme. The lowest attendance was reported in Vijayapura district (22.21%) while the highest was in Dakshina Kannada district with 68.24%. In Bengaluru Urban and a few districts adjoining the Kerala border, regular classes for six and seven were not held. Only class eight students attended regular classes. However, in these places, Vidyagama was held for classes six and seven. Many private schools, however, did not resume upper primary classes as majority of the parents did not provide consent for their children to attend classes. These schools have chosen to continue online classes for this academic year. Many school managements faced challenges in conducting classes by maintaining physical distance as they did not have adequate classrooms. Due to this, many schools conducted classes in playgrounds, corridors, staff rooms and auditoriums. The Department of Primary and Secondary Education has told government schools to make use of all available space to ensure that physical distance is maintained. Pooja S., a class eight student in Bengaluru who attended classes on Monday, said, “We had been attending classes for several weeks. But instead of half-day, we had a full-day class. We are happy to have classes for the full day, as we will be able to complete portions faster.” The attendance for classes nine was 45.31% and for class 10 was 50.05%. The classes began in a phased manner on January 1. Different stakeholders and academics have urged the Karnataka government to reopen lower primary classes at the earliest as they feel that students are unable to comprehend lessons online and many students do not have access to gadgets to attend online classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/upper-primary-classes-reopen-with-42-attendance-on-day-1/article33908917.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Attempt to saffronise textbooks’||Swaraj Abhiyan Karnataka has accused the Karnataka government of attempting to ‘saffronis’ school textbooks by eliminating information pertaining to new religions, such as Jainism and Buddhism, from the class six social science textbooks. This comes after the Department of Public Instruction (DPI) decided to withdraw two pages from a lesson, ‘Birth of new religions’, that was part of the class VI social studies textbook. The content talked about some of the practices during the later Vedic period, and included parts on Jainism and Buddhism. The decision was taken on the basis of instructions by Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar. Earlier, a delegation from the Brahmin Development Board had petitioned Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa that certain contents in this chapter be omitted since it ‘hurts the sentiments’ of the community. “The removal of information about the later Vedic period is nothing but an attempt to saffronise the syllabus by undermining the teachings of Buddhism and Jainism, which, however, are very relevant today,” reads the press release by Swaraj Abhiyan Karnataka. They demanded that the government immediately withdraw the notification to omit the two pages. Last week, Mr. Kumar had ordered formation of a committee to look into these omission after a few groups had taken objection to the same.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/attempt-to-saffronise-textbooks/article33908915.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Vehicles damaged in accident on flyover||As many as four cars were damaged in an accident on the Goraguntepalya flyover on Sunday night. According to the police, the driver of a car coming towards the city lost control of the vehicle and slowed down suddenly on the busy flyover. As a result, four cars and and an autorickshaw that were behind collided with each other. Though many vehicles were damaged, no one was injured, a senior police officer said. The Peenya traffic police rushed to the spot and cleared the vehicles to facilitate free flow of traffic. “It was a chain accident of cars due to heavy incoming traffic towards Bengaluru. No one was injured. Only vehicles were damaged,” the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vehicles-damaged-in-accident/article33908914.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Schools declare a holiday today||The secretary of a top private school in the city said although the government had said that 70% of the tuition fee could be collected this academic year, schools were facing tough times as the government had said that no other fee could be collected. “With this order, we will be able to collect only about 50% of our annual tuition fees. Running schools is very difficult as we have made a lot of investment to run our online classes. We want the government to roll back this order,” he said. Ahead of the protest on Tuesday, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar on Monday evening said, “The government had to very reluctantly step in and cut tuition fee by 30% to help parents in this hour of distress. We wanted schools to talk to parents and reach an understanding on fee. But despite my repeated appeals, this did not happen.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/schools-declare-a-holiday-today/article33908928.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Temple of learning||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/temple-of-learning/article33909193.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Pedestrian killed||A 48-year-old pedestrian died after allegedly being hit by an autorickshaw on West of Chord Road on Sunday night. The deceased, Kandaswamy, was a resident of Srirampura and a weaver by profession. He was returning home from work around 10.30 p.m. when the incident occurred. He was crossing the road at the time of the accident. Kandaswamy sustained head injuries and was taken to a nearby hospital where doctors declared him as brought dead, police said, adding that the driver abandoned the autorickshaw and fled from the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pedestrian-killed/article33908925.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Beat of the drums||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/beat-of-the-drums/article33909441.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Engagements||Mangaluru  Vismaya Magic Foundation: National Magic Day celebration, Deputy Commissioner K. V. Rajendra inaugurates, presenting an award to magician Madhava of Kasaragod, magic show, Ramakrishna Mutt, near Mangaladevi temple, 6 p.m.  Samarthanam Trust for the Disabled: Distribution of health and hygiene kits to ASHA of Dakshina Kannada, Nalin Kumar Kateel, Member of Parliament, D. Vedavyasa Kamath and Y. Bharat Shetty, MLAs, Mahantesh G K, founder managing trustee of the trust, guests, Saanidhya Special School, Shakti Nagar, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/engagements/article33909414.ece
23 February 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||266 new cases in Alappuzha||The district reported 266 COVID-19 cases on Monday. It also recorded one COVID-19-related death. An official bulletin issued here today said among the fresh cases, 263 patients contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of two persons remains unidentified. One person who came from abroad, also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Meanwhile, 531 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district recovered. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 4,305, the bulletin adds. Kottayam As many as 145 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Monday Of the fresh cases, all but one contracted the disease through local contact. The fresh cases also included 11 children and 21 people aged above 60. With 37 cases, Kottayam municipality led the tally, followed by Ettumanur with 11 cases. With 861 recoveries the district currently has 4,161 active cases. Pathanamthitta As many as 97 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Monday. Of the fresh cases, 94 people contracted the disease through local contact and among these, the contact source of seven cases were yet to be identified. Among the local bodies, Ezhamkulam reported 13 cases, followed by Kaviyoor with 10 cases. The disease claimed three more lives in the district and the victims were identified as a 85-year-old Thiruvalla native, 58-year-old woman from Kalluppara and 55-year-old Chittar native. With 582 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 5,114 active cases. ( With contributions from our bureaus in Kottayam and Pathanamthitta )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/266-new-cases-in-alappuzha/article33909359.ece
23 February 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Woman abducted from home, released||A 34-year-old woman was abducted allegedly by a gold smuggling gang from her house at Mannar in the early hours of Monday. The gang later released the woman identified as Bindu, 34, at Mudappallur, near Vadakkenchery, in Palakkad district. Ms. Bindu, an employee of a supermarket in a Gulf nation, returned home last week. As per a police complaint filed by her family, she was abducted by a 15-member gang. “The gang carrying iron rods and swords reached the house around 2 a.m. After seeing the gang, Bindu and her husband Binoy tried to call the police. But members of the gang entered the house after breaking a door. They tied her legs, gagged her and forcibly took her away,” said a police officer. After her release, she reached the Vadakkenchery police station and was brought back to Mannar by evening. Deputy Superintendent of Police, Chengannur, R. Jose said the police had identified the people involved. A detailed probe would be held to find out the reason. Sources said the gang had reached the house of Bindu on February 19 asking for gold. After Bindu refused to give in to their demands, they left the house. The police have registered a case under Sections 143 (unlawful assembly), 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 368 (wrongfully concealing or keeping in confinement, kidnapped or abducted person) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-abducted-from-home-released/article33909365.ece
23 February 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||New facility to make low-cost medicines||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday inaugurated a non-beta-lactam injection plant at the Kerala State Drugs and Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (KSDP). Mr. Vijayan also laid the foundation stone for the construction of an Oncology Pharma Park at the KSDP in a virtual ceremony. At the function, the Chief Minister said that the injection plant and oncology park would help produce low-cost medicines, including for cancer treatment. The injection plant was constructed at a cost of Rs. 50 crore. It can produce around 3.5 crore ampules, 1.3 crore vials, 1.2 crore Large Volume Parenterals (LVPs) and 88 lakh ophthalmic medicines a year. Besides, the plant will produce 14 medicines, including paracetamol and saline. 18 months The oncology park is being constructed at a cost of Rs. 105 crore under the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board. Mr. Vijayan said the plant would be completed in 18 months. “Our aim is to produce low-cost cancer medicines. Once completed, the oncology park could produce six crore tablets of 300 mg, 4.5 crore capsules of 350 mg and 90 lakh intravenous medications above 5 ml per annum,” he said. Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan presided. Mr. Jayarajan said the KSDP had recorded a profit of Rs. 14.23 crore in the current fiscal. Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac inaugurated a new administrative block at the KSDP. Dr. Isaac said the State government had spent Rs. 250 crore for the KSDP in the last five years. An ophthalmic station at the KSDP was launched by Health Minister K.K. Shylaja. Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran inaugurated LVP blow-fill-seal station. Small Volume Parenterals vial filling station was launched by Food and Civil Supplies Minister P. Thilothaman. A.M. Ariff MP launched a heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) system. KSDP chairman C.B. Chandrababu and Alappuzha district panchayat president K.G. Rajeshwari spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-facility-to-make-low-cost-medicines/article33909310.ece
23 February 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||JSS snaps ties with LDF||The Janadhipathya Samrakshana Samithi (JSS) has decided to snap its ties with the Left Democratic Front (LDF). JSS general secretary A.N. Rajan Babu said that the decision was taken at a party State committee meeting here on Monday. Mr. Babu said that the decision to end ties was taken after the LDF backtracked on its promise to induct the JSS into its fold. “The decision was taken with an overwhelming support,” he said. Meanwhile, a statement issued here in the name of K.R. Gouri, who founded JSS in 1994, said that Mr. Babu had been ousted from the JSS for anti-party activities. Ms. Gouri did not attend the State committee meeting. In January, Mr. Babu replaced Ms. Gouri as general secretary of the party. She was then appointed president of the JSS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jss-snaps-ties-with-ldf/article33909366.ece
23 February 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||‘CPI(M) actions hampering development in North Malabar’||BJP State president K. Surendran on Monday said that politics of violence that the CPI(M) pursued was the reason for the lack of development in North Malabar. Speaking at a reception held at Payyanur during the Vijaya Yatra being taken out by him, he said the fact that a government lawyer was appearing for the accused in the killing of Vinod, the Yuva Morcha activist in Payyanur, showed that the murder was sponsored by the government. Kannur had become the breeding ground for terrorists too, he said. The CPI(M), which once opposed communal forces, was now appeasing them. There was violent politics on the one hand and terrorism on the other. Mr. Surendran said only the BJP could defeat both. The Congress would not be able to counter the CPI(M) and that was why senior Congress leaders such as Sreedharan Poduval were joining the BJP, he said. Former State president C.K. Padmanabhan, State general secretary George Kurian, vice presidents Dr. Prameela Devi, Sadanandan Master, and P. Sudarshanan spoke.  Sabarimala issue Earlier, speaking to the media in Kannur, Mr. Surendran said that the CPI and the government should clarify their stand on C. Divakaran’s statement that it was a mistake to help two women to enter the Sabarimala shrine. The CPI(M) should be prepared to apologise to believers, as Mr. Divakaran had publicly admitted that the government and the Chief Minister had brought the women to the shrine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-actions-hampering-development-in-north-malabar/article33909296.ece
23 February 2021||Kannur,KERALA||Stone to be laid for super capacitor project||Giving a major boost to the industrial sector in the State, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will launch ambitious projects initiated by Keltron Component Complex Limited (KCCL) here on Tuesday. K.G. Krishnakumar, KCCL managing director, said the company has chalked out a plan to set up a Rs. 42-crore super capacitor production facility with a capability of 1.8 million capacitors per annum. The foundation stone for phase one of the super capacitor project costing Rs. 18 crore will be laid by the Chief Minister, for which Rs. 4 crore has been earmarked in the State Budget, he said. The production facility will be housed in a new building, which will be completed in 18 months. The company has entered into a tie-up with ISRO for technology transfer, he said. Other Projects to be launched include a Rs. 2-crore Metalised Poly Propylene Motor Run Capacitor Production Unit, construction of Rs. 1.7 crore worth warehouse for MPP Rectangular Capacitors, Metalising Plant, Tool Room, and R& D and IT Innovations. Besides, a statue of the founder-chairman of Keltron, K.P.P. Nambiar, will be unveiled on the occasion as part of the K.P.P. Nambiar Memorial project. A science gallery, digital library, and simulation labs will be part of the project. The inaugural meeting at the Keltron Complex here will be chaired by Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-to-launch-kccl-projects/article33909297.ece
23 February 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||CM opens Cheruthazham school buildings||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday said that the excellence achieved by public schools in Kerala was the success of the government and the people working together. He was speaking after inaugurating the building complexes and school renovation projects of the Cheruthazham Higher Secondary School through video conferencing. The Chief Minister said that with the participation of the people, achievements in Kerala were possible that no other State in the country could claim.  Projects worthRs. 13 crore were implemented in the school.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-opens-cheruthazham-school-buildings/article33909282.ece
23 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Opposition councillors seek revised corporation budget||Councillors of the UDF and the BJP, constituting the Opposition in the Kochi Corporation, demanded a revised budget for the upcoming financial year on the grounds that the projects presented in the budget on Saturday had not been approved by the District Planning Committee (DPC). The projects that are to be part of the People’s Plan for the next financial year should have been approved first by the council and then by the District Planning Committee (DPC) before they are included in the budget, said Opposition Leader Antony Kureethara, who called for the budget to be revised and presented again after the projects received the requisite approvals. The Opposition had written to the DPC Chairman communicating that the budget, in the form it was presented in, could only be considered a vote on account. Several budget proposals were a mere repetition of existing schemes and proposals, said UDF councillor V.K. Minimol. Opposition councillors said that proposals like a development scheme for West Kochi, which was suggested this year, had already been presented in the previous year’s budget, prompting LDF councillors to point out that such schemes found a repeat mention, since the previous councils had failed to keep crucial promises, like implementing the e-governance project, which was mentioned as far back as in the 2011-12 budget. Allocations for some areas have reduced this year compared to last year, the Opposition said. UDF councillor Henry Austin said that for road and waterlogging related work, Rs. 174 crore had been allotted last year, as against Rs. 51.55 crore this year. The division of funds would also drop drastically this year, since funds were being deducted for payment of dues to the Kerala Water Authority and acquisition charges for the land bought at Brahmapuram nearly 18 years ago. For the welfare of women, the allocation had fallen from Rs. 5.5 crore last year to Rs. 4 crore this year, Mr. Austin said. He added that only Rs. 50 lakh had been set aside for COVID-19 containment measures. Projects for waste management, water supply, transport, and waterlogging all rely on funds from the Central and State governments with the corporation’s contribution to them being nearly negligible, he said. The budget was discussed on Monday, with a smattering of songs and poetry from the UDF side about shattered dreams and false hopes, while LDF councillors sang praises of the Deputy Mayor. Another meeting will be held on Tuesday for the finance standing committee to explain the questions raised about the budget and for the council to decide on passing it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/opposition-councillors-seek-revised-corporation-budget/article33909325.ece
23 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Work on seawall may be delayed||With no bids coming in for undertaking repair works on the seawall along some of the most vulnerable segments of the coast, Chellanam coastal protection works are unlikely to meet the March deadline even as residents have expressed apprehensions about facing another rainy season without any protection from sea erosion. The Irrigation Department had invited bids for repairing and maintaining segments of seawalls along South Chellanam, Gunduparambu, Malakhappadi, Bazaar, Velankanni, Chalakkadavu, Kandakkadavu, Reethalayam, Puthenthode, Kannamaly, Cheriyakadavu, Kattiparambu, Manassery and Saudi. The government had also issued technical sanction for work worth Rs. 1 crore related to the revamping of seawalls, said T.A. Dalphine and Jinson Veluthamannungal of Paschima Kochi Theera Samrakshana Samithi on Monday. They said more extensive works to protect the coastal area that included the erection of geotextile tubes too had come to a standstill. The residents said that if the works were not completed by April, the people of the region would be in serious trouble. They said people’s representatives should immediately intervene to re-tender the works. The coastal village has been at the receiving end of rising sea tides, accentuated after the Ockhi cyclone in December 2017, added Mr. Dalphine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/work-on-seawall-may-be-delayed/article33909315.ece
23 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Homestead farming likely to boost State’s tourism, labour sectors||Homestead farming combined with tourism could hold the future for Kerala’s tourism and labour sectors, both of which have been severely affected by the pandemic situation. Anyone having land ranging from five cents to even 25 acres could opt for homestead farming, a combination of homestay and farming, without spending much on augmenting amenities to host visitors. It would be apt for people interested in agriculture with cultivable land around their house, said Jose Dominic, co-founder and former CEO of CGH Earth. “All that is needed is conversion of one’s farm land into an enterprise. This will help attract visitors, including tourists, while furthering the cause of food security. It will also provide solace to people rendered unemployed by the pandemic, including returnees from West Asia,” he said. Homestead farms would be different from colonial-era plantations that abound in the State. Intercrop, rearing of farm animals, and making of cheese and other dairy produce could also be done. Such farms could also provide respite for city residents who want to take a break and be in the midst of greenery for a few days. Farmers could opt to convert their produce into value-added items, get them packed and brand them. It would empower local labour, said Mr. Dominic, who owns a homestead farm in Pala. Responsible Tourism Kerala’s Responsible Tourism (RT) initiatives kicked off in Kumarakom with focus on homestead farming, said Rupesh Kumar, State coordinator of the RT Mission. “Members of the local community there arrayed themselves under clusters and began selling their agri products to hotels. A total of 18,000 small and medium farmers across Kerala are now part of this. Tourists love being introduced to the concept. It is yet again emerging as a trend since substantial number of people have turned to this to tide over the pandemic and in order to eat healthy food. It will in the long run usher in self-sufficiency in vegetables, fruits and other produce,” he said. Fish farm There are entrepreneurs like Paulose K. George, who converted 2.50 acres of paddy field on his 18-acre plot at Thengode, near Kakkanad, into a fish farm in 2019. “I did this in association with the Fisheries Department, starting off with 10,000 seedlings of three varieties of fish, including pearl spot and freshwater prawns. Visitors come to the farm and purchase up to 100 kg fish each day. They can also do angling. The farm also has coconut, nutmeg and arecanut, among other produce,” he said. “The Fisheries Department provided a subsidy of Rs. 1 lakh, with the result that the venture that I took up as a hobby, became profitable from the first year itself,” added Mr. George.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/homestead-farming-likely-to-boost-states-tourism-labour-sectors/article33909309.ece
23 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Four new judges for HC||Kauser Edappagath and K. Babu, two Principal District and Sessions judges, and Murali Purushothaman and A.A. Ziyad Rahman, two lawyers of the High Court, were appointed as additional judges of the Kerala High Court on Monday. The Kerala High Court will now 40 judges. Mr. Edappagath is currently serving in Ernakulam and Mr. Babu in Thiruvananthapuram. Mr. Edappagath who began his legal career as advocate at Kannur and Thalassery in 1991 shifted his legal practice to the Kerala High Court in 2002. He was appointed as District and Sessions Judge in 2009. Mr. Babu started his legal practice at the court centres in Kottarakara and Kollam in 1994. He had worked as Additional District Judge at Thalassery, Pathanamthitta and Kottayam. He was also the Special Judge in the Central Bureau of Investigation court in Ernakulam. Mr. Babu had also served as Registrar (Subordinate Judiciary), High Court of Kerala, and Registrar (Officer on Special Duty), Supreme Court. He was appointed as Principal District Judge, Thiruvananthapuram, in 2018. Lawyers Mr. Purushothaman, a native of Aluva, graduated in law from the Government Law College, Ernakulam. He is serving as standing counsel for the State and the Election Commission of India. Mr. Rahman, a native of Thrikkakara, took his degree in law from Mangaluru in 1995. He had represented several financial institutions in various cases in courts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-new-judges-for-hc/article33909369.ece
23 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Civic body hopes to collect Rs. 154 crore as property tax||For the 2021-22 financial year, the Kochi Corporation expects to collect Rs. 154 crore as property tax, an increase of Rs. 24 crore compared to the demand of Rs. 130 crore for the 2020-21 financial year. The figure is also a good Rs. 40 crore above the estimate of Rs. 114 crore for the 2019-20 financial year. The revised property tax is to be paid retrospectively from 2016 onwards, and the corporation began to issue notices on revision to property owners towards the end of 2019, possibly accounting for the increase in the estimated tax collection. Opposition councillors pointed out on Monday that property tax collection for the current financial year stood only at Rs. 56.35 crore, only a fraction of the demand of nearly Rs. 130 crore. Similarly, the demand for profession tax for this year was Rs. 47 crore, while collection amounted only to around Rs. 17.63 crore till January 31, according to figures with UDF councillor Henry Austin. Against a rent demand of Rs. 9.14 crore, only Rs. 3.14 crore has been collected. Poor tax collection despite the higher estimate for the year will leave the corporation with a deficit, UDF councillors said. The budget document mentions that revenue receipts are at Rs. 652.68 crore, as against a higher revenue expenditure of Rs. 731.64 crore, leaving a revenue deficit of around Rs. 80 crore, they said. Factoring in the capital revenue and expenditure, a surplus of Rs. 37 crore was presented on Saturday. Increasing property tax collection will remain a pipe dream, UDF councillor V.K. Minimol said. LDF councillor R. Ratheesh said the lack of digitisation at the corporation contributed to revenue leakage. A centralised online system implemented through the e-governance project will improve financial management, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/civic-body-hopes-to-collect-rs-154-crore-as-property-tax/article33909316.ece
23 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Residents of three panchayats exempted from toll payment||Residents of Mulavukad, Cheranalloor, and Kadamakudy using Container Road will continue to be exempted from toll payment at the National Highways Authority of India’s toll plaza at Ponnarimangalam. A decision in this regard was taken at a meeting convened by District Collector S. Suhas here on Monday. Ernakulam MP Hibi Eden had taken up with the Collector the issue of the NHAI collecting toll during the past one week from the residents of the three panchayats. Mr. Eden said people of the said localities had surrendered their land and even the source of livelihood for the road to materialise. Steps are under way to exempt people living in Eloor Municipality also from the toll. The NHAI has been directed to issue free FasTag to residents in the four localities. People of the localities were forced to pay toll after FasTag was made mandatory. Mass protests were also held at the toll plaza, Mr. Eden said. Samara Samiti representative M.M. Lawrence, NHAI officials, and people’s representatives attended Monday’s meeting. Mr. Eden had handed over to the Collector a list of works that the NHAI ought to carry out on Container Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/residents-of-three-panchayats-exempted-from-toll-payment/article33909319.ece
23 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||High Court rejects Joseph’s plea||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Monday upheld a single judge’s verdict upholding the Election Commission of India’s (ECI) order declaring the party led by Jose K. Mani as the official Kerala Congress (M) and allotting it the ‘Two Leaves’ symbol. The Bench of Chief Justice S. Manikumar and Justice Shaji P. Chali passed the judgment while dismissing an appeal filed by P.J Joseph and others. The single judge had held that the conclusions arrived at by the ECI were based on materials available before it. The Bench observed that the ultimate satisfaction was the satisfaction of the ECI on the information in its possession, which includes whatever inputs available before it, produced by the petitioners and objectors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/high-court-rejects-josephs-plea/article33909367.ece
23 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Modern tourist vessels for Kochi backwaters||Aimed at improving the quality of service and ushering in standardised fare for backwater tours off Marine Drive, Kochi, the Ernakulam District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC) will shortly introduce a pair of 130-passenger-capacity vessels to be operated from the agency’s boat terminal on the waterfront. Renovation The terminal, readied in 2019, is temporarily closed, since Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) is renovating the entire Marine Drive stretch.  The work is expected to get over in March. “Our plan is to introduce the vessel named Cleopatra , which was built for use by the city-based Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation [KSINC]. A Government Order handing over the vessel to us is awaited. It could take visitors on a two-hour backwater cruise covering all landmarks on the Kochi waterfront. The vessel can take guests even into the seamouth, up to the historic Chinese fishing nets that dot the Fort Kochi beach, since it adheres to high safety standards,” said DTPC Secretary S. Vijayakumar. Such vessels under the public sector are crucial in preventing fleecing by unscrupulous private operators, who charge anything from Rs. 40 to Rs. 200 for an hour’s backwater cruise. Guests also end up walking precariously through rickety wooden poles that are tied together to build a pathway leading to boats parked a few metres from the Marine Drive walkway. “In the long run, the vessel and perhaps its sister vessel Michelle ,  which too might join us, could take guests on backwater cruise up to Kollam. The Alappuzha and Kollam DTPCs have agreed to join hands with us in this regard. Onboard entertainments and food too can be readied, since the Vembanad backwaters that stretch from here up to Alappuzha is very vast. The Alappuzha-Kollam route, although narrower, is very scenic, and the canopy provided by trees is an added attraction,” Mr. Vijayakumar said. Confidence Each vessel costs Rs. 2.40 crore. The success of the Alappuzha and See Kuttanad tourist ferry services operated by the State Water Transport Department (SWTD) has lent confidence to the DTPCs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/modern-tourist-vessels-to-ply-kochi-backwaters/article33909353.ece
23 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Flat owners knew about CRZ issues, says builder||The apartment owners of H2O Holy Faith, which was demolished last year for Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) rule violations, had prior knowledge about the legal issues involved and voluntarily chose to be part of the project, according to the builder. The builder has filed an affidavit to this effect in the Supreme Court to declare that the apartment owners were the co-promoters of the project and hence not entitled to any further compensation from the builder. The apartment owners, who chose not to disclose the crucial aspect before the Supreme Court, however, never denied the assertion made by the builder before the apex court, the builder submitted. The stand of the builder goes against the contention of most of the apartment owners that they were innocent buyers who were inadvertently caught in the legal battle. CRZ violations The builder submitted that the apartment owners were aware of the litigation, right from the stage of the local body issuing show-cause notice for CRZ violations. All the records regarding the litigations were made available for the perusal of the owners. The documents were also made available for the first meeting of the association of flat owners held on July 27, 2014, he contended. He also offered to produce e-mails, and minutes of various meetings to prove his point. The flat owners were never kept in the dark and were fully aware of the pending litigations. “More evidence including voice messages substantiating this aspect can be produced,” he submitted. Of the 91 apartment owners, 20 had made investments before the building permit was issued and hence they were the co-landowners and promoters. The apartment owners were also co-developers, considering the nature of the transaction undertaken by the applicant with them, he argued. However, Beyoj Chennat, the treasurer of the owners’ association, said the majority of the apartment owners were unaware of the legal issues involving the apartment. It was only after media reports emerged that most of the owners became aware about the issue. The builder was raising the argument to escape from the liability of paying compensation, added Mr. Chennat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/apartment-owners-were-aware-of-crz-litigation/article33909321.ece
23 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Modern fishing harbour comes up at Chellanam||The dream of a fishing harbour for traditional fishermen living along the 26-km coastal line between South Chellanam and Fort Kochi as well as those in the coastal villages of Arthunkal, Ottamassery, and Andhakaranazhi was realised on Monday with the inauguration of the Chellanam fishing harbour. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurated the harbour, the demand for which had been rife for nearly a decade. P.A. Charles, a traditional fisherman and one among those who gave up their homes and land for the project, said that the opening of the harbour gave hope to the village. Around 200 traditional fishing vessels berth at the harbour now. Sanction for the construction of a 120-metre-long breakwater for the harbour was accorded in 2007. A total of Rs. 5 crore was allocated for the project initially. The Harbour Engineering Department later submitted a proposal for transforming the facility into a full-fledged fishing harbour. However, the project was delayed due to difficulties in land acquisition. The new harbour has facilities, including approach roads as well as a wharf and auction halls. A communication from the Public Relations Department said that the harbour would provide direct employment to 9,000 persons while generating 13,000 indirect jobs. The facility was constructed at a cost of Rs. 50 crore. Fishers from Chellanam, Maruvakkad, Kandakkadavu, Kannamali, and Cheriyakadavu will immediately benefit from the project. Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma presided over the inaugural function, while John Fernandez and K.J. Maxi, MLAs, graced the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/decade-on-chellanam-gets-fishing-harbour/article33909313.ece
23 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Expedite probe into false rape charge: HC||The Kerala High Court on Monday asked the State Police Chief to entrust to a competent officer the investigation of a case registered against a woman who had retracted her charge of being raped by a junior health inspector in Thiruvananthapuram and expedite the investigation. The woman had alleged that she was raped at the house of the junior health inspector when she went there to collect a COVID-19 negative certificate. Later, she retracted her earlier statement and filed an affidavit before the High Court saying that it was a consensual sexual intercourse. The High Court granted bail to junior health inspector Pradeep Kumar. The court had also directed the State Police Chief to conduct an inquiry into the affidavit of the woman and take appropriate action. The inquiry had concluded that it was a false case and the police registered a criminal case against the woman under Section 182 (for providing false information) of the Indian Penal Code. When the inquiry report came up for consideration, Justice P.V. Kunhikrishnan criticised the media for sensationalising the case even at the time of registering the First Information Report. The sensationalism affected the morale of the health workers who were working hard to fight the COVID-19 pandemic, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/expedite-probe-into-false-rape-charge-hc/article33909329.ece
23 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC stays arrest of Saritha||The Kerala High Court on Monday ordered to keep in abeyance for two weeks the non-bailable arrest warrant issued by the Judicial First Class Magistrate Court, Kozhikode, against Saritha S. Nair, accused in the solar cheating case. The High Court also allowed the accused to surrender before the magistrate court and file a bail application.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-stays-arrest-of-saritha/article33909330.ece
23 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Builder for auctioning land to pay compensation||The builder of H2O Holy Faith has approached the Supreme Court seeking orders for appointing a committee to auction the 92.3 cents at Maradu where the apartment once stood, to raise funds for compensating the apartment owners. If the amount received through auctioning the holding is inadequate, the committee shall be directed to identify any of the properties belonging to the company and sell it, the builder submitted. The builder also sought a direction from the court that the flat owners were also co-promoters of the project and were not entitled for any further compensation from the builder. He submitted that the company was not in a position to deposit the money, which the Supreme Court-appointed committee to oversee the disbursement of compensation had suggested, without liquidating its assets. While directing the State to pay the initial compensation, the court directed that the amount disbursed by the government would be recoverable from the builder or promoter or others responsible for raising the construction, the affidavit said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/builder-for-auctioning-land-to-pay-compensation/article33909322.ece
23 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Traders’ body against temporary licences||The Kerala Merchants’ Chamber of Commerce (KMCC) has termed worrisome the suggestion in the corporation budget to issue temporary licences to street vendors and levy licence fee and tax from them. It said in a press release that street vendors were doing business close to registered shops and commercial establishments that had paid hefty licencee fee and were paying GST. The corporation’s move, it contended, would only add to the woes of merchants who were already reeling from dull business. Besides, street vendors getting licence could occupy pavements for business, which would go against rulings and observations of courts on the issue. However, if the suggestion was to support street vendors following central legislation, it should be implemented complying with all conditions and after rehabilitating them in designated zones, the press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traders-body-against-temporary-licences/article33909323.ece
23 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||University accepts dean’s request||The Sree Shankaracharya Sanskrit University, Kalady, has said that it is processing a request from V.R. Muraleedharan, professor and dean of the department of Sanskrit literature, for voluntary retirement with effect from July 1, 2021. Vice Chancellor D. Adatt said that the request was received by the university authorities. In a letter to the university, Dr. Muraleedharan had said that he was not satisfied with the process followed in admissions to Doctor of Philosophy courses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/university-accepts-deans-request/article33909328.ece
23 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Dip in COVID cases in district||Ernakulam district saw a dip in new COVID-19 cases on Monday, with 246 people testing positive, when 4,578 samples were tested. Five health workers are among the newly infected. Seventeen people tested positive in Thrikkakara, 10 in Thuravoor and nine each in Elamkunnapuzha and Thiruvaniyoor. While 8,342 people are recuperating at home, 46 are admitted at the Government Medical College Hospital and 60 are recovering at PVS Hospital. At FLTCs, 125 people are being monitored, and 174 are at SLTCs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dip-in-covid-cases-in-district/article33909317.ece
23 February 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Cheap imports hit fish farmers||Tilapia, one of the most farmed fish varieties in Kerala, used to fetch around Rs. 250 per kg in the market until recently. But the inflow from other States has caused the price to plummet, adversely impacting the aquaculture sector and inland farmers of Kerala. The fish is now available at Rs. 110 per kg and the aqua farmers say there is no market for their produce due to imports, especially from Andhra Pradesh. “The production potential of freshwater culture has escalated since Subhiksha Keralam, but nearly 1,000 tonnes of fish reach Kerala every day from other States. This low-quality formalin-laced fish can be bought at a cheap price, but it can lead to multiple health issues. The government should take steps to ensure that the stock reaching Kerala is chemical-free,” says T.Prushothaman, State president, Kerala Aqua Farmers Federation. The federation has approached authorities for remedial measures that also include provision for processing surplus fish and make ready-to-eat products. “Right now, farmers are forced to sell fish at a rate that doesn’t even cover the production cost,” he adds. Major market Kerala, with its ever-soaring demand, is a major market for the vast fish farms in Andhra Pradesh. “Despite our marine wealth and inland fish production, around 2 lakh tonnes of fish arrived in Kerala from other States last year and it has been affecting our market,” says P.A.Lalson, State secretary, All Kerala Aquaculture Promoters Union. Though the government has implemented several projects to promote aquaculture and accelerate inland production, there is no proper marketing network, he adds. “Since the launch of the Matsya Keralam project more than a decade back, the State has taken measures to maximize the annual production of freshwater fish. But our fish consumption is very high and we are dependent on other States. Right now, these lobbies have complete monopoly over many markets in Kerala and everyday consignments from Andhra Pradesh arrive in Ernakulam with tilapia, pangasius, seabass and a variety of marine fish.” Huge volumes of low-quality pearl spot flooding the market is another issue faced by the farmers. “In many parts of Kerala they sell pearl spot that tastes nothing like the real fish. It looks very similar to the original, but the flesh will be totally tasteless. Buyers usually go for low-priced fish thinking it's the same,” says Rajeevan, a farmer from Alappuzha. Raids In raids conducted by Fisheries and Food Safety Departments following lockdown, several trucks carrying huge quantities of stale fish were seized. “But they stopped the raids after sometime and now a good portion of the fish reaching our market is not fit for human consumption,” he adds.  This low-quality formalin-laced fish can be bought at a cheap price, but it can lead to multiple health issues||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cheap-imports-hit-fish-farmers/article33909352.ece
23 February 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Election fever sets in early at Pala||Even as the State awaits a formal announcement by the Election Commission of India on the Assembly election, the constituency of Pala has plunged into the campaign mode with a massive rally by Kerala Congress (M) chairman Jose K. Mani. Titled Janakeeyam, the rally was flagged off by CPI(M) district secretary V.N. Vasavan at Panthathala in Mutholi on Monday morning. Senior leaders of the Left Democratic Front and Ministers will participate in the rally, which is scheduled to conclude on February 28. During the rally, Mr. Mani will interact with voters in all 13 local bodies in the constituency, including the Pala municipality, and receive petitions and suggestions on the projects to be implemented in the constituency. HC order The event, which also signals the candidature of Mr. Mani at the KC(M) citadel, coincided with a Kerala High Court order dismissing an appeal by the rival Kerala Congress leader P.J. Joseph against the allocation of `two leaves to the KC(M). “The order is a blow to whoever attempted to destroy the legacy of K.M. Mani. It will expedite the political fall of the Joseph group,” Mr. Mani said. However, it was Mani C. Kappan MLA, the prospective rival of Mr. Mani in the upcoming elections, who drew a barrage of criticism at the rally’s inauguration. The CPI(M) and the Nationalist Congress party leaders, who spoke on the occasion, launched a scathing attack on Mr. Kappan even as Mr. Mani gave the topic a miss. The week-long rally by Mr. Mani assumes significance in view of the likely high-stakes battle between him and Mr. Kappan. Kappan’s party Mr. Kappan, who on Monday floated a new party after breaking away from the NCP, will be taking up a similar rally across Pala in the first week of March. The sitting MLA is expected to receive immense support from the Congress in his offensive against the KC(M). Meanwhile, the new outfit has claimed that more leaders from the NCP Kottayam district unit, including seven block committee presidents, had joined them. The NCP leadership, however, has dismissed the report and said legal action would be initiated against Mr. Kappan for circulating fake news. “Only a handful of leaders, including the former district president and the Pala Block president have joined them while all other committees are still intact,” said T.V. Baby, NCP Kottayam district unit president.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poll-fever-sets-in-early-at-pala/article33909358.ece
23 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Renovated Vellayil harbour thrown open to fishers||Offering new opportunities for coastal people, the renovated Vellayil harbour was thrown open to fishermen on Monday. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan commissioned the Rs. 75-crore project which was completed using State and Central funds after years-long wait. In his online inaugural address, Mr. Vijayan said the new fishing harbour, which was earlier a fish landing centre, would create 10,000 more direct employment opportunities for fishers and allied workers in Kozhikode district. This would be apart from about one lakh indirect employment opportunities for people associated with the field, he said. He said an additional 600 tonnes of daily catch would reach the market through the new harbour. “We hope that it will come to the benefit of fishermen and allied workers from Vellayil, Puthiyakadavu, Thoppayil and Kamburam areas,” he added. Harbour projects Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma said the State government completed eight fishing harbours within five years by extending their direct benefits to thousands of fishers in Kerala. “In Kozhikode district alone, we opened two harbours. As of now, 21 fishing harbours are there to explore the scope of fishing,” she said. The Minister said the fund allotted by the Centre for the development of the Rs. 75-crore Vellayil harbour project was just Rs. 17 crore. “The promise made earlier was the allocation of about 75% of the total fund by the Union government,” she said. It was in 2012 that the proposal for the development of the fish landing centre was given sanction. Though the expected time of completion then was 2017, works were delayed because of shortage of funds and delayed tendering procedures. Technical issues related to the reconstruction of breakwaters also hit the project. Facilities Fisheries Department officials said the harbour renovation work was completed by ensuring all basic facilities such as safe wharf, auction hall, loading area, parking space, administrative block, improved electrification, hygienic drain, and compound wall. Earlier, it was just a fish landing centre which was heavily dependent on the nearby Puthiyappa harbour, they said. According to officials, the opening of the new harbour within the city limits would also reduce the rush at the Puthiyappa harbour to a great extent. Based on the daily income generated from the facility, more facilities for storage, processing, and packing would be considered at the harbour, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/renovated-vellayil-harbour-thrown-open-to-fishers/article33909293.ece
23 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Plus Two exam change unlikely||The Education Department is unlikely to act on a memorandum submitted by Plus Two students demanding that their final examinations, now scheduled to begin on March 17, be put off. A group of 36 students, some of them pursuing science courses and studying in Kozhikode schools, had written to the Education Minister, Director General of Education, and the Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights in recent days. Due to the pandemic situation classes were held online. Their letter pointed out that only five lessons in Chemistry were taught between June and November and the remaining 11 were finished off between December and January. Likewise in Physics, only four lessons were taught between June and December and the remaining 11 were wound up in January. In Mathematics, four lessons were taught till November and nine lessons between December and January. Only two lessons each were taught in Botany and Zoology till November. The remaining five and six lessons, respectively, were taught in two months. Tight schedule One parent from Kozhikode told The Hindu on Monday that the schedule of examinations too did not give any breathing space for the students. “Biology examination is on March 17, Hindi is on March 18, and Chemistry is on March 19. The examinations are scheduled to end on March 29. If the Chemistry examination is put off to March 31, it will be helpful because the students will get a day’s break,” he added. Another parent said that the classes on the VICTERS channel were often “fast forward sessions.” Sources in the Education Minister’s office said the priority now was to hold the examinations on time. “Unless there is some other exigency, they are unlikely to be postponed,” they said. Meanwhile, sources in the Kerala Commission for Protection of Child Rights said if there were many petitions on the issue, they would be sorted out and forwarded to the higher secondary section for its response.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plus-two-exam-change-unlikely/article33909364.ece
23 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Reckless driving on Beach Road causes concern||The 5-km stretch of the Kozhikode Beach Road is turning into an accident-prone zone with the uncontrolled entry of luxury sports vehicles, including cars and motorbikes, for fun rides and dangerous demonstrations. Most of these reckless drivers, including underage ones, hit the road ignoring the safety of beach-goers and threatening the safety of those who cross the road. “The most surprising thing is that the police do not intercept such vehicles which continue to make a total mess in this prime tourism spot. There are even attempts to conduct road races by amateur young riders,” says Udayakumar, a way-side trader near the beach. He says that it creates fear and insecurity among beach-goers, especially children and senior citizens. Members of various beach side residents’ associations say the sound pollution created by altered motorbikes and cars has not attracted the attention of enforcement squads. Though many high-end motorcycles fitted with altered silencers and unsafe modifications are spotted on the road during weekends, police patrol squads or the coastal police do not intercept such vehicles claiming that such spot actions will hinder the movement of people and other vehicles. They say that enforcement using camera footage has been already taken against many such dangerous riders. In addition , some driving instructors too have found Beach Road a convenient space for training learners. This has compounded the problem on the prime location of the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/reckless-driving-on-beach-road-causes-concern/article33909295.ece
23 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||School asked to set up complaints committee||Kerala State Women’s Commission Chairperson M.C. Josephine has observed that discrimination between genders on the matter of wages is still prevalent in the State and called upon educated women not to let themselves be exploited by employers. Speaking after a mega adalat of the Commission here on Monday, she said that a case in which teachers having experience of 18 to 25 years were paid a meagre Rs. 12,000 as monthly salary, was discussed at the adalat. Six female teachers of a school run by a cultural organisation had approached the Commission complaining of exploitation by a representative of the management. Commission member M.S. Thara told reporters that a higher secondary teacher in government service was interfering in the matters of the school on behalf of the management and was harassing the 25-odd teachers. “They were being asked to take part in meetings beyond working hours and on holidays. Foul language was being used against them when they questioned it. They have also not been paid salary since last March on account of COVID-19,” she said. “Despite the Supreme Court order to form internal complaints committees in every institution where women worked and the supporting government guidelines, they have not been formed in many institutions,” said Ms. Josephine. The Commission has directed the headmistress of the school to form an internal complaints committee and submit a report to the regional office of the Commission within two weeks. Representatives of the school management have been asked to report in the next adalat. 11 cases settled Another case of moral policing was settled with warnings to persons not to interfere in the privacy of others. Of the 56 complaints received at the adalat, 11 were settled, while seven have been put on hold awaiting reports from different departments including the police. The remaining complaints have been postponed for the next adalat. Regional office Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate online the regional office of the Kerala State Women’s Commission in Kozhikode on Tuesday. The facility will be situated on the premises of the District Panchayat office at the civil station and will be the centre of the Commission in north Kerala. The centre will serve as a collection point of complaints as well as other activities of the Commission, said chairperson M.C. Josephine. The formal inauguration will be held at the Collectorate Conference Hall at 12 noon on Tuesday which will be virtually presided over by Minister for Women, Children and Social Justice K.K. Shylaja. The office is being set up during the silver jubilee year of the Commission. A logo of the silver jubilee celebrations, a women’s directory consisting of useful contact numbers and information for women, and a booklet on laws for the protection of women will be released on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/school-directed-to-set-up-complaints-committee/article33909298.ece
23 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||374 fresh cases in Kozhikode||Drop in the number of lab tests led to a subsequent fall in fresh cases in Kozhikode district on Monday when only 4,841 samples were tested, and 374 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported. According to the District Medical Officer, there were 363 locally acquired infections, and the source of eight others was not known. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 133 cases, Narippatta 28, Peruvayal 19, and Mavoor 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/374-fresh-cases-in-kozhikode/article33909299.ece
23 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Ordinance vague on teachers’ salary’||Governor Arif Mohammed Khan recently signed a government Ordinance on the service conditions of teaching and non-teaching staff in self-financing colleges in the State. But the document is vague on the salary conditions of teachers, says a section of the academic community. Varughese Mathew, president, Kerala Unaided College Principals’ Council, said on Monday that there were four groups of teachers in self-financing colleges. Qualification “There are teachers who are fresh postgraduates, there are people with postgraduate degree with experience, those with doctorate degrees, and people who have qualified the University Grants Commission’s National Eligibility Test. The Ordinance was not clear on their salary conditions based on the qualification,” he said. He said that the council, however, welcomed the Ordinance otherwise as it had laid out conditions for the recruitment and functioning of the staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ordinance-vague-on-teachers-salary/article33909300.ece
23 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Exorbitant fees for licence alleged||The district unit of the Vyapari Vyavasyi Samiti has asked merchants to contact it if the authorities levied heavy fees to renew trade licences. District unit president Soorya Abdul Gafoor and secretary T.Marakkar said in a press release that the trade licence fees were now based on the investment in each enterprise, and that some merchants were being exploited in the name of renewing trade licence. The samiti is planning to contact the Kozhikode Corporation to find a solution to the issue, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/exorbitant-fees-for-licence-alleged/article33909291.ece
23 February 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Will fight for you, Rahul tells tribespeople||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, MP, whipped up the enthusiasm of hundreds of tribespeople living in different parts of the Nilambur forests and offered them a better tomorrow if his party came back to power at the Centre and in the State. Addressing a tribal conference at Nilambur on Monday, Mr. Gandhi assured them that the involvement of tribespeople would be ensured in the implementation of the Forest Rights Act. Mr. Gandhi said that although the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance government had introduced the Forest Rights Act by envisaging the involvement of tribespeople as a major stakeholder, it was sad to see Adivasis being kept away from its implementation part. “I will strongly make the argument that our tribal brothers and sisters deserve what everybody else is getting,” he said amid loud cheers from the 2,000-odd crowd. Mr. Gandhi said that educational and health facilities should be taken to the tribal hamlets, rather than making them travel long distances to get the facilities. “Currently, I am a soldier in Delhi. When the United Democratic Front government comes to power, I will be your full-time soldier in Kerala to make sure that you get the health care and education that you need,” he said. Mr. Gandhi gave a patient listening to the woes of Adivasis. Many of them shared their problems with him. Some of them said that they were living in constant threat of wild animals without even a house. Tribal Moopan (leader) Palan presided over the function. P.V. Abdul Wahab, K.C. Venugopal, MPs; A.P. Anil Kumar, MLA; veteran Congress leader Aryadan Mohammed; District Congress Committee president V.V. Prakash; former municipal chairman Aryadan Shoukath; and district panchayat vice president Ismail Moothedam were present.  Involvement of tribespeople will be ensured in the implementation of Forest Rights Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/i-will-fight-for-your-cause-rahul-tells-tribespeople/article33909289.ece
23 February 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Cong. on shaky foundation: Vijayaraghavan||CPI(M) State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan said here on Monday that the Congress’s foundation in the State had begun to shake and that the Congress lacked a clear political perspective. Addressing the media here as part of his Vikasana Munnetta Yatra, Mr. Vijayaraghavan said that Opposition Leader Ramesh Chennithala had focused only on attacking the State government during his recently concluded jatha. By sparing the BJP completely during the rally, Mr. Chennithala had made it clear that the BJP was not the main enemy for the Congress, he said. He accused the Congress of adopting double standards by displaying soft Hindutva on the one side, and by accosting religious fundamentalist parties on the other. “The Congress leadership has no answer to the question whether they would continue their alliance with the Jamat-e-Islami in the upcoming Assembly elections as they did in the civic body poll,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cong-on-shaky-foundation-vijayaraghavan/article33909287.ece
23 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||District panchayat to continue popular projects||The Thiruvananthapuram district panchayat’s annual Budget for 2021-22, taking forward the popular projects from the previous tenure and introducing new ones in the areas of agriculture, social welfare, environment, disaster management, and infrastructure development, was presented on Monday. The budget presented by district panchayat vice president A. Shailaja Begum expects a revenue of Rs. 716.36 crore, expenditure of Rs. 699.13 crore, and surplus of Rs. 17.23 crore. Pointing out that the national and State awards that the district panchayat won in recent years are a stamp of approval for its various projects, Ms. Begum said some of the projects would continue in its current form with increased funding. The ‘Patheyam’ project through which food was given to the needy would get an increased allocation of Rs. 8.2 crore. Agriculture and productive sector in the rural area would also get much focus. For the Kedaram project aimed at increasing the area under paddy cultivation in the district, Rs. 1.5 crore was allocated. To promote cultivation of various crops under local bodies and people’s representatives, Rs. 50 lakh had been allocated. Total subsidy of Rs. 6.15 crore, including Rs. 2.4 crore for women, would be provided for milk production as part of the Ksheera Samridhi project. An amount of Rs. 1.68 crore was allocated for developmental works at Vithura Jersey farm, including the construction of a modern shed to include 100 more cows, Ms. Begum said. The Chettachal jersey farm would get an allocation of Rs. 1.24 crore. One of the new projects highlighted by Ms. Begum was the one to rehabilitate persons facing mental health issues. The women were proposed to be rehabilitated at a care centre in Kottamam and the men at the district panchayat’s building at Peringamala. An amount of Rs. 75 lakh had been allocated for this. Another project titled ‘Sushaktha’ aimed at ensuring the continued availability of sports training facilities for women. Such a project was envisaged, as it was seen that many young women athletes found it hard to find training facilities and maintain fitness once they left school or college. Gender budgeting was also ensured with special projects focussed on women in all sectors including services and production. Some of the projects for women included ‘Sushanti’, to provide toilet facilities and refreshment along highways, ‘Nivarana’, to provide disaster management training for women living in coastal areas, ‘live fish stall’ for women fish workers and others. In addition, Rs. 50 lakh was allocated for rehabilitation of differently abled women. Vellayani Lake Revival of the Vellayani lake, which had been taken over by water weeds and other invasive species, would be carried out with the help of MGNREGS workers. An amount of Rs. 50 lakh was allocated initially for removal of weeds and to remove silt from the lake bed. The LIFE project would get an allocation of Rs. 14.8 crore. An amount of Rs. 1.5 crore had been allocated for the ‘Aswas’ project to provide financial aid for dialysis and to provide medicines for those who had undergone liver transplant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-panchayat-to-continue-popular-projects/article33909513.ece
23 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||From a barnyard to the highway||It was a rusted metal shell with an engine. He traced it to a barnyard in central Travancore and identified it with its chassis number. It was once his father’s car. Within five years, a jade blue, ivory white Standard Pennant was reborn out of the mess. Now, Neeraj K. Ramachandran, an automobile engineer from Kowdiar, is delighted to have the car in its full glory back in the family after 26 years. A legacy inherited The car was bought by his paternal grandmother Padmini Nair from the former Director of Akashavani G.P.S. Nayar for her son and former chief town planner P. Ramachandran. Neeraj, the owner of the restored Standard Pennant, is now a member of Norwich-based Standard Motor Club. The club has added the saloon model car into their records. “The car, bearing the registration KLV 7117, was in the family till 1995. It took 26 years for us to trace it to a barnyard in central Travancore. I got the chassis only and had to pay Rs. 2 lakh for it. Luckily, the 946-cc engine was intact,” he says. Getting the air vent, dashboard, rear view mirror, levers and steel wipers and other genuine parts from the U.K. was a challenge. “Everything of Standard Pennant is available there and cheap. But, 50% import duty being imposed for spare parts and shipping charges make it costly here,” says Neeraj. The grill had to be manufactured by a fabricator in Thumba, back bumper had to be chrome plated and fuel tank galvanised. Original tyres were sourced from Chennai. The car that can carry four has only done less than 10k miles on the clock with all original parts. Braving all odds, the car was restored to its old glory in five years. Neeraj is all praise for mechanic Balachandran Nair of Killippalam who did mechanical jobs, Mani of Ambalamukku who did patch works and fabrication, and Zakir Hussain of Muduvanmughal for the two tone body painting and detailing. It was to former ISRO chairman G. Madhavan Nair, who had used Standard Pennant, Neeraj turned for advice when hurdles popped up during restoration. The cost of restoration came to Rs. 10 lakh. The tail finned car was re-registered and has logged in over 200 km. “I am passionate about old cars and this one was close to my heart as it was used by my father. It runs for 15 km on a litre of petrol and offers a great drive,” adds Neeraj.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/from-a-barnyard-to-the-highway/article33909355.ece
23 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSRTC staff strike today as talks fail||The services of the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will be affected on Tuesday by the 24-hour strike from February 22 midnight by the Transport Democratic Federation (TDF) and the Kerala State Transport Employees Sangh (KSTES). The TDF and KSTES, in separate statements issued on Monday after a meeting convened by KSRTC Chairman and Managing Director Biju Prabhakar, said the management had not taken a favourable decision on their demands and hence they were going ahead with the strike. Demands The unions are demanding withdrawal of the move to float KSRTC-SWIFT, immediate revision of salary, disbursal of Dearness Allowance, government takeover of pension liability, revival of the dying-in-harness scheme, and an end to punitive transfers. TDF working president R. Sasidharan said the strike notice was given on February 8. “The KSRTC-SWIFT will destroy the KSRTC. The employees are drawing salaries of 2012 and the management is not willing to initiate even preliminary talks on wage revision,” Mr. Sasidharan said. KSTES general secretary K.L. Rajesh said the meeting convened by the CMD as directed by Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran failed to arrive at any decision on the demands. CITU stance Meanwhile, the CITU-affiliated Kerala State Road Transport Employees Association (KSRTEA) said the strike was politically motivated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtc-staff-strike-today-as-talks-fail/article33909372.ece
23 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Soosa Pakiam to step down||Soosa Pakiam M., Archbishop of the Catholic Church’s Archdiocese of Thiruvananthapuram (Latin rite), has indicated that he will be stepping down from his post soon. The archbishop has requested Rome to make alternative arrangements as he is turning 75 on March 11, Church sources say. In a letter on Monday, Soosa Pakiam informed the clergy that he expects to hear a decision from the Vatican shortly. Soosa Pakiam has formally handed over official responsibilities to Auxiliary Bishop Christudas Rajappan. Still accountable He will continue to be accountable for the decisions made by the Auxiliary Bishop until the Vatican formally relinquishes him of his responsibilities as archbishop, he says. The Church law requires archdiocesan and diocesan bishops to step down once they reach the age of 75. They can, however, remain in office at the Pope’s discretion. The archbishop has announced his intention to move out of Archbishop’s House, Vellayambalam, to the archdiocese seminary on March 10. Soosa Pakiam, who became bishop in January 1991 and the first Metropolitan Archbishop of the Thiruvananthapuram archdiocese in June 2004, has been battling health issues of late. He recovered from COVID-19 after testing positive earlier this month. Born in Neerody in Tamil Nadu, Maria Kalist Soosa Pakiam was ordained as priest on December 20, 1969. Pope John Paul II named him coadjutor Bishop of Thiruvananthapuram in December 1989. As bishop He was consecrated as bishop on February 2, 1990 and took over as bishop of Thiruvananthapuram in January the next year. He became the first Metropolitan Archbishop of the newly erected Thiruvananthapuram archdiocese in June 2004. A highly respected member of the Church, Soosa Pakiam has headed the Kerala Catholic Bishops’ Council and Kerala Region Latin Catholic Bishops Council. He has also been at the forefront of anti-liquor campaigns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/soosa-pakiam-to-step-down-soon/article33909284.ece
23 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Bus shelter: Vigilance probe likely||An inquiry by the Vigilance has been recommended into the discrepancies found in the functioning of the Prateeksha Bus Shelters Kerala Ltd. (PBSKL), a public limited company set up to function as the nodal agency for constructing, developing, maintaining, and operating bus shelters during the tenure of the previous United Democratic Front (UDF) government. Accounts not audited The Director Board of the PBSKL, set up under the Public Works Department, recommended the Vigilance inquiry after it was found that accounts were not properly maintained or audited, Minister for Public Works G. Sudhakaran said on Monday. The authorities had found that there was no record on the handing over of Rs. 44.95 lakh as mobilisation advance to the agency from the MLA funds of various legislators for construction of hi-tech bus shelters, Mr. Sudhakaran said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bus-shelter-vigilance-probe-likely/article33909373.ece
23 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Dip in testing, cases||The steep dip in testing over the weekend is reflected in the new COVID-19 case figures of the State on Monday. Kerala reported 2,212 new cases when testing done over the 24 hours fell to 38,103. However, the test positivity rate (TPR) which had been remaining more or less steady dropped to 5.81%. 5,037 recoveries The State’s active case pool which had risen past 65,000 last week dipped to 55,468. The number of recoveries on Monday was 5,037. The addition of 16 new deaths which took place in the past few days to the official list of COVID fatalities has taken the State’s cumulative COVID-19 toll to 4,105. Kozhikode reported three deaths, Kollam, Ernakulam and Kannur reported two each, while Thiruvananthapuram, Thrissur, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Malappuram, Pathanamthitta and Wayanad reported one death each. Among districts, Kozhikode reported the maximum number of cases at 374, followed by Alappuzha 266, Ernakulam 246, Malappuram 229, Thiruvananthapuram 199, Kollam 154, Kottayam 145, Thrissur 141, Kannur 114, Pathanamthitta 97, Kasaragod 86, Palakkad 68, Wayanad 52 and Idukki 41 cases. Two more from the U.K. tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dip-in-testing-cases/article33909381.ece
23 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Builder asked to compensate buyer||The Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016, can still apply even if a real estate deal was inked before the Act came into force, a recent order by the Adjudicating Officer, Kerala Real Estate Regulatory Authority (K-RERA), indicated. In the February 15 order, K-RERA Adjudicating Officer T.U. Mathukutty ordered Thiruvananthapuram-based Samson and Sons Builders and Developers Pvt Ltd to return Rs. 35 lakh paid by a buyer, with interest and compensation, after an apartment project failed to take off. The petitioner, who belongs to Thirumala, had invested in an apartment in a project by the builder at Vazhayila. He paid the full amount in three instalments by 2013. Although the builder was required to hand over the apartment by May 31, 2015, the work was never completed. The dismayed buyer approached K-RERA seeking the return of his money. A contention of the builder was that the Act was not applicable in this case since the transactions had taken place before the Act came into force. However, the Adjudicating Officer observed that the builder had failed to hand over the apartment even by the date the buyer had filed his petition.   The Adjudicating Officer fixed the simple interest rate at 14.05% per annum and compensation at Rs. 1.5 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/builder-asked-to-compensate-buyer/article33909515.ece
23 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Give Excise more power, says child rights panel||The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has demanded that the Excise department also be given the powers to register cases over possession or selling of narcotic products, which involves the use of minors. Cases involving the use of children for stocking or selling such substances are punishable with seven years rigorous imprisonment and Rs. 1 lakh fine. Currently, only the police can register cases in such cases under the Juvenile Justice Act. In consultations by the commission, opinions emerged that empowering the Excise to act on such cases would ensure more effective implementation of the law. The Excise department had pointed out that the use and sales of narcotics and liquor among youth could be controlled more effectively if the department was given powers to register cases that happen in the vicinity of schools and colleges. The department had also written to the government regarding this in 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/child-rights-panel-asks-for-more-powers-for-excise-dept/article33909283.ece
23 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||District to have 1,428 more polling booths||With the number of polling booths in the district set to go up to 4,164 in the coming Assembly polls, the district administration on Monday issued a constituency-wise break-up of new booths. At present, the 14 Assembly segments in the district have 2,736 booths. Another 1,428 will be added due to the Election Commission decision to restrict the number of voters per booth to 1,000 in view of COVID-19. The number of booths in Varkala will go up from 197 to 275 with the addition of 78 booths. Attingal will have 307 booths in all with 101 new booths planned. Chirayinkeezhu will have 303 booths including 104 new ones. The number of booths in Nedumangad will go up to 300. Vamanapuram will have 288 booths. The total number of booths in Kazhakuttam will go up to 296 including 130 new ones. Break-up The break-up for the remaining constituencies are as follows (total booths with new booths in brackets): Vattiyurkavu - 315 (143); Thiruvananthapuram - 308 (130); Nemom - 311 (130); Aruvikkara - 265 (55); Parassala - 318 (103); Kattakada - 287 (98); Kovalam - 323 (107); Neyyattinkara - 268 (83).  Election Commission decides to restrict the number of voters per booth to 1,000 in view of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-to-have-1428-more-polling-booths/article33909518.ece
23 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Illegal marriage: two persons arrested||The Fort police have arrested two men on charges of illegally marrying off a woman to a Maldivian national and providing them with a fake marriage certificate. The men were identified as Haja Nisamudeen, 48, of Vallakadavu and Anand, 41, of Muttathara. The police are on the lookout for the main accused, Azeez, an Ayurveda doctor from Ganga Nagar, Manacaud, who is absconding. The accused had reportedly taken $2,000 from Yusuf Abdul Kareem of the Maldives who was in Thiruvananthapuram for medical treatment. They arranged his marriage to the woman, a mother of three, at Dr. Azeez’s home. The couple were handed over a marriage certificate on the bogus letterhead of the All India Muslim Council. But when the couple produced the certificate in the Maldives, the authorities identified it as fake and alerted the Foreigners Regional Registration Officer here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/illegal-marriage-two-persons-arrested/article33909519.ece
23 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Exam duty in Gulf centres||Applications have been invited online from teachers for appointment as Deputy Chief Superintendent in Gulf countries and Lakshadweep for the SSLC examinations in March. Applications can be submitted from February 23 to 26 through the iExams website by logging onto https://sslcexam.kerala.gov.in and clicking on the link Deputy Chief Superintendent appearing below the tab ‘Latest News.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/exam-duty-in-gulf-centres/article33909378.ece
23 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Speed up vaccination, says IMA||Indian Medical Association (IMA) has demanded that the COVID-19 vaccination process in the State be speeded up and that arrangements be made so that the healthcare workers who are yet to be vaccinated are administered the vaccine without delay. At the State committee meet of IMA held on Monday, it was pointed out that many healthcare workers had missed out on the registration for vaccination and that the government should make immediate arrangements so that healthcare workers who produce Aadhar card be allowed to receive the vaccine. IMA welcomed the government’s intent to conduct more RT-PCR tests for COVID detection and the sero surveillance studies that was initiated across all districts. It also decided to intensify the agitation against the Centre’s policy of allowing different systems of medicine to be mixed, and demanded that such policies that were detrimental to the practice of modern medicine and public health be withdrawn. IMA condemned the pronouncements made by Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on the state of Kerala’s health sector. It said that it was unfortunate that the UP Chief Minister could not comprehend or appreciate Kerala’s exemplary health indices or the fact that Kerala’s COVID mortality rate is lower than that of many developed nations. Even when the State went through the peak of the epidemic, never was any person denied care in the State’s hospitals and this was a result of the coordinated manner in which the public and private sector hospitals in the State worked together, IMA pointed out. Mr. Adityanath’s statement was a denigration of the State’s healthcare workers, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/speed-up-vaccination-says-indian-medical-association/article33909290.ece
23 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two held for theft||Two men from Vallakadavu were arrested on Monday on charges of breaking into a food catering service and stealing Rs. 40,000, a gold chain, and a mobile phone. Shabeer Ali, 36, and Lal Khan, 43, were part of a five-member gang that broke into ‘Veettile Oonu’, an establishment run by women at Pattoor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-held-for-theft/article33909510.ece
23 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||199 new cases in capital district||The district reported 199 new COVID-19 cases and 247 recoveries on Monday. The active casepool stood at 3,705, the district administration said. The death toll in the district, meanwhile, rose to 814 as per official statistics. Of the newly reported COVID-19 cases, 128 persons contracted the infection though local transmission. The list also contained two health workers. In all, 1,535 people were quarantined in the district on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/199-new-cases-in-capital-district/article33909517.ece
23 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Puducherry a shameful chapter in democracy: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday said defections that led to the collapse of the Congress government in Puducherry was a shameful chapter in the history of Indian democracy. In an FB post, Mr. Vijayan said the BJP had resorted to brazen horse-trading to “buy” Congress legislators. It had exploited the organisational weakness and ethical void in Congress to demolish it in Puducherry. ‘Highest bidder’ Congress leadership seemed ready to cross over to the highest bidder. The ideological line between Congress and BJP’s Hindutva politics seemed very thin. With the BJP hollowing out the Congress from inside, Left secular democratic parties have emerged as the only credible bulwark against the Sangh Parivar’s majoritarian politics, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/puducherry-a-shameful-chapter-in-democracy-cm/article33909508.ece
23 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||FLTC shifted from Greenfield||The COVID-19 first-line treatment centre (FLTC) at the Greenfield Stadium, Karyavattom, has been shifted to the Cooperative Training Institute at Manvila, District Collector Navjot Khosa has said. The stadium is all set to host a combined Army recruitment rally from February 26 to March 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fltc-shifted-from-greenfield/article33909511.ece
23 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Vaccination for polling officials||The COVID-19 vaccination drive for polling officials deputed for the Assembly elections will commence on February 23. Chief Electoral Officer Teeka Ram Meena will receive the first jab at his office, followed by other employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccination-for-polling-officials/article33909377.ece
23 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Council approves Corpn.’s annual plan||A meeting of the city Corporation council on Monday approved the local body’s finalised annual plan of Rs. 228.44 crore for the 2021-22 financial year. The Budget will be presented on February 25 at 10.30 a.m., followed by Budget discussions on March 1 and 2. Mayor Arya Rajendran said that the Corporation was aiming for implementation of all the projects in the plan. Priority of the projects would be decided based on the importance. With more funds becoming available, the funds for respective projects could also be increased, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/council-approves-corpns-annual-plan/article33909514.ece
23 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Dharna staged||NABARD employees and pensioners under the banner of the United Forum of NABARD Officers, Employees and Retirees staged a dharna in front of the regional office here on Monday to highlight their demand for pension on par with that of RBI employees. CITU State vice president Jose T. Abraham inaugurated the dharna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dharna-staged/article33909361.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||The sky is the limit||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/the-sky-is-the-limit/article33909286.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||On the warpath||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/on-the-warpath/article33909302.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Path not to be taken||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/path-not-to-be-taken/article33909312.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Road users at risk||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/road-users-at-risk/article33909327.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Just a paper tiger||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/just-a-paper-tiger/article33909524.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||In support of PSC rank holders||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-support-of-psc-rank-holders/article33909521.ece
23 February 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||SKU resumes on-campus classes for students||The Sri Krishnadevaraya University(SKU) on Monday opened its hostels and offline mode of classrooms for science students and also for some groups of arts and commerce students who have an examination to take in March or April. Vice-Chancellor M. Ramakrishna Reddy said that about 60 students have joined the hostels. At least 550 students underwent the test on the first day and all turned out negative, Mr. Reddy added. It has become the first university in the State to conduct the COVID-19 test for all its students entering the campus. Hostels and physical classes were closed from March last year due to the pandemic and the classes were being conducted online since then. Out of the 4,500 students who used to attend the university campus colleges in all faculties, including engineering and pharmacy, about 2,000 would be required to attend classes now, he said. The science students need to prepare for the practicals before they appear for the final examinations, hence reopening of physical classes with all COVID-19 protocols had become essential, the VC added. All the hostels have been sanitised thrice and kept ready, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sku-resumes-on-campus-classes-for-students/article33909459.ece
23 February 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur GGH expansion project gathers steam||The proposed expansion of the Government General Hospital here has gained momentum as Lucknow-based consultant Muralage visiting the city on Saturday to have a first-hand look at the proposed site and to find out the preliminary soil quality for laying foundations for some blocks up to eight floors. Anantapur Urban MLA Anantha Venkatarmi Reddy told The Hindu on Sunday that the State government had earmarked Rs. 300 crore for the project and another Rs. 400 crore for the Tirupati GGH expansion project. Both the projects have been included in the same package for the consultant. The Anantapur GGH would be expanded from 500 beds to 1,200 beds. Of the Rs. 300 crore, Rs. 270 crore has been earmarked for infrastructure and the rest for procurement of equipment. The new blocks would house various wings such as transfusion medicine, hospital administration, emergency medicine, additional units for general surgery, general medicine, orthopaedics, paediatrics, neonatology and anaesthesiology. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is keen on taking up these projects at the earliest as the medical infrastructure needs to be improved in Anantapur district so that patients are treated here instead of going to Bengaluru or Kurnool,” the MLA said. Once the process of handing over the seven land parcels totalling 12.79 acres belonging to the various government departments is completed, the consultant will come up with designs and detailed project reports (DPR) in consultation with the Andhra Pradesh Health, Medical Housing, and Infrastructure Development Corporation. In the pipeline At Anantapur, a maternal and child health block with 300 beds, a 350-bed hostel for medicine students (men and women), a post-graduate hostel block with 300 rooms have also been proposed, Mr. Anantha Venkatarmi Reddy added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anantapur-ggh-expansion-project-gathers-steam/article33908875.ece
23 February 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||MCI team inspects medical college||The Medical Council of Indiateam on Monday inspected the Government Medical College, Anantapur, for sanctioning post-graduate seats in physiology. College principal Myreddy Neeraja said that the inspector, B. Girija, a professor and Head of Department of Physiology at Bangalore Medical College, found all facilities adequate. Last week, another MCI inspector, S. Thulasidharan, an Additional Professor of ENT at Government Medical College in Kollam in Kerala, had inspected the college for the ENT PG seats. The college which has 56 post-graduate seats, the total intake is likely to go up to 75.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mci-inspects-medical-college/article33908878.ece
23 February 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Work with dedication, Minister tells sarpanches||Roads and Buildings Minister Malagundla Sankaranarayana congratulated all the sarpanches who got elected in the recent panchayat elections. At a press conference here on Monday, he asked the sarpanches backed by the ruling YSR Congress Party to work with dedication and ensure that their panchayats developed. Collector Gandham Chandrudu said that there were no nominations filed for 76 wards in the panchayats in Anantapur and 44 sarpanches out of 1,040 got elected unanimously.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/work-with-dedication-sarpanches-told/article33909457.ece
23 February 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gear up for civic polls, officials told||District Collector M. Hari Narayanan on Monday called upon the officials to be prepared for the municipal elections in Chittoor, scheduled for March 10. At a meeting with municipal commissioners of Tirupati and Chittoor corporations, Palamaner, Punganur, Puttur, Nagari and Madanapalle municipalities, the Collector said the returning and assistant returning officers should be given a thorough training on the polling procedures and said that the facility of postal votes had to be utilized by the officials to the maximum extent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gear-up-for-municipal-polls-officials-told/article33909460.ece
23 February 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Congress to intensify stir against VSP privatisation||All India Congress Committee (AICC) member K. Prameelamma on Monday said that the Congress party would intensify the “Save Visakha Steel Plant” stir in a phased manner from Chittoor to Srikakulam district. Addressing a press meet at Tirupati, the AICC member said when the mega steel plant was launched in 1971, farmers of as many as 60 villages around Vizag had come forward to provide over 30,000 acres of land. With Russia’s support, the steel plant grew into a vibrant entity soon, becoming a source of employment to 17,000 people, and creating sustenance to lakhs of families in the North-Andhra region. The people of the State were also betrayed when the NDA government jumped its promise of Special Status Category to the State, Ms. Prameelamma said. She deplored that the NDA government had done grave injustice to the people of Chittoor and Nellore districts by shelving the premier national projects such as NTPC BHEL Mannavaram project and Dugarajupatnam Port, besides the 7,008 double-bed room housing units to the women of BPL category in Tirupati.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/congress-plans-stir-against-privatisation-of-vizag-steel-plant/article33909461.ece
23 February 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Victory indicates swelling support for YSRCP at grassroots level: Minister||The candidates backed by the YSRCP have won 80.51% of the seats in the panchayat elections in the State and this tells it all about the support the ruling party has from the people, Minister for Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy has said, adding that the aspirants supported by the TDP have won only 16.05% of the seats. “The candidates supported by the YSRCP have swept all the four phases of the polls, which is an indicator to the support base of the party, while indicating that the TDP has lost its base further,” the Minister told the media at the YSRCP central office here on Monday. ‘Fake publicity’ He accused the TDP of making fake publicity with distorted numbers. “The TDP claimed that the candidates supported by it had won 41 % of the seats. N. Chandrababu Naidu tried to manage the system, but failed. He should realise that the people have rejected the party outright,” said the Minister. At a separate press conference, Minister for Water Resources P. Anil Kumar Yadav said that TDP would have confined to single-digit seats, if there were no YSRCP rebel candidates. Dig at Naidu “The TDP was rejected even in Kuppam, the assembly constituency Mr. Naidu represents. The candidates backed by the party have won only eight seats,” said Mr. Anil Kumar. The Minister also criticised the TDP president for citing police atrocities as a reason for the defeat of the candidates backed by the party. “State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar has said that the panchayat elections were conducted in a peaceful way. The YSRCP will also win the municipal, MPTC and ZPTC elections as well,” he said. Late on Sunday night, the party supporters celebrated the victory by bursting fire crackers at the party office. Local artistes presented a kolatam performance. Adviser to government (Public Affairs) Sajjala Rama Krishna Reddy, Ministers Botcha Satyanarayana, Vellampalli Srinivas, MP Nandigam Suresh, MLAs Vidadala Rajini, Merugu Nagarjuna, Karmuri Nageswara Rao, YSRCP general secretary Lella Appireddy and other leaders participated in the celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/victory-indicates-swelling-support-for-ysrcp-at-grassroots-level-minister/article33909467.ece
23 February 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Analyse data on welfare schemes for better governance, says Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy has asked the Planning Department to ensure integration, compilation and analysis of data is done at the village/ward secretariat and hand over the responsibilities to digital assistant at the secretariats. At a review meeting on Planning Department, Mr. Jagan asked the officials to include the data from the Rythu Bharosa Kendras and ensure that the whole process was supervised by a mandal level officer. “Ensure that all types of data, including e-cropping data, data on Internet usage is entered regularly and monitored, as this will help in good governance. I am also asking the officials to ensure that our welfare measure and policies are in tune with the Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations and, if necessary, take the support and U.N. and the allied organisations, like IMF, World Bank, Unesco in reaching the 17 SDGs,’’ Mr. Jagan said. The Chief Minister directed the officials to analyse the data and work on policies which would be help in effective administration. Mr. Jagan reiterated that he would go ahead with the plans to felicitate volunteers on Ugadi and suggested they could be honoured with titles like Sevaratna, Sevamithra, etc,. Planning Department ex-officio secretary G.Srk. Vijaya Kumar, CEO of Connect to Andhra Koteswaramma, CEO of RTGS, J. Vidya Sagar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/analyse-data-on-welfare-schemes-for-better-governance-says-jagan/article33909465.ece
23 February 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bring down road accidents by 50% in the next five years: official||There is an urgent need to put an end to the spree of road accidents in conformity with the guidelines of Central and State Governments, Joint Collector A.S. Dinesh Kumar has said. Speaking at the valedictory of 32nd Road Safety celebrations organised by the Road Transport Authority of Guntur district, he called for reducing the number of accidents by 50% in the next five years. There should be strict compliance of road safety rules so that several lives could be saved. “Our motto should be ‘No aggressive driving , only defensive driving’,” he said. Deputy Transport Commissioner E. Meera Prasad said the month-long observance of Road Safety began on February 18. The department had so far organised 80 programmes aimed at creating awareness on road safety. Mr. Prasad said the Centre had introduced Section 134 (A) in the MV Act, 1088 to ensure protection to victims in road accidents so that the personal details of those helping the victims could be kept confidential, they need not bear hospital expenses, they need to bear witness to the accident so that they could be like good Samaritan. Regional Manager, APSRTC, STP Raghava Kumar said use of helmets, crackdown on overspeeding should be strictly ensured to prevent road accidents . Superintendent Engineer, Roads and Buildings, Madhavi Sukanya said that overspeeding was one of biggest reasons for road accidents. Superintendent, AIIMS, Mangalagiri, Rakesh Khokkar said that road safety would continue to be a major issue even after the Road Safety celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bring-down-road-accidents-by-50-in-the-next-five-years-official/article33909548.ece
23 February 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||V-SAT entrance test to be held from May 24 to 30||V-SAT, the common entrance test for admission into various courses of Vignan Deemed to be University, will be held from May 24 to 30. Vice Chancellor M.Y.S. Prasad on Monday released the admission notification for the academic year 2021-22 for admission into B. Tech programmes, B. Pharmacy, and all other undergraduate, postgraduate and Ph.D. programmes. Mr. Prasad said that graduate and postgraduate courses were being offered in B. Tech Agriculture, Automobile, Biotechnology, Bioinformatics, Biomedical, Chemical, Civil, CSE, CSE-AI & ML, CS-CS, CS-BS, ECE, EEE, Food Technology, IT, Mechanical, Robotics and Automation, Petroleum Engineering, Textile Technology and B.Pharmacy etc. Admissions into B.Tech and B.Pharmacy programmes would be based on the performance in the Vignan’s Scholastic Aptitude Test (V- SAT), an online examination conducted across 36 test centres on all-India basis. Apart from regular courses, the university offers innovative stream-oriented courses such as Cloud Computing, Internet of Things (IOT), Scripting Languages, Artificial Intelligence, Rapid Prototyping, Nanotechnology, Biotechnology – Immunology, Immunoinformatics which have been designed and implemented in the curriculum of appropriate programmes. In addition to the regular teaching, a 200-hour Campus Recruitment Training (CRT) programme is now part of the UG curriculum. The training covers the areas of aptitude, reasoning, analytical skills and programming skills. It is aimed at enhancing the on-campus placement opportunities, he added. University registrar, M.S. Raghunathan said B.Tech + Civil services, a unique programme, was also offered and Humanities subjects were included in syllabus for Civil services aspirants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/v-sat-entrance-test-to-be-held-from-may-24-to-30/article33908879.ece
23 February 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Milk procurement to begin on March 1||Joint Collector A.S Dinesh Kumar has said that procurement of milk by the State government with collaboration by the Amul Dairy will begin in 42 villages in Guntur revenue division and 66 villages in Narsaraopet division from March 1. AP Amul Project Speaking at a workshop organised on AP Amul Project, Mr. Kumar said 108 villages in the district had been selected for the project and added that dairy farmers would be benefited by the project. Mr. Kumar asked the officials to complete setting up milk procurement centres in the Rythu Bharosa Kendras by the end of the month. “I am happy to note that the State government has fixed a better remunerative price when compared to other dairies, and this will help dairy farmers. We have identified five routes in 19 mandals in the district,” said Mr. Kumar. Revenue Divisional Officer, Guntur, Bhaskar Reddy, Dairy Development Manager Praveena, Joint Director of Animal Husbandary Department, Chinnaiah, District Cooperative Officer Rajasekhar and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/milk-procurement-to-begin-on-march-1/article33909549.ece
23 February 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P. organic rice set to tap world market||Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) Chairman M. Angamuthu has said that the authority has prepared a road map to export organic rice varieties from Andhra Pradesh to meet the growing demand in the European Union, Middle East and East Asia. Mr. Angamuthu told The Hindu here, “Post COVID-19, many countries, including the European Union are looking for rice varieties grown through organic farming methods in India. We have chosen Andhra Pradesh to source such rice for export.” “The APEDA that comes under the Ministry of Commerce and Industry will be the facilitator between the importer and the exporter. The export development body would help the latter obtain necessary certification for export. Decks will be cleared for export once organic rice varieties are certified,” said Mr. Angamuthu. ‘Branding needed’ “Despite India being a major rice exporter to 170 countries across the globe, Vietnam, Thailand and Philippines remain the prime competitors as India continues to export rice without any key features - branding, promotion and value addition,” explained Mr. Angamuthu. “In a war-footing initiative, a strategy has been prepared to brand the Indian rice varieties with value addition. However, product diversification will be the key strategy to face the challenge from our global competitors,” he added. The senior IAS officer said that the APEDA is all set to groom a group of 100 progressive farmers or Farmers' Producer Organisations from Andhra Pradesh and connect them to the global market to export their respective products including horticulture crops and maize.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-organic-rice-set-to-tap-world-market/article33909477.ece
23 February 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||JSP moves Hight Court seeking fresh notification for MPTC, ZPTC polls||Jana Sena leader Nadendla Manohar has said that the party filed a petition before the High Court of Andhra Pradesh on Monday for fresh notification of the MPTC and ZPTC election in the State. Speaking to the media on Monday, Mr. Manohar said; “We have filed the petition seeking for a fresh notification for the MPTC and ZPTC election, instead of continuing the previous stage in which the poll process was halted.” He alleged that many JSP aspirants were prevented from filing nominations during the last notification for the polls. Referring to the panchayat elections, Mr. Manohar claimed that the JSP’s success should be measured based on the number of aspirants in the fray as they braved many threats from the YSRCP, he said. Membership drive He said that panchayat and mandal-level panels would be formed from April and over one lakh supporters had become members of the party during the membership drive. “In Kakinada Parliament segment, the JSP has registered victory with 151 seats including sarpanches and ward members in the panchayat polls”, Mr. Manohar said. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jsp-moves-hight-court-over-fresh-notification-for-mptc-zptc-polls/article33909468.ece
23 February 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jawan laid to rest at his native village||A pall of gloom had descended on the entire Guvvalakuntla village as the body of a jawan, P. Shiva Gangadhar, arrived on Monday morning. The twenty-eight-year-old jawan died when the vehicle he was travelling in plunged into a gorge, on the India-China border in Leh on Friday. An ITI diploma holder, Shiva Gangadhar had joined the Army in 2017 and was married in November last year. His parents Chakali Ramudu and Ramulamma, were inconsolable as they said Shiva, their only son, was to come home this month and had planned to take his wife to his place of posting. Many from Kothapalli mandal in the district and other far-flung areas arrived in the village to pay their last respects to the jawan. District Collector G. Veerapandian and Superintendent of Police Fakkeerappa Kaginelli laid wreaths on the coffin and consoled the family members. The Army personnel carried the coffin on their shoulders, and he was laid to rest in his native village. Atmakur Deputy Superinetendent of Police(DSP) Yerraguntla Shruthi oversaw the arrangements for the funeral of the jawan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jawan-laid-to-rest-at-his-native-village/article33908877.ece
23 February 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Congress: BJP indifferent to people’s plight||Activists of the Congress party staged a demonstration in front of the Sub-Collector’s office in Gudur in SPSR Nellore district on Monday protesting against the unprecedented increase in fuel prices. The activists, led by party Sarvepalli In-charge P.Chandrasekar and Venkatagiri In-charge P.Srinivasulu Reddy, raised slogans against the Narendra Modi government for not coming to the rescue of the common people who were struggling to make both ends meet in the wake of the skyrocketing prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas. They wanted the Centre to immediately withdraw taxes on fuel which pushed up inflation as a result of which essential commodities were out of reach of people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/congress-bjp-indifferent-to-peoples-plight/article33908881.ece
23 February 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Painting for a cause||With a view to creating a record of sorts, a city-based painter, Shaik Ameer Jan, began painting with make-up products here on Monday. “Save trees” is the message of the environment-conscious painter who has embarked on the painting to beat the first-ever Guinness World Record feat set by Mary Kay Inc in the U.S. in 2013. Then, 10 make-up artistes had worked together for 1,000 hours over a period of 16 days. Now, Mr. Ameer Jan is the only one on the job of a 790 sq,ft-painting on the Rainbow E.M. School premises, taking him 100 hours over a period of seven days to complete it. The painting is to send a message to people to contribute their mite by saving trees from destruction, said Srushti Art Academy founder T.Ravindra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/painting-for-a-cause/article33908883.ece
23 February 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP continues its winning streak||The YSR Congress Party continued its winning streak as the candidates supported by it bagged the sarpanch post in more than 80% of the panchayats in the six Assembly segments in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh that went to polls on Sunday. While in Nellore, candidates backed by the ruling party won in 142 out of 181 seats in the fourth and last phase of local body elections, the candidates won the sarpanch post in 185 out of 208 villages that went to polls in Prakasam district on Sunday. The TDP-sponsored candidates were able to win the village-head post in 23 places in the Assembly segments of Markapur, Giddalur and Yerragondapalem, presently represented by the YSRCP in the State Assembly. The candidates hand-picked by YSRCP Nellore district party president Kakani Govardhan Reddy were successful in 102 villages in his home constituency of Sarvepalli. In the Kovur Assembly segment, the followers of sitting YSRCP MLA Nallapareddy Prasanna Kumar bagged the post in 49 places, while the nominees selected by sitting Nellore(Rural) MLA Kottamreddy Sridhar Reddy won all the 17 sarpanch seats at stake. The TDP-backed aspirants were successful in bagging the post in 29 villages. The BJP-backed candidates won in two villages in Sarvepalli Assembly segment. ‘All thanks to govt.’s pro-poor policies’ The results showed that YSRCP had the blessings of the people thanks to the pro-poor policies of the Jagan Mohan Reddy government in the State, Mr. Govardhan Reddy said, adding that the minuscule number of sarpanch seats won by the TDP-backed candidates was only because of the presence of YSRCP rebels in the fray. Meanwhile, TDP Ongole Lok Sabha unit president N.Balaji said the TDP-backed candidates had performed better despite the alleged misuse of official machinery by the ruling party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-continues-its-winning-streak/article33909463.ece
23 February 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Supreme Court reserves orders in former judge’s chat case||The Supreme Court on Monday reserved orders on a plea filed by former Andhra Pradesh High Court judge Justice V. Eswaraiah against a State High Court decision to launch an inquiry into his WhatsApp phone chat with a suspended judicial officer. The High Court, on August 13, ordered a judicial inquiry by former Supreme Court judge Justice R.V. Raveendran into the phone chat. It termed the conversation an attempt to “malign” a senior sitting Supreme Court judge and the then Chief Justice of the Andhra Pradesh High Court. On Monday, Justice Eswaraiah, represented by advocate Prashant Bhushan, argued that the phone chat was a “private conversation”. ‘No crime committed’ “No crime has been committed... I have filed the complete transcript of the entire conversation in an affidavit,” Mr. Bhushan contended. However, a Bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and R. Subhash Reddy said the apex court cannot be expected to inquire into the facts of the case. Justice Bhushan said the case ought to be left to the High Court to proceed with if Justice Eswaraiah “substantially admits to the conversation”. “We can’t hold an inquiry... If he [Eswaraiah] substantially admits to the conversation, then let the High Court proceed,” Justice Bhushan suggested to Mr. Prashant Bhushan orally, before reserving the case for orders. Mr. Prashant Bhushan said his client never recorded the conversation. “The conversation was on WhatsApp without a recording option. The recording would have been done by the suspended judicial officer at the other end using an external device... It was a private talk. Baseless allegations have been made by the High Court without hearing me, without issuing prior notice to me,” he argued. Senior advocate Harish Salve and advocate Vipin Nair, for intervenor-advocate Samuel John, said the High Court had merely given reasons while ordering an inquiry into the phone chat. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, for a respondent, said several parts of the conversation that were “scandalous” have been “missed out” in the transcript. “What is missed out is scandalous. I will file a chart on what is there [in the transcript] and what has been missed out... The affidavit filed has a lot of ‘ifs’ and buts’,” he submitted. Mr. Bhushan said then the High Court-ordered inquiry should look into the “whole thing”, which include the subject of the alleged conversation. “Then hold an inquiry into the whole thing, including land transactions involving the family members of a sitting Supreme Court judge... Why should inquiry be held only on the phone conversation?” he stated. Justice Eswaraiah, who is the Chairman of the Andhra Pradesh State Higher Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission, said the allegations of “conspiracy” and a “plot” against the judiciary derived from the contents of the conversation were “white lies”, derogatory and defamatory to him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sc-reserves-orders-in-former-judges-chat-case/article33908806.ece
23 February 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Motupalli port to regain past glory||Plans are afoot for the integrated development of Motupalli, a historic port in Chinnaganjam mandal of Prakasam district. The tourism potential of the sleepy village, where the bronze idols of Lord Nataraja, his consort Parvati, their son Ganesha and Alwars, the Bhakti movement saints dating back to the 12th century, were found in the 1970s, has remained hitherto untapped. It is interesting to note that coins and pottery from the 9th century Chinese Ming dynasty were also found during the excavations conducted in 1972. Recollecting the historical significance of the place, E. Sivanagi Reddy, archaeologist and CEO, Cultural Centre of Vijayawada and Amaravati, said that Motupalli had served as an international port during early and medieval periods. Inscriptions of Kakatiya Ganapathi Deva, Anapotha Reddy of the Kondaveedu dynasty and Deva Raya II of the Vijayanagara dynasty now at the Veerabhadra Swamy temple, mention the incentives provided to the sea-borne traders. Survey At the initiative of the Motupalli Heritage Society, officials from the Tourism Department recently conducted a survey in and around Motupalli, an important port of with a flourishing export-import trade during the times of the Cholas and continued during the Kakatiya, Vijayanagara, and Qutub Shahi periods, according to society secretary Dasaratharami Reddy. Marco Polo’s account Italian traveller Marco Polo who had visited the port in 1287 AD, had also given a vivid account on the flourishing trade activities at the Motupalli port during the reign of Kakatiya queen Rudrama Devi. Jyothi Chandramouli, a local historian, cited literary references to the port during the Reddy period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/motupalli-port-to-regain-past-glory/article33909478.ece
23 February 2021||Special Correspondent,ANDHRA PRADESH||Results declared for sarpanch, ward member posts||The results of all the 103 gram sarpanch and 904 ward member posts, for which the elections were held in the final phase in six mandals of Visakhapatnam revenue division, in Visakhapatnam district on Sunday, were declared in the early hours of Monday. A total of 14 candidates were unanimously elected for the sarpanch posts out of 117, which went to polls on Sunday. The total number of wards, where the candidates were declared unanimously elected, is 295.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/results-declared-for-sarpanch-ward-member-posts/article33909552.ece
23 February 2021||Srikakulam,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP candidates will be selected after survey, says Dharmana||Former Minister and Srikakulam MLA Dharmana Prasada Rao on Monday said the selection of candidates for Srikakulam Municipal Corporation election would be done after conducting a survey over their service activities in their respective divisions. He said the party high command was keen on selecting candidates based on their credentials. The party organised a meeting with 50 ward in-charges and other senior leaders. Mr. Rao said that the ward incharges might not be the candidates for their divisions since the final selection would be done by the party high command. He hoped that surrounding panchayats would be merged with the Srikakualm Municipal Corporation soon. Former Municipal chairperson M.V. Padmavati, YSRCP senior leaders Andhavarapu Suribabu, Dharmana Rammanohar Naidu and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-candidates-will-be-selected-after-survey-says-dharmana/article33909504.ece
23 February 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP-backed candidates win two panchayats in Srikakulam district||In spite of the tough competition from the ruling YSR Congress Party, Bharatiya Janata Party-backed candidates won two major panchayats of Bantupilli and Tirupatipalem of Ranasthalam mandal in the district. The two Panchayats are very important as they are located close to Pydibhimavaram-Etcherla industrial zone. BJP-backed candidate N. Rajani defeated YSRCP-backed candidate Pashapu Krishnaveni by a margin of 62 votes in Bantupilli. BJP-backed candidate Akula Ravikumar defeated TDP-backed candidate Mandala Ramunaidu by a margin of 74 votes. The YSRCP-backed candidate A. Gopi was confined to third place in Tirupatipalem village BJP State Executive Committee member Nadukuditi Eswara Rao claimed the party would continue its winning streak in the district. Several BJP activists felicitated him for strengthening the party in Etcherla constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-backed-candidates-win-two-panchayats-in-srikakulam-district/article33909500.ece
23 February 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special prayers offered at Sri Mahalakshmi temple||Several devotees offered special prayers at Sri Mahalakshmi temple at Kamma Sigadam village of Ranasthalam mandal in Srikakulam district, on the occasion of Mahalakshmi Kalyanam. Pilgrims from Vizianagaram, Srikakulam and other places participated in the three-day festival which began on Sunday. The devotees believe that the presiding deity’s blessings would ensure health and wealth for their family members. The temple management made elaborate arrangements for the festival. Several cultural activities were being organised on the temple premises during the evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-prayers-offered-at-sri-mahalakshmi-temple/article33909502.ece
23 February 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tension prevails as TDP, YSRCP men clash||Tension prevailed at Chillapeta Rajam village in Ranasthalam mandal of Srikakulam district on Monday as the YSRCP and TDP activists clashed after the results of the panchayat elections were declared. According to sources, several police personnel and 32 activists of both the parties were injured, and several bikes, auto-rickshaws and cars were also damaged. First, the poll officials declared C. Lakshmi, a sarpanch candidate backed by the TDP, winner late on Sunday night. However, they later announced that YSRCP-backed candidate K. Asiritalli emerged victorious after the recounting of votes. The TDP activists, who had started celebrations by then, raised slogans against the ruling party and reportedly exchanged heated arguments with the police personnel when the latter tried to pacify them. In the melee, a policeman sustained injuries. He was shifted to a hospital. Soon, a posse of 150 police personnel reached the village and took the troublemakers into custody. Some residents said that they left the village and spent the night in mango orchards nearby, anticipating further troubles. “We all ran far safety as the both the groups clashed. The attack on policemen worsen the situation,” said a villager on the condition of anonymity. Restrictions imposed Many pharmaceutical companies located near Chillapeta Rajam industrial zone were also affected, with the restriction imposed on the movement of vehicles. Meanwhile, Srikakulam Collector J. Nivas and Superintendent of Police Amit Bardar said that the panchayat polls remained peaceful, baring stray incidents. Mr. Bardar said that 37 cases were registered during the elections when compared to 87 during the polls held previously. The law and order situation was under control during all the phases of the election, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tension-prevails-as-tdp-ysrcp-men-clash/article33909470.ece
23 February 2021||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||District officials chalk out plans to handle spike in COVID cases||Based on the recent spike in COVID-19 cases in a few States such as Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka and Kerala, the district administration and the health sector has chalked out plans to handle any increase in cases in the city and in the district. Based on an advise from the Union government to airports, all measures to screen passengers have been put in place and doctors and health workers have been informed to resume COVID duty at short notice, if required, said District COVID Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College (AMC) P.V. Sudhakar. Apprehending that the strain could be more potent and can increase the death, all the 22 category-A hospitals, which earlier served as COVID hospitals and subsequently denotified, have been put on alert. “Though as now there is no cause for concern, as the cases in the district have come down drastically. But based on the recent spike in the five States and new strains surfacing, we have put ourselves on alert,” said Dr. Sudhakar. In the last 48 hours, the district recorded just four positive cases and the active cases have come down to 15. Only the new oncology block in KGH continues to serve as COVID hospital and there are just nine cases, as on Monday. The Health Department officials also confirmed that the Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratory(VRDL) in KGH, is now equipped to handle around 6,000 tests on a daily basis. Apart from having sufficient RT-PCR machines, recruitment has been done for 12 data entry operators and nine lab technicians. “This apart, we can activate the 30 odd Truenat test machines and get all the testing centres operational in a short time,” said Dr. Sudhakar. “Till date we have been able to keep the spread of the virus under check. The reduction of cases also have been gradual. But we need to be more cautious now and following the basic protocol of wearing a mask, keeping social distance and sanitising the hand regularly and maintaining personal hygiene continues to be the proven and tested approach to keep the virus at bay,” said Dr. Kothakota Raju, a senior pulmonologist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-officials-chalk-out-plans-to-handle-spike-in-covid-cases/article33909560.ece
23 February 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bhoomi puja performed||The bhoomi puja for the construction of a temple of Lord Venkateswara was performed at Ulundurpet in Tamil Nadu on Monday . Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy and a host of MLAs and TTD board member Sekhar Reddy were among those who took part in the ceremony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bhoomi-puja-performed/article33909480.ece
23 February 2021||TUNI (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Mission to boost mango export from E. Godavari||The State government, in collaboration with the Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA), on Monday launched an initiative to increase mango export to different countries from East Godavari district this season. Presently, the total production of various varieties of mango is two lakh metric tonnes in the district, where mango is being grown in 15,369 hectares. Last season, over 600 tonnes of mango was exported, mostly to South Korea. Banginappali , Suvarnarekha and Rasaalu are the prime varieties being grown in the East Godavari district. In a meeting with mango growers and exporters, Joint Collector G. Lakshmisha said that barely 300 mango growers had formed into two Farmers’ Producers Organisations (FPO) in the district. An initiative had been launched, aiming at roping in all the small and big farmers into the FPO system to give a fillip to mango export from this summer. Fruit cover technology This year, the fruit cover technology imported from China and ripening chambers were being supplied to the mango growers on subsidy, enabling them to improve the mango export by meeting the international standards in the mango export, Mr. Lakshmisha said. The capacity of the portable ripening chamber is three tonnes of mango that could be ripened within 72 hours and 50% subsidy was being offered to growers.  Mr. Lakshmisha claimed that the yield per hectare was nine tonnes in the district, given the soil fertility and other conditions suitable for mango cultivation. Tuni and Jaggampeta are the prime production zones among the upland pockets in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mission-to-boost-mango-export-from-e-godavari/article33909479.ece
23 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Panchayat polls witnessed 81.78% voter turnout: SEC||State Election Commissioner (SEC) N. Ramesh Kumar has expressed satisfaction that the panchayat elections were conducted successfully under challenging circumstances, adding that the polls witnessed an overall voter turnout percentage of 81.78. “Elections were conducted for 13,097 sarpanches posts while 2,197 sarpanches, 16.77% of the total, were elected unanimously. Elections were held for 1,31,023 ward members and 47,459 (36.22% of the total) wards had unanimous elections,” Mr. Ramesh Kumar told the media here on Monday. This is reasonable when compared to the unanimous polls for 1,980 of the 12,740 sarpanches posts and 44,448 of the 1,29,316 ward member posts respectively during the polls last held in 2013, he pointed out. Mr. Ramesh Kumar said the elections to panchayats have paved the way for release of funds through the Finance Commission. “The elections could be held due to the dedication and commitment of the government employees at large and the police force which ensured that there were no major untoward incident,” he said. CS, DGP lauded The impartiality in rising up to the challenges has established the credibility of the State administration as one of the best in the country, Mr. Ramesh Kumar said, acknowledging the role of Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das and DGP D. Gautam Sawang in the smooth conduct of the polls. Referring to the decision on MPTC and ZPTC elections, the SEC said it would be subject to the High Court judgment on some matters that are currently under its examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/panchayat-polls-witnessed-8178-voter-turnout-sec/article33908800.ece
23 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mango orchards in full bloom||Mango lovers can rejoice as a bumper yield is expected this year in the State. Mango orchards across the State are in full bloom, as favourable weather conditions and preparedness have helped large-scale flowering of the trees this season. Farmers and officials are expecting a bumper production of the delicious summer fruit. According to information, 3,76,494 hectares are under mango cultivation in the State. Different varieties of mangoes, including Banginapalli, Totapuri, Chinna rasaalu, Pedda rasaalu, Suvarnarekha, Neelam, Jalalu, Mallika, etc. are some of the varieties grown in Andhra Pradesh. When contacted, Joint Director (Horticulture) M. Venkateswarlu said that the mango gardens were in full bloom. “The flowering began in time, from December to January. Fruit setting would take place in the next few days. The yield is likely to be above normal this summer. The yield, on average, was 2 to 3 tonnes per acre last year. The yield is likely to be more than four tonnes per acre, and it can hover between 5 to 6 tonnes per acre this season,” he said. Referring to Horticulture Commissioner Chiranjeev Choudhary’s directions, the JD(H) said that many measures were taken well in advance. “In fact, the preparedness began in June-July last year as soon as the previous year’s season harvesting was completed. Steps to control fruit fly were taken. With a robust flowering and favourable climatic conditions, the fruit setting is expected to be good. The department has placed orders with Dr. YSR Horticultural University for heramone traps. The traps, which are used in pest and insect control, would be supplied to the mango farmers. Export quality mangoes are also expected,” he said. Due to unfavourable climatic conditions, mango production in the State fell last year. If the climatic conditions remains favourable, the farmers will get a bumper yield this year and recover the losses they had to suffer in previous seasons. The average production was 46,88,097 tonnes last year. The production hovered between 10 tonnes to 13 tonnes per hectare depending upon the district. The average production was 12 tonnes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mango-orchards-in-full-bloom/article33908906.ece
23 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State reports zero COVID deaths for third day in a row||The State reported zero coronavirus deaths in the last 24 hours ending on Monday morning, for the third day in a row. However, 41 new infections were reported, taking the cumulative tally to 8,89,339. The toll and death rate remains at 7,167 and 0.81% respectively. With 71 recoveries during the period, the active case count came down to 590, while the number of recoveries increased to 8,81,582 with a recovery rate of 99.13%. More than half of the active cases were reported in four districts in the State, with Krishna topping the chart with 89 cases. It was followed by Chittoor (87), East Godavari (77) and Kadapa (63). Vizianagaram is the only district with single-digit active case (6). Single-day tally Meanwhile, only 18,257 samples were tested in the past day and their positivity rate was put at 0.22%. The overall positivity rate of the 1.374 crore samples tested so far was 6.47%.  Chittoor district continued to report the highest single-day tally with 10 new infections in the past day. It was followed by East Godavari (7), Nellore (6), West Godavari (4), Srikakulam (4), Guntur (3), Visakhapatnam (2), Kurnool (2), Krishna (1), Kadapa (1) and Anantapur (1). Prakasam and Vizianagaram reported no new cases. The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,24,404), West Godavari (94,310), Chittoor (87,326), Guntur (75,665), Anantapur (67,722), Nellore (62,440), Prakasam (62,198), Kurnool (60,860), Visakhapatnam (59,972), Kadapa (55,342), Krishna (48,873), Srikakulam (46,180) and Vizianagaram (41,152).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-reports-zero-covid-deaths-for-third-day-in-a-row/article33909472.ece
23 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Unfair polls’ led to 10% vote loss to TDP: Naidu||Telugu Desam Party president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu has claimed that the outcome of just-concluded panchayat elections in the State was a “people's victory”. The credit goes to the candidates who fought against the ruling YSRCP’s atrocities and poll violations, he said. Addressing a press conference here on Monday, Mr. Naidu said the YSRCP’s “wicked plans” and “murder of democracy” would not be possible in upcoming elections for urban bodies. The urban voters, young people, traders and educated sections were prepared to oppose the YSRCP for its “J-tax collections”, increased municipal taxes and unabashed sale of J-liquor brands, he claimed. The former Chief minister claimed that the TDP-supported candidates secured 41.7% vote share in the fourth phase panchayat polls despite the alleged multifarious threats and election violations by YSRCP leaders. The TDP backed candidates won 1,105 of the total 2,748 panchayats and 31 more TDP allies also emerged victorious. Altogether, candidates backed by the TDP and its allies won 1,136 seats. The TDP would have got 10% more vote share if the ruling YSRCP leaders were prevented from committing irregularities, he said. Mr. Naidu said the YSRCP would have been wiped out in the panchayat polls itself had the State Election Commission (SEC) succeeded in ensuring a peaceful election. It was due to the fear and terror struck by the YSRCP leaders and total failure of the SEC that there was 6% less voter turnout when compared to the previous panchayat polls, he alleged. All these factors would have dealt a severe blow to the YSRCP had fair election been ensured, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/unfair-polls-led-to-10-vote-loss-to-tdp-says-naidu/article33909268.ece
23 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘NOTA will be available in ULB elections’||State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar exhorted the Collectors, Municipal Commissioners and SPs to strive for the peaceful conduct of the municipal elections. “The NOTA option will be available,” he said in a video-conference on the Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) elections on Monday. He instructed the officials to keep a vigil on the elections through web-casting and CCTV cameras to check malpractice. He cautioned the election staff against being complacent in following COVID protocols. Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das and DGP D. Gautam Sawang were present in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nota-will-be-available-in-ulb-elections/article33909266.ece
23 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Maritime India Summit to be organised from March 2 to 4||The Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Waterways is organising the Maritime India Summit- 2021 (MIS 2021) from March 2 to 4, in virtual mode. This was disclosed here on Monday by Viskhapatnam Port Trust Chairman K. Rama Mohan Rao, at a press meet. Giving details of the summit, he said that it is aimed at positioning Indian maritime sector on par with international standards by attracting domestic as well as international investments. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the summit, in virtual mode. He said that a special session on investment opportunities in Andhra Pradesh is scheduled at 12.30 p.m, on March 3 and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is expected to participate. Various investment opportunities available for development of ports and maritime related activities in Andhra Pradesh are likely to be showcased in the special session, as well as in the digital pavilion. Stakeholders in the maritime sector such as policy planners, government agencies, domestic and international investors, sector experts, shipping lines, and representatives of ports across the globe, State maritime boards and others will participate in the summit Themes such as development of port infrastructure, shipbuilding, recycling and repair, hinterland connectivity, multi-modal logistics, coastal shipping, inland water transport, bulk cargo transportation and green technologies will be deliberated during the three-day summit. About 20,000 delegates from 42 countries are expected to take part in the summit, said the VPT Chairman. Apart from the PM, Minister of Ports, Shipping and Waterways Mansukh Mandaviya will also address the participants, he said.  Mr. Mandaviya had launched the summit brochure and websitewww.maritimeindia summit.inand visitors can register by visiting the website, he said. A curtain raiser for the event is scheduled on February 24, at Kalavani Banquet Hall, Port Stadium. For more details one can call: 8499977323 or 9948883272.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/maritime-india-summit-to-be-organised-from-march-2-to-4/article33909498.ece
23 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four persons robbed at gunpoint on ghat road||Four persons travelling in a four-wheeler were allegdly robbed of about Rs. 32,000 cash in an armed dacoity reported on the ghat road in GK Veedhi mandal in Visakha Agency in the early hours of Monday. It is fourth such incident in the last two months in the area. Additional Superintendent of Police (Chintapalli) Vidyasagar Naidu said the incident occurred when the four persons were going from Darakonda to Visakhapatnam in a medical emergency case in a hired vehicle. Six armed dacoits reportedly stopped the vehicle by placing boulders on the road. The culprits allegedly brandished sharp-edged weapons and pistols. They made the occupants alight from the vehicle and took it away. Three similar offences were committed within two days on the same road during Sankranti festival in January. The gangs have been adopting a similar modus operandi and as per the initial investigation, they allegedly hail from Malkangiri district in Odisha. The ghat road from Darakonda to G.K. Veedhi mandal headquarters is thickly forested and pitch dark, after sunset. The culprits wait in the darkness and place boulders to stop the vehicle. The moment the vehicle stops, they surround it and rob the passengers of their valuables. The area is Maoist-infested and people are normally scared travelling on the road after dark, an officer said. Convoy system “We normally bunch vehicles plying on this route, especially after dark, at the checkposts. At least four or five vehicles are bunched to look like a convoy and this has been functioning well, as it acts as a deterrent. On Monday, the passengers decided to leave in the early hours alone,” Mr. Vidyasagar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-persons-robbed-at-gunpoint-on-ghat-road/article33909543.ece
23 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister attributes party poll success to welfare programmes||Minister for Tourism, Culture and Youth Affairs Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao beat the drum and congratulated the Sarpanch candidates, backed by the YSR Congress Party(YSRCP), who won the gram panchayat polls at Bheemunipatnam here on Monday. Addressing the gathering on the occasion, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that the stupendous success of the YSRCP-backed candidates in Bheemunipatnam constituency was a reflection of the growing confidence of the people on the government. All the 15 panchayats in Bheemili constituency had voted the YSRCP-backed candidates to power, he said. The party-backed candidates bagged 95% seats in Padmanabham mandal and 90% in Anandapuram mandal, he said. The TDP failed to get even candidates to contest the elections and the TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu had to force the party-backed candidates to file their nominations, he said. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said the YSRCP had created a sensation in the State with about 10,000 party-backed candidates winning and attributed the success to the welfare schemes launched by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Mr. Srinivasa Rao predicted that the YSRCP would continue its winning streak in the forthcoming elections to municipalities and municipal corporations. He said that Mr. Naidu was unable to accept defeat and was making allegations against the election officials and the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-attributes-party-poll-success-to-welfare-programmes/article33909557.ece
23 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Committee: Centre indifferent to stir against VSP privatisation||The Vizag Steel Plant Parirakshana Committee has condemned the indifferent attitude of the Union government towards the Visakahaptnam Steel Plant (VSP) agitation, which was being held for the past one month. The committee held its meeting, condemned the Centre advising the State governments on privatisation of PSUs at a time when the Steel Plant agitation was gripping Andhra Pradesh. It felt that it was nothing but making a mockery of people’s struggle. It demanded immediate revocation of the decision to privatise the Visakahaptnam Steel Plant and allocate captive mines to it apart from converting loans into equity. The meeting also opposed the Chief Minister’s decision to sell 7,000 acres of VSP land to raise funds for the plant. The meeting decided to stage state-wide blockades (rasta rokos) on February 26 by involving all workers and the public. A protest would be held at Maddilapalem Junction in the city. The committee also condemned the nonchalant attitude of the Centre though hundreds of workers were organising hunger strikes and protests at the Steel Plant gate since February 12. Committee chairman M. Jaggu Naidu, leaders N. Kanaka Rao, A. Suresh, G. Nayana Babu, S. Venkatalakshmi, Ganesh Panda, Boddu Pydiraju, B.T. Murthy, Y. Kondayya, K. Nirmala, N. Prakasa Rao, P. Narayana Murthy, G. Priyanka, U.S.N. Raju and G. Balabhanu were among those participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/committee-centre-indifferent-to-stir-against-vsp-privatisation/article33909555.ece
23 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bacteria talk to each other: CDFD scientist||GITAM Institute of Science has observed Researchers’ Day on the occasion of the birth anniversary of eminent scientist Shanti Swaroop Bhatnagar here on Monday. Addressing the gathering, GITAM Institute of Science Principal M. Sarathchandrababu said that Shanti Swaroop Bhatnagar inspired many people to take up science research in the country. As a part of the event, researchers from science discipline gave a presentation on their ongoing research. The best oral presentations were awarded in the disciplines of both physical and biological sciences. The institute also arranged two scientific lectures with 2020 Shanti Swaroop Bhatnagar Awardees. Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize- 2020 recipient and scientist from Hyderabad-based Centre for DNA Fingerprinting and Diagnostic (CDFD) Subhadeep Chatterjee delivered his lecture on ‘Understand the Social Language of Bacteria.’ In his presentation, he said that bacteria talk to each other and their language is chemical. He said that some bacteria do not speak and however can listen to what others are talking and sometimes bacteria get an idea about who are their neighbours. Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize- 2020 recipient and Indian Association for the Cultivation of Science (Kolkata) Professor Jyotirmayee Dash briefed about new organic transformations, structure and function of nucleic acid targets in therapeutics and nanotechnology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bacteria-talk-to-each-other-cdfd-scientist/article33909561.ece
23 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||NTPC Simhadri bags PRSI award||NTPC Simhadri has bagged the PRSI National Award – 2020 as the ‘Best PSU implementing CSR’ for its unique Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) efforts undertaken during the COVID-19 period, through sanitisation of the township areas with sodium hypochlorite by using a fog cannon. The award was presented through virtual mode by Uttarakhand Governor Baby Rani Maurya in the presence of Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank and PRSI president Ajit Pathak in Uttarakhand on February 21. The fog cannon method of sanitisation came in handy and was used extensively in Parawada, Vadacheepurapalli, Muthyalampalem, Kalapaka, Devada and other nearby villages. The use of mist spray cannon at NTPC premises, maintaining of social distancing, arranging of mobile wash basins at all gates and provision of sanitisers helped in keeping the COVID-19 at bay and preventing the spread of infection in and around the area, according to a statement issued by the plant here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ntpc-simhadri-bags-prsi-award/article33909550.ece
23 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP gears up for GVMC elections||BJP city unit has begun the groundwork for launching the campaign for the upcoming GVMC elections. The party organised a preparatory meeting for GVMC elections here on Monday. Former MP K. Haribabu, MLC P.V.N. Madhav and former MLA P, Vishnukumar Raju participated in the meeting chaired by party city president Medapati Ravindra. Mr. Haribabu explained about various projects sanctioned by the BJP government for Visakhapatbam. Mr. Madhav said it was due to efforts of Mr. Haribabu the railway zone was sanctioned. He said parties were making false campaign with regard to steel plant issue. Mr. Vishnu Kumar Raju said BJP-Jana Sena Party combine should fight the YSRCP misrule to win maximum seats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-gears-up-for-gvmc-elections/article33909562.ece
23 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Change is a part of life, says AU Registrar||A panel discussion on the theme ‘Transformation for Continuity’ was organised by the Visakhapatnam Management Association, an affiliate of the All India Management Association (AIMA), in association with the Department of Commerce and Management Studies (DCMS), Andhra University, on the occasion of the 65th Foundation Day of AIMA and 15th National Management Day, here on Monday. Andhra University Registrar Krishna Mohan, who participated as the chief guest at the inaugural session, said that change was a part of life and one should be proactive to it. Visakhapatnam Management Association president N. Sambasiva Rao, who presided over the programme, explained about the various activities of AIMA. Assistant Vice President-HR and location Head of Tech Mahindra, Visakhapatnam, K. Ravichandra, spoke at length on the importance of transformation. Pandemic stress Director of Critical Care Services, CARE Hospitals, Visakhapatnam, Mohan S Maharaj, spoke on how the pandemic had caused immense stress among patients and their attendants and resulted in disturbances in their families. B. Srikanth, Head HR, South Central LPG Zone, HPCL, Visakhapatnam, head of DCMS C.V. Kannaji Rao and VMA secretary T.P.S. Prasad spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/change-is-a-part-of-life-says-au-registrar/article33909551.ece
23 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ensure nutritious food provided to students of tribal welfare hostels: ITDA PO||ITDA Project Officer Venkateswar Salijamula has directed the officials concerned to ensure that quality and nutritious food is provided to students of the tribal welfare hostels. At a meeting with Headmasters, Assistant Tribal Welfare Officers and Hostel Wardens, Dr. Venkateswar reviewed the ‘Mana Badi’ works and menu being given to students, and teaching at the schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ensure-nutritious-food-provided-to-students-of-tribal-welfare-hostels-itda-po/article33909554.ece
23 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VSEZ approves expansion proposal of company||The Unit Approval Committee (UAC) of the Visakhapatnam Special Economic Zone (VSEZ) has approved the expansion proposal of Deccan Fine Chemicals (India) Pvt. Ltd., located in Payakaraopet mandal in Visakhapatnam district. The expansion project would required an investment of Rs. 1,770 crore, in the next five years, said VSEZ Development Commissioner A. Rama Mohan Reddy. This would generate an additional Rs. 516 crore of foreign exchange earning, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vsez-approves-expansion-proposal-of-company/article33909558.ece
23 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||City police extend two welfare programmes to schools||The city police have extended two of their programmes — ‘Neti Yuvathe Repati Paurulu’ and ‘Surakshit Prayanam’ — to schools here on Monday. Under ‘Surakshit Prayanam’ programme, various aspects such as traffic clearance and safety aspects, especially at schools during the time of entry and exit of students, were introduced to the students by the police officials. About 100 schools are being covered in the first phase. Under the ‘Neti Yuvathe Repati Paurulu’ programme, the police officials will discuss about drug abuse and safe driving. Both the programmes are being handled by the women’s wing of the city police. Each official would adopt one school or college under these programmes and the target is to cover about 600 schools in the long run. Each of the them will be taking a 30-minute session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-police-extend-2-welfare-programmes-to-schools/article33909544.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Agri output increased despite COVID’||Indian Council of Agriculture Research (ICAR) Director-General Trilochan Mohapatra has said that India stood second in production of fruits and vegetables in the world with 320.11 million tonnes this year. “When almost all the sectors suffered due to COVID-19, there was not much impact on agriculture industry. Despite lockdown, there was a growth in agriculture production,” Mr. Mohapatra said. Participating virtually in the fourth convocation of Dr. YSR Horticultural University on Monday, Mr. Mohapatra called upon students to take up research and become job-givers than job-seekers after passing out from the university. Andhra Pradesh was in the top position in horticulture with a production of 301.73 lakh metric tonnes and the area under cultivation was 17.48 lakh hectares. The State made a significant contribution to the country’s horticulture crops by increasing the area of cultivation, said Mr. Mohapatra. He said he Dr. YSR Horticultural University, which was the second of its kind in the country, was serving the needs of the fast-growing horticulture sector in providing human resources, improved technologies for Atma Nirbhar Bharat, an economic relief package announced by Government of India, and in extending new technologies and ideas to the farmers. Congratulating the students who were conferred with degrees, he asked the youngsters to utilize their knowledge and help the farmers. New varieties University Vice-Chancellor T. Janakiram said horticulture played a unique role in India’s economy by improving the income of the rural people. Andhra Pradesh stood first in production of chilli, cocoa, lime oil palm, tomato and papaya, and second in production of mango, cashew, and sweet orange in India. “Dr. YSR Horticulture University is committed to supporting the horticulture farmers of the State by strengthening Rythu Bharosa Kendras established by the State government at the village level. The varsity has developed and released many fruit, spices, condiments and vegetable varieties,” he said. Neelgoa, Swarna, Jaehangir, AU Ramani of mango, Godavari Bontha of Banana, Abhaya Ganda, Vynateya Gango, Kalpa Pratibha in coconut, Lavanya of tirmeric, Swarna kapoori of betelvine, Suruchi of coriander and some of the research outcomes of the Dr. YSRHU. The university awarded horticulture degrees to 2019 students, including 1,604 in B.Sc and 375 in M.Sc during the first, second and third convocations. In fourth convocation, degrees were conferred on 635 students, Dr. Janakiram said. Medals presented The Smt. Anne Shikhamany Memorial Gold Medal was awarded to Kancherla Divya and Mondeddula Dhathri for securing highest marks, Sri. Devarakonda Pullayya Sastry Gold Medal to Seeram Phanindra, Dr. T.B. Dasarathi Gold to medal to PG students, G. Indraja, Duddukuri Srikanth and N. Amrutha Pavani. Best Teacher award was presented to R.V. Sujatha, associate professor, and best research scientist award was awarded to C. Venkata Ramana, senior scientist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/agri-output-increased-despite-covid/article33908887.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chanting fitness mantra||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chanting-fitness-mantra/article33909565.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lowering guard||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lowering-guard/article33909482.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||All colours and shapes!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-colours-and-shapes/article33909546.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hard grind||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hard-grind/article33908885.ece
23 February 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Arrangements made for Sri Sitarama Kalyanam||The district administration has charted out a grand plan to celebrate Sri Sitarama Kalyanam (celestial wedding) in a befitting manner in adherence to COVID-19 safety protocols at the historic Sri Sitaramachandra Swamy shrine in Bhadrachalam on the occasion of Sri Rama Navami on April 21. The mega religious event was celebrated in a simple manner inside the temple complex, devoid of devotees, due to the COVID-19 pandemic in April last year. This time, the authorities have mooted a grand celebration of the “celestial wedding” as per the temple traditions. Collector M V Reddy on Monday held a review meeting with the heads of the allied government departments in Kothagudem on the arrangements for the forthcoming Vasantha Paksha Tiru Kalyana Brahmotsavams scheduled to be held in the historic shrine in Bhadrachalam from April 13 to 27. Addressing the meeting, the Collector said elaborate arrangements should be put in place to create a perfect spiritual ambience during the ensuing Brahmotsavams in the temple town. He instructed the health authorities to deploy four ambulances, set up 12 health centres and earmark 10 beds at the Government area hospital in Bhadrachalam during the Sri Rama Navami festivities. He said the facility of booking tickets online for the Sita Rama Kalyanam will be launched soon. The meeting discussed the safety arrangements to be made at the bathing ghats along the Godavari banks. Additional Collector D Anudeep, the temple executive officer Shivaji and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/arrangements-made-for-sri-sitarama-kalyanam/article33909270.ece
23 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Metro rail expansion falling behind in Hyderabad||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be inaugurating a new phase of Kolkata Metro soon. A few days ago, he inaugurated the extension of Chennai metro phase one built at a cost of nearly Rs. 4,000 crore. Earlier, this month Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced thousands of crores of rupees funding to build second phase of Bengaluru, Chennai, Kochi, Nagpur metro rail projects and the first phase for Nasik. About 702 km of conventional metro is currently operational and another 1,016 km of metro and Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) network is under construction in 27 cities, she announced. Where does this leave Hyderabad? Second largest Currently, it has the second largest metro line network at 66 km built in one go and a uniquely public, private partnership project where L&T Metro Rail Hyderabad constructed on leased lands of the government at a total cost of more than Rs. 16,000 crore. It is way behind Delhi Metro running trains over a spread of 347 km and rapidly constructing another 100 km at least. We will soon fall behind sooner than later, as Lucknow, Indore, Bhopal, Agra, Ahmedabad, Meerut etc., are going ahead with the metro rail projects and there has been no movement towards constructing the next phase of the metro rail even as the twin cities expansion is happening rapidly. "It has become a prestigious issue with even tier-2 cities in the north and central States going for metro rail projects, apart from the big cities, except in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, where there is no step forward as priorities are different," say senior officials, wishing anonymity. Project plan ready Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has reiterated his government's commitment towards building the 31-km Rs. 9,000 crore airport metro from Gachibowli before the GHMC elections, yet post results - there has been no word. “The project plan is ready, but the government has to take a decision,” say senior officials. Interestingly, the Telangana government has neither sought Centre's permission nor financial assistance for the proposed second phase. “The Centre gave Viability Gap Funding (VGF) to the tune of Rs. 1,458 crore for first phase, let them complete the entire project as per original alignment first,” said Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy, also Secunderabad MP, when questioned about the funding for phase two. What he meant was to allow metro to be built in the old city from MGBS to Falaknuma as per the original alignment before seeking any help. Senior officials, however, claim the Centre's funding pattern is quite complicated. "The 50% equity funding offer does not translate to much in real numbers as it could be about Rs. 1,750 crore for a total project cost of Rs. 10,000 crore - route taken by Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru. Second option is to seek 10% funding of total project cost where it comes down to just 7%. But the Centre provides sovereign guarantee in these instances to funds raised through various agencies. Most States have sought Centre's funding except Jaipur, where the Rajasthan government is funding the project entirely on its own after taking permission," they explain.   The Centre gave VGF to the tune of Rs. 1,458 crore for phase-I, let them first complete the entire project as per original alignment. G. Kishan Reddy Union Minister of State for Home||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/metro-rail-expansion-falling-behind-in-hyderabad/article33909233.ece
23 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Flood of nominations for MLC poll on penultimate day||Monday, the penultimate day to file nominations for the Mahabubnagar-Rangareddy-Hyderabad Graduates’ Constituency elections for the Legislative Council, saw hectic activity at the GHMC headquarters. While the total sets of nominations filed have been 90 till date, 47 of them were filed on Monday alone by 26 candidates. Prominent candidates to file the papers on Monday were Surabhi Vani Devi from the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), N. Ramchander Rao from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and G.Chinna Reddy from the Congress. Ms.Vani Devi arrived to file nomination after paying homage to former Prime Minister and her father P.V.Narasimha Rao at his memorial PV Ghat on the Necklace Road. She was accompanied by ministers Talasani Srinivas Yadav, S.Niranjan Reddy and P.Sabitha Indra Reddy, and Member of Parliament K. Keshava Rao to Returning Officer and Additional Commissioner Priyanka Ala’s office. Speaking with media, Ms.Vani Devi expressed happiness over being chosen by the TRS, and said she will work for development. BJP candidate BJP candidate N. Ramchander Rao arrived in a procession, as part of a rally taken out from the party’s city office in Barkatpura. At GHMC, however, he was accompanied by Member of Parliament Dharmapuri Aravind and senior leader Perala Shekhar Rao among others. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Aravind asserted that Mr. Ramchander Rao is set to win with huge margin, as he had the record of raising various public issues during his stint as MLC. Mr. Ramchander Rao said he spoke in the Legislative Council on a wide range of issues, including unemployment and drinking water. He reminded that he made several suggestions to control flooding of the city three years ago. Earlier, addressing a gathering at the party office, Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy said the incumbent MLC had a “stellar reputation” as a lawyer and as a member of Bar Council and Press Council. “He has highlighted many issues of public concern in the last five years. We have defeated a employees union leader in 2015 when TRS popularity was its peak so we should strive for more support this time especially when various sections like employees, students, farmers and others are upset with this government,” he pointed out. Congress nominee Member of Parliament and Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee working president A. Revanth Reddy who accompanied Mr.Chinna Reddy criticised Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao, saying he was fielding Ms. Vani Devi from a seat where TRS is set to lose. Instead, she should have been give an MLC seat under Governor’s quota, or an MP seat which is set to fall vacant in six months, if Mr. Chandrashekhar Rao really wished to prove his respect for the late Prime Minister, he said, urging Ms.Vani Devi to revoke her nomination. Mr.Chinna Reddy, also accompanied by former MP Anjan Kumar Yadav, filed two more sets of nominations on Monday in addition to the three he had already filed. Tuesday is the deadline for filing nominations. Among others, magician Samala Venu also filed his nomination papers. He came in a rally with his supporters from A.V.College and submitted his papers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/flood-of-nominations-for-mlc-poll-on-penultimate-day/article33909253.ece
23 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Those living away from nature most affected by COVID-19’||Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu appreciated the Green India Challenge launched by Rajya Sabha MP, Santosh Rao Joginapally and the Vruksha Vedam book that focusses on the importance of greenery and trees even in Indian ancient epics. Mr Venkaiah Naidu was speaking after Mr Santosh presented his book to him in the city on Monday. The Vice-President recollected his childhood memories after seeing the slokas and scenic beauty of the pictures taken from Telangana, present in the book. He said that the book had taken him back to his childhood days when he had access to jungles and soaked himself with greenery. Mentioning the deadly coronavirus that spread across the world, he opined that those who are living away from the nature were affected with COVID-19 virus while those who were living with the nature were able to escape from this deadly virus. Reading out a sloka from Goutama Dharma Shastra, he said “One who cuts trees without any purpose will suffer on account of lack of life -breath”. He also appreciated Santosh Kumar’s efforts in making Koti Vrusksharchana commemorating the birthday of Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao a grand success. Later, Mr Venkaiah Naidu also tweeted appreciating the book as a good collection of slokas about nature from our ancient Vedas and Puranas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/those-living-away-from-nature-most-affected-by-covid-19/article33909263.ece
23 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID tests for people coming from Maharashtra||Telangana Health staff working in Adilabad villages bordering Maharashtra have been directed to perform rapid antigen tests (RATs) on those coming from the neighbouring State. Besides, those arriving from Maharashtra would be isolated for a period of seven days. Border on alert The precautionary steps are taken after surge of COVID-19 cases in Yavatmal in Maharashtra, which borders Telangana. The situation has arisen at a time when Health officials were breathing easy as incidence of the virus is on downward trajectory. From December last year, less than 150 cases are being detected in a day from across the State. Senior officials said they are watchful of the situation and are monitoring if there is any surge in cases in Adilabad. Buses not plying Adilabad’s District Medical and Health Officer Narendra Rathod said their village health teams are advising people to avoid going to the neighbouring State because of the health situation there. The official said buses are not plying from Maharashtra. Regular teleconferences are being held with Primary Health Centre (PHC) staff to take stock of the situation. Field level staff has been asked to be alert. “Currently, the situation is under control,” Dr Narendra said. Less than 10 people in the district are testing positive for coronavirus on a daily average. Crucial role Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) and Auxiliary Nursing Midwives (ANMs) present in all villages are playing a crucial role in detecting the cases. Public announcements about COVID-19 precautions and other measures are also being made. On Tuesday, medical officers would hold a meeting with sarpanches about the situation where the precautionary steps, tests, and other topics would be discussed.  Village health teams are advising people to avoid going to Maharashtra because of the prevailing health situation. Narendra Rathod, DMHO, Adilabad||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-tests-for-people-coming-from-maharashtra/article33909218.ece
23 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘We should not worry about mutations’||Acclaimed virologists and government officials, who participated in BioAsia-2021, said that they were not surprised that the novel coronavirus has mutated and that there are new strains of the virus. What is, however, is important is that there are the consequences of the new variants and its biological effect, they added. The focus on the first day of the two-day BioAsia 2021 was Global Health and COVID-19. As part of it, virtual panel discussions on ‘Immunising the world’ and ‘COVID-19 – hits, misses, and hidden pandemic’ were held on Monday. Speaking about the variants of coronavirus at the panel discussion on the latter subject, Peter Piot, director, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, said that, as virologists, they were not surprised. “That is what viruses do and they do it for a good reason from their perspective. They try to escape from anything that suppress it, be it our immune response or vaccines. That is why we have these variants and strains. We should not panic about various mutations. As we sequence more and more, we find more variants. However, there are some variants we have to be mindful of. When we sequence more and find mutations, we have to try find out what do they mean biologically,” Dr Piot said. He further spoke about variants of the virus found in the United Kingdom, South Africa and Brazil, and the effect of vaccines on the variants. He said that the expectation from a vaccine is that it should protect people from ending up in hospitals, prevent deaths, and interrupt transmission. Renu Swarup, secretary, Department of Biotechnology, spoke about the work being done during the pandemic such as establishing clinical trials network, pace of Indian clinical research and other aspects. V.G. Somani, Drugs Controller General (India), Richard Hatchett, chief executive officer of CEPI, and Naresh Trehan, chairman and managing director, Medanta Hospital, also participated in the panel discussion. Speaking on ‘Immunising the World’, Chief Scientist at World Health Organisations (WHO) Sowmya Swaminathan said that they will come out with a standardised nomenclature for variants of interest and variants of concern. Nivedita Gupta, scientist, Indian Council of Medical Research, spoke about the mechanism adopted to detect new variants of the virus entering the country. Regarding the surge in cases in Maharashtra and Kerala, she said that they are picking up samples from clusters and hotspots, and trying to sequence them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/we-should-not-worry-about-mutations/article33909222.ece
23 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Spotlight on India’s role in global vaccine supply||A senior official of the US Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) on Monday underlined the role India can play in accelerating COVID-19 vaccine supplies globally and ensuring equitable distribution. “We will need to collaborate, to do our part in the US to be able to export as much vaccines as we can. But we want India and others to do all of the production that they can to help us globally,” said Peter Marks, director of Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research, USFDA. Taking questions after his virtual keynote address at BioAsia 2021, Dr.Marks said India and US are in very “good mutual alignment” and ought to use the mutual pharmaceutical capacities to help bring an end to the pandemic. To another query from Director of Life-sciences, Telangana government, and CEO of BioAsia Shakti Nagappan on how the US managed vaccine hesitancy, he said this was achieved through outreach programmes and by trying to understand the concerns of each group. “We are in a situation where we need to use all the tools we can, provide the information what we need to, rely on social networks we can and also combat disinformation about vaccines,” he said. A release on his speech said on USFDA’s role in developing vaccine, Dr.Marks said towards ensure public confidence in vaccines “we reference a standard in vaccine production”. The regulator evaluates the manufacturer’s request for vaccine production and commercialisation based on the following aspects — must demonstrate a clear and compelling efficacy in a large, well-designed phase 3 clinical trial; careful evaluation of quality, safety and efficacy; public advisory committee meeting; and enhanced post-deployment surveillance. “Many people wonder how we have done in less than a year what usually takes at least 4-5 years. One waits till late in the process to scale up manufacturing. But for COVID-19, we did seamless phases of trials without any dead space. Manufacturers have scaled up their processes, it’s a reasonable risk to take,” he said.  We are in a situation where we need to use all the tools we can, provide the information what we need to, rely on social networks we can and also combat disinformation about vaccines. Shakti Nagappan, CEO of BioAsia||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/spotlight-on-indias-role-in-global-vaccine-supply/article33909226.ece
23 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||In-principle nod for Rs. 17,000 cr. Regional Ring Road - NH 161 AA||Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy has announced that the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has given “in principle approval” for the construction of the 340 km ‘Regional Ring Road’ (RRR) around the twin cities, about 30-50 km away from the existing Outer Ring Road (ORR), to be build at an estimated cost of Rs. 17,000 crore. The RRR is to be taken up in two parts, the northern part of 158 km connecting Sangareddy, Narasapur, Toopran, Gajwel, Yadadri, Pragnapur, Bhongir and Choutuppal to be taken up at a tentative cost of Rs. 7,561 crore. It is to be totally funded by the Centre and another Rs. 1,961 crore is to be spent for land acquisition or close to Rs. 10,000 crore will be spent for the first phase, already notified by the Ministry as ‘National Highway 161 AA’. Southern section “We have met Union Minister Nitin Gadkari and sought his help to approve the 182 km second part of the RRR covering southern part connecting Choutuppal, Ibrahimpatnam, Kandukur, Amangal, Chevella, Shankarpally and Sangareddy. He has immediately given his consent for the project expected to cost Rs. 4,322 crore and Rs. 1,748 crore for land acquisition,” Mr. Kishan Reddy said at a press conference in New Delhi. Accompanied by senior leaders National OBC president K. Laxman, D.K.Aruna and others, Mr. Reddy said Mr. Gadkari has assured to complete the RRR “within three years” if the Telangana government completes the land acquisition quickly. “It will be a game changer project for Telangana as the RRR will cover 40% of the population and link 20 towns with the national highways. I request the government to expedite the land acquisition,” he said. The Minister clarified that while the total land acquisition cost could be around Rs. 4,000 crore for the RRR, the TS government need to bear 50% of the cost, as the rest would be borne by the Centre. “Once completed the RRR will not only provide a much needed road link for the farmers to sell their produce but will also help small, micro and medium enterprises as well as to set up cold chains, agro-processing units, IT parks, new townships and so on,” the Union Minister of State explained.  Pollution levels With the highway traffic heading towards Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Bengaluru, Delhi, and others getting diverted onto the RRR, it would help reduce the vehicular congestion in the twin cities and subsequent low level of pollution besides saving time and fuel consumption, he said. Mr. Reddy also pointed out that the in the last six years under the Modi Government Telangana got 1,918 km of National Highways at an estimated cost of Rs. 17,617 crore. He thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Mr. Gadkari for clearing the RRR as it could lead to rapid development of the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/in-principle-nod-for-rs-17000-cr-regional-ring-road/article33909247.ece
23 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cytiva, TS ink MoU for Biopharma Scale-up facility in Genome Valley||Cytiva (previously GE Healthcare Life Sciences) has entered into a memorandum of understanding with Telangana government to set up a Biopharma Scale-up facility in Genome Valley near here. The 10,000 sq.ft. lab at the life sciences hub of Telangana will accelerate and advance the local biotechnology ecosystem. With over 800 Life Sciences companies nearby, the facility will help the biotechnology hub increase production efficiency, reduce cost and speed to market, a release said. The Biopharma Scale-up facility will provide professional training, technology evaluation, consultancy services, infrastructure support for process development and the flexibility to scale up. Director of Life-Sciences, Telangana government, and CEO of BioAsia Shakti Nagappan said the proposed 2,000-litre single-use Mammalian cell culture facility will help biopharmaceutical companies to do proof of concept and testing. It will function on a pay-per-use model and help optimise the costs of the user-companies. The Cytiva facility, expected to take 15 months to be established, will be part of the B-Hub that the State government has proposed in Genome Valley. The MoU documents were exchanged at BioAsia 2021 inaugural session in the presence of Industries and IT Minister K.T.Rama Rao, who said while there exist formidable capabilities in chemical drugs in the country, the B-Hub proposed in Genome Valley will help Telangana and India accelerate the growth of biopharmaceutical sector. The Minister also cited some of the recent big investments, completed and committed, in Genome Valley. It included a Rs. 400-crore research and development centre of contract research organisation Sai Life Sciences. Drugmakers Granules India and Laurus Labs had recently committed to invest Rs. 400 crore and Rs. 300 crore respectively on new facilities there, while the Indian Council for Medical Research is setting up the country’s largest National Animal Resource facility for biomedical research, which is expected to be inaugurated soon. Syngene’s campus in Genome Valley, inaugurated during last BioAsia, had doubled its scientist headcount in a year from 100 to over 225. The firm is set to occupy the third building later this year. GVK Bio is also expanding and will add 600 new jobs this year in Hyderabad. He said Canadian firm Jamp Pharmaceutical’s facility in Genome Valley nearing completion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cytiva-ts-ink-mou-for-biopharma-scale-up-facility-in-genome-valley/article33909225.ece
23 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Identity of immigrants a mystery||The Cyberabad police are in a quandary about the identity of nearly 70 illegal Bangladeshi immigrants who obtained Indian passports and Aadhaar cards from Bodhan in Nizamabad district. While three of them -- Sanjib Dutta, Mandal Sandip and Ramu Das -- who were detained by the officials of Bureau of Immigration, and were later arrested by the Cyberabad Police, the rest remain largely unidentified, with their real names, religions, and current residence eluding police. One Parimal Bain, 31, who had migrated in 2015 from Bangladesh and settled in Bodhan, was identified as the agent who facilitated the process to help the 70-odd illegal immigrants secure Indian passports. After getting to know that three of his ‘men’ were caught, Parimal fled to Kolkata. However, Cyberabad police arrested him from there and was brought to the city. After working in Kolkata for a year, he came to Bodhan and worked as an assistant to Rai, an ayurvedic doctor there. Later he started his own first-aid clinic near the bus stand, and based on his rental agreement, obtained an Aadhaar card, and later, a passport. A few months later, he got a passport for his brother Gopal Bain as well, who is now somewhere in the Gulf. When Parimal realised that he can make a quick buck by doing the same for other illegal migrants, he used the help of his agent friend Sameer Roy and Shahnaj Pal alias Sabuj in Kolkata to have Bangladeshi migrants come to Bodhan and obtain Aadhaar cards and Indian passports for them. For at least six months, they worked at local industries, before getting the documents on one particular address in Bodhan. Quite a large number of these have used Indian passports only to fly away to West Asia and other South-East Asian countries for employment. A total of 17 of them are learnt to be residing in Malaysia, Singapore and certain Gulf nations. About 15 others went abroad and came back to India, but none of these or the others have been identified as to their original identities yet. Police said that at least half of them must have changed their religion and names on paper, which makes it all the more difficult to trace them. The main reason for their illegal crossing to India and obtaining Indian passports is to get better Visa tenures and easier processing, since Bangladeshi passports get less preference as compared to Indian. All of them are learnt to be daily wage labourers. SI and ASI held The two policemen arrested in this case were interrogated about graft, and they confessed to have accepted cash kickbacks for issuing verification clearances for several passports to the same address. SI Malleshwar Rao was found to have been accepting ‘bakshish’ of Rs. 500 without suspecting these applicants, whereas Anil and was learned to have been taking a bribe of Rs. 5,000 per applicant at least. The policemen, who had worked in the Special Branch, were not aware that these applicants were illegal migrants, but were under the impression that they are from West Bengal. Now, Malleshwara Rao is working as SI in Siddipet and Anil is working as ASI in Bodhan town.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/identity-of-immigrants-a-mystery/article33909234.ece
23 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Second shot coverage in TS crosses 1-lakh mark||The number of healthcare workers (HCWs) in Telangana to have received the second dose of COVID-19 vaccine crossed one lakh on Monday. The vaccine is given in two doses with a gap of 28 days. While Health officials had targeted to administer the second dose to 22,502 HCWs on Monday, 18,777 turned up. With this, the total number of people who received the second dose reached 1,11,409. Along with them, 392 frontline workers (FLWs) were given their first dose on Monday. No minor or severe Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI) cases were reported. Health staff will continue administering the second dose on Tuesday along with a mop-up session where first dose would be given to FLWs who gave it a miss.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/second-shot-coverage-in-ts-crosses-1-lakh-mark/article33909184.ece
23 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KTR reviews TRS’ membership drive||Working president of Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) K.T. Rama Rao has asked the party in-charges of the membership drive to complete the exercise along with digitisation of details by the month-end. In a teleconference held with the in-charges of the membership drive on Monday, Mr. Rama Rao said the membership drive was going on extensively across the State and it would be huge success this time time by enrolling members beyond the target. He told them to carry out digitisation of membership details as it would help in future programmes. The in-charges of the membership drive informed the working president of the party that there was good response from people to the membership, when Mr. Rama Rao enquired about the progress of the exercise district-wise. The in-charges further told the party’s working president, according to a press release, that membership had already crossed the target in several districts. Expressing his satisfaction over the progress of the membership drive, Mr. Rama Rao told the party in-charges and leaders to continue the exercise and complete it with the same spirit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-reviews-membership-drive-of-trs/article33909248.ece
23 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CS for synergy between depts on skill development||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has stressed the need for effective synergy between different departments for taking up skill development programmes in various disciplines. The Chief Secretary was participating in a meeting on skill development and entrepreneurship held at BRKR Bhavan on Monday. The meeting discussed about issues relating to skill development, training and related aspects. Officials made a powerpoint presentation highlighting the skill development programmes being taken up by their respective departments. The Chief Secretary said the important points of the discussion would be taken to the notice of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao so that necessary instructions would be issued after obtaining his consent. Review meeting Meanwhile, BC Welfare and Civil Supplies Minister Gangula Kamalakar along with Mr. Somesh Kumar held a review meeting of the steps taken for the welfare of the backward classes. The meeting discussed the progress of construction of BC Atma Gourava Bhavans and status of the self-employment schemes launched for BC communities. On the Civil Supplies front, the Minister discussed about the functioning of fair price shops and issues relating Food Corporation of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cs-for-synergy-between-depts-on-skill-development/article33909264.ece
23 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Ex-MPP’s husband beaten to death by relatives||Peddemul’s former Mandal Parishad President Vani Sri’s husband was beaten to death by his relatives in Hanmapur village of Vikarabad district here on Monday morning. According to police, the crime took place around 10 a.m. when the victim, P Veerappa along with his two brothers and others tried to settle an issue on transporting sand to their village. While the discussions were going on, suspects P Venkatesh, Srinivas and 12 others attacked Veerappa and his brother with stones and sticks. “Veerappa sustained severe injuries and was rushed to Government Hospital, Tandur, where doctors declared him brought dead,” the investigators said, adding that additional forces were deployed to prevent recurrence of any untoward incidents. A case was registered and teams were formed to nab the suspects who are currently at large.  Additional forces deployed to prevent recurrence of any untoward incidents in Hanmapur village. Police||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ex-mpps-husband-beaten-to-death-by-relatives/article33909236.ece
23 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Homemaker found dead, dowry harassment suspected||A 28-year-old homemaker was found dead on the premises of double bedroom buildings constructed by the government for the poor at Nagaram under Keesara police station here on Sunday evening. The victim, P Satya Santhoshi, an engineering graduate, ended her life by jumping from a building, allegedly due to harassment of husband and his parents for additional dowry, inspector J Narender Goud said. He said that the victim was in love with K Pawan Bhagvan, and they got married on March 8, 2018 with the acceptance of their parents. At the time of marriage, Santhoshi’s father Punyamurthula Tirupathi Raju gave Rs. 50,000 in cash and three tola gold as dowry. “A few days after the marriage, Pawan, his mother Kavuri Kameshwari and sister Sarada started harassing their daughter-in-law for additional dowry for investment purposes,” the officer said quoting the complaint copy. On Sunday evening, she jumped to death from Nagaram double bedroom building. A case was registered and her body was sent to Gandhi Hospital morgue for autopsy.  (Roshni - Suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/homemaker-found-dead-dowry-harassment-suspected/article33909235.ece
23 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Warrant against Digvijay Singh||A local special court trying cases involving public representatives issued a non-bailable warrant against senior Congress leader Digvijay Singh for not turning up in a case of defamation. A leader of AIMIM, S.A. Hussain, filed the defamation plea against Singh in 2017 alleging that the latter made a statement that his party chief Asauddin Owaisi was fielding candidates in elections of other States for financial benefits. Legal notices were sent to Mr. Singh and editor of an Urdu daily seeking an apology. As they did not respond, the court directed Mr. Singh and the editor to appear in the court on Monday. While the editor appeared, the Congress leader did not turn up citing health reasons. The matter was posted to March 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/warrant-against-digvijay-singh/article33909260.ece
23 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||114 more COVID cases detected on Sunday||Telangana’s COVID-19 tally has reached 2,97,712 with the detection of 114 fresh cases on Sunday. One more COVID-19 patient has died, taking the toll to 1,625. The new 114 cases include 24 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation and 12 from Rangareddy. No case was reported from nine districts, including Vikarabad, Yadadri-Bhongir and Narayanpet. While 14,744 people were examined, results of 259 were awaited. So far, 84,71,684 people have been put through tests. Of the total cases, 1,701 are active and 2,94,386 have recovered. The first case in Telangana was detected on March 2 last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/114-more-covid-cases-detected-on-sunday/article33909220.ece
23 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CCMB remembers its founder||Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology (CCMB) will live up to the example set by its founder P.M. Bhargava on supporting “ethical research” and his vision of delivering the “fruit of science to the society”, said director Rakesh Mishra on Monday. “Dr Pushpa Mittra Bhargava is always a source of inspiration and pride for Indian biologists as he was a major architect of modern biology and biotechnology in the country. He was a proponent of good scientific temper and never stepped back from speaking up against any claim not backed by scientific evidence,” he said, at a meeting held to mark the fifth Founder’s Day event at the institute. The day commemorates the 93rd birth anniversary of Dr. Bhargava and it was marked by talks delivered by environmentalist Ashish Kothari, who joined online from Pune, about the importance of living in harmony with nature by giving examples of self governing communities, which are humble and respect their place on earth. Talks were also delivered by Siyaram Pandey and Shradha Goenka, both alumni of CSIR-CCMB. Current students of CCMB were also among those who gave the talks, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ccmb-remembers-its-founder/article33909228.ece
23 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Man held for cheating businessman||The Central Crime Station police of Hyderabad arrested Raman Ramesh Babu from Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu for cheating a city-based businessman to the tune of Rs. 4.43 crore. Police said that in December 2019, Daniel Solomon of M/s. Arpitha Diagnostics at Habsiguda, his partner Dr. Arphita approached Astler Medicss business manager R. Ramesh Babu for supply of GE 1.5 Tesla Supercon MRI equipment. Babu agreed to supply the said equipment and they paid him Rs. 4,43,10,000 after availing loan from the Bank of Maharashtra. But, the accused Babu failed to supply the equipment with malafide and dishonest intention to cheat the complainant firm and caused huge loss, Joint Commissioner of Police (Detective Department) Avinash Mohanty said. During the investigation, police found that he also took about Rs. 10 lakh from one Bala Murugan of Krishnagiri of Tamil Nadu for supply of an x-ray machine and others and did not supply. Acting on credible information about movements of the accused in Krishnagiri, a special team was deputed to apprehend Babu. “By the time the team reached there, the accused anticipating his arrest moved from place to place in Krishnagiri, Dharmapuri, Selam, Tanjavur, Tiruchy of Tamil Nadu. However, police tracked him and arrested him on February 20,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-held-for-cheating-businessman/article33909240.ece
23 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Fast-track court demanded for lawyer couple murder||Manthani Bar Association on Monday urged the government to establish a fast-track court for the trial of the murder case of lawyer couple. In an emergency general body meeting, the association members passed a resolution to send a request to Telangana High Court seeking an investigation by the CBI or any other special independent agency into the twin murders. The lawyers of Manthani also decided not to represent any of the accused in the court in the murders case of Gattu Vaman Rao and his wife P.V. Nagamani. The couple, practising at Telangana High Court in Hyderabad, was hacked to death by some persons during daytime at Ramagiri near Ramagundam of Godavarikhani last Wednesday. Resolving to extend all assistance to the family members of the couple, the Bar Association passed a resolution to abstain from work till March 1 and sought support from other Bar associations in this regard. The association president Hari Babu and secretary Raman Kumar Reddy condemned the reported statement of Ramagundam Police Commissioner V. Satyanarayana that there was ‘legal factionism in Manthani’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fast-track-court-demanded-for-lawyer-couple-murder/article33909261.ece
23 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Emirates goes for e-boarding for international passengers||GMR Hyderabad International went live with e-boarding for international passengers of Emirates joining Indigo and GoAir airlines who have already gone live with paperless e-boarding from Hyderabad International Airport. Emirates commenced this facility when its Dubai-bound passengers e-boarded themselves on the EK-527 flight on Monday. It is the first and only airport in India to offer end-to-end paperless e-boarding to all its domestic passengers across all flights through the indigenously developed digital solution to international flights from December 2020, an official spokesperson said. Passengers can choose between using conventional paper boarding passes or electronic boarding passes on phone to use the system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/emirates-goes-for-e-boarding-for-international-passengers/article33909227.ece
23 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||page 3 SR Nagar SI in ACB net||The Anti-Corruption Bureau officials on Monday arrested SR Nagar sub-inspector Bellana Bhaskar Rao for accepting a bribe of Rs. 25,000 from a complainant for showing official favour. He was caught red-handed by the ACB officials. The accused officer demanded and accepted the bribe from Mohammed Khasim to favour him in a criminal case, and to influence the Civil Supplies Department officials to release the seized vehicle of the complainant. Bhaskar was arrested and produced before the Principal Special Judge for SPE and ACB cases, Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-3-sr-nagar-si-in-acb-net/article33909238.ece
23 February 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||RPF conducts security check at Kazipet station||The Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel on Monday conducted a random security check at the railway station here using a sniffer dog of the RPF’s dog squad based in Kazipet railway station in Warangal Urban District. Led by its handler L Sunil, the Belgian Malinois breed canine, specifically trained to detect explosives, scoured the circulating area, the platforms, the parking area and the goods shed as part of the random check of the entire premises of the railway station as a safety precaution, sources said. Inspector, RPF, Khammam, K Madhusudhan supervised the security check which lasted for nearly two hours. However, nothing suspicious was found during the thorough search of the railway station premises, sources added. The railway station, located on one of the busiest corridors of the South Central Railway, is equipped with a string of CCTV cameras installed at vantage points for round-the-clock surveillance. Sources said the RPF has put in place a comprehensive security system envisaging anti-sabotage checks at the railway station in coordination with the District Police and the Railway Police on a regular basis for the safety and security of the train commuters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rpf-conducts-security-check-at-kazipet-station/article33909272.ece
23 February 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||VPR Mrs India 2021 runner-up from TS||Khammam-based M. A. Farha has won first runner-up title at the VPR Mrs India 2021 (Season 2) pageant held in Gujarat’s Ahmedabad on Sunday. According to a press release, Ms Farha, an MBA graduate from the town, also bagged another title “Mrs Photogenic” in the same event. A total of 912 contestants registered for the pageant from across the country and 41 of them qualified for the final round. Ms Farha, the sole contestant from Telangana, won two titles by excelling in the final round of the pageant. The mother-of-two credited her success to encouragement by her husband and other family members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vpr-mrs-india-2021-runner-up-from-ts/article33909507.ece
23 February 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||‘Jobs and notifications with BJP MLC election’||Large vote share of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections in December forced the government to roll back its Layout Regularisation Scheme (LRS), and once the BJP candidate wins the seat in Legislative Council for Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda Graduates’ constituency, notifications will be released for jobs, party’s chief Bandi Sanjay said on Monday. “The government owes Rs. 72,000 to each unemployed in the State,” he said, elaborating that the government has to pay promised Nirudyoga Bhruti Scheme’s monthly monetary allowance of Rs. 3000 for the past 24 months. Mr. Sanjay was in Nalgonda to strengthen the party’s MLC candidate Gujjula Premendar Reddy at his nomination-filing on Monday. The Karimnagar MP, accompanied by senior leaders Sankineni Venkateswara Rao and Mothkupalli Narsimhulu, was given a grand welcome by local leaders. The visitors later addressed party cadre in the town. “Nothing came of TRS’ Palla Rajeshwar Reddy election, with BJP’s candidate half of the issues in the State will be resolved. BJP will fulfil the aspirations of martyrs for Telangana,” Mr. Sanjay said. Mr. Venkateswara Rao said electing a Congress leader would be of no use as the candidate would join the TRS fold. “I have not seen a more arrogant person than KCR , who compared his designation to his slipper,” senior leader Mr. Narsimhulu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jobs-and-notifications-with-bjp-mlc-election/article33909241.ece
23 February 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Kodandaram files MLC nomination papers||Founder of Telangana Jana Samithi M. Kodandaram filed his nomination for the Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda Graduates’ constituency with Returning Officer and District Collector Prashant J. Patil on Monday. Accompanied by party’s vice president Syed Badruddin, New Democracy leader Potu Ranga Rao and others, he submitted his nomination. Earlier, Mr. Kodandaram was received in a grand rally organised by party cadre, activists of New Democracy, Mala Mahanadu, PDSU and other youth groups. The leaders and other supporters met in a party meeting later at a private function hall in the town.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kodandaram-files-mlc-nomination-papers/article33909243.ece
23 February 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||National Science Day on Feb. 28||National Science Day (NSD) will be held on February 28 to commemorate the discovery of Raman Effect by Sir Chandrasekhara Venkata Raman. The theme for National Science Day 2021 is ‘Future of STI: Impact on Education Skills and Work’. Schools of Science & Technology, GITAM, Hyderabad are organising ‘All India Essay Contest on Science and Technology’ on the eve of National Science Day. The topics are — Life during Covid-19, Online Teaching: Benefits and limitations and Social Ethics, Morals and Values. Meera Venkatesh, Former Director, International Atomic Energy Agency will deliver a guest lecture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/national-science-day-on-feb-28/article33909506.ece
23 February 2021||SINGARAM (SIDDIPET DISTRICT),TELANGANA||A 400-year-old village set to go off the map||The statue of Mahatma Gandhi at the entry point stands witness to the transformation the village has seen in the recent past. This village is in Kondapaka mandal of Gajwel constituency, represented by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, is soon going to disappear from the map and be submerged under Mallannasagar. The village has about 200 houses with a population of about 600 persons. This village has some 400-year history. Inam given The residents say the village was founded on an Inam given to a family some 400 years ago. The family that was given the Inam settled here with five families and slowly it grew to its current status. “My ancestors were the first family to come here some 400 years ago. My forefather was given the inam for the land and he brought along another four families from different sections of society and established this village. The village today has some 900 acres of farm land,” an elderly resident of the village Ghulam Ghouse Mohiduddin Iqbal told The Hindu . “The government acquired the lands along with all the houses in our village. It is to the credit of all the residents of the village that not one court case was filed against the land acquisition process,” Mr. Iqbal added. R&R Colony During last week, the villagers went to Mutrajpally to inspect the houses that were being built for them in the Rehabilitation and Resettlement Colony. The officials told them that it may take another three months to complete the houses allocated to them and suggested that they vacate the village and shift to temporary accommodation at Sangapur. However, the villagers are reluctant to move from the village. They say they would prefer to wait and shift to their permanent residences instead of going through the additional strain and expenditure of shifting twice.  Drainage lines “The officials are yet to provide water connection, drain and power. We are asking them to provide power and water connection. The sewerage system can be established in due course. In the meanwhile septic tanks built using concrete rings,” Mr. Iqbal said. He was the first one in the village to give up 60 acres of family lands to the government for the construction of Mallannasagar and the family has invested the entire amount in Hyderabad instead of looking to reinvest in farm lands. “I have become a zero acre farmer from a landlord owning 60 acres in the village. We bought property in Hyderabad instead of agriculture lands as the present generation is not ready to take up farming,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-400-year-old-village-set-to-go-off-the-map/article33909255.ece
23 February 2021||New Delhi,||BJP asks why govt. silent about Rs. 26K cr. DJB scam||Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta questioned the “silence” of the Aam Aadmi Party government on an alleged scam of Rs. 26,000 crore in the Delhi Jal Board (DJB). Addressing a public contact campaign near the R.K. Ashram metro station regarding the alleged scam on Monday, Mr. Gupta said the party would launch a mass movement against it soon. “Though it is the duty of the DJB to provide water to the entire city, at least 30% of Delhiites are not getting drinking water while there is no sewerage system in 1,600 colonies,” he alleged. “There is no information with the Kejriwal government or the DJB about the funds it gets from the Centre. Kejriwal is using this money for political and personal purposes on advertisements rather than actual work it is meant for,” he also alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-asks-why-govt-silent-about-rs-26k-cr-djb-scam/article33909072.ece
23 February 2021||Mumbai,||Dadra and Nagar Haveli MP Mohan Delkar found dead in Mumbai hotel||Mohan Delkar, seven-term Lok Sabha member from Dadra and Nagar Haveli, was found dead in a Mumbai hotel on Monday, police said. The body of Delkar (58), Independent MP from Dadra and Nagar Haveli Union Territory, was found at the sea-facing hotel in south Mumbai’s Marine Drive area, a police official said. The official said a suicide note in Gujarati was also found along with the body. The cause of death would be known after autopsy, he added. An accidental death report was being registered based on preliminary information, the official said. Delkar was in May 2019 elected to the 17th Lok Sabha, his seventh term in the House. He was also a member of the Standing Committee on Personnel, Public Grievances, Law and Justice and a member of the Consultative Committee, Ministry of Home Affairs, of the Lower House. Delkar is survived by wife, a son and a daughter. An advocate for tribal rights, Mohan Sanjibhai Delkar began his career as a trade union leader in Silvassa. He was first elected to the ninth Lok Sabha from Dadra and Nagar Haveli constituency in 1989 as a Congress nominee. He won six consecutive elections from the constituency during 1989-2009, failing to retain the seat in the Lok Sabha polls in 2009 and 2014. However, he successfully contested the 17th Lok Sabha elections as an Independent candidate. Delkar won the 1989, 1991 and 1996 polls as a Congress candidate and the 1998 elections as a BJP candidate. He rejoined the Congress and unsuccessfully contested in 2009 and 2014. Those who require assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts may contact: BMC mental health helpline 022-24131212 (24x7); Vandrevala Foundation: 18602662345/18002333330 (24x7); I Call: 022-25521111 (8 a.m. to 10 p.m., Monday to Saturday); The Samaritans Mumbai: 8422984528/8422984529/8422984530 (3 p.m. to 9 p.m., all days).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/dadra-and-nagar-haveli-mp-mohan-delkar-found-dead-in-mumbai-hotel/article33909100.ece
23 February 2021||Mumbai,||Interstate online extortion racket busted, 3 arrested||Three people were arrested for allegedly running an extortion racket online that involved befriending the well-heeled through fake profiles of women and then blackmailing them with porn clips, the Mumbai Police said on Monday. The gang had been operating this racket from the border areas of Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, and might have targeted many people nationwide, an official said. Milind Bharambe, Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime), Mumbai, said, “The gang targeted celebrities, politicians, bureaucrats and IPS officers etc. after studying their social media profiles. After we got complaints, the cyber wing formed teams, which went to several States and nabbed these three.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/interstate-online-extortion-racket-busted-3-arrested/article33909056.ece
23 February 2021||Mumbai,||Byculla jail report placed in HC says Indrani stable||The Bombay High Court was on Monday informed by the Byculla women’s prison authorities that the medical condition of Indrani Mukerjea, accused of killing her daughter Sheena Bora, was stable and that she did not suffer from any severe ailments. A report was submitted by the prison authorities following directions earlier this month from the HC, which is hearing a plea filed by Ms. Mukerjea seeking bail on medical grounds. As per the jail report submitted before a single judge Bench of Justice P.D. Naik on Monday, Ms. Mukerjea does not suffer from any severe ailments that cannot be treated at the prison. It said Ms. Mukerjea was taken to JJ Hospital two times and her reports were normal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/byculla-jail-report-placed-in-hc-says-indrani-stable/article33909350.ece
23 February 2021||Mumbai,||Sachin Joshi remanded in judicial custody in slum rehabilitation fraud case||Actor and businessman Sachin Joshi has been remanded in judicial custody by the special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court, in connection with a slum rehabilitation fraud case involving Omkar Group. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) probing the case said, “Explanations provided by Mr. Joshi reveal that funds were received by him and his companies from various companies of Omkar Group. Part of funds was shown as investment and part of them was shown as received against rendering of services. With respect to funds received as investment, Mr. Joshi said the same were towards development of land near Pune.” The agency contended that the term sheet of investment was simply used to disguise the real intention of diversion of funds received from Omkar Group of companies and park these funds on behalf of promoters of Omkar Group. “It can be seen that any prudent business transaction would involve definite black and white agreement about investment/utilisation of such huge funds,” the ED said. According to the ED, Mr. Joshi informed the agency that no actual slum rehabilitation work was done by him but he was involved in facilitation with Omkar Group, where Omkar Group was to use his name and brand name in order to rehabilitate the tenants/settle with the tenants. “From the cash flows of Omkar Realtors & Developers Pvt. Ltd. for various years, it is observed that there are huge inter-company transactions with group companies, including the companies from which funds have been transferred to the accused and his companies. Loans availed from Yes Bank have been diverted and Mr. Joshi has helped promoters of Omkar Group in such diversion for an amount of at least Rs. 87 crore,” the agency said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sachin-joshi-remanded-in-judicial-custody-in-slum-rehabilitation-fraud-case/article33909104.ece
23 February 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Boy electrocuted while playing with iron ladder||A boy believed to be aged between 10 and 12 was electrocuted while playing with an iron ladder near a shop at Sector 8 in Airoli on Monday. According to the police, the incident occurred around 9 a.m. when the victim, who is yet to be identified, was trying to move the ladder when it came in contact with the overhead high-tension wire. The boy was charred to death. Officials from the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Corporation Limited (MSEDCL) and the fire brigade reached the spot. “The MSEDCL officials switched off the power supply and removed the ladder,” senior police inspector Yogesh Gawade from Rabale police station said. Mr. Gawade said the ladder was kept there by a spectacles shop who was planning a renovation. “The ladder was outside the shop. CCTV footage from a nearby shop showed that the boy pulled the ladder out and was moving it to and fro with an intention to play with it. We are awaiting a report from the fire department and the MSEDCL. If negligence is found, we will register an FIR,” Mr. Gawade said. The police believe that the boy could be a hawker who sold small articles near a traffic signal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/boy-electrocuted-while-playing-with-iron-ladder/article33909101.ece
23 February 2021||New Delhi,||Over Rs. 26 crore in compensation given to 2,200 Delhi riot victims||The Delhi government has provided compensation of over Rs. 26 crore to more than 2,200 claimants over the last year since Delhi riots broke out in February 2020. According to statistics compiled by the government, the disbursal of compensation was monitored directly by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. The government claimed it as one of the “swiftest” instances of awarding compensation related to riots cases in the country even as fresh claims being raised on a daily basis were being dealt with. The Delhi government disbursed compensation under separate categories, which included Rs. 10 lakh for death, Rs. 5 lakh for the death of a minor, permanent disability and serious damage to residential and commercial premises, Rs. 3 lakh for those orphaned and Rs. 2.5 lakh for minor damage to residential premises. The other categories included Rs. 2 lakh for serious injury, Rs. 50,000 for damage to e-rickshaw, Rs. 25,000 for damage to ordinary rickshaw and Rs. 5,000 for damage related to an animal, among others. A total of 2,221 claimants have been disbursed compensation amounting to Rs. 26,09,78,416 so far. According to government statistics, 44 families, whose next of kin lost their lives in the riots, were provided compensation amounting to Rs. 4.25 crore, 233 injured were given Rs. 1.75 crore, a total of Rs. 8.51 crore was disbursed to the owners of 731 homes, which were seriously damaged, in addition to a total of Rs. 11.28 crore to 1,176 whose shops were seriously damaged. The government also disbursed a total of Rs. 20 lakh as compensation to three schools in north-east Delhi, which were damaged during the riots, which lasted around 72 hours in late February last year. In addition to compensation, the government had also disbursed immediate financial relief between Rs. 20,000 and Rs. 25,000 to those affected by the riots through a team of 18 Sub-Divisional Magistrates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/over-rs-26-crore-in-compensation-given-to-2200-riot-victims-govt/article33909096.ece
23 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Nearly 50% of cases related to riots yet to be solved: police||Delhi Police on Monday said that 355 out of 755 cases registered in connection with north-east Delhi riots are yet to be solved and the investigations are on in “full swing”. “As of now, investigation of riot cases is in full swing. All possible efforts are being made to solve the unsolved riot cases, besides taking the ongoing investigation to logical conclusion in a time-bound manner,” Delhi Police said in a statement. The police said that after the riots, they have conducted 471 peace committee meeting to maintain peace and harmony in the area. The police claimed that they are also facilitating the victims with submission of their forms. “As on date, 2,599 forms have been submitted before the Riot Claim Commission,” they said. The police claimed that “efforts resulted in genuine arrests presentation of best-in-class evidence before the honourable courts” and “even as on date, a total of 1,204 arrested accused have been consistently denied any kind of relief from the courts”. The High Court on Friday had rebuked Delhi Police for arresting three men from the minority community and objecting to their bail with “no evidence whatsoever, either direct or circumstantial or forensic”. Calling the riots a “well calculated conspiracy”, Delhi Police said, “The timings of the north-east district riots were almost meticulously executed by key conspirators. They were aware of the fact that any communal violence in Delhi during [former] U.S. President Donald Trump’s visit would immediately be picked up by international media and would cause huge embarrassment to the Indian government. They decided to resort to ‘ chakka jam ’ at communally sensitive spots and attacked police personnel to escalate violence which coincided with the visit of the U.S. President.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/police-say-nearly-50-of-cases-related-to-riots-yet-to-be-solved/article33909098.ece
23 February 2021||New Delhi,||High Court grants bail to rickshaw-puller in riots case||The Delhi High Court on Monday granted bail to a rickshaw puller, arrested in March last year in connection with the north-east Delhi riots, noting that his call details record (CDR) location does not establish his presence at the incident site. Justice Suresh Kumar Kait also noted that the chargesheet in the case has already been filed and the trial of the present case will take “substantial time”. Rashid alias Monu was arrested in connection with the murder of one Dilbar Singh Negi, a waiter at Anil Sweet Corner, whose limbless body was found lying in burnt condition on the second floor of the sweets building. After the FIR was registered, the investigation of case was transferred to Crime Branch Special Investigation Team (SIT). It was found that on February 24, 2020, a riot had taken place on the main road in front of A-29, Ghaman Park, Main Brijpuri Road, where the mob threw stones, chanted slogans, ransacked and torched many shops. It is prosecution’s case that some persons in the mob killed the deceased, Negi, and burnt him along with the whole building. Petrol bottles and bag of kanche have also been seized from the roof of the building. On the basis of the eyewitness, CCTV footage and mobile locations, a total 12 accused have been arrested in the present case. Rashid was arrested on the basis of statement of an eyewitness and on the basis of location of his mobile. Rashid is also facing charges in another FIR lodged in connection with the riots. He argued that the prosecution has admitted in his bail plea that his CDR location does not establish his presence at the incident site. “This admission by the prosecution cements the submission of the petitioner [Rashid] that his CDR location is only in the vicinity of the incident site for he resides in Shakti Vihar which is close to the site,” Rashid’s lawyer argued. Additional solicitor general S.V. Raju, appearing for Delhi Police, submitted that during the course of probe, statements of the eyewitnesses were recorded. The ASG argued that an eyewitness whose house was looted and torched by the mob named, identified and that Rashid was involved in the riots which caused the death of Negi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/high-court-grants-bail-to-rickshaw-puller-in-riots-case/article33909086.ece
23 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Gap in education deepened during pandemic’||AAP MLA Atishi said that over the past one year, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, a large number of students were unable to access any kind of formal education and the ensuing gap is a very disturbing one. She was speaking at the Harvard-India conference 2021 on the topic ‘Tackling Unequal Access to Education Worsened by COVID-19’ on Monday. “In India, the quality of education worsens as you go down the economic spectrum. But during the pandemic, the gap deepened even more,” said Ms. Atishi. She added that pre-COVID-19, the Delhi government schools had crossed the access barrier and were focusing more on the learning barrier. However, with COVID-19, government schools are back to dealing with student enrolment. The AAP MLA was joined by Shaheen Mistri, CEO of Teach for India, Rukmini Banerji, CEO of Pratham Education Foundation and Emmerich Davies, Assistant Professor of Education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education, for the discussion. Access to education “What we have effectively had in one year is a very large segment of children who have just not had access to any formal education. I think this gap that has been created is a very serious one,” said Ms. Atishi. She added: “Education in elite private schools has been virtually uninterrupted but in government schools, there are no laptops, mobile phones or Wi-Fi at homes and children have missed an entire year.” She added that during the lockdown, Delhi govt. schools have regularly reached out to parents to keep them in the loop and enquire about challenges faced at home. On whether students should be tested on what they have learnt during the year, Ms. Atishi said: “Rather than asking whether we should postpone board exams this year, we have to ask ourselves what are we assessing children on? ”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/gap-in-education-deepened-during-pandemic/article33909091.ece
23 February 2021||New Delhi,||Baijal stresses on cluster-based testing||Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal chaired the 17th meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Monday to review the COVID-19 situation in the Capital and the ongoing vaccination roll-out with Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. Mr. Baijal, at the meeting, emphasised the need to continue to be vigilant without lowering the guard while appreciating efforts put in by all stakeholders in the effective management of the pandemic in Delhi. According to Raj Niwas, the L-G, based on experts’ advice, stressed upon the adoption of cluster-based surveillance and testing and genome sequencing strategy. He also directed strict enforcement of COVID-19 compliant behaviour along with the maintenance of current levels of RT-PCR testing to contain any possibility of resurgence of COVID-19 infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/baijal-stresses-on-cluster-based-testing/article33909092.ece
23 February 2021||New Delhi,||‘Reply to pleas seeking vaccination of prisoners’||The Delhi High Court on Monday asked the AAP government to reply to petitions seeking vaccination of all the prisoners, who were out on bail or parole, before they surrender so as to prevent the spread of COVID-19 infection inside prisons. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh asked the Delhi government to give its stand on the pleas by March 26, the next date of hearing. The court asked the government to take action on the issue immediately and reflect it on the affidavit. Delhi government Standing Counsel (Criminal) Rahul Mehra said there has been “no outbreak of COVID-19 in the jails”. The High Court remarked that the pleas appeared to be an excuse to keep the prisoners, who were out on bail, parole or furlough, out for a longer duration. In a separate case, the High Court asked the AAP government, prison authorities and Delhi State Legal Services Authority (DSLSA) to respond to a plea seeking extension of emergency parole to prisoners above the age of 65 and prone to COVID-19 infection due to certain ailments and medical condition. Advocate Amit Sahni, in his plea, pleaded that aged prisoners be directed to surrender after all others prisoners. Mr. Sahni said social distancing is not feasible in jails as they are already overcrowded and the prisons have been extremely affected by the pandemic. The plea said Delhi jails have a capacity to retain 10,026 prisoners and presently around 14,000 inmates are already lodged there, excluding around 4,000 of them who were released on interim bail or emergency parole.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/reply-to-pleas-seeking-vaccination-of-prisoners/article33909085.ece
23 February 2021||New Delhi,||Two-time Cong. councillor Vikas Tonk joins AAP||AAP senior leader and party in-charge of municipal corporations, Durgesh Pathak, on Monday said that Vikas Tonk, a two-time councillor of Congress, has joined the party. “AAP has been expanding in a significant way for the past several months. Looking into the development work and the government policies of Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, people from various fields, irrespective of their affiliations, are joining AAP. Today, a very renowned face from Civil Lines and Chandni Chowk Vidhan Sabha, Vikas Tonk, is joining our party. He was a two-time Congress councillor,” said Mr. Pathak. Mr. Tonk said that he joined AAP taking into consideration the work done by the Delhi government. “I am hopeful that our party will become stronger after his [Tonk] joining. We all will work shoulder-to-shoulder. In the last six years, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has established a model of development,” Mr. Pathak added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/two-time-cong-councillor-vikas-tonk-joins-aap/article33909088.ece
23 February 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi government launches campaign to register construction workers||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Monday said that at 45 sites across the city, the government has started registration camps for construction workers from Monday that includes 29 government schools and 16 major construction sites, and it will go on for a month. He said that only 2.12 lakh out of the estimated 10 lakh construction workers have registered to avail a large number of schemes, including pension and maternity benefits. “There are many workers whose registration has lapsed, and they have been duly informed about renewing their membership. He said that registration camps will operate from February 22 to March 22, Monday to Friday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Construction workers can visit registration camps for new registration, renewals, and verification process of registration,” an official statement said. Construction workers can get them registered using Delhi government’s doorstep delivery service by calling 1076. Under different schemes, workers can get Rs. 3-5 lakh for construction of house, Rs. 30,000 under maternity benefit scheme, Rs. 20,000 as loan for the purchase of Rs. work-related tools and Rs. 5,000 as grant for the purchase of tools. “Workers’ families get assistance of Rs. 1 lakh in case of natural death and Rs. 2 lakh in case of death due to accident. They may also avail Rs. 1 lakh in case of permanent total disability and a disability pension of Rs. 3,000 per month,” the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/govt-launches-month-long-campaign-to-register-construction-workers/article33909094.ece
23 February 2021||New Delhi,||‘Will float plan to grant legal status to temple’||North Delhi Municipal Corporation Mayor Jai Prakash said a “high-level meeting” of senior leaders and officials of the civic body was held on Monday and it was decided that a proposal will be put up in its House to get a “legal status” for a prefabricated Hanuman temple that has come up at Chandni Chowk. The meeting of the House is slated to be held on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/will-float-plan-to-grant-legal-status-to-temple/article33909089.ece
23 February 2021||New Delhi,||27,219 more beneficiaries take vaccine||A total of 27,219 beneficiaries took the COVID-19 vaccination in the city on Monday, which is the highest so far. Also, there were eight minor Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI), said a Delhi government spokesperson. With COVID-19 cases increasing in many States, district officials have been asked to increase the number of tests being conducted and keep a close watch on the situation, according to officials. Of the total beneficiaries, 4,775 healthcare workers received the first dose and 5,459 their second dose. Also, 16,985 front-line workers received their first dose of the vaccine. Till now, a total of 1,35,034 healthcare workers and 1,71,079 front-line workers have received the vaccine, as per the government. 128 COVID-19 cases Delhi witnessed 128 new COVID-19 cases in 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 6,38,028, according to a government bullettin. One death was reported and the death tally touches 10,901. A total of 42,242 tests were done in a day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/27219-more-beneficiaries-take-vaccine/article33909093.ece
23 February 2021||Pune,||Chhagan Bhujbal is fifth minister to test positive in a week||Senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and Maharashtra Food and Civil Supplies Minister Chhagan Bhujbal is the latest among the State’s top politicos to test positive for COVID-19. After a rapid antigen test conducted on Mr. Bhujbal had returned positive, the same result was seen in the RT-PCR test. According to sources, he has been moved to Mumbai for further treatment. “I have tested positive for Covid-19. All those who have come in contact with me in the last three days should get themselves tested. My health is fine and there is no reason to worry. All citizens must take proper care in the backdrop of rising Covid-19 cases. They should wear masks and use sanitisers regularly,” tweeted Mr. Bhujbal, who is also the Guardian Minister of Nashik. Mr. Bhujbal is the fifth minister in the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Agahdi government to test positive for the virus in less than a week. Last week, Water Resources Minister Jayant Patil, Health Minister Rajesh Tope, Food and Drug Administration Minister Rajendra Shingne, and Minister of State for Water Resources Bacchu Kadu tested positive. NCP leader Eknath Khadse and his daughter-in-law, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Raksha Khadse, too tested positive. Mr. Bhujbal had attended a slew of programmes and social gatherings in the last three days, including the wedding function of Deolali MLA Saroj Ahire which also saw the attendance of both NCP chief Sharad Pawar and his nephew, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar. Meanwhile, Mr. Sharad Pawar has cancelled all his public programmes till March 1 in the wake of the alarming spike in cases across the State. In a bid to add weight to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s announcement on Sunday urging all citizens to behave responsibly, Mr. Pawar, along with his daughter, Baramati MP Supriya Sule, as well as his grand-nephew, Karjat-Jamkhed MLA Rohit Pawar, have all cancelled their public engagements in the coming week. While Nashik district has a robust recovery rate of 96.64%, Nashik city remains a virus hotbed with more than 250-300 cases being reported each day. Markets, schools closed With cases mounting in Nagpur district, Guardian Minister Nitin Raut has announced that all schools, colleges, and weekly bazaars will remain closed as a precautionary measure till March 7, while all political, social and cultural programmes will be cancelled. “While Nagpur is not under any lockdown as yet, there will be strict enforcement of rules henceforth,” said Dr. Raut, who is also the State Energy Minister and a senior Congress leader. On Sunday, Dr. Raut had announced that he was cancelling his son’s wedding reception owing to the uptick in cases in the district. Districts in Vidarbha, notably Nagpur and Amravati, have seen a massive rise in cases in the last week with both districts reporting 750-800 cases daily during this period. As Amravati commenced its week-long lockdown starting Monday, Amravati Municipal Commissioner Prashant Rode said that 12 containment zones had been formed and that cases were emerging from almost 60% of the city.“We have appealed to citizens to desist from congregating in crowded places. We are focusing on keeping the mortality rate down and we are getting an encouraging response from the public,” Mr. Rode said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/chhagan-bhujbal-is-fifth-minister-to-test-positive-in-a-week/article33909103.ece
23 February 2021||Vienna,||Iran, IAEA reach deal on inspections||The UN nuclear watchdog chief announced on Sunday a “temporary solution” to allow Iranian facility inspections to continue after days of talks with officials, giving some much-needed breathing space for diplomatic negotiations. However, Rafael Grossi admitted that under the new three-month arrangement, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) would not have the same level of access after a law comes into force on Tuesday limiting some inspections. Mr. Grossi’s visit to Iran came amid stepped-up efforts between U.S. President Joe Biden’s administration, European powers and Tehran to salvage the 2015 nuclear deal that has been on the brink of collapse since former U.S. President Donald Trump withdrew from it and went on to impose sanctions on the nation. In December, Iran’s conservative-dominated Parliament passed the law demanding a suspension of some inspections if the U.S. failed to lift sanctions by this Sunday. Mr. Grossi said that under the new “temporary technical understanding... there is less access, let’s face it”. “But still we were able to retain the necessary degree of monitoring and verification work,” he added. “What we agreed is something that is viable — it is useful to bridge this gap that we are having now, it salvages the situation now,” Mr. Grossi told reporters after landing back in Vienna, after a meeting with Iran Foreign Minister Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif in Tehran on Sunday. They confirmed that Iran will continue to allow access to UN inspectors to its declared nuclear sites. No real-time access But Iran will temporarily suspend so-called “voluntary transparency measures” — notably inspections of non-nuclear sites, including military sites suspected of nuclear-related activity. Tehran will also deny the IAEA real-time access to footage from surveillance cameras installed at some sites and, if sanctions are not lifted within three months, delete it, Iran’s Atomic Energy Organization has said. Mr. Zarif had signalled the Islamic republic wanted to avoid an “impasse” over inspections, but also warned it could further step away from its commitments if Washington does not lift sanctions. Mr. Grossi had said earlier his hope in visiting Tehran was “to stabilise a situation which was very unstable”. “I think this technical understanding does it so that other political discussions at other levels can take place, and most importantly we can avoid a situation in which we would have been, in practical terms, flying blind,” he added. Iran hails agreement Iran’s Deputy Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi acknowledged on Saturday that his country’s inspection capability would be “reduced by about 20-30%” when Tuesday’s law came into effect. Iran’s Foreign Ministry on Monday hailed the outcome, saying it complied with Parliament's demands and “resulted in a very significant diplomatic achievement and a very significant technical achievement”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iran-iaea-reach-deal-on-inspections/article33908783.ece
23 February 2021||COLOMBO,||Maldives Parliament debates defence deal with India||A day after Male and New Delhi signed an agreement to jointly develop the Maldives National Defence Force Coast Guard Harbour, Maldives’s Parliament, ‘the People’s Majlis’, took up an emergency motion, demanding greater transparency on the bilateral pact. Following the signing of the agreement on Sunday, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar, who was in Male this weekend, tweeted: “Glad to sign with Defence Minister @MariyaDidi the UTF Harbour Project agreement. Will strengthen Maldivian Coast Guard capability and facilitate regional HADR efforts. Partners in development, partners in security.” On Monday, Ahmed Shiyam, an MP from the Opposition Progressive Party of Maldives submitted an emergency motion in the House, objecting to the signing of the pact, linked to the “independence and sovereignty” of the Maldives, without the approval of Parliament, Male-based media reported. A total of 51 legislators in the 87-member House voted in favour of a debate on the motion. Maldivian Defence Minister Mariya Didi said the project was “vital” to the effective functioning of the Maldivian Coast Guard. “Given our expansive maritime territory, the need to enhance local coast guard capabilities cannot be overstated,” she told The Hindu from Male, explaining why the government is “elated” that the project is “finally under way”. “This dockyard and harbour will, in time, afford us the opportunity to protect our maritime interests on our own thereby enhancing our sovereignty,” she said. The harbour development agreement, effectively a defence pact, was signed following a request from the government of Maldives — since former President Abdulla Yameen’s term in 2013 — for Indian assistance to enhance the capability of the Defence Forces, according to a Joint press statement issued by the two governments on Sunday. Subsequently, Male made requests in 2015 and 2016. Denying that the Yameen administration had sealed any agreement then, Dunya Maumoon, Foreign Minister in his government, said: “We had discussions at that time but did not get into any agreement. The Maldives values strong and warm ties with India. But having warm ties is not equal to having boots on the ground,” she told The Hindu . Concerns over “Indian military presence” were flagged in 2018 too, when the Yameen government asked India to take back two helicopters it had gifted, with a crew and support staff, causing a major strain in bilateral ties. Following the September 2018 defeat of the Yameen administration, which was known for its China tilt, President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih’s government has been pursuing an “India first” policy. However, not all in the ruling coalition agree with the government’s current foreign policy. During Monday’s debate in Parliament, government MP Ali Hussain said Male should avoid seeking assistance on military matters from any big power. “Whether it is India, China or the U.S., their agreements here are bound to have conflicting interests. We should not end up in a situation where we have to choose one partner over another, we should not become part of a proxy [geopolitical] war,” he told The Hindu . Last year, New Delhi welcomed the Maldives’s decision to sign a military agreement with the U.S.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/maldives-parliament-debates-defence-deal-with-india/article33908787.ece
23 February 2021||COLOMBO,||China firm slams ‘third-party’ interference in Lanka project||A Chinese  firm, which had won the bid to execute a renewable energy project in Sri Lanka’s northern islands, has objected to “outrageous interference” by a “third party”, apparently referring to India voicing concern recently. In a statement issued on Monday, Sinosoar-Etechwin Joint Venture said it learned from media reports that “a third party” had protested against Sri Lanka’s Cabinet decision clearing the project, on grounds of “so-called self-security”. “We firmly oppose any outrageous interference by any third party without legal and factual basis,” the firm said. On January 18, Sri Lanka took a Cabinet decision to engage a Chinese firm to install hybrid renewable energy systems in Nainativu, Delft or Neduntheevu, and Analaitivu, off Jaffna Peninsula, located in the Palk Bay, some 50 km from the Tamil Nadu coast. Although New Delhi did not officially comment on the move, official sources confirmed that India had offered a $12-million grant, to execute the same. The project’s proximity to India’s coastline reportedly set off security concerns in New Delhi. ADB loan Colombo had originally obtained a loan from the Asian Development Bank (ADB) for the project. Sri Lanka’s Minister of Power Dullas Alahapperuma told local media that the government would consider India’s proposal, for it was a grant rather than a loan. But there is no change yet to the January 18 decision. Outlining the tendering process in 2019, through which it obtained the project, the Chinese consortium said the “third party” — intervention “seriously affected” its reputation and legitimate rights, and “damaged the credibility and image” of the Government of Sri Lanka. The consortium is only responsible for the construction and handover of the project, it said, adding the firm would “strictly abide” by the laws and regulations of the ADB and the Ceylon Electricity Board. A group of Sri Lanka’s Tamil parties have objected to the Chinese project in the northern islands, noting that India’s concerns are “legitimate”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-firm-slams-third-party-interference-in-lanka-project/article33908780.ece
23 February 2021||Goma,||Italian envoy to DR Congo killed in attack on UN convoy||Italy’s Ambassador to the Democratic Republic of Congo was killed on Monday when a UN convoy came under attack in the troubled east, DRC sources and the Italian government said. Luca Attanasio died of his wounds after a World Food Programme (WFP) convoy came under fire near Goma while he was on a field trip to the region, a senior diplomatic source said in Kinshasa. The Italian government confirmed Mr. Attanasio’s death and said an Italian policeman, Vittorio Iacovacci, as well as a driver it did not identify, had also died. President Sergio Mattarella lashed at what he called a “cowardly attack.” “The Italian republic is in mourning for these servants of the state who lost their lives,” he said. Foreign Minister Luigi Di Maio expressed his "great dismay and immense sorrow", breaking off from a meeting in Brussels with EU to make an early return to Rome. Mr. Attanasio, 43, had been representing Italy in Kinshasa since 2017, first as head of mission, and then as Ambassador from October 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/italian-envoy-to-dr-congo-killed-in-attack-on-un-convoy/article33908785.ece
23 February 2021||Geneva,||Pandemic used as ‘pretext’ to crush dissent: UN chief||The UN on Monday slammed countries that are using the pandemic to justify cracking down on dissent and suppressing criticism. Speaking at the opening of the UN Human Rights Council’s main annual session, Secretary-General Antonio Guterres charged that authorities in a number of nations were using restrictions meant to halt the spread of COVID-19 to weaken opposition. “Using the pandemic as a pretext, authorities in some countries have deployed heavy-handed security responses and emergency measures to crush dissent, criminalise basic freedoms, silence independent reporting and curtail the activities of non-governmental organisations,” he said, without naming the countries. In addition to inequalities within countries, the UN chief slammed inequalities between nations when it comes to accessing the COVID-19 vaccines coming to market as a "moral outrage”. A full 75% of all vaccine doses have been administered in just 10 countries, he pointed out, while more than 130 countries have yet to receive a single dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pandemic-used-as-pretext-to-crush-dissent-un-chief/article33908788.ece
23 February 2021||Washington,||China urges U.S. to lift trade restrictions||China’s top diplomat called on Monday for new U.S. administration to lift restrictions on trade and people-to-people contacts while ceasing what Beijing considers unwarranted interference in the areas of Taiwan, Hong Kong, Xinjiang and Tibet. Foreign Minister Wang Yi’s comments come as Beijing presses the new administration in Washington to drop many of the confrontational measures adopted by former President Donald Trump. Mr. Trump hiked tariffs on Chinese imports in 2017 and imposed bans and other restrictions on tech companies and academic exchanges as he sought to address concerns about an imbalance in trade and accusations of Chinese theft of American technology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-urges-us-to-lift-trade-restrictions/article33908781.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Dealing with the bigger neighbour, China||“Our two countries have a basic misreading of each other’s priorities,” a Chinese scholar, generally known for his hard line on India, told me in Beijing in 2014. The usual broadside about India “belittling” China’s sovereignty in Tibet followed. How could India support the McMahon Line when Tibet had “never possessed the right” to conclude sovereign agreements with the outside world, he asked. China, he continued, had practised “restraint” (hinting ominously that it could well do otherwise) in the Eastern Sector (the sector covered by the McMahon Line) of the boundary with India. And, as if foreshadowing the events in Galwan in the summer of 2020, he said that in the Western Sector of the boundary China was “practising a forward policy because there are so many grey areas”. On the other hand, if India launched “a new edition of the forward policy” in this sector, problems would “re-occur”. An unravelling The conversation was a grim reminder of the underlying problems in the India-China relationship even as their leaders practised bucolic, informal summitry. To the outside world, the two countries held up their relations as an example of how despite an unresolved boundary question, they had not allowed these differences to prevent the development of relations in other areas, including trade and economic ties as well as people-to-people interaction in various spheres. Peace and tranquillity in the border areas had also been maintained for over four decades. But the unravelling had begun. Two nationalisms were contending and the untrammelled rise of China was generating new global power equations and alignments. The gulf between India and China was growing. Come 2020, Galwan signalled the collapse of the edifice of bilateral relations built on these weak foundations over three decades. Measures to strengthen peace and tranquillity and confidence-building in the border areas had obviously been rendered obsolete and inadequate as armed confrontation replaced a flimsy structure of so-called peaceful coexistence. Peace agreements over time The road to hell is paved with good intentions. Since 1993, India and China had arrived at a number of agreements to maintain peace and tranquillity and promote confidence building measures (CBMs) in the border areas. These were (https://bit.ly/3ul32lU), starting with 1993: the Agreement on the Maintenance of Peace and Tranquillity along the Line of Actual Control in the India-China Border Areas; the Agreement Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the People’s Republic of China on Confidence-Building Measures in the Military Field Along the Line of Actual Control in the India-China Border Areas (1996); Protocol between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the People’s Republic of China on Modalities for the Implementation of Confidence Building Measures in the Military Field Along the Line of Actual Control in the India-China Border Areas (2005); Agreement between The Government of the Republic of lndia and The Government of the People’s Republic of China on the Establishment of a Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on lndia-China Border Affairs (2012); Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the People’s Republic of China on Border Defence Cooperation (2013). Some of the key features of these agreements were: the boundary question would be resolved peacefully; neither side would use or threaten to use force against the other “by any means”; that the two sides would respect and observe the Line of Actual Control (LAC); that they would jointly check and determine the segments of the LAC where they had different views as to its alignment and further, speed up clarification and confirmation of the LAC since a common understanding of the Line was necessary; that military forces (including field army, border defence forces, paramilitary forces) and major categories of armaments in mutually agreed geographical zones along the LAC would be kept to a minimum level compatible with friendly and good neighbourly relations and the “requirements of mutual and equal security”; military exercises would be undertaken only at specified levels with prior notification being given for such exercises near the LAC; prior notice would be given regarding flights of combat aircraft within 10 kilometres from the LAC; if border personnel of the two sides came face-to-face due to differences in alignment of the LAC they would exercise self-restraint and avoid an escalation of the situation; channels of communication and border personnel meetings in case of contingencies were stipulated. The China-Russia thread The inspiration for the first two of these Agreements, signed in 1993 and 1996, came from the example set by first the Soviet Union and then Russia in concluding such understandings on CBMs with China. As the scholar, Jingdong Yuan, has noted, at the heart of the normalisation of Russia-China relations was the resolution of the border dispute between the two and the development of CBMs in the border regions. Military confrontation — a defining feature in their relations from the 1960’s (the bloody incident of 1969 on the Damansky island may be recalled) — was removed. A strategic partnership of equality and trust oriented towards the 21st century was developed. After the coming to power of Mikhail Gorbachev, the Soviet Union conceded a long-standing Chinese demand to allow the adoption of the median line of the navigational channel of the Amur-Ussuri River as the boundary between the two countries. It was a major concession and quite contrary to the conventional view that the bigger country is usually unwilling to cede ground in negotiations. Further Soviet moves to reduce China’s sense of insecurity followed. These were the removal of SS-20 intermediate-range ballistic missiles including from along the border with China and agreement to negotiate military CBMs. Moscow also made unilateral troop reductions. In April 1990, an Agreement on the Guidelines of Mutual Reduction of Forces and Confidence-building in the Military Field in the Area of the Soviet-Chinese Border was signed. This committed the two governments to the reduction of military forces to the lowest level suited to normal good neighbourly relations on “an equal basis for mutual security”. (The term “mutual and equal security” often used by our analysts and experts on India-China relations owes its currency to this reference in the 1990 Soviet-Chinese Agreement just referred to and what we learnt from the Russians when they briefed us about their discussions on CBMs with the Chinese in the early 1990’s). In May 1991, an Agreement on the Eastern Sector of National Boundaries was concluded by the two countries, resolving 98% of outstanding boundary issues. They also agreed that the zone of military CBMs would be 100 km on each side of the border. What made it work The main characteristic of these CBMs was the willingness of the bigger power — the Soviet Union — to undertake unilateral concessions and asymmetric reductions in military strength vis-à-vis China. The collapse of the Soviet Union, far from hindering the process of normalisation only smoothened it further — Russia and China continued to improve relations, their strategic convergence spurred on by shared suspicion about the overwhelming preponderance of U.S. global power at the end of the Cold War. The success of their alignment post-1989 and the Deng Xiaoping-Gorbachev Summit (held against the backdrop of the Tiananmen Square student demonstrations) was that they identified common interests and were committed to building a relationship that was “broadly based and institutionalized” (Jingdong Yuan). What this signified is that military CBMs and tension-reduction along the border were ‘nested’ and fostered in a vast network of cooperative alignments that Russia and China built up in numerous areas once they agreed to normalise their relations. Points to note Where our experience with China on CBMs and tension-reduction along the border differs from the experience of Russia is that first, the five Agreements we signed between 1993 and 2013 were not nurtured in an environment of a steady enhancement of mutual trust and political commitment for building a strong infrastructure of bilateral relations between India and China that promoted both bilateral and regional understanding and cooperative endeavour. Second, unlike in the Russia-China case, no final boundary settlement accompanied these CBMs to sustain and strengthen their operation. Even a joint clarification of the LAC remained unattainable. Third, China as the bigger power, unlike the Soviet Union under Gorbachev in its dealings with Beijing, has never signalled willingness to make asymmetric or unilateral concessions to India or act in a manner, especially in our neighbourhood, that enhances India’s trust or confidence. The bellicosity underlying the remarks by my Chinese interlocutor in 2014 is the signature element of Beijing’s approach to India. It renders the future of our relations with China uncertain and problematic. Nirupama Rao is a former Foreign Secretary and Ambassador to China. She specialised in India-China border issues||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/dealing-with-the-bigger-neighbour-china/article33908767.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Sedition lies in the effect, not in content||Recent charges of sedition against individuals have brought back focus to a law introduced in the Indian Penal Code in 1870. In Kedar Nath Singh v. State of Bihar (1962), the Supreme Court upheld the constitutional validity of sedition and noted it as being a reasonable restriction on free speech as provided in Article 19(2) of the Constitution. It made clear that a citizen has the right to say or write whatever she likes about the government, or its measures, by way of criticism or comments, as long as she does not incite people to violence against the government established by law or with the intention of creating public disorder. One wonders, if the law provides this protection, then why is this archaic, yet powerful, law often used to quell dissent? Why the law needs a relook Following the Kedar Nath case, the Bombay High Court, in the case of cartoonist Aseem Trivedi, issued guidelines which the police must follow prior to invoking the provisions of sedition. These inter alia include an objective evaluation of the material to form an opinion on whether the words and actions cause disaffection, enmity and disloyalty to the government as they must be of the magnitude that they incite violence or tend to create public disorder. The Court also directed obtaining a legal opinion in writing from a law officer of the district who must give reasons on how the pre-conditions are met. This needs to be followed by a second opinion from the State’s public prosecutor. And while courts have on numerous occasions cautioned law enforcement agencies not to misuse the provisions on sedition, and follow court directions, regrettably, they are grossly ignored. The problem therefore lies in the poor implementation of the law and guidelines. This is evident from recent reports, based on data from the National Crime Records Bureau. Between 2016 and 2019, the number of cases of sedition under Section 124A increased by 160%, while the rate of conviction dropped to 3.3% in 2019 from 33.3% in 2016. Notably, many charged were individuals protesting government action, which the Constitution Bench in Kedar Nath held falls outside the ambit of sedition. Consequently, the staggering numbers have got people saying that “the aim is not to punish or convict anyone but to incarcerate them… the process itself is the punishment.” This data and the gross misuse of the legal provisions compel one to state that even though a Constitution Bench upheld the vires of the law of sedition, the circumstances now require a complete relook at the provision. After all, when the situation changes, the statute calls for a change as law cannot afford to remain static. In the Internet age, where we are all consumed by social media and where information travels at the speed of lightning, what can lead to public disorder has itself become debatable. With cyberbullies and a select few being able to make things trend, even the wrong ones, a lot has changed from 1962 when the Kedar Nath case was decided. Even otherwise, clutching on to a foreign legal order is no longer needed. Interestingly, however, the present situation is the reverse. The U.K. repealed the offence of sedition in 2010 and India is holding onto a relic of the British Empire. As recent as 2018, the Law Commission of India took note of this and questioned how far it is justified to retain Section 124A, especially in view of the fact that several existing statutes take care of various actions which were earlier considered seditious. It also sought consideration on whether keeping Section 124A would serve any purpose and whether reducing the rigour of the law of sedition would be detrimental or beneficial to the nation. The outcome of this consultative paper is unknown, but the discussion needs to be rekindled. An effect-based test And till the law on sedition continues to remain on our statute book, courts must adopt what some Western countries follow: an effect-based test which examines the effects of the seditious text rather than a content-based test which reviews the text alone. As an Additional Sessions Judge recently noted while granting bail in a case on sedition, “the law of sedition is a powerful tool in the hands of the state to maintain peace and order in the society. However, it cannot be invoked to quieten the disquiet under the pretence of muzzling the miscreants.” Not for a minute is one saying that the perpetrators of violence must not be brought to book. They must, but following the process established by law. The issue is not about liberals, the right wing, conservatives or the left wing. It’s about India as one nation. It’s about following our syncretic traditions and accepting that in a country of over 1.3 billion people, our unity rests in our diversity. After all, Vedic spirituality as one of its core ideas postulates “  Aano Bhadrah Krtavo Yantu Vishwatah  (let noble thoughts come to us from all directions)”. Following this sagacious advice, rather than asking those with a different view to prove their nationalism, let us prove ours by respecting the principles of justice, liberty, equality and fraternity as noted in the Preamble to our Constitution which assures to all individuals dignity and unity and integrity of the nation above all else. Instead of repeatedly testing the allegiance of those we disagree with, let us test our abilities by reforming our own mindset and outlook towards those who muster up the courage to voice their dissent and stand apart. If we do this, the only ‘toolkit’ we all really need is our Constitution and the principles it enshrines to protect citizen freedoms, life and liberty. The hashtags we all need to spread and make trend are the ones which detail the #RuleOfLaw and our commitment to it and the values it puts forward as regards executive excesses and judicial restraint. What we must disseminate on all social media outlets is our allegiance to due process, the need for speedy trials and our commitment to the doctrine of presumption of innocence. It is not the alleged seditious acts that are creating fragments in our society; it is in fact the persecution of individuals and labelling them that are really creating cracks in our socio-politico ecosystem. In the words of Martin Luther King, Jr. “We must learn to live together as brothers or perish together as fools.” Satvik Varma is an advocate based in New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/sedition-lies-in-the-effect-not-in-content/article33908778.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Adding heft to diplomacy with some help from science||India’s ongoing ‘Vaccine Maitri’ campaign, which is aimed at provisioning COVID-19 vaccines to countries both near to and away from its immediate neighborhood, is one of the most important recent initiatives to leverage its science and technological advantages for the furtherance of its foreign policy objectives. While the appreciation of leaders such as President Jair Bolsonaro of Brazil and the reluctant outreach of Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau for securing vaccines manufactured in India have gained much attention, New Delhi’s efforts to address this health emergency were met with even more vocal appreciation by leaders from its partners from the Global South such as the Dominican Republic and Barbados. Setting the template India’s global priorities in science and technology were clearly articulated by its first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru during his address to the country’s Science Congress  on January 21, 1959 (https://bit.ly/2NujfVd). Nehru was aware of both the constructive and destructive power of science and made India’s intention of seeking international scientific advances for the country’s development and rise clear with added emphasis on averseness to inter-state rivalries. This template would set the tone for India’s international science and technology engagement for much of the 20th century, and met with mixed results as more powerful states such as the United States sought to curb its ambitions in critical spheres such as its nuclear and space programmes. Assertion of interests Despite limitations, India still managed to assist its partners from the Global South in key areas of science and technology such as health across Asia and Africa. The country’s national confidence would also rise during the final decade of the last century as economic dynamism led to a more pro-active assertion of its interests. New Delhi established the Office of the Principal Scientific Adviser to the Government of India in November 1999. And by the early years of the 21st century, it sought to reduce its dependence on foreign countries to then emerge as a net provider of development assistance in the international system. The 21st century international system was more conducive to the country’s science and technology designs in spheres such as nuclear and space technology due to a thaw in ties between India and the United States given the rise of an aggressive China and other consequential challenges to the international system. India would also sign strategic partnerships bearing substantial science and technology components with advanced economies such as the United Kingdom, Japan, Israel, Germany, the European Union, Singapore, the United Arab Emirates, Canada, South Korea and Australia even as it strengthened its traditional partnerships with countries such as France and Russia. India’s ambitions would also become evident from its critical policy frameworks. Both the country’s Science and Technology Policy 2003 and Science, Technology and Innovation Policy 2013 clearly related international science and technology cooperation with national interest. More recently, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been categorical in placing science and technology at the forefront of the country’s diplomatic engagement.  India’s state instruments of diplomacy would also begin to show a more visible alignment to international science and technology cooperation. India currently fields four Development Partnership Administrations under its Ministry of External Affairs — consequential given that President Ram Nath Kovind, in Cuba in June 2018, declared that the country had “placed science and technology at the center of its development cooperation strategy”. The Ministry of External Affairs too has seen a restructuring with a Cyber Diplomacy Division, an E-Governance & Information Technology Division and a New Emerging & Strategic Technologies Division to manage science and technology issues in the nation’s diplomatic matrix. The COVID-19 response India’s science and technology prowess would be tested internationally by 2019 through an unprecedented global disruption originating from China in the shape of the COVID-19 pandemic. New Delhi was swift to address the global challenge by initially sending medicines such as hydroxychloroquine and paracetamol to over 150 countries, welcomed by its partners across the world. India’s pharmaceutical firms such as the Serum Institute of India competently partnered with the U.K.’s Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine project while others such as Bharat Biotech gave rise to indigenous vaccines in the shape of Covaxin. India’s response came at a time where the developed world was pre-occupied in trying to address its own domestic issues and China’s health diplomacy — much like its other development assistance — came with prohibitive costs. As scientists developed vaccines to fortify human beings against an aggressive COVID-19 virus, it was India, an established leader in vaccine manufacturing, that rose to the challenge of global provision. Beyond idealist invocations, India’s COVID-19 response also came closely aligned with its Neighbourhood First, Act East, Indo-Pacific and  Look  West policies. Areas for review As India, through its Aatmanirbhar Bharat initiative, attempts to secure maximum self-reliance through capacity building and creating an environment where science and technology can not only answer its own national needs and cross-border interests but also global challenges, there are issues that must be addressed. India’s financial apportionment to science and technology related research must rise to enable the country’s own rise — as must participation of its states, universities and private sector in research and development efforts. The time is also right for India’s young scientists and technologists to be made more aware of the country’s foreign policy objectives, and to also enable all stakeholders in the policy establishment to learn more about science and technology to bridge the intellectual divide. The ongoing COVID-19 crisis has presented the country a unique space to mainstream science and technology in its domestic and foreign policies. It is now up to India’s decision-makers to conclusively convert this crisis into an opportunity. Harsh V. Pant is Director of Research at the Observer Research Foundation, New Delhi and Professor of International Relations at King’s College London. Manoj Saxena is a PhD candidate at King’s College London||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/adding-heft-to-diplomacy-with-some-help-from-science/article33908770.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,||A scientist in the pandemic||I looked up to see the tall, willowy figure filling my office door. It was common to see Obaid Siddiqui on the path from the laboratory to the canteen, but a pleasant surprise to see him in my laboratory. It was 2008. I had joined the National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS) as a young faculty member in 2005. “Can you test for swine flu in your laboratory,” he asked. Swine flu was spreading at the time in India, and he was curious. My research was on genetic variations in animals. I collected field samples, isolated genetic material from these samples, and sequenced or ‘read’ parts of this genetic code. Sometimes we were unsure what animal the material was from, so we designed protocols to look for specific genetic material. This is exactly what is done in a diagnostic test that is based on genetic material. Biosafety protocols notwithstanding, yes, it was possible. We had the equipment that was needed, and the students and postdocs had the skills. Yet this had never occurred to me. Our research was long term and attempted to address basic questions, not nimble and responsive to real-life situations or service oriented. COVID testing I remembered this conversation in March 2020. The COVID-19 pandemic was spreading across the world. India was going into lockdown. The thought of COVID-19 spreading across the Indian populace was mind-boggling. The best strategy was to increase number of people tested daily. But how? Only 15 laboratories in Karnataka were equipped to test for SARS-CoV-2. What would it take to set up a diagnostic facility to test for SARS-CoV-2 on our academic, basic science-focused campus? An office order issued by the Principal Scientific Adviser, Government of India, encouraging central research labs to begin testing, and strong support from the Secretaries, Department of Biotechnology and Department of Atomic Energy, gave impetus to our efforts. Following rigorous regulatory approvals by the institutional biosafety and human ethics committees, and networking with the Karnataka State COVID cell, we were ready to start testing. We identified a laboratory space, and a dedicated team of volunteers from the campus community. A few of us faculty would supervise all aspects of the process, including sample receipt and inactivation, testing for the presence of the virus and reporting these results on the ICMR portal. The testing facility became operational on April 13, 2020. From the trepidation of the first set of 15 samples, we were soon testing hundreds a day. Daily and consistent efforts from campus volunteers, staff and faculty, with unwavering support from the campus leadership, made this a reality. Summer gave way to the monsoon, and the festive season, and cases in Bengaluru soared. Volunteers were replaced by regular staff. Our diagnostic centre prevailed, testing samples non-stop. Alongside mushroomed several applied and basic research efforts.  Our scientists developed tools to study the virus more effectively, used genome sequencing to characterise viral evolution over time, and set up pipelines to test the efficacy of Food and Drug Administration approved drugs. Larger crises We recently reported 1 lakh tests, reminding me what this journey has taught me. Like many born in the 1970s, I grew up on a diet of nationalism. Inspired by Gandhi’s speech, my paternal grandfather and his brother walked from their village in Tamil Nadu to Sabarmati to participate in the independence movement. I longed to have been alive then, to do something real in a time of crisis for the nation. The pandemic provided scientists this opportunity. But as a scientist who works on biodiversity, I know larger crises are brewing. Global meta-analyses reveal that zoonoses tend to emerge in areas with many mammal species, high land use and land cover change, and high human population density. Studies predict that India will be a hotspot for possible zoonotic disease emergence. India’s approach to addressing zoonoses has primarily been reactive, with research and public health intervention beginning when there is an outbreak. The scientific question remains: can we proactively predict an outbreak? Can we sample viral and bacterial diversity from wild reservoirs like bats and rodents in our biodiversity hotspots? Can we understand how ecological and evolutionary dynamics of possible pathogens and their wildlife hosts can become hotspots of spillover? Can we then monitor these possible hotspots to detect spillover events very early or before they happen? Understanding these questions will require teams of interdisciplinary scientists and sustained efforts. Working with the testing efforts taught me that we can come together for a common cause. Uma Ramakrishnan is Professor at NCBS, TIFR and a member of the Biodiversity Collaborative||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-scientist-in-the-pandemic/article33908774.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Level platforms||A new law in Australia that seeks to make technology platforms such as Google and Facebook pay news publishers for use of their content presents governments in democracies with an idea worth considering, if not emulating. The law, which is based on the realisation of a severe power imbalance between giant Internet platforms and news media, marks a rare intervention by any government in platform-publisher relationships. It seeks to level the playing field by mandating that platforms negotiate with publishers of news regarding payment for their content. The platforms are not used to paying for such content. The power imbalance is not just an Australian reality, though. It is everywhere. This imbalance has only intensified over the past decade or so, during which time platforms have gained so much power that they have become de facto gateways to the net. They have also grown massively to become some of the richest companies on earth today. Unfortunately, during the same time, there has been a precipitous decline in the fortunes of the news media, which provides the journalistic resources on the ground to keep a population, especially in a democracy, well informed. Journalism houses have struggled to stay afloat, what with their long, successful offline business models becoming less viable. As a result, across the world, many have gone out of business and hundreds and thousands of journalists have lost their jobs. It is no one’s case that this law is flawless. Far from it. Leaving aside Google and Facebook, which unsurprisingly opposed it, many experts do reckon that it is against the principles of an open Internet. Many others do refer to the pressure from the traditional media lobby, which includes the likes of Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp. But the point to note is the intent. In launching the Bill, which is now just a few days away from getting passed by the Senate, the Australian Government has shown that it realises that the cost of not intervening in this unequal battle is high. At stake is the sustainability of the news media industry. That Australia chose to intervene is critical as countries, outside of the European Union, have often adopted a laissez-faire approach to administering tech giants. But this may change. Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison has himself taken the initiative in reaching out to India’s Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau about the Bill. With France already having given shape to new European Union copyright rules, thereby forcing Google to negotiate licensing deals with its publishers, the heat is on the Internet platforms. Other governments might take the cue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/level-platforms/article33908762.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Loss of trust||The month-long political instability in Puducherry has ended with the resignation of Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Monday after he failed to prove his majority on the floor of the House. Though the fall of his government appeared imminent a few days ago, the way in which the political events played out highlighted the limits of the constitutional provisions to discourage defection of elected legislators. Not long ago, the Narayanasamy Ministry had a comfortable majority with 19 members in the 33-member Assembly. The disqualification of a Congress MLA in July last year did not make any difference to the situation. But, in the last one month, six MLAs from the Congress-DMK combine quit the House. Among them were two Ministers and a couple of MLAs who gave up their seats just a day before the floor test. Two of those who quit the Assembly have since joined the BJP. Under the changed circumstances, the non-Congress front, comprising the All India N.R. Congress (AINRC), the AIADMK and the BJP, gained an edge with 14 members, as the strength of the House was reduced to 26. With the Assembly elections in the Union Territory just a few weeks away, the Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan should recommend placing the Union Territory under President’s rule. Any other course would only serve to highlight the unprincipled nature of the defections. Parliamentary democracy thrives not just through adhering to the letter of the law but also by building and respecting healthy precedents and conventions. This was given a go-by when the Centre, in June 2017, nominated three BJP functionaries as MLAs. There was nothing illegal about it, but this raised questions of political propriety in the light of the BJP drawing a blank in the 2016 Assembly election. When one of the nominated MLAs died in mid-January this year, the ruling party at the Centre lost no time in nominating an office bearer of the party to fill the vacancy, though the term of the present House ends on June 8. The recent events have to be seen against the backdrop of the BJP’s efforts to gain a foothold in the Union Territory, where its principal adversary, the Congress, has been the pole star. Besides, for the last few years, the BJP has been relentlessly attacking the Narayanasamy regime. The month-long resignation drama can only be seen as part of the BJP’s larger game plan of realising its goal of “Congress-mukt Bharat” (Congress-free India). There would have been no objection to the BJP’s pursuit had it played the game in a fair manner. The BJP should be aware that any negative role on its part will not go well with the words of Prime Minister Narendra Modi who, in his first monthly radio address, Mann Ki Baat, after getting re-elected in May 2019, said: “...beyond laws and rules, democracy is embedded in our sanskaar [tradition]; democracy is our culture. Democracy is our heritage.” By engineering defections so close to the election, the BJP might have lost more than it gained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/loss-of-trust/article33908763.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,||New paradigm in animal husbandry||Among a variety of policy concerns, the ongoing discussion over farm laws has fixed the spotlight on infrastructure investments necessary to boost productivity levels and fill critical gaps in production. If such investments are undertaken in a timely manner, even as the country seeks an exit out of the pandemic-induced economic slowdown, pressure will be reduced across the farm sector with immense knock-on benefits for the entire economy. In June 2020, while the country was reeling under the initial wave of COVID-19 and subsequent lockdowns, the Central government unveiled a string of measures to cushion the economy, as a part of which the Animal Husbandry Infrastructure Development Fund (AHIDF) was announced. As an allied industry of agriculture, the animal husbandry and dairy sector collectively employs more than 100 million people. Since the bulk of establishments in this sector is concentrated in rural India, the socio-economic relevance of this sector cannot be overstated. The AHIDF has been set up with an outlay of Rs. 15,000 crore. As per the provisions of AHIDF, a project will be eligible for a loan amount that covers up to 90% of the estimated cost – with an interest subvention of 3% for all eligible entities. Applicants can submit the proposal with a complete Detailed Project Report through the Udyami Mitra Portal. The Ministry’s website has been updated with the relevant technical details for prospective applicants. As such, this is the first major fund launched by the government that includes a diverse set of stakeholders such as FPOs, private dairy players, individual entrepreneurs, and non-profits within its ambit. As an example of a sub-sector concern where the dairy value chain could be strengthened, there is a pressing need to enhance chilling infrastructure at collection centres by setting up bulk milk coolers to prevent wastage of milk. Currently, there is an infrastructure gap of about 120-130 MMT, which translates into an investment potential of approximately Rs. 20,000 crore. If the infrastructure needs for milk processing and distribution are included, then the overall potential investment opportunity is to the tune of Rs. 1,40,000 crore across the dairy value chain. There is also considerable potential to increase the productivity of cattle, especially by enhancing the quality of animal feed. With this in mind, the AHIDF has been designed to support the establishment of animal feed plants of varying capacities – including setting up of mineral mixture plants, silage making units, and animal feed testing laboratory. To spur on innovative solutions, the Ministry in collaboration with Invest India has invited ideas from domestic start-ups for the development of new varieties of green fodder and enriched animal feed. The infrastructure gap of 10-18 MMT in the production and supply of affordable compound cattle feed translates into an investment potential of around Rs. 5,000 crore. Boosting the poultry industry In a similar vein, there are not only economic but nutritional benefits to boosting the poultry segment’s output, efficiency and quality. India is the fourth largest chicken meat producer and the second largest egg producer in the world and is well-positioned to help mitigate rampant malnutrition given that chicken meat provides the cheapest source of protein per unit. With eggs being introduced as part of the mid-day meal within several anganwadis in the country, an upgradation in poultry infrastructure would be closely intertwined with social justice outcomes too. Finally, macro benefits regarding climate change and employment are linked to this sector. Enhanced infrastructure can make processing units more energy-efficient and help mitigate their carbon footprint. The AHIDF also has the potential to create over 30 lakh jobs, even as it overhauls domestic infrastructure towards giving greater prominence to India’s dairy and livestock products in the global value chain. Atul Chaturvedi is the Secretary, Ministry of Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries; and Naina Sharma works at Invest India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/new-paradigm-in-animal-husbandry/article33908775.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,||India cautions U.K.||India to-day [New Delhi, February 22] warned Britain that the very existence of the Commonwealth would be in jeopardy if the British Government decided to supply arms to South Africa before the study group set up the last Commonwealth conference in Singapore completed its work. The warning was contained in a statement issued by the External Affairs Ministry spokesman on reports of the imminent possibility of British arms supplies to South Africa. “India had already made it clear at Singapore that should Britain decide to supply any arms before the study group had completed its work, the functioning of the study group would be rendered infructuous and this could have serious implications for the very existence of the Commonwealth,” the spokesman said. The spokesman said the entire question was essentially political and not military. He said that India had made it clear that any accretion to the military strength of South Africa would not only enable it to reinforce its racist policies, but would also make it possible to give greater assistance to the illegal racist regime in Rhodesia and the colonial oppression by Portugal of the peoples of Angola and Mozambique. “It would increase the threat to international peace and security not only in Southern Africa but also in the Indian Ocean area. The United Nations Security Council recognises this Britain has itself subscribed to various U.N. resolutions directing member States not to supply arms to South Africa.” The statement added, “the Lusaka Declaration had outlined the non-aligned position on this subject. The Government of India reaffirmed its adherence to this position during the Singapore conference.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/india-cautions-uk/article33908772.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Indian grievances||Replying to a complaint from a prominent Indian journalist that he was not permitted to enter Australia and that Indian merchants were unable to establish agencies in that country, Mr. Poynton recalls that at the Imperial Conference in 1918, the Australian Government extended the arrangement made in 1905 whereby Indian merchants, tourists and students were permitted to enter the country on passports and also the wives and children of Indians permanently domiciled in Australia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/indian-grievances/article33908771.ece
23 February 2021||New Delhi,||DHFL auditor Grant Thornton reports further fraud of Rs. 6,182 cr.||Dewan Housing Finance Corporation (DHFL) on Monday said its transaction auditor, Grant Thornton, had reported further fraudulence amounting to Rs. 6,182 crore in the company. The administrator of the company received an initial report from the agency appointed as the transaction auditor indicating there were certain transactions that were “undervalued, fraudulent and preferential in nature”, DHFL said in a regulatory filing. “The monetary impact of the above transactions covered under the application amounts to Rs. 5,381.90 crore towards outstanding principal, Rs. 589.36 crore towards accrued interest and Rs. 210.85 crore towards notional loss of interest on account of charging lower rate of interest,” said the filing about the estimated impact on the company. These transactions happened over a period of time. The management of DHFL is currently being run under an administrator appointed under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code after frauds were detected in the company. The administrator later appointed GT as the transaction auditor to conduct an investigation of the affairs of the firm. Based on the observations by the auditor, the Administrator has filed an application before the Mumbai bench of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) in respect of disbursement made to certain entities as other large project loans, against Kapil Wadhawan, Dheeraj Wadhawan, Creatoz Builders Pvt. Ltd., Ikshudip Fincap Pvt. Ltd., Rite Developers Pvt. Ltd. and some other entities. DHFL said the application to NCLT has been filed against 33 respondents, including Kapil Wadhawan, Dheeraj Wadhawan, Creatoz Builders, Ikshudip Fincap, and Rite Developers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/dhfl-auditor-grant-thornton-reports-further-fraud-of-rs-6182-cr/article33908754.ece
23 February 2021||Mumbai,||India Ratings raises banking sector outlook to ‘stable’||India Ratings and Research on Monday revised its outlook on the overall banking sector to ‘stable’ for the FY22 from ‘negative’ even as it saw higher stress emerging in the retail loan segment, going ahead. For public sector banks (PSBs), the outlook has been revised to ‘stable’ from ‘negative’ and for private banks, the agency continues to have ‘stable’ outlook. It estimated that overall stressed assets (gross non-performing assets + restructured assets) could rise 30% for the banking system; the increase is almost 1.7 times in the retail segment in the second half of FY22. “The last nine months have provided banks the opportunity to beef up their provisions even more for legacy stressed assets, which were existing before the pandemic,” said the agency’s director (financial institutions), Jindal Haria. “We expect that by the end of FY21, the provisions will go up to almost 75-80% on those NPAs. This will give banks space to absorb COVID stress,” he said. The agency also revised credit growth estimates to 6.9% for FY21 from the earlier 1.8%, and forecast 8.9% for FY22. Mr. Haria said a lot of the retail stress was coming from unsecured advances and that it would be seen more in private banks because of their higher exposure to unsecured loans. The stock of stressed retail assets for PSBs could rise to 2.9% in FY22 from 2.1% in FY21, while it could climb from 1.2% to 4.3% for private banks, it said. The agency also expected deposit rates to rise as credit growth revives and capital market flows are enhanced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-ratings-raises-banking-sector-outlook-to-stable/article33908756.ece
23 February 2021||N. Anand,||Car exports via ChPT, KPL dip on Covid impact||As many as six automobile majors have reported a 44-72% drop in export volumes from Chennai Port Trust (ChPT) and the Kamarajar Port Ltd. (KPL) in 2020 following the pandemic. The two major ports that recorded shipments of more than 3.5 lakh vehicles in 2019, saw the volumes plunge to 2.41 lakh units in 2020 as exports from Renault Nissan, Ford, Toyota Kirloskar, Dailmer India, Hyundai Motor and Nissan Motor plunged. However, Ashok Leyland posted a 62% rise in export volumes, while Honda and Isuzu Motors also reported a significant increase in exports on account of the low base, from KPL in 2019. “We have been handling over 1.60 lakh units for the last few years and we should have crossed the two-lakh mark last year, but for the pandemic,” said Sunil K. Paliwal, CMD, KPL. “The pandemic affected our performance during 2020. We hope to do better with the latest addition of new entrants such as Kia Motors and others,” said P. Raveendran, chairman, ChPT. “Though most of the auto majors have moved to nearby Kamarajar Port, Hyundai, has been using our port as export base for over 2 decades,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/car-exports-via-chpt-kpl-dip-on-covid-impact/article33908746.ece
23 February 2021||Chennai,||Apollo Tyres to unveil Vredestein in March||Apollo Tyres will be unveiling the European tyre brand Vredestein in India next month, said the company’s vice-chairman and managing director Neeraj Kanwar. “Vredestein will be targeting the niche market in India — the higher segment of the market that would also mean higher profitability products,” Mr. Kanwar said during the third quarter earnings call. “We have brought the moulds straight from Europe into India and manufacturing has already started. So, the launch is in March as per the plan,” he added. Asserting that Vredestein tyres would compete with Michelin, Bridgestone and Goodyear, he said that the offering would lead to a sustainable growth for Vredestein in India. On the rising raw material costs, he said that Apollo Tyres had already effected a 2-3% price increase in the replacement market across all product categories, resulting in a slight jump in profit. Currently, the company is monitoring the situation and might effect another hike by the end of the quarter if there was an increase in raw material price, he said. Mr. Kanwar said that the company’s strategy was to sweat its assets and improve the utilisation levels. While the company has announced a capex of Rs. 1,600 crore for FY22, it might go in for additional investment if the strong growth momentum continues. “We haven’t initiated any new growth capex for FY23, as of now,” said Gaurav Kumar, CFO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/apollo-tyres-to-unveil-vredestein-in-march/article33908747.ece
23 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Latent demand to drive growth: Tata Motors||Even as shortage of semiconductors, steel prices and muted macroeconomic indicators pose a challenge for the auto industry as it recovers from the impact of COVID-19, Tata Motors said growth in its passenger vehicles was sustainable, as it was driven by latent demand and the firm’s ‘new forever’ range of products. Shailesh Chandra, president, Passenger Vehicles Business Unit, said he expected the PV industry to close FY21 with a decline of about 5%. This, he said, was an improvement given an expectation of a 20% decline. For FY22, he expects a double-digit growth for the segment. The company on Monday unveiled the all-new Safari SUV priced in the Rs. 14.69 lakh-Rs. 21.45 lakh range. “After Diwali, there is a 35% drop in demand, which has not happened this year,” he said, adding this showed there was sustenance of demand that the supply side was unable to meet. “It remains uncertain because the macroindicators are not... great. When you talk about fuel prices, It’s not that good,” he said. He said while the shortage of semiconductors as well as steel prices were going to be a ‘real issue’, there was ‘no reason to panic’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/latent-demand-to-drive-growth-tata-motors/article33908748.ece
23 February 2021||Mumbai,||Sensex falls 2.25% on virus concerns, valuation||Spiralling lower for the fifth straight session, the Sensex plummeted 1,145 points while the Nifty crashed below the 14,700-level on Monday as across-the-board selling hammered stocks amid a prolonged spell of weakness in global equities. A firm trend in the rupee was not enough to bolster sentiment, which has been hit by rising COVID-19 cases in multiple States and concerns on the valuation front, traders said. Posting its biggest single-day slump in two months, the BSE Sensex tumbled 1,145.44 points or 2.25% to 49,744.32. The NSE Nifty sank 306.05 points or 2.04% to 14,675.70.   “FPI inflows that led the rally slowed due to global vulnerabilities from rising bond yield and inflation. However, a short-term correction will trigger new buying, as economic fundamentals have improved,” said Vinod Nair, head, Research, at Geojit Financial Services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sensex-falls-225-on-virus-concerns-valuation/article33908758.ece
23 February 2021||Mumbai,||‘Growth momentum needs to be strengthened’||The growth momentum needs to be strengthened for a sustained revival of the economy and a quick return to the pre-COVID trajectory, RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das said, pitching for a status quo on rates, at the last meeting of the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC). All the six members of the MPC had voted for keeping the policy repo rate unchanged at 4% at the three-day meeting which began on February 3, citing similar reasons. Mr. Das, according to the minutes of the meeting released by the central bank on Monday, had said: “Growth, although uneven, is recovering and gathering momentum, and the outlook has improved significantly with the roll-out of the vaccine programme in the country.” “The growth momentum, however, needs to strengthen further for a sustained revival of the economy and for a quick return of the level of output to the pre-COVID trajectory,” he added. Given the sharp moderation in inflation along with a stable near-term outlook, he said, the monetary policy needed to continue with the accommodative stance to ensure that the recovery gained greater traction and became broad-based. The RBI kept the policy rate unchanged for the third time in a row in its last monetary policy review for 2020-21 on February 5. The MPC also decided to continue with the accommodative stance as long as necessary. MPC member Shashanka Bhide, in his statement, said the committee was committed to continuing with the accommodative stance as long as was necessary — at least during the current financial year and into the next fiscal. Deputy Governor Michael Patra said overall, the near-term outlook for inflation appeared less risky than the near-term challenges for growth which warrant continuing policy support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/growth-momentum-needs-to-be-strengthened/article33908751.ece
23 February 2021||New Delhi,||Bharat Forge, Paramount ink defence deal||Bharat Forge on Monday said it had inked a pact with global aerospace and technology firm Paramount Group to manufacture armoured vehicles in the country. An agreement to this effect was signed by both companies during the International Defence Expo in Abu Dhabi, Bharat Forge said in a statement. “This collaboration brings together the manufacturing and technology excellence of two leading companies. The Kalyani M4 is a fantastic new-generation vehicle, and we want to position it as the future of protection in all markets worldwide,” said Bharat Forge Deputy MD Amit Kalyani. The Kalyani M4 is designed to meet the specific requirements of armed forces for quick mobility in rough terrain and in areas affected by mine and IED threats. Paramount Group Chairman Ivor Ichikowitz said all its technologies have been developed with portable production in mind. “The Kalyani M4 is based on one of our flagship armoured vehicles designed... for in-country production in India with our partners, the Kalyani Group,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bharat-forge-paramount-ink-defence-deal/article33908752.ece
23 February 2021||New Delhi,||Jet stock surges 5% on restart hopes||Shares of grounded airline Jet Airways surged almost 5% on Monday after Murari Lal Jalan of the Jalan-Kalrock consortium said they expected to restart operations of the defunct airline in four to six months after receiving NCLT approval for their resolution plan. The airline’s share rose 4.98% to hit the upper circuit limit of Rs. 114.90 on the BSE. The scrip hit its upper trading limit on the NSE as well with a gain of 4.98% to Rs. 114.95. Jet Airways the once-storied full-service carrier was grounded in early 2019 and subsequently has been undergoing proceedings under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/jet-stock-surges-5-on-restart-hopes/article33908761.ece
23 February 2021||New Delhi,||P-notes investment slips to Rs 84,976 crore at January-end||Investments via P-notes dipped marginally to Rs. 84,976 crore as on January 31 after hitting a 31-month high at the end of the preceding month.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/p-notes-investment-slips-to-rs-84976-crore-at-january-end/article33908749.ece
23 February 2021||Surat,||Tanmay’s hundred takes Hyderabad home||Captain Tanmay Agarwal led from the front with a stroke-filled century (122, 116b, 15x4, 1x6) to help Hyderabad notch up a comfortable seven-wicket win over Chhattisgarh in the Elite Group-A of the Vijay Hazare Trophy one-day cricket championship here on Monday. This was Hyderabad’s second consecutive victory. Chasing a target of 243, southpaw Tanmay and his partner Thakur Tilak Varma, fresh from his century in the previous match, added 131 runs for the first wicket, which effectively dashed Chhattisgarh hopes. Struggle With the young talented Tilak Varma (60, 78b, 78b, 6x4) providing able support to his captain, the Chhattisgarh bowling struggled to get an early breakthrough. Himalay Agarwal continued the good work (49, 36b, 4x4) to put on 88 runs for the second wicket with Tanmay before he was dismissed. With just one run to reach the target, the skipper was bowled by off-spinner Jiwanjot Singh. Dismal start Earlier, electing to bat, Chhattisgarh was off to dismal start with pacer T. Ravi Teja dismissing opener Jiwanjot, caught by wicketkeeper Prateek Reddy, in the sixth over. Then, left-arm spinner Mehdi Hasan struck two quick blows, trapping Shashank Chandrakar (36, 41b, 7x4) leg-before and Amandeep Khare (6) stumped by Prateek as Chhattisgarh slipped to 69 for three. Desired discipline Though Harpreet Singh Bhatia (63, 99b, 6x4) and Ashutosh Singh (51, 81b, 3x4) put on 93-runs for the fourth wicket, the Hyderabad bowlers showed the desired discipline to come back strongly. The managed to restrict Chhattisgarh to 242 for seven in 50 overs despite Shashank Singh’s quickfire knock (31, 27b, 2x4, 1x6).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tanmays-hundred-takes-hyderabad-home/article33909205.ece
23 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Samarth, Padikkal shine in Karnataka’s record win||R. Samarth’s highest List-A score (158 n.o., 144b, 15x4, 1x6) propelled Karnataka to a massive 267-run win over Bihar in a Vijay Hazare Trophy Elite Group C match at the Just Cricket Ground near here on Monday. It was Karnataka’s biggest-ever victory margin (in runs), surpassing the 207 runs by which it beat Jammu & Kashmir at the M. Chinnaswamy Stadium in 2015-16. Skipper Samarth was ably assisted, first by fellow-opener Devdutt Padikkal (97, 98b, 8x4, 2x6) with whom he stitched a 153-run partnership, and later by K.V. Siddharth 76 (55b, 5x4, 4x6) as the home side posted 354. In reply, Bihar folded for a paltry 87, with speedster Prasidh Krishna claiming four wickets (6.1-3-17-4). Turning it on Bihar, which elected to bowl, had initially kept the Karnataka batsmen in check, with the team 50 coming only at the end of the 14th over. But Samarth and Padikkal turned expansive after that, scoring the next 100 in under 15 overs. Siddharth upped the rate even further, bringing up his half-century from just 35 balls and helped Karnataka plunder 104 runs in the last nine overs. Samarth, at the other end, reached his fifth List-A ton off 117 deliveries. Poor start In the afternoon, Prasidh and veteran fast bowler A. Mithun reduced Bihar to 13/5 with only opener Sakibul Gani resisting (37, 75b). That the next highest score was 13 extras told the story. At Alur-2, Kerala secured a three-wicket win over Uttar Pradesh, with S. Sreesanth (5/65) and Robin Uthappa (81) starring. Uttar Pradesh’s 283-run total was chased down by Kerala with seven balls to spare.  Bihar had initially kept the Karnataka batsmen in check, with the team 50 coming only at the end of the 14th over Siddharth upped the rate, bringing up his half-century from just 35 balls||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/samarth-padikkal-shine-in-karnatakas-record-win/article33908896.ece
23 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Uthappa, Sreesanth star as Kerala prevails again||Robin Uthappa (81, 55b, 8x4, 4x6) starred for the second match in a row as Kerala defeated Uttar Pradesh by three wickets in a Vijay Hazare Trophy Elite Group C match at the Alur Ground near here on Monday. Uttar Pradesh, which was asked to bat, scored 283, with sizeable contributions from Abhishek Goswami (54, 63b, 4x4, 2x6), Priyam Garg (57, 59b, 5x4) and Akshdeep Nath (68, 60b, 9x4). S. Sreesanth, though expensive, claimed five wickets (9.4-0-65-5), with four of them coming at the death. Uttar Pradesh crossed 250 in the 46th over and seemed well placed for an end-overs heist with set batsman Akshdeep still at the crease. But Sreesanth struck twice each in the 48th and 50th overs to limit the damage Bhuvneshwar Kumar and Co. could do. Close finish In reply, Kerala chased the target down with seven balls to spare. Uthappa, who had scored a match-winning century in the first game against Odisha, stitched together a 104-run partnership for the second wicket with Sanju Samson (29, 32b) off just 76 balls. But the duo fell within three balls of each other, leaving Kerala in a spot of bother at 122/3. But Sachin Baby rose to the challenge, scoring 76 important runs (83b, 6x4, 1x6). The 71-run association for the fourth wicket with Vathsal Govind (30, 39b) and the 62-run stand for the sixth wicket with Jalaj Saxena (31, 49b) were instrumental in Kerala’s win. Baby eventually fell with 14 runs still required off 14 balls. But M.D. Nidheesh clubbed a four and a six as Kerala crossed the finish line with ease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/uthappa-sreesanth-star-as-kerala-prevails-again/article33909276.ece
23 February 2021||Indore,||TN gets a hiding from Andhra||Left-arm pacer C. Stephen (3/46) and medium-pacer Girinath Reddy (2/33) helped Andhra set up an easy seven-wicket win over Tamil Nadu in the Elite Group-B Vijay Hazare Trophy tournament here on Monday. Electing to field, Andhra bundled out TN for just 176 before Ashwin Hebbar slammed a brilliant unbeaten 101 (84b, 11x4, 5x6) to help his side chase down the target in just 29.1 overs. In trouble On helpful conditions, Stephen and Girinath reduced TN to just 82 for five by the 21st over and restrict last year’s runner-up to a modest score. For TN, B. Aparajith (40) and R. Sonu Yadav (37) were the only bright spots with the bat as the pair added 56 runs for the sixth wicket. Later, Andhra off-spinner Shoaib Mohammed Khan (3/24) joined the party removing Aparajith and Sonu which ended any hopes of TN reaching a competitive total. In its chase, opener Hebbar gave Andhra a good start. He was later supported by wicketkeeper Ricky Bhui who scored an unbeaten 52 (41b, 6x4, 2x6) with the duo involved in an unbroken 114-run stand for the fourth wicket. Tamil Nadu coach D. Vasu said, “It was an important toss, but our batsmen could have applied themselves a bit better because the first hour and half is always going to be tough.” “It is a competitive group and we might not have a runway leader. So we just have to learn from this and focus on winning the next three games,” he added.  It was an important toss, but our batsmen could have applied themselves a bit better because the first hour and half is always going to be tough D. Vasu Tamil Nadu coach   Wicketkeeper Ricky Bhui who scored an unbeaten 52 (41b, 6x4, 2x6) was involved in an unbroken 114-run stand for the fourth wicket with Hebbar B. Aparajith (40) and R. Sonu Yadav (37) were the only bright spots for TN with the bat as they added 56 runs for the sixth wicket||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tn-gets-a-hiding-from-andhra/article33908960.ece
23 February 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Winning WTC would be same as winning World Cup’||From a promising fast-bowler who bamboozled the great Ricky Ponting in Perth in 2008 to a seasoned campaigner whose short-ball ploy gave India a rare victory at Lord’s in 2014 to the leader of arguably the best pace attack in the world in 2020, Ishant Sharma has got better just like the fermented grape juice that gets better with age. On the verge of becoming only the second India pacer to earn 100 Test caps, Ishant sat down for a virtual interaction from Ahmedabad ahead of the third Test against England and looked back on his career. Excerpts: On reaching the milestone When it comes to the 100th, I honestly feel it’s just a number. I never thought of playing 100 Test matches and once it happens, I won’t set a target in terms of games. I will play the 100th with the same feeling, intent, the same aggression that I played my 99th with. As long as it keeps reflecting in my bowling, I would love to keep representing India. On how he treats exclusion from the limited-overs set-up Generally I think of it as a blessing in disguise. Obviously I love to play white-ball cricket. But I don’t feel that had I been playing all three formats, I wouldn’t have played 100 Tests. I am just 32, not 42 years old. Had I been playing white-ball cricket, maybe it wouldn’t have happened so early but I am sure with the longevity I have and the kind of effort put in on my body to remain fit, it wouldn’t have been a problem for me. On his immediate goals I have just one format to play, so [World] Test Championship is like the World Cup for me. If we can make it to the final and go on to win it, for me, it would be the same feeling as winning the World Cup or the Champions Trophy. On his memories from his debut Test in Dhaka in 2007 Luckily Ravi [Shastri] sir was the cricket manager then and now he is the coach in my 100th. I was obviously nervous, with a noisy crowd at the stadium, but he told me: “Once you enter the ground, don’t think about the crowd, just think about your bowling.”  India pacers with most Test caps Kapil Dev (1978-1994) 131  Ishant Sharma (2007-) 99  Zaheer Khan (200 0 -2014) 92||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/winning-wtc-would-be-same-as-winning-world-cup/article33908846.ece
23 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Shankaraiah — passionate about unearthing archery talent||P. Shankaraiah is taking his passion to unearth archery talent in the agency areas of Khammam-Bhadradri region of the State to a new high. The 59-year-old former sports officer of the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (Bhadrachalam), who was instrumental in Sports Authority of India setting up an archery academy in Khammam, has also established two gurukul archery academies for boys and girls besides starting archery training centres at the Kinnerasani Sports School for boys and Kachnapally (Gundala mandal) Sports School for girls. “Ever since I saw many young boys and girls use the bow and arrow extensively in the tribal belt, I was keen that if groomed well, they could be potential champions,” said Shankaraiah in a chat with The Hindu . Five centres  Shankaraiah takes pride in stating that Khammam-Bhadradri happens to be the only district across India to have five archery training centres. “There is plenty of talent which now after all these coaching programmes needs proper exposure. My target is to produce a couple of Olympians,” said Shankaraiah. “It is important to have coaches who are selfless in their job. That is the reason I am proud that each of them is paid Rs. 40,000 per month which not many qualified coaches get in the State,” said Shankaraiah. Thanks to the district administration extending complete support to his activities, Shankaraiah is confident of producing quality archers in the days to come. “I am glad that our trainees could win one silver (E. Anand - Indian Round), bronze (V. Shiva Sai - Compound) in the Telangana inter-district meet in Hakimpet on Sunday,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shankaraiah-passionate-about-unearthing-archery-talent/article33909210.ece
23 February 2021||CHENNNAI:,||Prabhudas’ spell goes in vain||Herald Prabhudas’ seven for 36 went in vain as Youth Centre lost by 22 runs to Netaji in a V-A contest of the TNCA league recently.  The scores:   II div. Elite: T.I. Cycles 187 in 49.4 overs (P.S. Shiva Ramakrishnan 35, S.R. Sriee Vignesh Rao 3/53) lost to Aruna CC 191/5 in 46 overs (Saurabh Dubey 55 n.o., P. Elaya Raja 34 n.o., G. Dilip 30).   IOB 225 in 49 overs (K.S. Rohit Narayanan 63, Kadiyam Pavana Sai Rahul 54, Abhishek M. Hegde 36) lost to UFCC (T. Nagar) 230/5 in 32.1 overs (Swapnil Mansukh Gugale 101, R. Rohith 66, P. Sugendhiran 35).   V-A: Netaji 196 in 47.3 overs (S. Sundararajan 58, P. Gokul Krishnamoorthy 38, C. Herald Prabhudas 7/36) bt Youth Centre 174 in 47 overs (Hussain J. Darbar 34, P. Gokul Krishnamoorthy 4/49, U. Kalaiyarasan 3/42).   Friends XI 339/6 in 50 overs (S.J. Arun Kumar 108, A. Lakshmi Narayanan 80, R. Divakar 57 n.o., S. Jayanth 33) bt GTUC 62 in 25.2 overs (A. Edwin Arasan 5/12).   Gems 173 in 48.2 overs (R. Sandeep Kumar 42, K. Vineeth 32, R. Prakash 5/26) lost to Chennai P&T Audit 174/4 in 28.3 overs (D. Muthu Rajan 66, Sebastian Pretheep 55 n.o., G. Sathish Kumar 3/32).   V-D: Chatnath 146 in 43.1 overs (N. Muneeswaran 39, N.K. Sounderamani 3/16, P. Sakthivel 3/31) lost to Kumbhat CC 147/4 in 38.3 overs (Prathosh Ravindhran 43 n.o., G. Siddharth 30) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/prabhudas-spell-goes-in-vain/article33908953.ece
23 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rohan beats seventh seed Suyal||Rohan Narayan bounced back from a bad start to outwit seventh seed Dinesh Suyal 0-6, 6-4, 7-6(5) in the first round of the Over-35 event in the PHDCCI-ITF seniors tennis tournament at the DLTA Complex on Monday. In the over-45 section, Manish Aggarwal beat Gagandeep Wasu, 6-1, 5-7, 6-1 in the first round.  The results: First round: Over-35: K. Chandrasekar bt Sandeep Pant 6-1, 6-1; Nitin Sharma bt Dinesh Singh 6-1, 6-3; Farid Usmani bt Amritpal Singh 6-0, 6-0; M. Aamir bt Ashish Sharma -4, 6-2; Arjun Sawhney bt Deepak Chauhan 6-0, 6-0; Rohan Narayan bt Dinesh Suyal 0-6, 6-4, 7-6(5); Rohit Sharma bt Prateek Deogirikar 1-6, 7-5, 6-4.   Varun Makkar bt Vishal Grover 6-0, 6-0; Rohan Bhasin bt Vikas Guliya 6-3, 6-3; Avinash Kunwar bt Punar Bhasin 6-1, 4-6, 6-1; Kapil Bhalla bt Harinder Sharma 6-4, 6-3; Mukesh Kumar bt Vijay Goyal 6-0, 6-0.   Over-45: Satya Prakash bt Deepak Singh 6-4, 6-4; Sunil Lulla bt Sheetal Sharma 6-2, 7-5; Shankar Krishnaswamy bt Asheesh Malpani 6-2, 6-1; Vijay Kumar bt Gagan Sharma 6-3, 6-1; Ashish Pant bt Vinay Mohan 7-6(5), 6-3; Amar Khosla bt Kuldeep Rawat 6-2, 6-2; Rohit Rawat bt Amit Malhotra 6-2, 6-3; Amitabh Chaturvedi bt Sandeep Yadav 6-4, 6-2; Ajay Arora bt Vijay Gogoi 6-3, 6-3; Preetam Yashwant bt Satyakam Goswami 6-1, 6-2; Manish Aggarwal bt Gagandeep Wasu 6-1, 5-7, 6-1; Anshul Bagai bt Hatinder Panwar 6-1, 6-3; Gopal Soni bt Deepak Arora 6-1, 6-1.   Over-55: Jaspal Singh bt Naresh Vij 6-0, 6-2; S. Nelord bt Rajesh Kumar 6-4, 6-2; Dipankar Chakravarti bt Shashi Bhushan Sharma 3-6, 6-2, 6-3; Ajay Talwar bt Binoo John 6-1, 6-1; Rajan Beri bt Sanjay Aggarwal 6-1, 6-1; Anil Nigam bt Amardeep Singh 6-0, 6-2; Shiv Mohan Sharma bt Amitabh Singh 7-6(3), 6-3.   Over-65 (pre-quarterfinals): Ravi Singh bt T.S. Gambhir 6-1, 6-1; Sarvendra Kunwar bt Lourdes Ambrose 6-2, 6-2 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rohan-beats-suyal/article33909048.ece
23 February 2021||INDORE,||Navya stuns Suhitha Maruri||V. Navya defeated third seed Suhitha Maruri 6-4, 4-6, 6-4 in the girls’ first round of the ITF grade-5 junior tennis tournament at the Indore Tennis Club on Monday. In the boys’ event, top seed Aman Dahiya beat Agriya Yadav with ease for the loss of one game.  The results: First round: Boys: Aman Dahiya bt Agriya Yadav 6-1, 6-0.   Ritvik Nadikude bt Tushar Mittal 3-6, 6-2, 6-3; Aayush Bhat bt Kabir Chhabria 6-1, 6-2; Arunava Majumder bt Kritanta Sarma 6-1, 6-3.   Dhruv Hirpara bt Dhanush Patel 6-3, 6-0; Heerak Vora bt Deep Munim 6-2, 7-5.   Wyatt Obrien bt Devasharshith Neelam (US) 6-1, 6-2; Maanav Jain bt Rishi Jalota 6-2, 6-2.   Denim Yadav bt Daksh Prasad 7-5, 4-6, 7-5; Daksh Agarwal bt Torus Rawat 6-4, 6-2; Ayushmaan Arjeria bt Kartik Parhar 7-5, 6-3; Sanjith Devineni (US) bt Vishesh Patel 1-6, 7-5, 6-2.   Girls: Reshma Maruri bt Vidhi Jani 6-3, 6-4; Lakshmi Prabha bt Pari Singh 6-3, 6-2; Y. Aarni Reddy bt Maitree Diksha Rout 6-3, 7-5; Saina Deshpande (US) bt Nandini Dixit 6-0, 6-3; Kristi Boro bt Siddhi Khot 6-0, 6-1; Gargi Pawar bt Saniya Masand 7-6(1), 6-3.   Lakshmi Gowda bt Bhumika Tripathi 6-4, 2-1 (retired); V. Navya (US) bt Suhitha Maruri 6-4, 4-6, 6-4.   Sanjana Devineni (US) bt Amishi Shukla 6-4, 2-6, 6-3; Kavya Khirwar bt Milee Chug 6-1, 6-0.   Ruma Gaikaiwari bt Naga Roshne 6-3, 6-3; Vaishnavi Adkar bt Tanushri Pandey 6-0, 6-1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/navya-stuns-suhitha-maruri/article33909443.ece
23 February 2021||Paris,||Medvedev cracks top three, Osaka is No. 2||Daniil Medvedev broke into the top three for the first time in Monday's ATP rankings, while Russian compatriot Aslan Karatsev shot up 72 places after his stunning run to the Australian Open semifinals. Medvedev finished runner-up at a Grand Slam for the second time. Karatsev, a qualifier, became the first man in the Open era to reach the semifinals of a major on a main draw debut. The 27-year-old rose from 114th to 42nd. Naomi Osaka, meanwhile, moved up one spot to second in the WTA rankings following her Australian Open win. Osaka, 23, trades places with Simona Halep, the Romanian dropping down to third after losing to Serena Williams in the quarterfinals. Ashleigh Barty remains the World No. 1 in spite of losing in the last eight. Ankita Raina became the highest-ranked Indian women's tennis player, climbing to a career-high 168 in singles and 94 in the doubles rankings.  The rankings: Men: 1. Novak Djokovic; 2. Rafael Nadal; 3. Daniil Medvedev; 4. Dominic Thiem; 5. Roger Federer; 6. Stefanos Tsitsipas; 7. Alexander Zverev; 8. Andrey Rublev; 9. Diego Schwartzman; 10. Matteo Berrettini.   Women: 1. Ashleigh Barty; 2. Naomi Osaka; 3. Simona Halep; 4. Sofia Kenin; 5. Elina Svitolina; 6. Karolina Pliskova; 7. Serena Williams; 8. Aryna Sabalenka; 9. Bianca Andreescu; 10. Petra Kvitova .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/medvedev-in-top-three-osaka-is-no-2/article33908958.ece
23 February 2021||London,||Problems mount for defender Bayern||The talking points ahead of the second set of first-leg matches in the Champions League round of 16 on Tuesday and Wednesday.  Lazio vs. Bayern Munich: Defending champion Bayern Munich has mounting problems ahead of Tuesday’s game. The coronavirus is having an adverse effect with Thomas Muller and Benjamin Pavard out, though Javi Martínez and Leon Goretzka have recovered. Lazio, meanwhile, is in good form ahead of its first appearance in the knockout stage for 20 years.  Atletico Madrid vs Chelsea: Atletico arrives for the match after having lost its shine in the Spanish league. Diego Simeone has moved away from his standard 4-4-2 formation. Now Simeone favours a three-man backline and uses two high wing backs to support Suarez and Joao Felix in attack. Thomas Tuchel has yet to lose any of his seven matches in charge since taking over as Chelsea manager at the end of January.  Atalanta vs Real Madrid: Real Madrid is hoping that Karim Benzema will be fit to play on Wednesday. Madrid is also missing injured captain Sergio Ramos who is out with a left-knee injury. Atalanta will have poignant memories of the same stage last season. The Champions League outsider beat Valencia 4-1 in the first leg but the joy was shortlived as, days later, Bergamo became the epicentre of the coronavirus pandemic.  Borussia Monchengladbach vs Manchester City: The two teams’ seasons are heading in opposite directions. City is on an 18-match winning run in all competitions. While City is in the round of 16 for the eighth straight season, it will be Monchengladbach’s first knockout match in the competition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/problems-mount-for-defender-bayern/article33909424.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Bagan dents HFC’s chances||Hyderabad FC (HFC) was left to rue letting a goal advantage slip twice against table topper ATK Mohun Bagan for a 2-2 draw in a 19th round ISL match at the Tilak Stadium in Vasco on Monday. With 28 points HFC has to win its last game against FC Goa (30 from 19) to make the playoffs. ATKMB, with 40 points from 19 matches, needs another point to top the league stage. Its final game is against second placed Mumbai City. In what turned out to be a see-saw contest, Hyderabad took the lead in the eighth minute though an opportunistic goal from Aridane Santana before Manvir Singh levelled for ATKMB after the break. Substitute Roland Alberg put Hyderabad back in front midway through the second half but an added-time goal by Bagan defender Pritam Kotal ended the former’s hopes of a win. A red card and goal described the opening half as Hyderabad tried to establish its dominance over the current leader. Hyderabad lost Chinglensana Singh in the fourth minute after the defender brought down ATKMB forward David Williams, who was looking to get in a threatening position.   The result: Hyderabad FC 2 (Aridane Santana 8, Roland Alberg 75) drew with ATK Mohun Bagan (Manvir Singh 57, Pritam Kotal 90+2).   Tuesday’s match: SC East Bengal v NorthEast United, 7.30 p.m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/atkmb-dents-hfcs-chances/article33908891.ece
23 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Olympics dates sacrosanct: Rijiju||Union Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju dismissed speculation that the Tokyo Olympics might be further postponed. The mega-event, which was postponed last year due to the COVID-19 pandemic, is scheduled to commence on July 23. “The latest report I have received is that the Olympics will not be postponed further. The Olympics is the biggest event in the world. The dates of the Olympics are sacrosanct. It is not easy to change it,” Rijiju, who attended events at the Anup Sridhar Badminton Academy and Karnataka Badminton Association (KBA) here, said on Monday. The COVID-19 vaccination drive for Indian Tokyo-bound athletes will commence after frontline workers are covered, Rijiju said. “The priority right now is the frontline warriors like paramedics, nurses and doctors. Our Tokyo-bound athletes, coaches and technical team members are next in line. It should happen soon. I’ve already discussed this with Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan. We will ensure that our Olympic athletes get all the support they need,” he said. Rijiju started his two-day tour of the State by laying the foundation stone for a multi-sports indoor stadium at Sahyadri College in Shivamogga. On Sunday morning, he participated in a Fit India Triathlon event In Bengaluru, before heading to the Basavanagudi Aquatic Centre (BAC). Rijiju then visited Sports Authority of India (SAI), where he inaugurated the gymnasium complex.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/olympics-dates-sacrosanct-rijiju/article33908894.ece
23 February 2021||CHRISTCHURCH,||Conway’s knock highlights NZ’s win||Devon Conway inspired New Zealand to a 53-run win over Australia in the opening Twenty20 international here on Monday. Conway smashed an unbeaten 99 off 59 balls as the Black Caps overcame a shaky start to finish on 184 for five after being put in to bat. In reply, Australia was all out for 131 after 17.3 overs, with spinner Ish Sodhi taking four wickets for 28. Richardson the pick Jhye Richardsonwas the pick of the Australian bowlers, taking two for 31. But the tourists could not dislodge Conway, whose 59-ball knock included 10 fours and three sixes, helping the Black Caps bounce back from 19 for three. ‘Chuffed’ Conway said he was “pretty chuffed” with his career-best effort, even though he was stranded just short of a century after failing to take two runs off the final ball. Australia suffered a horror show early in its innings, as seamers Tim Southee and Trent Boult tore through the top order. After debutant Josh Philippe departed for two, skipper Aaron Finch and Glenn Maxwell also failed to deal with the swinging ball and the tourists were soon four for 19. Mitch Marsh top-scored with 45 and Ashton Agar contributed 23. But a string of batting failures gave New Zealand a comfortable win.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/conways-knock-highlights-nzs-win/article33908848.ece
23 February 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Snehit hogs the limelight, storms into semifinals||There is something about the Tau Devi Lal Indoor Stadium at Panchkula that brings out the best in S.F.R. Snehit. The last time this reigning National youth champion played here in the 2018 North Zone-ranking event, he took out Sharath Kamal on this way to the final. On Monday, a fitter-and-stronger Snehit renewed his romance with this venue by knocking out third seeded defending champion Harmeet Desai and sixth seed Sushmit Sriram to gate-crash the semifinals of the National table tennis championship. Favourites in semifinals Even as Snehit, 20, was enjoying his best day in the Nationals, more illustrious names like Sharath Kamal, G. Sathiyan and Manav Thakkar took their allotted spots in the semifinals. Interestingly, all semifinalists won 4-1. Sharath and Sathiyan — Snehit’s mentors — stayed on course for their much-anticipated final clash at the expense of two former National champions, A. Amalraj and Sanil Shetty. The scoreline for Sharath could have read a lot differently had Amalraj not missed converting a game-point in the fourth game for a 2-2 deadlock. But once Sharath led 3-1, a frustrated and fast-tiring Amalraj committed far too many errors to trail 1-7 in the fifth game and never tested his senior rival. Sathiyan carried on with his form by winning all three matches with an identical 4-1 scoreline.  The results:   Quarterfinals: A. Sharath Kamal (Pet) bt A. Amalraj (TTFI) 11-8, 11-3, 5-11, 13-11, 11-2; Manav Thakkar (Pet) bt Ronit Bhanja (Ben ‘A’) 11-7, 12-10, 10-12, 12-10, 11-6 ; S.F.R.Snehit (TS) bt Sushmit Sriram (TTFI) 8-11, 12-10, 11-9, 11-8, 11-3; G. Sathiyan (Pet) bt Sanil Shetty (Pet) 11-9, 11-9, 11-13, 11-8, 11-6.   Important pre-quarterfinal results: Sharath bt Sougata Sarkar (LIC) 7-11, 11-7, 11-9, 9-11, 11-9, 11-5; Amalraj bt Soumyajit Ghosh (Har) 9-11, 12-10, 9-11, 11-8, 11-8, 11-5; Bhanja bt Sudhanshu Grover (Del) 13-11, 7-11, 6-11, 11-7, 9-11, 11-8, 15-13; Manav Thakkar bt T. Nitin (TN) 11-9, 8-11, 11-5, 11-5, 11-5.   Snehit bt Harmeet Desai (Pet) 11-9, 11-7, 11-9, 11-5; Sathiyan bt Manush Shah (Guj) 11-8, 12-14, 11-9, 11-8, 13-11.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/snehit-hogs-the-limelight-storms-into-semifinals/article33908851.ece
23 February 2021||Mumbai,||Archer supports rest and rotation policy||Jofra Archer, the England speedster who missed the second Test against India, has said rest and rotation is absolutely necessary considering the international calendar and life in a bio-secure bubble. “I think it’s necessary, especially during COVID and stuff, there’s a lot of quarantine periods. If you hit a good run with the form and then you have to travel with the quarantine, I think rest and rotation is necessary for now,” he said on Monday. England is slated to play at least 17 Tests this year, besides the T20 World Cup. Thorpe backs Stokes Despite R. Ashwin having dismissed England all-rounder Ben Stokes a whopping 10 times, England assistant coach Graham Thorpe has backed Stokes to overcome the mini-battle against India’s premier off-spinner. “I mean not just for the left-handers, if the pitch spins, he (Ashwin) is obviously dangerous for left- and right-handers. He is a fine bowler in those conditions as well,” Thorpe said. “It is a challenge. Ben actually has, at times, different styles of playing. He can build into an innings as well. I think Ben also has that ability to put a bowler on the backfoot as well, that is something which he certainly should not forget.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/archer-supports-rest-and-rotation-policy/article33908853.ece
23 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Babyrojisana, Arundhati clinch gold||Babyrojisana Chanu (51kg) and Arundhati Choudhary (69kg) triumphed as Indian women boxers ended with five gold medals in the 30th Adriatic Pearl tournament in Budva, Montenegro. Silver for Lucky Rana Lucky Rana (64kg) secured a silver as India emerged as the top team with 10 medals (five gold, three silver and two bronze). Uzbekistan (two gold) and Czech Republic (one gold) ended at second and third position respectively. Three-time Khelo India gold-medallist Arundhati pulled off a dominating 5-0 victory over Ukraine’s Maryana Stoiko on Sunday. Babyrojisana, who trains at M.C. Mary Kom’s academy, got the better of Asian junior champion Sabina Bobokulova of Uzbekistan 3-2. Lucky suffered a 5-0 defeat at the hands of Finnish boxer Lia Pukkila to claim silver. With two medals in the men’s category, the 19-member Indian team concluded its campaign in an overall second position (12 medals). Uzbekistan and Ukraine claimed first and third position respectively in the overall standings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/babyrojisana-arundhati-clinch-gold/article33908843.ece
23 February 2021||Hyderabad:,||N R I Valley makes it three-in-a-row||N R I Valley (Akshay Kumar astride) completed a hat-trick this season by winning the Elusive Plate, the chief event of Monday’s (Feb. 22) races. The winner is owned by Mr. Ravinder Reddy Male. R.H. Sequeira trains the winner. Jockey Suraj Narredu rode three winners on the day.  1. GRAND PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), rated up to 25 (Cat. III): BEAUTY ON PARADE (Suraj Narredu) 1, Platinum Classz (Trevor) 2, Let It Be Me (Akshay Kumar) 3 and Big Day (B.R. Kumar) 4. 6-1/4, 3/4 and Nk. 1m, 12.96s. Rs. 8 (w), 9, 10 and 6 (p). SHP: 39, THP: 26, FP: 39, Q: 51, Tanala: 98. Favourite: Beauty On Parade. Owners: Mr. Prakash Babu, Mr. K. Rama Krishna & Mr. Shailendra Singh. Trainer: D. Netto.  2. LADY EMMA PLATE (1,800m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): MIRANA (Suraj Narredu) 1, Kesariya Balam (Akshay Kumar) 2, Horus (Trevor) 3 and Spicy Star (Deepak Singh) 4. 1, 2-1/2 and 2. 1m, 51.62s. Rs. 9 (w), 5, 6 & 7 (p). SHP: 15, THP: 19, FP: 19, Q: 12, Tanala: 44. Favourite: Mirana. Owners: Mr. S. Daljeet Singh, Mr. Sardar Jivtesh Singh, Mr. Ashok Chukkla & Mr. S. Mohan Raju. Trainer: M. Srinivas Reddy.  3. SECRET STAR PLATE (1,100m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II): PAINTED APACHE (Trevor) 1, Ambitious Star (B.R. Kumar) 2, Gregor Clegane (Ashad Asbar) 3 and Hard To Toss (A.A. Vikrant) 4. Not run: Space Walk and Aarya. Nk, 3/4 and 3/4. 1m, 7.05s. Rs. 18 (w), 8, 21 and 7 (p). SHP: 76, THP: 31, FP: 265, Q: 175, Tanala: 960. Favourite: Grand Duke. Owner: Mr. Aditya P. Thackersey. Trainer: L.V.R. Deshmukh.  4. ECLAIR PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): BLAZING JUPITER (Ajeeth Kumar) 1, Gusty Note (A.A. Vikrant) 2, The Special One (Rohit Kumar) 3 and Alliston (N.B. Kuldeep) 4. 1-1/4, Nk and Sh. 1m, 12.69s. Rs. 354 (w), 36, 10 and 13 (p). SHP: 21, THP: 47, FP: 2,042, Q: 779, Tanala: 10, 335. Favourite: Flamingo Fame. Owners: Mr. N.V. Rohin Kumar & Mr. Shyam Sunder Jakkula. Trainer: S. Sreekant.  5. GRAND PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), rated up to 25 (Cat. III): SILVER SET (Akshay Kumar) 1, Acadian Angel (Suraj Narredu) 2, Bedazzled (Afroz Khan) 3 and Rhine (A.A. Vikrant) 4. Not run: Flying Queen. 1/2, Hd and Nose. 1m, 14.47s. Rs. 19 (w), 7, 7 and 13 (p). SHP: 19, THP: 30, FP: 50, Q: 19, Tanala: 211. Favourite: Acadian Angel. Owner & Trainer: Mr. Syed Shah Faisal Hassan.    6. ELUSIVE PLATE (1,400m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): N R I VALLEY (Akshay Kumar) 1, Chuckit (A.A. Vikrant) 2, Blazer (N.B. Kuldeep) 3 and Mark My Day (B.R. Kumar) 4. Not run: N R I Vision. 2, 3 and 3/4. 1m, 25.05s. Rs. 7 (w), 7, 8 and 18 (p). SHP: 24, THP: 45, FP: 31, Q: 27, Tanala: 332. Favourite: N R I Valley. Owner: Mr. Ravinder Reddy Male. Trainer: R.H. Sequeira.  7. HYPERION PLATE (1,800m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): CHELTENHAM (Afroz Khan) 1, Miss Marvellous (N.B. Kuldeep) 2, Lightning Power (Suraj Narredu) 3 and Astronaut (P. Gaddam) 4. 1, 4 and 8, 1m, 53.09s. Rs. 259 (w), 17, 14 and 6 (p). SHP: 64, THP: 47, FP: 14,735, Q: 4,121, Tanala: 1,07,637. Favourite: Lightning Power. Owners: Mr. Bharat Venkat Epur, Mr. M. Rama Krishna Reddy & Mrs. Rajini Meka. Trainer: L. D. Silva.  8. ECLAIR PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45: ANGEL TESORO (Suraj Narredu) 1, Soul Empress (Akshay Kumar) 2, Unstoppable (Deepak Singh) 3 and Dancing Doll (Ajeeth Kumar) 4. 2, 3/4 and Nose. 1m, 13.36s. Rs. 17 (w), 8, 12 and 8 (p). SHP: 50, THP: 27, FP: 162, Q: 94, Tanala: 579. Favourite: Linewiler. Owners: Mrs. Marie Prasad, Mr. Munawar Hussain & Mr. K. Pradhyumna Reddy. Trainer: Sk Waseem Ahmed. Jackpot: 70% : Rs. 3,76,029 (C/O) and 30%: 40,288 (4 tkts.). Treble: (i) 33 (880 tkts.), (ii) 2,755 (7 tkts.), (iii) 1,150 (40 tkts.). Mini jackpot: (i) 5, 359 (5 tkts.), (ii) 11, 421 (9 tkts.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/n-r-i-valley-makes-it-three-in-a-row/article33908898.ece
23 February 2021||Chennai,||Tech Mahindra signs Anand to mentor Global Chess League||Tech Mahindra Ltd. has signed Viswanathan Anand, five-time World chess champion, as the mentor for the phygital (physical and digital) Global Chess League. The release said that the league will have eight franchise owned teams from across the world. The teams will comprise a mix of titled women and men players along with juniors and wildcard entrants playing each other in a round robin format. The teams qualifying for the semifinals will enter the knockout stage of the championship. Viswanathan Anand said: “chess is a game that is played by millions around the world. At this time, a unique opportunity exists to popularise it further and dramatically enhance its visibility through a global league powered by technology. I am personally happy to partner with a technology provider like Tech Mahindra, whose endorsement and promotion will certainly elevate the sport to a higher level and offer the right platform to popularize chess across the globe.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anand-to-mentor-global-chess-league/article33908961.ece
23 February 2021||Manchester,||Sloppy United manages a win||Manchester United overcame a sloppy first-half performance to beat Newcastle 3-1 and stay in second place in the Premier League on Sunday. After United managed just one victory in its previous five top-flight matches, Ole Gunnar Solskjaer felt a 4-0 victory at Real Sociedad in the Europa League showed his side had got over its recent slump. While United fell well short of those standards against Newcastle, second-half goals from Daniel James and Bruno Fernandes pushed the team to an important win after Newcastle winger Allan Saint-Maximin had cancelled out Marcus Rashford’s opener at Old Trafford. The result kept United within 10 points of Manchester City and above third-place Leicester on goal difference, while defeat for Newcastle manager Steve Bruce at the stadium he used to play left his 17th-place team just three points above resurgent Fulham in the relegation fight. In the Serie A, Roma was held to a goalless draw at 15th-placed Benevento, giving Juventus, which is 11 points off top spot, the chance to move third against rock bottom Crotone on Monday. Roma is five points adrift of Milan with both teams going head-to-head in Rome next weekend. Behind, in a match for fourth place, Napoli crashed 4-2 at Atalanta with Nigerian forward Victor Osimhen stretched off after losing consciousness following a knock to his head.  The results: Premier League: Arsenal 0 lost to Manchester City 1 (Sterling 2); Manchester United 3 (Rashford 30, James 57, Fernandes 75-pen) bt Newcastle 1 (Saint-Maximin 36).   LaLiga: Real Sociedad 4 (Isak 41, 49, 62, Portu 73) bt Alaves 0; Huesca 3 (Escriche 31, Pulido 39, Foulquier 44-og) bt Granada 2 (Quina 8, Soro 59); Athletic Bilbao 1 (Berenguer 44) drew with Villarreal 1 (Moreno 16).   Serie A: Atalanta 4 (Zapata 52, Gosens 64, Muriel 71, Romero 79) bt Napoli 2 (Zielinski 58, Gosens 76-og); Benevento 0 drew with Roma 0.   Bundesliga: Hoffenheim 4 (Bebou 26, Baumgartner 44, Dabbur 49, Rutter 90) bt Werder Bremen 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sloppy-united-manages-a-win/article33908901.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,||The seven steps||The most significant marriage ritual is panigrahana, said V.S. Karunakarachariar, in a discourse. The groom and the bride take seven steps around the fire, and this is called saptapadi. A mantra is recited by the groom, in which he addresses the bride. He holds her hand and says, “I take hold of your hand. In your old age, I will be like a stick you can lean upon for support.” And here is what the groom says for each of the seven steps: “As you take your first step, may our family be blessed with food in plenty. As you take your second step, may we all get nutritive food. As you take your third step, may you help me observe vratas. Let your fourth step bring wealth to my family. May your fifth step bring all material comforts to my family. May your sixth step enable us to enjoy all seasons. As you take your seventh step, may you be one who welcomes saintly persons gladly and respectfully.” For each of these hopes and wishes he expresses to his wife, the groom prays that Lord Narayana should be her support throughout. Finally, he says to the bride, “You and I have walked seven steps together and have become friends.” The relationship between them is to be one of mutual trust and friendship, none superior to the other. Both are to be friends, each consulting the other, when important decisions are to be made. When the wedding saree is gifted by the groom to the bride, the mantra says, “Even in your absence, the words spoken about you should be the same that are uttered when you are there.” People do not criticise us, when we are present. But the moment our backs are turned, criticisms begin. This marriage mantra means that the daughter-in-law should be so loveable, that she will not be criticised, even when she is absent from the scene.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-seven-steps/article33908854.ece
23 February 2021||NEW ORLEANS,||Ingram does the star turn for Pelicans||Brandon Ingram scored 33 points, including a go-ahead 3-pointer with 34.4 seconds left in overtime, as the host New Orleans Pelicans overcame a 24-point deficit to defeat the Boston Celtics 120-115 on Sunday. James Harden had 37 points, 11 rebounds and seven assists as Brooklyn Nets won its sixth consecutive contest, knocking off over host Los Angeles Clippers to complete a five-game road trip.   The results: Milwaukee 128 bt Sacramento 115; Atlanta 123 bt Denver 115.   Cleveland 101 lost to Oklahoma City 117; Orlando 105 bt Detroit 96.   Toronto 110 bt Philadelphia 103; New York 103 bt Minnesota 99.   LA Clippers 108 lost to Brooklyn 112; New Orleans 120 bt Boston 115 (OT).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ingram-does-the-star-turn-for-pelicans/article33908889.ece
23 February 2021||KOLKATA,||Vijender to return to the ring in March||Professional boxer Vijender Singh will return to the ring next month following a pandemic-induced break of more than a year. Vijender, the reigning WBO Oriental Super Middleweight and WBO Asia Pacific Super Middleweight champion, last fought former Commonwealth champion Charles Adamu of Ghana in November 2019. He has an unbeaten record of 12-0, including eight knockouts. Vijender has been preparing for one-and-a-half months for his 13th professional bout and fifth in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vijender-to-return-to-the-ring-in-march/article33909025.ece
23 February 2021||SINGAPORE,||Ramkumar goes down fighting||Taro Daniel of Japan beat Ramkumar Ramanathan 6-3, 6-7(3), 6-3 in the first round of the $361,800 ATP tennis tournament here on Monday. In doubles pre-quarterfinals, Sriram Balaji and Luca Margaroli of Switzerland won 7-5, 6-1 against local wild card entrants Shaheed Alam and Roy Hobbs.  Other results: $361,800 ATP, Singapore: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Luca Margaroli (Sui) & Sriram Balaji bt Shaheed Alam & Roy Hobbs (Sgp) 7-5, 6-1.   $393,935 ATP, Cordoba, Argentina: Qualifying singles (first round): Facundo Diaz Acosta (Arg) bt Sumit Nagal 6-4, 2-6, 6-3.   €323,970 ATP, Montpellier, France: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Jonathan Erlich (Isr) & Andrei Vasilevski (Blr) bt Igor Zelenay (Svk) & Divij Sharan 7-5, 6-3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ramkumar-goes-down-fighting/article33908899.ece
23 February 2021||Mumbai,||Umesh back in squad||India pacer Umesh Yadav cleared the fitness test on Sunday in Amedabad, and has formally been included in India’s squad for the last two Tests versus England. Once Umesh proved his fitness, pace bowler Shardul Thakur has been released to join Mumbai’s squad for Vijay Hazare Trophy in Jaipur. A calf injury Umesh suffered during India’s series in Australia last year had forced him to return home midway through the series.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/umesh-back-in-squad/article33908844.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Stunning vista||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/stunning-vista/article33908856.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Pioneer Club takes Swasthik Cup title||Man-of-the-Match Manan Bhardwaj picked up six wickets for just four runs as Pioneer Club beat West Delhi Academy by seven wickets to lift the Under-17 Swasthik Cup.  The scores: WDA 95 in 36.2 overs (Aman Kedia 38, Manan Bhardwaj 6/4) lost to Pioneer Club 99/3 in 17.4 overs (Rushal Saini 51 n.o., Kartikey Rana 35) .    Hanu Rana’s five for 12 helped Ajmal Khan Club beat 3S Academy by 10 wickets in the Harcourt Butler Under-15 tournament.  The scores: 3S Academy 67 in 24.1 overs (Hanu Rana 5/12) lost to Ajmal Khan Club 70 for no loss in 7 overs (Sarthak Pal 33 n.o., Varun Sharma 32 n.o.) .    Manish Tehlan top-scored with 79 and picked up two wickets as RP Academy beat Delhi Wonders by 18 runs in the Rikhi Ram memorial tournament.  The scores: RPA 242/8 in 40 overs (Manish Tehlan 79, Jatin Gehlot 42, Rahul Matwaya 30, Sparsh Joshi 4/40) bt Delhi Wonders 224 in 39.1 overs (Sparsh Joshi 78, Amir Khan 36, Rajat Chaudhary 3/30) .      Delhi Under-19 player Arpit Rana top-scored with 87 and took four wickets while Yash Dhull made 74 as Bal Bhawan International School beat Telefunken Club by two wickets to enter the semifinals of the Kiran Chopra memorial Under-18 tournament.  The scores: Telefunken Club 223 in 35 overs (Yash Dabas 55, Swayam Kaushik 43, Ashish Singh 39, Arpit Rana 4/27, Suryakant 3/23) lost to BBIS 226/8 in 34.5 overs (Arpit Rana 87, Yash Dhull 74) .      Delhi Hockey has named an 18-member squad for the upcoming National sub-junior girls’ hockey championships to be held in Simdega, Jharkhand, from March 10 to 18.  The squad: Goalkeepers: Manya, Rekha; Defenders: Manju, Sanjana, Varsha Pal; Midfielders: Pooja, Anshu, Shubham, Muskan, Khushi, Suman, Shivani, Kumkum; Fowards: Khushi, Neetu, Anjali, Neha, Anshika; Stand-byes: Kajal, Priyanka Pal, Pooja, Shivani, Bani, Priyanshi .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pioneer-club-takes-swasthik-cup-title/article33909049.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Nishnath, Arvind slam centuries||Centuries by Nishnath Reddy (137, 167b, 14x4, 1x6) for SN Group and Arvind Shetty (100, 55b, 21x4, 2x6) for Canara Bank were some of the highlights of the A2-Division two-day league cricket championship here.  The scores: A2-Division two-day league: SN Group 409 in 84.3 overs (M Gaurav 67, Aryaman Thakur 35, Nishnath Reddy 137, Ritwik 54, Atharva 34, Ghanraj 4/44) vs Kishoresons 17/0 in 7 overs.   Anu 170 in 45.3 overs (Sachin 36, Rizwan 62 n.o., Rasheed 30, M.A. Jaweed 4/66, Srinivas 5/54) lost to Canara Bank 172/3 in 23.5 overs (Arvind Shetty 100, Suresh 30).   A-3 Division one-day league: MP Blues 305/8 in 47 overs (S. Raju 73, E. Srikanth 101 n.o., Naveen 60) bt Mahesh 182s in 36.3 overs (Sudharshan 32, Vinay Reddy 32, Yesudas 3/51, Satish 4/40).   All Saints 191 in 34.4 overs (Koushik 30, Ronith 49, Chandra 4/25) lost to Youth 192/5 in 39.1 overs (Harshvardhan Reddy 32, Parikshit 74).   Red Hills 130 in 44 overs (Meraj 31, Naresh 4/24) lost to PPMCC 132/3 in 39.3 overs (Sanju 35, Pavan 58 n.o.).   Dhruv XI 101 in 29.2 overs (Praveen 4/24) lost to Lal Bahadur 102/2 in 24.1 overs (Pranav 58 n.o.).   LNCC 248 in 40 overs (Pranav 30, Gopi 45, Yashwanth 35 n.o., Advit 4/44) bt Starlets 122 in 38.3 overs (Praneeth 42, Prathap 3/24, Lalit 3/5).   Southend Raymonds 312/4 in 47 overs (Kowshik Reddy 69, Noman Ahmed 135, C.H. Rahul 3/55) bt AB Colony 71 in 29.3 overs (Md. Irfan 3/13, Md. Khaleel 3/24).   Team Kun 93 in 39 overs (Vishal Dhumal 5/6) lost to Victory 96/3 in 17.3 overs (Harikiran 34 n.o.).    Bhadradri emerged champion in the TCA East Zone under-19 limited-over cricket tournament with a 76-run win over Mahabubabad in the final.  The scores: Final: Bhadradri 172 in 21.5 overs (Uday Kiran 34, Srinath 30, Sameer 3/24) bt Mahabubabad 96 in 21 overs (Jaswanth 4/39) .    Keystone Basketball Academy won the title in the boys’ under-19 category of the Zero Gravity 3x3 basketball tournament here. KBA won all the eight games in the round-robin format while KBA Thunders was second with five wins and two losses. In the girls’ category, St. Patrick’s edged out Srila in a two-way tie as both teams finished with three wins and a loss record. By virtue of defeating Srila in the last match, St. Patrick’s won the title.   Vibhas defeated Md. Sami 51-23, 65-24 in the junior snooker first round of the Sreemitra Telangana State-ranking snooker and billiards championship at Cue Sports Academy (Nanakramguda) here.  The results: Snooker: Juniors (first round): Bharat Choudhary bt Maanasvi 59-14, 42-20; Vibhas bt Md. Sami 51-23, 65-24; Sai bt Mohit 58-21, 50-26; G. Srikanth bt Venkat Sai Ram 31-56, 53-43, 52-20 .    Ranga Reddy District Kabaddi Association will organise selection trials on February 24 at SATS Indoor Stadium (Saroornagar) from 3 p.m. to pick the district junior boys and girls teams (under-20) that will participate in the forthcoming 47th junior inter-district meet in Thorrur (Mahabubabad). For details, call M. Ravikumar on 9849532287.   Adhoc Committee of Hyderabad District Kho-Kho Association will conduct selections to pick the district men and women teams on February 24 from 3 p.m. at Gymkhana ground here. For details, call K. Rramakrishna on 9000045297.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nishnath-arvind-slam-centuries/article33909208.ece
23 February 2021||COLOMBO,||Vaas quits ahead of WI tour||Sri Lanka’s new fast bowling coach Chaminda Vaas quit on Monday within days of his appointment and compounding problems for the national team on the eve of its virus-hit tour of the West Indies. Vaas, who on Friday replaced Australian David Sekar, resigned over a pay dispute and will not travel with the team to the Caribbean, the cricket board said. Sri Lanka Cricket said it was “disheartening” that Vaas had made the “sudden and irresponsible move on the eve of the team’s departure based on personal monetary gain”. ‘Justice will prevail’ “I made a humble request to SLC and they turned it down,” Vaas tweeted. “That’s all I can say at the moment. Justice will prevail!” Sri Lanka is set to leave for the West Indies for two Tests, three one-day internationals and three Twenty20 matches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vaas-quits-ahead-of-wi-tour/article33908890.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 10:44 IST,||Sudoku — February 23, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-february-23-2021/article33909897.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Hope is a precursor to joy’||First-time author Riva Razdan’s protagonist Arzu (the Urdu name means hope and love) is uncertain about her future, after being dumped by her long-time boyfriend and trying to evade the society circles of Bombay in 1991. A media baron’s daughter, she nurtures no dream of journalism, until she finds herself drawn to it in New York. Arzu (Hachette India) is a coming-of-age story of the protagonist at a time when India is on the verge of economic liberalisation. “The name Arzu seemed to spring up at me while I was researching the period, reading accounts of people who were revelling at having access to more consumer choices, convenience and job opportunities. Hope is a precursor to joy. She couldn’t have any other name,” says 23-year-old Riva, a graduate of New York University and a screenwriter with Anil Kapoor Films. Edited excerpts from an interview with the author: Your grandfather Devendra Goel was a film producer; a few other family members were also part of the film industry. When did you realize you wanted to narrate stories, but as an author? I want to be a filmmaker myself. But I am foraying into world-building as an author so that I am able to tell stories about heroines who are original and brave. If the audiences enjoy their journey, I will be less likely to hear that there is a limited market for female-centric films.  Did growing up in a family of storytellers help you become one?  Growing up in a family of storytellers was fantastic; it meant that I was never bored. As soon as I came home from school I was given a film to watch (usually a Dev Anand or Gregory Peck classic) or a book to read (anything from PG Wodehouse to CS Lewis). We analysed the plot over dinner, so I grew up understanding character arcs and dialogue construction. The golden rule for glittering dialogue, even while speaking to my mom, uncles or my grandmother was, ‘don’t be a bore’. So I fell in love with storytelling early. What prompted you to write a story set in the early Ninetiess rather than something contemporary for your debut novel?  I was fascinated by the period when India was on the cusp of change. A relatively young country (in terms of Independence) caught at a moment of depravity, in that we were heavily indebted to the International Monetary Fund, and dubiously embracing a policy that required us to trust foreign entities once again. India was taking a leap of faith. I was graduating college at that time, and I felt like I was taking a leap of faith into the unknown, except I had the agency and the opportunity to go to work. It got me thinking about the women in the pre-liberalisation era who didn’t have too many job opportunities because multinational companies had not come to India at that point. Their economic agency was probably limited, making them dependent on the men in their lives. I started to wonder what that meant for a girl, a college graduate in 1991, who had been bred for marriage. To what extent were the characters of Arzu, her father Ajit Agarwal and the worlds they inhabit inspired by real life?  A lot of Ajit Agarwal’s stories are taken from archives of debates/discussions that happened during the period. Arzu’s story is fiction. I can’t hope to be as endearing as she is, nor can I claim to have suffered any of her tragedies. My best friend in New York inspired Sarah. The story has conversations between entitled business empires of that era. How did you navigate those zones?  I read articles, debates and accounts of journalists on whether liberalisation was advantageous for India or not. Economist Jagdish Bhagwati’s writings contextualised my understanding of the period. I fictionalised certain protectionist elements who were against liberalisation to avoid being contentious, but those who lived through the 1980s know who I’m referring to as far as Minty Toothpastes or The Poona Club is concerned. It lightens the novel too, adding a tongue-in-cheek element to economic discourse. What’s next?  I have recently completed my second novel. It is a love story set in 1961 and 2021.  Riva Razdan says she was fascinated by the period when India was on the cusp of change.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/hope-is-a-precursor-to-joy/article33909340.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Love, handmade||Priya CV’s home in Bengaluru is a store house of handmade cards, all delivered via snail mail. Brightly-coloured, they contain paintings and pictures. Sometimes they are photographs with thoughtful, hand-written notes. She sorts them out based on the content and theme, then sends them to palliative care centres, orphanages and homes for the elderly in the city. A chartered accountant, Priya started the campaign, Donate a Card, during lockdown. A crafter, she had always made cards for her friends and family. “During the lockdown, I had a lot of time and fresh ideas and then it struck me: Why not send out these cards to those outside my family as well?” Thus, the campaign was born. She started an Instagram page, where she posts the requirement for cards. Those who wish to contribute, make the cards and send them to her. “There are birthday cards, motivational ones for the inhabitants and Thank You cards for the staff and caregivers at these centres,” says Priya. As of now, she has sent out over 700 cards to centres in Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Thiruvananthapuram. Many of the contributors are crafters themselves, who love the process of creating art with paper and colours. However, Priya does get requests from people who are moved by the sentiment and want to contribute, but are not artistically-inclined. “I usually tell them to write a letter or an inspirational quote or something they like,” she says. Priya goes through each card she receives and takes a picture or makes a video of it. She then posts it on the Instagram handle to encourage and thank the sender. The centres that receive the cards too sometimes send photographs as feedback. While it puts a smile on the faces of those who receive these cards, the concept also revives the simple joy of creating something with the hands, says Priya. Especially in this digital age, inspiring someone to write a letter means creating an opportunity for them to engage in the calming, meditative process of letter-writing. Priya conducts letter-writing workshops in Bengaluru as well. Priya maintains a bank of 300 cards at any given time to cater to requests that might come in from the centres. Owing to COVID-19, certain units are not taking cards at the moment. However, through the campaign, Priya and her contributors have been able to send out cards to community workers and frontline health workers. Priya and her husband Rahul Harihara Iyer deliver the cards themselves in Bengaluru. Rahul is a co-founder of the campaign, who helps Priya in mailing the cards, collecting packages and related administrative work.  For more information connect with @donateacard on Instagram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/love-handmade/article33909336.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Scoring for two worlds||“For a composer, working in sci-fi and fantasy is always exciting because you can play with the palate to create a broader spectrum of sounds to go for,” reflects composer Will Bates, whose latest release Bliss is streaming on Amazon Prime. During an audio interview with Bates from his home in New York, the British musician chats about being thrilled at the challenge of taking on not one but two worlds for which to score. “There is a lot of electronics involved and blending of the two worlds,” he adds. In the film, single father Greg (Owen Wilson) meets a mysterious homeless woman Isabel (Salma Hayek) who informs him that they are living in a world that is not real – and it becomes apparent that they are living in a computer simulation. Directed by Mike Cahill, who has given us other science-fiction projects such as I Origins and Another Earth , the film takes on a trippy visual of two worlds: one of ‘bliss’ where everything is lavish and perfect, and the ‘real’ world which is darker. The film offered a ‘levelling up’ in Cahill and Bates’ working relationship — the two had worked on a handful of films and series together. Bliss is their third film together.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/scoring-for-two-worlds/article33909333.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,||A full circle with Check||“I feel as though I have come full circle; I consider this the second innings of my career,” says Kalyani Malik. In his early days, he composed for the much-loved Telugu serial Amrutham and made his feature film debut with Chandra Sekhar Yeleti’s thriller Aithe (2003). Aithe was lauded for sidestepping mainstream masala tropes of Telugu cinema and won the National Award for Best Feature Film in Telugu. Eighteen years later, the director and composer have collaborated again, for Check , which releases on February 26. Recently, Malik also composed for the sitcom Amrutham Dvitheeyam , the sequel to Amrutham .  Check stars Nithiin as a prisoner who is adept at playing chess, and Rakul Preet Singh as a lawyer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-full-circle-with-check/article33909337.ece
23 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man breathes life into ruins at Singhu, builds home for family||When Amritpal Singh (35) came from Hoshiarpur to the Singhu border in November last year, his family followed him in the next 10 days. Since then, Mr. Singh has been protesting at the site. In the last few months, he has been staying with his family in a rented bus and a makeshift tent. Now, he has started rebuilding a ruined structure into a “new home”. In the last five days, Mr. Singh has managed to clean up the entire two-room area, create a bathroom space, cemented the floor, painted the walls blue, installed a bulb, and put up a trellis to keep mosquitoes away. He plans to shift to the new house by the end of this week. Mr. Singh, cable operator and small-time financer, had come to the border on November 26. He was living in the bus with his wife Rupinder Kaur, son Ekamjot (4) and daughter Jasgun (3)and another family till the first week of February. “The rent was expensive so the elders decided to send it back,” he said. Since then, the four of them have been living in a tent where the bus was earlier parked. But a few days ago, Mr. Singh spotted this ruin and decided to make it his new home — essentially to safeguard his children against heat and mosquitoes. “We have arranged a table fan as the tent gets heated up a lot. At night, we fight mosquitoes. We are worried that the children might fall sick,” he said. Recalling an incident when he first arrived at the site, he said that a grocery store owner offered him a place to stay above his shop but he refused. “I had told them that we are here to stay on the roads but now, we are worried about our children’s health,” he said. Talking about his new house, he said: “I am fixing the doors and doing all I can. Desperate times call for desperate measures,” he said, adding that he will make one room functional for himself and the other for people who wish to stay. He also plans to instal an air conditioner. With no plan to return home till laws are repealed, they have been looking for a school nearby for their son. “We had gone to a private school nearby. They have told us that the admissions are scheduled in April. If the decision [on farm laws] does not go in our favour by then, we will have to get Elamjot enrolled ina school here,” said Ms. Rupinder. Monday was Jasgun’s birthday, but the family wishes to cut the cake in the “new house”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-breathes-life-into-ruins-at-singhu-builds-home-for-family/article33909080.ece
23 February 2021||Chandigarh,||AAP to hold farmers’ meet in support of stir||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will hold a ‘Maha Kisan Sammelan’ on March 21 in Punjab’s Bagha Purana in support of the farmers and their ongoing agitation against the Centre’s farm laws. The programme will be addressed by Delhi Chief Minister and AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal. At a joint press conference, AAP State chief and MP Bhagwant Mann, Leader of Opposition in the Punjab Assembly Harpal Singh Cheema, party’s Punjab in-charge Jarnail Singh and co-incharge Raghav Chadha said party volunteers and the people from all parts of Punjab would be invited to the ‘Maha Kisan Sammelan’. “@AAPPunjab to organise 'KISAN MAHASAMMELAN' at Bagha Purana in Moga District, Punjab on 21st March 2021, to be addressed by AAP National Convener and Delhi CM Sh. @ArvindKejriwal,” Mr. Chadha said later in a tweet. The leaders said that AAP genuinely believes that the farm laws need to be repealed immediately and the farmers’ gathering would be crucial in sending a message to the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led Central government to do so.  ‘Farmers betrayed’ Hitting out at the traditional parties in Punjab, the AAP leaders said that all three parties — the Congress, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the BJP — had betrayed and backstabbed the farmers of the State. They said that all the three parties , being hand in glove, had passed the black farm laws and were now shedding crocodile tears to show that they were pro-farmers. “These parties have never been farmer-friendly. The SAD government in 2013 had passed the Contract Farming Act, which allowed the government and the private players to convert the farmers of Punjab into bonded labour,” they added. “Later in 2017, the Captain Amarinder Singh-led government had passed the APMC Amendment Act, which privatised the procurement of fruits and vegetables, the effects of which are still being seen,” the leaders said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-to-hold-farmers-meet-in-support-of-stir/article33909058.ece
23 February 2021||Lucknow,||With new schemes in budget, Yogi targets ‘atmanirbhar’ U.P.||The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday said it had recovered Rs. 23.36 lakh from persons accused of damaging public and private property in the violence during the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) in December 2019. Finance Minister Suresh Khanna provided the figure while presenting the budget for 2021-22, the final budget of the current government headed by Yogi Adityanath before the 2022 Assembly polls. With new schemes worth Rs. 27,598 crore, the estimated budget of over Rs. 5.5 lakh crore was aimed at achieving an “atmanirbhar” U.P. to support Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s goal of an “atmanirbhar” India, said Mr. Khanna. The government also announced a new scheme of Rs. 100 crore, ‘Mukhyamantri Pravasi Shramik Udyamita Vikas Yojana’, with the aim of providing employment and self-employment to the migrant workers who had returned from other States. Around 40 lakh were transported to their native districts during the lockdown, said Mr. Khanna, while presenting the State’s first paperless budget by reading out from a laptop. Law and order On the law and order front, Mr. Khanna stated that the government had taken tough action against “dreaded criminal, land mafia and mining mafia” and damaged, seized or freed illegally acquired propertyworth over Rs. 1,000 crore. Around 150 weapon licences of such persons were also cancelled, he noted. “Our government has taken tough action against criminals,” Mr. Khanna said, adding that there was a feeling of security among the common people. After dedicating budgets to farmers, industrial development, women empowerment and youth education and employment in the four years since 2017 March, the BJP government said its new budget would aim at the overall and inclusive development of the State and empowerment through self-reliance of various sections of society. An outlay of Rs. 100 crore was also proposed in the budget for doubling the farmers’ income by 2022 under the Atma Nirbhar Krishak Samanvit Vikas Yojana. Reactions Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav said the budget had nothing for farmers, labourers, youth, women and traders. “This farewell budget of the BJP has left everyone in tears,” he tweeted. BSP chief Mayawati said the budget was disappointing in view of removing unemployment. Like the Centre, the State government was also showing people “beautiful dreams”, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/with-new-schemes-in-budget-yogi-targets-atmanirbhar-up/article33909060.ece
23 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||DU to conduct 97th convocation on Feb. 27||The Delhi University (DU) is set to conduct the 97th annual convocation on February 27. Senior DU officials said that 631 Ph.D and over 59,000 undergraduate and postgraduate degrees will be conferred. A senior DU official said that 156 medals and 36 prizes will also be awarded at the convocation. Additionally, over 1.18 lakh degrees will be awarded to students from the School of Open Learning (SOL). Installation of Aarogya Setu app will be mandatory and social distancing has to be maintained during the ceremony, the university said in a notification issued while adding that mandatory use of masks or face covers will also be required. “No request for receiving the degree, medal or prize ‘in person’ shall be entertained once the final roll call is over. Due to the pandemic and MHA guidelines, we regret that parents or guests with students are not allowed,” the notice read. The notice also said that students who are to receive the degrees, medals or prizes will be allotted seats before the ceremony. “The degree in case of candidates who fail to receive the same in person at the convocation will be sent to their respective faculty, department or centre after the convocation,” the university said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/du-to-conduct-97th-convocation-on-feb-27/article33909075.ece
23 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||DUTA writes to CM seeking release of funds||The Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) on Monday wrote to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal seeking disbursal of the fourth instalment of funds to the 12 Delhi University (DU) colleges that are fully funded by the government. In a letter to the CM, DUTA president Rajib Ray said: “Inordinate and unreasoned delays repeatedly in the release of grant has a crippling effect on institutions and is totally unacceptable, more so in the current context, when employees are also battling health issues. It is extremely unfortunate that employees have had to take recourse to the courts to get their salaries released.” Demanding the release of adequate grants, the letter further stated: “The grants sanctioned till date are not adequate to even meet the basic requirements of payment of salaries and pension. We demand an immediate end to the crisis in these colleges which has persisted for over a year.” Stating that while new courses were sanctioned, corresponding teaching posts were not, Mr. Ray said, “This has forced colleges to hire faculty on ad hoc or guest basis in order to cater to the needs of the new courses. We appeal to the Delhi government to release commensurate posts immediately.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/duta-writes-to-cm-seeking-release-of-funds/article33909076.ece
23 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Toolkit case: Nikita, Shantanu quizzed for over eight hours||Lawyer Nikita Jacob and engineer Shantanu Muluk on Monday were questioned for around eight hours in connection with the toolkit case, a senior officer said. The Delhi Police, probing the toolkit case, had summoned Ms. Jacob and Mr. Muluk to join investigation at CyPAD (Cyber Prevention Awareness Detection) office in Dwarka at 11 a.m. They were questioned in detail and countered with digital evidence against them in the case. At 5.30 p.m., arrested climate activist Disha Ravi — who was in judicial custody and on one-day police custody — was also brought to the office. All three of them were then questioned. “We are trying to connect the sequence of the event to establish the role of each person in the case. The actual creator of the toolkit, their source of funding and the people backing them were some of the key questions asked,” said the officer. He said Ms. Jacob and Mr. Muluk left the office at 8 p.m. They have been asked to join the investigation on Tuesday because they got the custody of Ms. Disha in the evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/toolkit-case-nikita-shantanu-quizzed-for-over-eight-hours/article33909083.ece
23 February 2021||Patna,||Bihar presents surplus budget of Rs. 2.18 lakh cr.||The Bihar government on Monday presented a revenue surplus budget of Rs. 2,18,302.70 crore, putting focus on education, rural development, agriculture, youth, health facilities, employment and Chief Minister Nitish Kumar’s ambitious plan of ‘ Saat Nischay ’ (Seven Resolves) Part 2. Leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Yadav reached the Assembly driving a tractor to express solidarity with those agitating against the new farm laws and spiralling prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas. Deputy Chief Minister Tarkishore Prasad, who also holds the finance portfolio, tabled the budget estimates for fiscal 2021-22. “Budget expenditure of Rs. 2,18,302.70 crore for the year 2021-22 is Rs. 6,541.21 crore more than the 2020-21 budget estimates,” said the budget copy. “If revenue receipt is more than revenue expenditure, the surplus amount is called revenue surplus. For the year 2021-22, revenue surplus is Rs. 9,195.90 crore and this will be used for investment in physical infrastructure generating productive capital assets like roads, buildings, power, schools, health centres, irrigation schemes etc,” it said. Focus on youth Later speaking to media persons, Mr. Prasad said the government’s focus would be on “yuva shakti, health facilities, creating centres of excellence, employment through ITIs, proper water drainage system and Saat Nischay part-2 and other things”. Mr. Tejashwi Yadav said, “We expect a proper statement from the Chief Minister on the skyrocketing prices of oil. He must also explain what the farmers have gained by the abolition of the Agricultural Produce Market Committees in Bihar. Many farmers are forced to sell their produce for Rs. 700-800 as against the MSP of Rs. 1800.” Legislators of other Opposition parties like the Congress and the Left too staged demonstrations on the Assembly premises to highlight the plight of farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bihar-presents-surplus-budget-of-rs-218-lakh-cr/article33909065.ece
23 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man held from U.P. for teen’s murder||A 25-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly killing a 17-year-old girl at her residence in Rohini’s Begumpur, the police said on Monday. DCP (Rohini) P.K. Mishra said Laik Khan has been arrested from U.P.’s Hardoi. On Friday night, the police had received information from a hospital that a minor girl was brought dead. She was hammered to death, they said. Further probe revealed Khan’s link with the family. “Khan’s and the girl’s families were neighbours. He used to often visit her house. On Friday night, he had gone to the girl’s house and stayed for dinner. The incident happened when her family had gone out to buy vegetables,” an officer said. When they returned, they saw Khan leaving the house. On entering the house, they saw her lying in a pool of blood. The family said he had been pursuing her for marriage, but she was not interested. An officer said he is yet to be questioned as he hadn’t reached Delhi till late Monday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-held-from-up-for-teens-murder/article33909081.ece
23 February 2021||New Delhi,||Wife kills husband for being ‘abusive’||A 35-year-old woman was arrested for allegedly killing her husband in south Delhi’s Fatehpur Beri, the police said on Monday. DCP (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said Sarita Devi strangulated her 38-year-old husband Sikandar Sahni with a saree and later took him to Safdarjung hospital where he was declared brought dead, they said. “During interrogation, she told the police that her husband was an alcohol addict despite being a chronic tuberculosis patient and was not doing any work. He used to beat and abuse her daily in front of her children,” he said. The post-mortem revealed multiple ligature marks on neck. In the second case, a 22-year-old man allegedly killed his mother by stabbing her multiple times with a screwdriver at their home in north-east Delhi’s Khajoori Khas on Sunday at 10 p.m., the police said. Sushil Pandey committed the crime when his mother Ramlalli Devi scolded him for his drinking habit and refused to him money to buy liquor, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/wife-kills-husband-for-being-abusive/article33909084.ece
23 February 2021||Chennai,||Kanchi pontiff performs rituals at Rameswaram||The Kanchi Sankaracharya, who is on a visit to Rameswaram, went to the Ramanathaswami temple and performed ritualistic worship. The rituals include ‘gangabhishekam’, ‘vilvapathra pujai’ and ‘deeparadana’. The pontiff offered a golden ‘vilva’ garland to Ramanathaswami. He also performed ‘kumkumarchanai’ and made offerings at the Ambal sannadhi in the temple. Initially there was some confusion because of a communication gap between some priests and the HR&CE officials, which led to an altercation and some delay in the performance of the rituals. But after the rituals were explained to the priests, they helped the Acharya to perform them and cooperated with the HR&CE officials and the chairman of the board of trustees of the temple, who had invited the Acharya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kanchi-pontiff-performs-rituals-at-rameswaram/article33908979.ece
23 February 2021||New Delhi,||Man who climbed Red Fort dome on R-Day held||A 29-year-old man who allegedly climbed one of the domes of the Red Fort during the violence in Delhi on Republic day has been arrested, the police said on Monday. Jaspreet Singh from Swaroop Nagar in north-west Delhi, was arrested by a Crime Branch team on Saturday. Jaspreet is one of the associates of Maninder Singh, who was arrested on February 16 for allegedly swinging swords with the intent of “motivating” and “energising” the protesters at the monument. “Jaspreet was standing behind Maninder and also climbed up one of the domes that are located on either sides of the ramparts at the Red Fort. Jaspreet was identified from the pictures and videos,” an officer said. The police had alleged that 30-year-old Maninder had “motivated” people who had accompanied the farmers’ tractor parade, to move from the Singhu border protest site towards Mukarba Chowk. Thousands of protesters had clashed with the police during the farmers’ tractor parade on January 26, demanding repeal of the Centre’s three contentious farm laws. Many of the protesters entered the Red Fort and some hoisted religious flags on its domes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-who-climbed-red-fort-dome-on-r-day-held/article33909068.ece
23 February 2021||new delhi,||Govt. launches eighth skill centre at ITI campus||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Monday inaugurated the eighth World Class Skill Centre at the ITI Campus on Jail Road to offer full-time, free skill training courses to 800 students. Established in collaboration with the city-based charitable organisation Sun Foundation, the skill centre aims at “upskilling and reskilling” students, to gain rightful employment and cater to the demands of the market. “It’s our dream to provide education and skill to every child. The World Class Skill Centre is an important step in that direction. Delhi students will get skilled and will contribute towards the nation's progress,” Sisodia said. As part of the initiative, the Delhi government will offer full-time, free skill training courses for six months to 800 students. Accredited by the National Skill Development Agency, the courses are aligned with the National Skills Qualification Framework, and the centre has been set up in accordance with international standards to train students for domestic and global demand, a statement from the Deputy Chief Minister’s office noted. The centre has started off with 10 courses, including Electronics and Hardware, Healthcare, Beauty and Wellness, Media and Entertainment, Furniture and Fittings and IT, for students of class 8-12, as well as for undergraduate students. Soft skills and personality development will also be part of the curriculum that will be imparted in "state-of-the-art facilities" and "excellent placement opportunities" in professions like fashion designing, web developing, data entry operations, graphic designing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sisodia-inaugurates-8th-skill-centre-at-iti-campus/article33909070.ece
23 February 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi’s air quality ‘poor’, mercury rises slightly||The air quality of Delhi, Gurugram, and Noida was in the “poor” category on Monday, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. “Marginal improvement in ventilation index is forecasted for today [Monday] and tomorrow [Tuesday]. AQI is likely to marginally improve and stay at the lower end of the ‘very poor’ to ‘poor’ category on February 22 and 23. ‘Very poorAQI is forecasted for February 24 and 25,” said government-run monitoring agency, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). The speed of surface-level winds was “low”, which led to accumulation of pollutants near the surface. Also, the “mixing layer height”, which is the height from the ground level up to which pollutants can be dispersed, was “moderate”. This led to lesser accumulation of pollutants near the surface. The AQI of Delhi was 288 on Monday as per CPCB’s 4 p.m. bulletin, which is an average of the past 24 hours. The values for Gurugram and Noida were 296 and 290. Weather update Mercury rose slightly in the national capital on Monday with the maximum temperature settling at 28.9 degrees Celsius, said IMD. In the morning, the minimum temperature was recorded at 11 degrees Celsius. It was 10 degrees Celsius on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aqi-to-improve-today/article33909078.ece
23 February 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha gang rape main accused held after 22 years||The main accused in the case of the two-decade-old gang rape of the wife of a former Indian Forest Officer that almost brought the J.B Patnaik-led Congress government in Odisha to its knees has been arrested. Biban Biswal alias Bibekananda Biswal was arrested from the Amby Valley City Project near Navi Mumbai by the Commissionerate Police for Bhubaneswar and Cuttack on Sunday. He had been on the run for the past 22 years. “Both the CBI and the Odisha police had tried hard to nab the accused. His whereabouts were an unsolved question for many. Some said he had died,” said Sudhansu Sarangi, Commissioner of Police, who led the team.  ‘Operation Silent Viper’ “Three months ago, we launched ‘Operation Silent Viper’. I headed a small team to track Biswal down. He was residing in the Amby Valley project and working as a plumber,” said Mr. Sarangi. “He had assumed a new identity in the name of Jalandhar Swain and had generated all documents.” With help of the Mumbai police, a team of the twin city had gone to the Amby Valley project. Though the police team was in plainclothes, Biswal started running but was caught immediately. He was produced in the CBI court here on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/odisha-gang-rape-main-accused-held-after-22-years/article33909063.ece
23 February 2021||new delhi,||JMI students demand reopening of campus||A group of Jamia Millia Islamia students staged a protest outside the campus on Monday demanding the reopening of the university which has been closed since last year in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The students raised slogans demanding that the university should proceed with phase-wise reopening like Delhi University and Jawaharlal Nehru University. A larger group of students had staged a protest last week questioning the university's decision to keep the campus shut when other educational institutions were reopening with COVID-19 protocols. A senior police officer said a group of around 20 students gathered outside the campus. “They staged a protest and left after a while. Nobody was detained," he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jmi-students-demand-reopening-of-campus/article33909066.ece
23 February 2021||New Delhi,||Sisodia reviews Deshbhakti Curriculum||Education Minister Manish Sisodia on Monday reviewed the progress of the Deshbhakti Curriculum, which the Delhi government plans to launch in all its schools for children of Classes KG-8 from the 2021-22 academic session. The Deshbhakti Curriculum is aimed at instilling values that will prepare children to be active and committed citizens who contribute to nation building, the curriculum shall comprise themes related to understanding self, family, school, community/society. “The biggest gap in our education system is that it seeks to deliver knowledge but not wisdom. Deshbhakti Curriculum shall strive to bring wisdom to the centre of the education discourse,” Mr. Sisodia said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/deshbhakti-course-to-instil-wisdom-in-students/article33909071.ece
23 February 2021||February 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Keeping cool||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/keeping-cool/article33909074.ece
23 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Jindal plans to invest Rs. 1K cr. for university expansion||Industrialist Naveen Jindal, who is also the Chancellor of O.P Jindal Global University (JGU), has announced an investment plan of Rs. 1,000 crore for sustained futuristic expansion of the university in line with the ‘JGU Vision 2030’. According to the varsity, the focus of the investment plan will be on academic, infrastructure development, creation of new world-class student facilities, hostels, schools, faculty offices and teaching facilities. JGU VC, C. Raj Kumar said: “Chancellor Naveen Jindal’s endorsement of the expansion plan and the investment of Rs. 1,000 crore for JGU for the new decade is the right impetus we needed to do even better.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jindal-plans-to-invest-rs-1k-cr-for-university-expansion/article33909077.ece
23 February 2021||Chandigarh,||Amarinder to lead Cong. in Assembly poll||Ahead of the Punjab Assembly election due in early 2022, State Congress chief Sunil Jakhar on Monday said that Chief Minister Amarinder Singh would lead the party in the Assembly polls, as the people of the State had reposed their faith in his leadership with the party’s landslide victory in the recent civic polls. Mr. Jakhar said, “The Congress party’s sweeping victory in the civic polls has not only revalidated Capt. Singh’s leadership in the State but was an endorsement of the faith of Punjabis in his future leadership also”. He said the State Congress had already launched mission “Captainfor2022”, and the next elections would be fought under his leadership. Mr. Jakhar added that Capt. Singh had led the State in very difficult times and the people were well aware of his massive contribution. Hitting out at the Centre for its alleged step-motherly treatment to Punjab, Mr. Jakhar said it had resorted to all kinds of measures to punish the State for supporting the farmers’ agitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/amarinder-to-lead-cong-in-assembly-poll/article33909061.ece
23 February 2021||GURUGRAM,||Cong. protests in Nuh against farm laws||The Nuh Congress leaders and workers took out a protest march on Monday against the three contentious farm laws, the rising prices of petrol and diesel and seeking adequate irrigation water for the district. The protesters took out a march involving a large number of locals from party headquarters to Gandhi Park and raised slogans against the BJP-led Central govt. demanding the withdrawal of the three farm laws and reduction in petrol and cooking gas prices. Later, all three Congress MLAs from the district sat on a dharna in front of the statue of Mahatama Gandhi. Deputy Leader of the Congress Legislative Party and Nuh MLA Aftab Ahmed, in his address to the farmers, said the three farm laws would end the grains market system and the Minimum Support Price policy. He said the laws prevented the farmers from going to the civil courts for redressal of their grievances and would cause the prices of food products to rise sharply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cong-protests-in-nuh-against-farm-laws/article33909062.ece
